-- Facebook First-Quarter Profit Drops; Costs Almost Double
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-04-24T21:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/facebook-reports-sales-growth-indicates-shares-valued-at-30-89.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the social network
planning an initial public offering, said first-quarter profit
fell 12 percent as sales growth slowed and marketing costs more
than doubled.  Net income dropped to $205 million in the three months
through March,  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook said
yesterday in a regulatory  filing . Sales climbed 45 percent to
$1.06 billion, a slowdown from 55 percent in the December
period.  Expenses surged to $677 million, reflecting higher costs of
helping marketers reach Facebook’s growing user base, which
swelled by one-third to 901 million last quarter. The company
may struggle to reach EMarketer Inc.’s projection for 2012 sales
of $6.1 billion as it awaits the full impact of new tools aimed
at wringing more money from advertisers, said Debra Aho Williamson, who helped construct the researcher’s estimate.  “Facebook has a pretty steep hill to climb to meet the
expectations that we set out,” Williamson said.  Facebook may seek an IPO valuation of $75 billion to $100
billion, people with knowledge of the matter have said. The
upper end of that range would value the company at about 25
times trailing 12-month sales, more than double  Google (GOOG)  Inc.’s
valuation when the search-engine operator went public in 2004.  Before last quarter, Facebook’s sales were already
projected to gain at a slower rate this year than Google’s at
the time of its IPO, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. At
$6.1 billion, 2012 revenue would be 64 percent higher than the
$3.71 billion reported in 2011. Google’s revenue more than
doubled to $3.19 billion the year it went public.  New Benchmark  Facebook unveiled a new benchmark that showed monthly
revenue per user climbed 6 percent to $1.21. The company valued
its shares at $30.89 apiece at the end of January, up from
$29.73 at the end of last year.  Facebook , which plans to raise $5 billion in the largest-
ever Internet initial public offering, also disclosed new
information about recent acquisitions. To finance the $1 billion
purchase of Instagram, announced April 9, Facebook used 23
million shares and $300 million in cash.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is rolling out new
advertising services to step up competition with Google and
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and generate higher sales from the advertisers eager
to reach Facebook’s user base. During the first quarter,
Facebook said it would add mobile advertising along with new ads
to reach users when they log off the company’s website.  Zynga Revenue  Facebook said 82 percent of its revenue came from
advertising last quarter, down from 83 percent in the preceding
period. The company also derived less revenue from gaming
company  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , which contributed 11 percent of the total in
the quarter, down from 13 percent a year earlier.  The company said it may extend payments outside of games,
and charge developers different fees than the 30 percent
currently paid by Zynga and other sellers of virtual goods.  The number of daily active users rose to 526 million, an
increase of 41 percent from a year earlier. Facebook’s employee
base rose 46 percent to 3,539.  “Our costs are growing quickly, which could harm our
business and profitability,” the company said in the filing.
“Providing our products to our users is costly and we expect
our expenses to continue to increase in the future as we broaden
our user base, as users increase the number of connections and
amount of data they share with us, as we develop and implement
new product features that require more computing infrastructure,
and as we hire additional employees.”  The company plans to list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
the symbol FB, according to the regulatory filing.  Sales had risen 55 percent to $1.13 billion in the fourth
quarter, and net income had climbed 20 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  