-- Falcone’s LightSquared Triples Lobbying to Save Venture
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-04-23T21:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/falcone-s-lightsquared-triples-lobbying-to-save-venture.html
LightSquared Inc. almost tripled
spending on U.S. lobbying as the telecommunications company
backed by billionaire  Philip Falcone  fought to keep regulators
from killing its planned nationwide wireless network.  LightSquared spent $1 million on lobbyists in the first
quarter of 2012, compared with $350,000 in the same period last
year, according to quarterly disclosure reports filed this month
with the  U.S. Senate .  Its lobbyists included former Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell and former House Majority Leader  Richard Gephardt  of
Missouri, both Democrats, according to the disclosure reports.  LightSquared is struggling to survive since the Federal
Communications Commission in February proposed withdrawing
permits, which would block the company’s plans for high-speed
wireless data service covering as many as 260 million people.  The FCC made its proposal after President Barack Obama’s
administration found the service would disrupt aircraft
navigation and other gear based on global-positioning systems
technology.  Chief Executive Officer  Sanjiv Ahuja  has since resigned and
the company, based in Reston, Virginia, has said it was cutting
45 percent of its 330-person workforce.  Creditor Concern  Early this month Falcone said he may consider voluntary
bankruptcy to fend off creditors and keep control. Bondholders
include  Carl Icahn ,  David Tepper  and Andrew Beal.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  said on March 16 it canceled an
agreement to help build LightSquared’s network, adding to
concern about the venture’s viability and the fate of Falcone’s
$3 billion investment in the business through his Harbinger
Capital Partners hedge fund.  LightSquared doesn’t comment on its lobbying expenditures,
Terry Neal, a spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  At issue is whether LightSquared may operate a network of
ground-based towers over airwaves previously reserved mainly for
satellites.  Users and makers of global-positioning system gear say the
network would cause interference. LightSquared says the GPS
industry has produced defective equipment that improperly
captures its signals.  Trimble Navigation Ltd. (TRMB) , a GPS maker opposed to
LightSquared’s plans, increased its first-quarter spending by 20
percent, to $240,000, compared with the same period a year
earlier, according to filings at the U.S. House.  ‘Disastrous Precedent’  LightSquared made a $56.3 million payment on April 20 to
Britain’s  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  in a spectrum-cooperation accord and was
granted an extension on further installments, gaining more time
to win approval from U.S. regulators.  LightSquared executives met with FCC officials April 17 and
presented documents that said withdrawing the service’s permits
would “set a disastrous precedent” and make it harder to
assign airwaves for use by mobile Internet companies, according
to a filing by the company. Testing for interference was faulty,
according to LightSquared’s presentation.  Google Inc.’s first-quarter lobbying spending rose to $5
million from $1.5 million in the same period last year,
according to Senate filings. The largest Internet-search company
faces questions over privacy safeguards.  Facebook Inc., the social-media company preparing for a
public share offering, increased its spending to $650,000 from
$230,000 a year earlier, according to Senate filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  