-- FCC Wireless Chief Meets T-Mobile on Verizon Deal With Cable
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-23T17:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/fcc-wireless-chief-goes-to-t-mobile-on-verizon-deal-with-cable.html
A U.S. official leading regulatory
review of  Verizon Wireless ’s proposed $3.6 billion purchase of
airwaves from cable companies met with T-Mobile USA Inc.
executives at the company’s headquarters and heard criticism of
the deal.  Rick Kaplan, chief of the wireless bureau of the Federal
Communications Commission based in  Washington  D.C., met April 19
at T-Mobile’s suburban Seattle offices in Bellevue, Washington,
where he spoke with Chief Executive Officer  Philipp Humm ,
according to an April 20 filing posted on the agency’s website.
Kaplan also spoke to the Washington Technology Industry
Association trade group while in the Seattle area.  Verizon, the largest U.S. mobile provider, announced in
December the purchase of unused airwaves from a group led by top
U.S. cable company  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and No. 2  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC)  The companies pledged joint marketing on the deal, which
faces FCC and Justice Department review.  T-Mobile, the No. 4 U.S. mobile provider, asked regulators
to block Verizon’s purchase, saying it would result in too
concentrated ownership of airwaves for mobile calls and data.
The  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  unit was a the target of a failed
takeover bid last year by No. 2 U.S. wireless carrier  AT&T Inc. (T)   Verizon hasn’t used some airwaves it holds, and buying more
from cable companies would add to “unused spectrum inventory,”
T-Mobile executives including Humm told Kaplan, according to the
filing. Verizon’s plan announced April 18 to sell other airwaves
if its deal with cable companies succeeds “does not mitigate”
harm caused by the deal, T-Mobile executives said.  ‘Ignores Facts’  T-Mobile “ignores facts on the ground, the state of the
wireless marketplace and the needs of consumers who will clearly
benefit from this purchase of spectrum,” said Ed McFadden, a
Washington-based spokesman for Verizon, in an interview.  Opponents have said the deal with Comcast and Time Warner
would bring less competition and higher prices. Verizon says the
spectrum purchase will bring it airwaves needed to meet soaring
demand from smartphones and data-hungry tablet computers such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The FCC also is examining Verizon Wireless’s proposed $315
million airwaves purchase and cooperation agreement with Cox
Communications Inc.  Verizon Wireless, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, is 55
percent-owned by Verizon and 45 percent-owned by  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , based in Newbury, England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  