-- FIFA Officials Got More Than $15 Mln in Payments, Report Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-23T17:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/fifa-officials-got-more-than-15-mln-in-payments-report-says.html
Two senior FIFA executives got
payments of more than 14.2 million Swiss francs ($15.5 million)
from the soccer governing body’s now-defunct marketing partner,
according to testimony in a report by the Council of  Europe .  The officials weren’t named in the report by French
national assembly member Francois Rochebloine. Swiss magistrate
Thomas Hildbrand gave Rocheblione details of his investigation
into the 2001 collapse of ISL, which sold FIFA’s  World Cup 
television rights.  The Council of Europe started looking at the soccer body
after the 2010 award of its $5 billion World Cup and last year’s
presidential vote that returned Sepp Blatter to a fourth four-
year term. His only opponent Mohamed Bin Hammam quit the race a
day before being accused of paying $1 million to buy votes from
Caribbean officials. The council was founded in 1949 by former
British Prime Minister  Winston Churchill  and has representatives
from 47 countries.  The report questioned what Blatter knew about the
payments. The 76-year-old Swiss citizen held the Zurich-based
organization’s most senior administrative post for 17 years
before assuming the presidency in 1998.  “Since FIFA was aware of significant sums paid to certain
of its officials, it is difficult to imagine that Mr. Blatter
would not have known about this,” Rochbloine wrote. “That does
not mean that he was directly involved.”  “But I believe it is extraordinary that he did nothing to
make public all the information which FIFA had or has, and took
no steps whether internally or via the courts to enable FIFA to
obtain reparation,” he wrote in the report.  Troubled Waters  FIFA didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment. Upon his
re-election Blatter described himself as the captain of a ship
in troubled waters. “We will put FIFA’s ship back on the right
course in clear transparent waters,” he said.  The organization is expected to make changes at its
Congress next month, including overhauling its anti-corruption
systems.  Hildebrand, who declined interview requests, told the
 Council of Europe  that FIFA was also a victim of graft.  “The money paid under-the-counter to certain unscrupulous
officials should have been paid to FIFA,” it quotes him as
saying.  Influence  Hildbrand said described the exchange of money as
“commission payments” to ensure FIFA officials could influence
where television contracts were awarded. Blatter last year
promised to publish a file detailing who was paid what by ISL.
That hasn’t happened because of objections from some of the
people named in the case.  Hildbrand said a South American FIFA executive member,
known only as person H, received more than 12.5m Swiss francs
between 1992 and 1997 and further payments between 1998 and
2000. Another official referred to as E got 1.5 million Swiss
francs in March 1997 and possibly further payments until May
2000.  The payments were made to H “so as to ensure that he
subsequently influenced the conclusion of sub-licensing
contracts, as president of the Football Association of a South
American country,” Hildebrand said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  