-- First Solar Reaches Record Low as Analyst Questions Model
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-04-23T20:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/first-solar-reaches-record-low-as-analyst-questions-model.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s
largest maker of thin-film solar panels, fell to an all-time low
after a Maxim Group LLC analyst said its business model is
unsustainable.  First Solar dropped 6.8 percent to $19.25 at the close in
 New York , the lowest since its November 2006 initial public
offering.  The company’s thin-film solar panels convert less of the
energy in sunlight into electricity and are typically less
expensive than competing products made from polysilicon. First
Solar’s pricing advantage “evaporated” as polysilicon costs
fell 69 percent in the past year, Aaron Chew, an analyst with
Maxim in New York, said today in a research note.  “We believe it has entirely lost its competitive edge,”
Chew said.  “The bull case for First Solar now rests solely on hope,
not reality,” and the company “needs a wholesale change in
business model and valuation,” he said.  Shares of the Tempe, Arizona-based panel manufacturer
gained 10 percent on April 17, the most since Jan. 27, after it
announced plans to eliminate 30 percent of its workforce, close
a factory in  Germany  and cut production at another plant in
 Malaysia .  “I think there’s some hope that the restructuring will
help, but the simple fact is that $20 poly is here to stay,”
Chew said today in a phone interview. “What has to happen is,
they’re bailed out by a company like  Total SA (FP) , or they figure
out some miraculous way to bring down cost-per-watt even
further.”  Polysilicon Prices  Polysilicon  sells  for $24.27 a kilogram now, down from
$78.46 in April 2011. Prices reached $475 a kilogram in 2008.
Chew said prices will probably stabilize below $20.  Cost savings associated with the restructuring will reduce
First Solar’s manufacturing costs to 70 cents to 72 cents a watt
this year, the company said. Next year, First Solar expects to
produce its cadmium-telluride panels for 60 cents to 64 cents a
watt. Competitors already can produce polysilicon panels for 65
cents a watt, Chew said.  “With its manufacturing edge lost and its capacity cut, we
believe First Solar has begun its transition from manufacturing
to project development,” Chew wrote in the note.  If the company were to announce such a change to its
business model, “the stock would halve in a second,” Chew said
in an interview. He cut his rating for First Solar to to sell
from hold and reduced his 12-month price target to $9.  Alan Bernheimer , a First Solar spokesman, declined to
comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  