-- Fondiaria Rescue, Ex-Credit Agricole Banker, FSA: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-04-23T12:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/fondiaria-rescue-ex-credit-agricole-banker-bonuses-compliance.html
Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA (UNI) ’s
planned rescue of  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA) , Italy’s second-biggest
insurer, may be delayed after a prosecutor requested the seizure
of a 20 percent stake in Fondiaria’s biggest investor.  The request to seize the shares in  Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF) 
was made by Milan prosecutor Luigi Orsi as part of his probe
into market manipulation by the company’s founder Salvatore
Ligresti, according to court documents obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Unipol agreed in January to buy new shares in Ligresti’s
Premafin as part of a plan to rescue the unprofitable insurer.
The purchase would allow Premafin to participate in the 1.1
billion-euro stock sale announced by Fondiaria on Jan. 30.
Unipol wants to carry out a four-way merger to create an insurer
to challenge  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Italy’s largest.  Fondiaria said April 19 it backed the merger plan and will
continue to pursue a transaction, though it wants Unipol’s terms
reviewed. Unipol’s proposal would give it at least a
67 percent stake in Turin, Italy-based Fondiaria.  Ligresti, the 80-year-old patriarch of the family that
controls at least 51 percent of Premafin, is under investigation
for market manipulation, the documents show. Ligresti allegedly
pushed up Premafin’s share price between November 2009 and
September 2010 to avoid the renegotiation of loan agreements
backed by Premafin shares, according to the documents.  Marco  De Luca , Ligresti’s attorney, didn’t respond to two
phone calls seeking a comment. A spokeswoman for Premafin and
Fondiaria declined to comment on the matter. A Unipol spokesman
wouldn’t comment.  Compliance Policy  Bank Bonus Cap Endorsed by EU Lawmakers in Basel-Rule Talks  Bankers may face rules capping their bonuses at no more
than their fixed pay after European Parliament lawmakers agreed
on the measure as part of negotiations on draft Basel capital
rules.  Political groups in the European Union assembly “have an
agreement” on the one-to-one ratio between fixed and variable
pay, Philippe Lamberts, the lawmaker leading work on the rules
in the assembly’s Green group, said in an interview from
Strasbourg, France April 20. Talks will continue on additional
pay curbs, following a meeting of members of the parliament.  The bonuses cap was suggested April 13 by  Othmar Karas , the
sponsor of the bill in the parliament, after members of the
assembly tabled dozens of amendments on pay. The law, which
implements rules published by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , must be endorsed by national governments and by the
parliament before it can come into effect.  The parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee
postponed an April 25 vote on the legislation to allow more time
for the assembly’s members to thrash out further compromises,
Lamberts said.  Lamberts said in an interview that the vote is “certain”
to be postponed because of open issues.  Separately, the European Parliament postponed plans to vote
on bank capital rules to this week, Lamberts said April 20. He
is a member of the assembly’s Economic and Monetary Affairs
Committee.  For more, click here.  India May Lower Private-Equity Firms’ Taxes, Economic Times Says  India’s finance ministry is considering reducing long-term
capital gains tax on unlisted stocks to 10 percent for private-
equity firms, the Economic Times said, citing people it didn’t
identify.  The proposed changes would put private-equity investors at
par with foreign institutional investors.  Separately, the country’s finance ministry has asked the
RBI to allow higher investment by individual foreign investors
in corporate debt, the Economic Times reported, citing an
unidentified finance ministry official.  Compliance Action  SMBC Nikko Ordered by FSA to Improve Business After Breach  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. , a brokerage unit of Japan’s
second-biggest bank, was ordered to improve its business by the
country’s financial regulator after leaking information ahead of
a share sale.  SMBC Nikko must submit a report by May 18 showing who is
responsible for the rule breach and how the firm will improve
compliance and internal controls, the Financial Services Agency
said in a statement in Tokyo April 20.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission 
recommended April 13 that the FSA penalize SMBC Nikko after it
found 23 sales staff disclosed information to 34 clients before
an unidentified company’s announcement of an equity offering.  SMBC Nikko will take proper actions against employees who
were involved in the violations, the Tokyo-based firm said in a
statement April 20. It will continue to monitor public offerings
that the brokerage is leading to ensure information is handled
properly, the company said.  The breach may affect business.  Japan Housing Finance
Agency  said on April 17 that it dropped SMBC Nikko as a manager
of its bond sale. The agency had hired the company, a unit of
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , along with  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   SEC Says Boston Men Who Fed to Madoff Will Pay $4.8 Million  A Boston hedge-fund manager and his son will pay
$4.8 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims that they lured
customers with a fabricated track record before investing with
other funds, including Bernard L. Madoff’s fraud.  Gabriel Bitran, 66, founded GMB Capital Management LLC in
2005 and with his son Marco Bitran raised more than $500 million
over a three-year period, the Securities and Exchange Commission
said in an administrative order filed April 20. The two men, who
resolved the claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing,
also agreed to be barred from the securities industry.  To market their fund, the Bitrans created performance
records dating from 1998 that showed annualized returns of as
much as 16.2 percent with no down years, the SEC said. They told
investors the records were based on actual trading using Gabriel
Bitran’s optimal-pricing models when they were actually based on
hypothetical historical investments, according to the order.  Customers were misled to believe their money would be
invested using the quantitative strategy when in reality certain
GMB  hedge funds  were just investing in other hedge funds, the
SEC said. GMB didn’t disclose to clients that they suffered
significant losses after their money was invested in frauds
including Petters Group and Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, the SEC said.  Nicholas Theodorou, an attorney for Gabriel Bitran at Foley
Hoag LLP, and Mark Pearlstein a lawyer for Marco Bitran and GMB
at McDermott Will & Emory LLP, said their clients are pleased to
have reached a settlement with the SEC and to have put the
matter behind them.  Vestia Derivatives Fraud Probe Expanded by Dutch Prosecutor  The Dutch public prosecutor expanded its probe of possible
fraud linked to derivatives used by Stichting Vestia Groep after
a financial official at the housing organization was arrested
last week.  Esther Schreur, a spokeswoman for the prosecutor, said
April 20 by telephone that “several other suspects” are in the
investigation “besides the two suspects mentioned before.” She
declined to specify the exact number of people or their
identities.  Vestia is the subject of several probes after it needed 1.6
billion euros ($2.1 billion) of government-guaranteed loans to
make payments stemming from margin calls on interest-rate swap
contracts with several banks. The organization is also
conducting its own forensic investigation, according to
spokesman Ronald Florisson.  The prosecutor said on April 14 it was investigating
transfers between an intermediary and a financial official at
Vestia for possible bribery,  tax fraud  and  money laundering  in
relation to derivatives used by the housing organization. One of
the suspects was arrested on April 13.  None of the other suspects have been arrested, Schreur
said.  Hong Kong Regulator Fines Mega Capital Over Listing Failures  Hong Kong’s securities regulator fined Mega Capital (Asia)
Co. a record HK$42 million ($5.4 million) for failing to
highlight misleading information in the share sale prospectus of
 Hontex International Holdings Co. (946)   Mega Capital, the sole sponsor in the 2009 listing of
Hontex, was also stripped of its corporate finance license, the
 Securities and Futures Commission  said in a statement yesterday.
Hontex, a Chinese fabrics maker, was suspended from trading on
Hong Kong’s stock exchange in March 2010 after the SFC alleged
the company disclosed materially false or misleading information
in its prospectus. Mega Capital denies all allegations of
wrongdoing, the regulator said.  The punishment comes as auditor disputes and delistings
involving Chinese companies trading on foreign exchanges are
fueling investor distrust, hurting valuations and damaging the
market for new listings.  It’s the first time the SFC has stripped a license from a
sponsor and the fine was the highest it had imposed against such
a company, SFC spokesman Jonathan Li said. Calls to the Hong
Kong office of Mega Capital’s Taiwan-based parent Mega
Securities Co. outside office hours weren’t answered.  For more, click here.  Vietnam May Extend Trading Hours, Thoi Bao Kinh Te Saigon Says  Vietnam  State Securities Commission  is seeking finance
ministry approval to amend afternoon trading hours to 1:30 p.m.
to 3 p.m. from 1 p.m. to 2:15 p.m., Thoi Bao Kinh Te Saigon
online newswire reported, without saying where it got the
information.  The regulator also seeking ministry approval to reduce to
two days from three days the minimum period buyers must hold
shares after purchase.  Courts/Tribunals  Fired Credit Agricole Banker Loses Bid to Restore Lost Bonus  A senior investment banker at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  who
claimed he was threatened by a manager and unfairly dismissed,
doesn’t deserve any compensation, a  London  employment tribunal
ruled.  Edward Willems, the French lender’s former deputy head of
fixed-income markets, sought “millions of pounds” in the suit.
He told the tribunal in February he felt “betrayed” when he
lost his job after reporting his boss Guy Laffineur’s behavior
under rules that protect whistle-blowers from punishment.  While Willems was unfairly dismissed in July 2011, it
wasn’t because of the dispute with Laffineur, tribunal judge
Anthony Snelson said in a written judgment dated March 30.
Credit Agricole had decided he “was not the appropriate person
to take on the new sales role” and “was too closely associated
with the earlier regime,” Snelson said.  Damages for wrongful dismissal are normally capped at about
72,000 pounds ($116,000). In whistle-blower cases, employment
tribunals can award unlimited compensation, making it a popular
recourse for bankers suing their former employers.  “No compensatory award is appropriate,” Snelson said.
“The claimant must be content with a finding that his dismissal
was unfair.”  Willems said in a phone interview that he was disappointed
with the part of the ruling that applied to compensation only
because “unlawful behavior should result in a penalty.”  Credit Agricole spokeswoman Charlotte McMullen declined to
comment.  Hedge Fund Founder Kim Gets Five to 15 Years for Scheme  Hedge fund founder Brian Kim was sentenced to a total of
five to 15 years in prison after pleading guilty to grand
larceny in connection with what prosecutors said was a
$6 million Ponzi scheme.  Justice Charles H. Solomon handed down the sentence April
20 in  New York  State Supreme Court in Manhattan. Kim, founder
and operator of the hedge fund Liquid Capital Management LLC,
pleaded guilty to nine of 26 counts against him in court on
March 16. He faced as long as 25 years in prison for the most
serious count.  The judge didn’t impose any fines or restitution.  Kim told the judge that he would seek to repay millions of
dollars to his investors after he is released from prison.  Kim was charged in February 2011 with running the scheme
for eight years. He told clients they were investing in safe and
stable securities while he traded in highly speculative
contracts and diverted money to himself, prosecutors said.  “He was never motivated by greed,” Kim’s lawyer,  Justin
Levine , said prior to the sentencing. “He genuinely wanted to
help his investors.”  The state case is People v. Kim, 2011/86, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan). The CFTC suit is
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Kim, 11-cv-01013,
and the federal passport fraud case is U.S. v. Kim, 11-cr-00642,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  For more, click here.  UBS Executive Cleared of Failing to Prevent Unauthorized Trades  A  UBS AG (UBSN)  executive was cleared by a tribunal in a case over
the U.K. financial regulator’s allegations that he failed to
prevent unauthorized trades at the bank’s wealth-management unit
in London.  John Pottage, the former chief executive officer of the
unit, was cleared by the financial services tribunal in a
ruling, UBS said in a statement today.  The  Financial Services Authority  tried to fine Pottage
100,000 pounds ($160,000), saying he didn’t ensure the division
had controls in place to prevent employees from making as many
as 50 unauthorized trades a day with funds from at least 39
customer accounts. UBS compensated customers $42 million, and
was fined 8 million pounds by the FSA in 2009.  “John Pottage and UBS take note of the decision of the
Upper Tribunal,” UBS said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
pleased with the outcome and that this matter is now closed.”  The FSA decision to fine Pottage, now a senior executive at
the bank’s headquarters in Zurich, wasn’t supported by the
evidence, the financial services tribunal ruled. The Financial
Times reported the tribunal’s decision earlier.  Comings and Goings  Hong Kong Bourse’s Arculli Steps Down, Urges Vigilance  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) , surpassed by CME Group
Inc. as the world’s biggest bourse by market value, will fall
behind others if it’s not vigilant, said Ronald Arculli, who
steps down as chairman today.  “It doesn’t matter if it’s the Cambodian or the Laotian
exchange, somebody could overtake us,” Arculli said in an April
12 interview. “You’ve just got to be totally vigilant all the
time and not take life for granted. To be international, you’ve
got to work very hard at it, as you’ve got to work very hard at
being local as well.”  Board members, half appointed by the government and half
elected by shareholders, are scheduled to choose a replacement
for Arculli tomorrow after the 73-year-old led efforts to
attract international listings. Chow Chung-Kong, the former
chief executive officer of subway operator MTR Corp., is the
government’s pick, the South China Morning Post said April 11.  The rise of alternative trading venues at the expense of
traditional bourses such as the New York and London stock
exchanges is “a salutary reminder that we are in a very
competitive scenario,” said Arculli, who is also chairman of
the World Federation of Exchanges.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 