-- Forint Drops to 3-Month Low on Hungary IMF Disputes, Euro Crisis
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-04-23T15:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/forint-set-for-lowest-in-2-weeks-on-europe-china-manufacturing.html
The forint fell to the lowest in
three months on concern Hungary will escalate disputes with the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  over aid.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.8 percent to 299.57 per
euro by 4:44 p.m. in Budapest, the weakest on a closing basis
since Jan. 23 and the worst performance among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds slumped, lifting yields 11
basis points to 8.992 percent.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , whose government has been in
conflict with the EU for five months after requesting a bailout,
said today in Brussels he will tell European Commission
President Jose Manuel Barroso the areas where his government
won’t compromise in the face of EU preconditions for bailout
talks. A contraction in euro area manufacturing, French
elections and the Dutch prime minister’s offer to quit drove
investors from riskier emerging-market assets.  “The trouble with  Hungary  now is that everyone is so
focused on the talks between the EU, the IMF and the
government,” Christian Lawrence, a London-based currency
strategist at Rabobank International, said by telephone today.
The forint “will continue to drift lower unless we have a
concrete resolution to the EU-IMF deal,” he said.  Hungary’s government said today it’s planning new taxes and
spending cuts to increase budget savings and meet deficit
targets required to unlock separate European Union grants.  The cabinet, which risks losing EU development subsidies
next year unless it cuts its deficit, detailed additional
savings of 150 billion forint ($660 million) this year and 600
billion forint in 2013 on top of steps announced last year,
according to the document posted on the  Economy Ministry ’s
website today.  ‘Useful Base’  The plan will be enough for the EU to withdraw the plan to
withhold development subsidies and “will also serve as a useful
base for the IMF/EU negotiations should they begin,”  Daniel Hewitt , an economist at Barclays Capital in London, wrote by e-
mail.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered his cabinet’s
resignation after losing the Freedom Party’s support over the
weekend on disagreements about an austerity package. France’s
Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande  won more of the first-
round ballot than incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy , boosting demand for
haven assets.  “The developments in Holland this weekend raised concern
again over what will happen in the euro zone going forward,”
Lawrence said. The forint has underperformed other currencies in
the region as it is “very closely” correlated to developments
in the euro area crisis, he said.  Euro-area services and manufacturing contracted more than
estimated in April, Markit Economics said. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit also reported a preliminary reading signaling contraction
in  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  