-- Bund Yields Fall to Record as Dutch Coalition Collapses
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-04-23T15:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/french-bonds-fall-after-vote-widening-yield-gap-to-bunds.html
German bunds rallied, driving five-
and 10-year yields to record lows, as a backlash against
austerity toppled the Dutch government and left French President
Nicolas Sarkozy trailing in his re-election bid.  The Netherlands’ 10-year bond yields reached a three-year
high relative to German debt on bets the coalition’s collapse
will derail budget-cutting plans and threaten  Europe ’s response
to the debt crisis. French bonds underperformed their German
counterparts after the first round of presidential elections.
Bunds outperformed all but one of their euro-area peers as a
report showed services and manufacturing output in the region
contracted more than economists estimated this month.  “The fall of the Dutch government and the outcome of the
French elections have had a risk-off effect on the market,”
said Piet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank NV in Brussels.
“Bunds should do well, these factors are positive for bunds and
negative for French and Dutch bonds.”  German 10-year bond yields declined seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.64 percent at 4:22 p.m. London time.
The rate touched an all-time low of 1.633 percent. The 1.75
percent security due July 2022 advanced 0.61, or 6.10 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,313) face amount, to 100.99. The five-year note
yield fell to a record 0.601 percent.  Dutch 10-year bond yields surged 11 basis points to 2.43
percent, increasing the spread over bunds by 17 basis points to
78 basis points, the most since March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Crisis Victims  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered his cabinet’s
resignation today after losing the support of Geert Wilders’s
 Freedom Party  amid a disagreement on austerity plans.  Queen
Beatrix  will consider the resignation, the government’s
information service said in an e-mailed statement.  Leaders of Greece,  Finland , Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and
Spain have either lost elections or resigned since the debt
crisis erupted in October 2009, prompting governments to embark
on measures to control their obligations or support their peers.
Greece is due to hold elections on May 6, almost two years to
the day after the country became the first in the euro area to
call for aid.  France ’s  10-year bond  yield spread to bunds widened seven
basis points to 145 basis points. It reached 149 basis points on
April 20, the most since Jan. 9.  Socialist Francois Hollande took 28.6 percent of the vote
in France’s first-round elections yesterday against 27.1 percent
for President  Nicolas Sarkozy . The anti-euro National Front got
18.1 percent. Hollande would beat Sarkozy by 56 percent to 44
percent in the final round, also due May 6, according to
separate surveys conducted by the CSA polling company and  Harris
Interactive  after the results.  French Bond Volatility  “These uncertainties, which may continue beyond elections
could sustain volatility in French bonds, which underperformed
against peers in the run up,”  Wilson Chin  and Subhrajit Banerjee, London-based strategists at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote
in a client note today. “Investors are likely to remain
cautious in the near term.”  The debt of the euro region last year rose to the highest
since the start of the single currency, jumping to 87.2 percent
of gross domestic product from 85.3 percent the previous year,
official European Union figures showed today.  Greece  topped the
list with debt at 165.3 percent of GDP, while Estonia had the
least at 6 percent of GDP.  Industrial Index  German bund futures touched a record-high 141.37 after
London-based Markit Economics said in an initial estimate today
that a euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing industries fell to 47.4,
a five-month low, from 49.1 in March. Economists had forecast an
increase to 49.3, according to the median of 17 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.
 Germany ’s manufacturing shrank more economists predicted this
month, a separate report showed.  “The PMI negative numbers helped the German bund market to
rally,” said  Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-income strategist
at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “If we have no growth in
Germany then that’s bad for the whole euro region,” spurring
demand for safer assets, he said.  Volatility in Dutch  government securities  was the highest
among the euro-region nations followed by Germany, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and
credit-default swaps compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. debt  was the
most volatile of 24 developed-nation markets, the gauges showed.  The Netherlands also led an increase in the cost of
insuring against default on European sovereign debt. Credit-
default swaps on Dutch bonds jumped 11.5 basis points to 130,
the highest in five months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Spanish 10-year yield was five basis points higher at
6.02 percent, while Italian bonds with a similar maturity
yielded 5.74 percent, an increase of eight basis points.  Spain ’s economy contracted 0.4 percent in the first
quarter, the Bank of Spain estimated. The government, which is
struggling to convince investors it can narrow the deficit by 3
percentage points of its gross domestic product this year,
forecasts a contraction of 1.7 percent for 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  