-- GDF Suez First-Quarter Earnings Rise 5.7% on Asia LNG Sales
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-23T15:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/gdf-suez-first-quarter-earnings-rise-5-7-on-asia-lng-sales-1-.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , the French utility
that agreed to buy the rest of  International Power Plc (IPR)  for $11
billion, said first-quarter profit rose 5.7 percent on liquefied
natural-gas sales to  Asia  and a European cold snap.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization climbed to 5.8 billion euros ($7.6 billion) from
5.5 billion euros in the year-earlier period, the Paris-based
company said today in a statement. That was in line with the
5.74 billion-euro estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 11 percent to 28.2 billion euros.  Europe ’s biggest utility by market value is seeking to
expand in Asia and  Latin America , where demand for energy is
outpacing Europe. Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet
plans to sell 3 billion euros of assets following the deal this
month to acquire the 30 percent it doesn’t already own in
London-traded International Power.  GDF today confirmed financial guidance released last week
that takes account of the purchase. It set a 2012 target for net
recurring income of 3.7 billion to 4.2 billion euros, compared
with the 3.5 billion to 4 billion euros issued in February. The
level of debt to earnings remains unchanged including the deal.
The utility’s 2012 dividend will be at least as large as 2011
should the transaction complete, the company said previously.  “First-quarter earnings back these targets,” Mestrallet
said today at the utility’s annual general meeting in Paris.  ‘Very Strong’ Results  GDF Suez reported “very strong” results in global gas and
LNG sales in the period, with LNG volumes more than doubling,
prices rising and output from the Gjoa field in  Norway  growing.  First-quarter gas volumes in France of 123.7 terawatt-hours
“show stability with respect to 2011,” GDF said. Europe was
hit by a cold spell in February that raised demand for natural
gas used to heat homes. In  Germany , the higher consumption only
partly compensated for a loss of customers, the company said.  GDF Suez, the former French monopoly, has about 87 percent
of the country’s residential market and 63 percent of business
customers. After the International Power takeover, expected to
close in mid-July, and completion of  power plants , GDF will have
a combined capacity of 132,000 megawatts, Mestrallet has said.  Dams in  Brazil , gas-fired plants in the Middle East and
coal generators in Indonesia and Thailand are being built.  Planned disposals will be added to 3.4 billion euros of
asset sales yet to be completed under a previous program. While
sales aren’t planned in  France  or Belgium, priority will be
given to assets in other parts of Europe, Mestrallet has said.  GDF’s debt stood at 37.1 billion euros at the end of March,
down 500 million euros from the end of last year, according to
today’s statement. The former monopoly’s “indicative” Ebitda
target is 17 billion euros for 2012, compared with a goal in
February of 21 billion euros for 2015. Last year, guidance was
for Ebitda to surpass 20 billion euros in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  