-- GDF Suez Wants Quick Belgian Nuclear Decision, Cirelli Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-23T18:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/gdf-suez-wants-quick-belgian-nuclear-decision-cirelli-says-1-.html
GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA is urging the Belgian
government to make a decision as quickly as possible as to
whether the utility has to close three atomic generators, Vice-
Chairman Jean-Francois Cirelli said.  The utility wants to know whether it has to invest to
dismantle the Belgian reactors operated by its Electrabel unit
or to prolong their lives for another decade from 2015, Cirelli
said at an annual meeting of shareholders today in Paris.  Dismantling  Belgium ’s seven reactors would cost 2.9 billion
euros ($3.8 billion), he said. An energy tariff freeze in the
country will shave an estimated 100 million euros from earnings
this year, he added.  GDF Suez is reviewing its nuclear strategy following last
year’s accident at Fukushima in  Japan  and the decision by
Belgium to double a tax on atomic energy. The findings will
determine whether the utility pursues atomic projects in
countries such as the U.K., U.S.,  Brazil ,  Saudi Arabia  and
 Turkey , Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet said today.  “We are attached to having a nuclear base in our energy
mix,” Mestrallet said. The strategy review will be completed by
the middle of the year, he said.  Lower Rates  Electrabel announced last week it will lower electricity
and gas rates on May 1 for households and businesses signing up
for year-long contracts.  “The prices are frozen starting April 1 to the end of this
year,” Cirelli said today on a conference call on first-quarter
earnings. The cap will shave about 100 million euros from 2012
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
he said.  Belgian Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo’s government is also
considering a 550-million-euro levy on nuclear energy in the
2012 budget that has yet to be passed.  GDF Suez had threatened to shut three reactors in 2015,
which would be earlier than previously agreed, if the government
applies the tax, which is about double the rate of previous
years. A decision on the reactor shutdowns hasn’t yet been taken
by the government.  The utility has said the tax increase would go against a
2009 deal with a previous government in which Electrabel agreed
to pay an annual levy of 215 million to 245 million euros
through 2014 in exchange for prolonging the lifetime of the
three oldest reactors, Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1, for another
decade. The deadline for shutting the plants under that
agreement was extended to 2025.  The pressurized water reactors began producing power in
1975 and have a capacity of 1,852 megawatts.  GDF Suez will have to spend an estimated 200 million euros
on work on all seven reactors to bolster safety demanded by
regulators following Fukushima, Mestrallet said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  