-- Genworth Credibility Eroded as Australia Plan Shelved: Mortgages
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-24T20:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/genworth-credibility-eroded-as-australia-plan-shelved-mortgages.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  Chief
Executive Officer Michael Fraizer, whose bets on U.S. housing
 lost  about $1.8 billion for the insurer since 2008, is losing
credibility with bondholders and shareholders after misjudging
Australia’s real estate market.  Credit-default swaps  that protect investors in the
Richmond, Virginia-based insurer’s debt show a 43 percent chance
of default within five years, up from 29 percent in March,
according to CMA. Genworth’s shares plunged 24 percent on April
18, pushing its shares below 0.2 times book value for the first
time since January as losses at mortgage insurance operations
spread to Australia.  Fraizer, 53, told investors in November he would sell part
of the company’s Australian unit in an initial public offering
and focus on buying back stock. That plan, which five months ago
fueled a 17 percent stock gain, was put on hold last week.  “Certainly credibility is an issue, and certainly this is
a significant misstep,” said Edward Shields, an analyst at
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. “There have been a number of
missteps over the years. Lots of investors have asked for
change.”  Genworth is the third-biggest decliner in the 24-company
 KBW Insurance Index (KIX)  this year. The stock fell 2 cents to $6.04
as of 4 p.m. in New York trading. Its 0.18 price to book value
is the lowest ratio among companies in the index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Insurance Losses  Genworth’s U.S. mortgage insurance unit posted its fourth
consecutive  annual loss  last year, a deficit of $477 million,
according to the company’s 10-K filing in February. The result
narrowed from the $559 million loss reported for 2010. The unit
lost $427 million in 2009 and $368 million in 2008.  “Genworth has taken and continues to take significant
actions to sharpen its strategic focus, reduce risk exposures,
expand risk buffers, streamline costs, drive capital generation
and rebuild value for shareholders,” Al Orendorff, a spokesman
for the insurer, said in an e-mailed statement. It has exited
businesses, improved pricing, bought reinsurance and executed a
“loss mitigation program in U.S. mortgage insurance while
writing highly profitable new business,” he said.  Fraizer, also the firm’s chairman, is scheduled to appear
before investors at the firm’s annual meeting on May 17. He told
shareholders in a March letter the company was “humbled” by
its performance in 2011, a year in which the stock fell 50
percent. Fraizer was awarded $750,000 in incentive compensation
for 2011, or 33 percent of his target, and hasn’t qualified for
his full bonus since 2006.  ‘Position of Strength’  The decision to delay the Australian IPO until early 2013
came three weeks after Chief Financial Officer Martin Klein said
the sale was on track for the second quarter. Claims exceeded
expectations, the company said in a statement last week. That
compares with Genworth’s guidance on March 29, when Klein told
investors he expected markets in  Australia  and  Canada , where the
firm owns mortgage insurance units, “to remain solid.”  “What we wanted to do all along is do this transaction
from a position of strength,” Klein said at the investor
meeting last month organized by JPMorgan Chase & Co. “I would
say this IPO, for a number of reasons, is a very, very important
transaction for us.”  The postponement comes after the worst  U.S. housing crash 
in seven decades drained capital at mortgage insurers, including
Genworth, that pay lenders when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  Home Sales  While the housing market is improving by some measures,
weak  job growth  and stricter lending standards are weighing on a
recovery. Sales of previously owned U.S. homes fell in March for
the third time in the last four months, declining 2.6 percent
from February to a 4.48 million annual rate, the National
Association of Realtors reported last week.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property  home prices  in 20
U.S. cities fell 3.5 percent in February from a year earlier,
the smallest 12-month drop since February 2011. Prices have
declined 35 percent since the peak in 2006.  Mortgage insurer  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  yesterday reported
its seventh straight quarterly loss. Genworth, which also sells
life insurance and retirement products, is scheduled to release
full first-quarter results May 1.  Fraizer, who guided the insurer through its spinoff from
General Electric Co. after a 2004 IPO and the financial crisis
in 2008, was criticized for a “lack of urgency” in July by
Highfields Capital Management LP. In 2010,  Steven Eisman , then a
 fund manager  at FrontPoint Partners LLC, joined a conference
call to tell Fraizer management had “overseen a massive
destruction of  shareholder value ” and that investor patience
was wearing thin.  Quarterly Losses  Genworth reported five straight quarterly losses during the
2008 and 2009 financial crisis and swung back to deficits in the
fourth period of 2010 and the second of last year. In July, the
company blamed its latest loss on “worsening trends” in the
mortgage-guarantee business.  The insurer said the Australian unit had “a modest first-
quarter loss” as lenders pushed foreclosures to completion
faster than the insurer expected amid economic slowdown and
natural disasters in Queensland. The unit reported a $52 million
profit in the same period a year earlier.  “Genworth is facing down the barrel of a very tough
situation,” said Adam Steer, an analyst at Brookfield
Investment Management Inc., whose parent Brookfield Asset
Management Inc. oversees about $150 billion in assets. “They
were saying it’s one of their most important initiatives and the
very fact that that got pushed off until next year, assuming
they can even get it done then, is definitely a negative.”  Australian Delinquencies  Australian home loan delinquencies rose unexpectedly in the
three months ended Dec. 31 as a stalling housing market
curtailed financing options for homeowners,  Fitch Ratings  said
last month. Arrears in the country’s prime residential mortgage-
backed securities rose to 1.57 percent in the fourth quarter
from 1.52 percent in the third, Fitch said. Median home prices
fell 4.8 percent last year, according to the ratings firm.  Credit-default swap contracts protecting Genworth debt
surged to 5.1 percent upfront today, meaning investors would pay
$510,000 initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million
of the debt, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
That level signals the market perceives a 43 percent chance the
company will default within five years, based on an expectation
that investors would recover 40 percent of face value of the
bonds if the company failed to meet its obligations, the data
show.  Genworth’s implied volatility, the key gauge of options
prices, for 30-day contracts closest to the stock price, was
61.56 as of April 20, the third-biggest level among the KBW
Insurance Index. The measure for  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  was 110.66, the most,
and MGIC followed, with 77.95, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hedge Fund Ownership  Fraizer has sought since 2009 to reassure investors losses
at the U.S. mortgage insurance operations wouldn’t drain funds
from other parts of the business. Genworth executives repeated
his strategy of running the unit as “self-contained” on a
capital basis at least 12 times from February 2009 to October
2010. In July, Genworth said it would contribute $375 million in
assets to the U.S. unit.  More than 20 percent of  Genworth shares  are owned by hedge
funds, the second-highest concentration in the KBW Insurance
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Highfields, led by Jonathon Jacobson, more than doubled its
Genworth stake in the second half of 2011 and held about 6.3
percent of the insurer at the end of December. The Boston-based
hedge fund is the third-biggest shareholder behind NWQ
Investment Management Co. and Dodge & Cox, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  