-- Piracy Declines by 28% as Navies Disrupt Somalia Attacks
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-04-23T10:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/global-piracy-attacks-decline-to-102-from-142-in-first-quarter.html
Global pirate attacks fell 28
percent in the first quarter as naval interventions reduced
incidents off the coast of  Somalia , the International Maritime
Bureau said.  Pirates mounted 102 attacks, down from 142 a year earlier,
the London-based bureau said by e-mail today. Incidents near
Somalia dropped to 43 from 97 and the number of vessels that
were hijacked also fell, it said. Incidents off the coast of
 Nigeria  doubled to 10 and the pirates ventured further out to
sea, according to the bureau.  “Nigerian piracy is increasing in incidence and extending
in range,” the bureau said in a statement. “While the number
of reported incidents in Nigeria is still less than Somalia, and
hijacked vessels are under control of the pirates for days
rather than months, the level of violence against crew is
dangerously high.”  Oil tankers carrying about 750,000 barrels of crude daily
through the  Suez Canal , the world’s busiest man-made waterway,
must pass by Somalia’s coastal waters, according to figures on
the canal authority’s website. Container ships moving half the
world’s manufactured goods are also targets. Total trade valued
at $1 trillion moves through the region, according to the
European Union’s naval force.  Naval strikes led to the decline in Somali piracy, the
bureau said. Fewer vessels are being seized as owners hire armed
guards and deploy better on-board security, it said.  3,500 Pirates  There are about 3,500 Somali pirates attacking vessels off
 Africa ’s eastern coast in the Gulf of Aden and  Indian Ocean , the
 United Nations  said in February. Somali pirate attacks rose to a
record 237 in 2011 and ransoms worth $160 million were paid to
release 31 hijacked vessels, according to a One Earth Future
Foundation report.  Piracy cost the shipping industry and governments $6.9
billion last year, including $2.7 billion in extra fuel to speed
up through the area and $1.27 billion on military operations,
according to the foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  