-- Goldman Sachs Offers Its First CD Tied to Both Stocks, Rates
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-04-23T19:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/goldman-sachs-offers-its-first-cd-tied-to-both-stocks-rates.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is
offering a certificate of deposit that pays a fixed return when
two measures fall within certain ranges, the bank’s first such
offering in a market where record-low yields are driving demand.  The so-called “range accrual” 15-year CD yields 5 percent
annually when the London interbank offered rate is from 0 to 6
percent, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index exceeds 80 percent
of its initial value, according to a preliminary disclosure
document. New York-based Goldman started offering market-linked,
or structured, CDs in December.  Sales of the products in the U.S. reached a record last
year as the  Federal Reserve  held  interest rates  near zero for a
third year. The deposits, which combine debt with derivatives,
return principal at maturity and offer the opportunity for
higher gains than with typical fixed-rate CDs.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman, declined to
comment.  Most investors will have difficulty determining whether the
5 percent on the Goldman CD is a good payout for the underlying
bet, said Michael Davis, a partner at Varick Asset Management in
 New York .  “For the near term, you’ll likely get 5 percent, but five
years from now, that might be year one of 10 years of no
coupon,” Davis, who sold structured products while at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., said in a telephone interview today.  7 Percent Fee  The product, which is callable, is Goldman’s first CD tied
to both rates and equities, according to a person with knowledge
of the offering who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The total fee will be about 7 percent, or 4 percent
for distribution and a 3 percent hedging fee, the person said.  Banks sold a record 1,271 of structured CDs in the U.S.
last year, according to StructuredRetailProducts.com, a database
used by the industry. Rates on  five-year , fixed-rate CDs have
fallen to 1.49 percent, the lowest level since at least June
1998, according to data from Bankrate.com. That compares with
4.4 percent in December 2007 at the start of the worst recession
since the 1930s.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities. The London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, is the rate at which banks say they can
borrow in dollars from each other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 