-- Icann Delaying Web-Domain Project as ‘Glitch’ Persists
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-04-23T15:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/icann-delaying-web-domain-project-as-glitch-persists.html
The Internet’s address-system
manager will indefinitely delay announcing which companies
applied for new Web suffixes as it diagnoses a breakdown that’s
kept its application system offline since April 12.  The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers is
still working on fixing a “glitch” that allowed a limited
number of users to view other applicants’ user names and file
names, the group said in an April 21  fact sheet  posted online.  Icann said it will postpone its planned April 30
announcement on which companies and organizations applied for
new Web suffixes such as .apple, .nyc, or .love. It didn’t
provide a new date.  Icann, based in  Marina del Rey ,  California , operates under
a U.S. Commerce Department contract and began accepting
applications Jan. 12 for new words to the right of the dot in a
Web address, including company and city names. The group
approved the expansion last year in a move to spur online
innovation. It has said the program may result in thousands of
new Web suffixes, known as generic top-level domains, beyond the
commonly used .com and .org.  More than 40 companies, including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  have opposed the domain-
name expansion, saying a proliferation of Web suffixes will
increase costs for companies and confuse consumers. The U.S.
Federal Trade Commission has said the plan may increase
opportunities for Internet fraud and called on Icann to reduce
the number of domains created.  Application System  Icann said it discovered an issue in the way the
application system handled attachments, and said it has no
indication the system was hacked or the target of a cyber
attack, according to the fact sheet.  The first user report of the application-system deficiency
appears to have been made March 19, and Icann took the system
offline on April 12 after confirming the issue hadn’t been
resolved, the fact sheet states.  Icann said it would provide an update by April 27 on when
the application system will reopen. Once it reopens, it will
stay open for at least five business days, the group said in an
online  statement  on April 20.  Brad White , an Icann spokesman, declined to comment beyond
the organization’s posted statements. Moira Vahey, a spokeswoman
for the Commerce Department’s National Telecommunications and
Information Administration, which oversees the Icann contract,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 