-- Iceland Ex-Premier Haarde Comments on Ruling in Crisis Trial
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 8 0 9 5 0 7 ]   J o n a s   B e r g m a n   [ ]
-- 2012-04-23T16:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/iceland-ex-premier-haarde-comments-on-ruling-in-crisis-trial.html
Geir H. Haarde, the former prime
minister of Iceland, comments on being found guilty on one count
in a trial probing his responsibility for the country’s economic
collapse in 2008. He spoke in an interview in Reykjavik:  Reaction:  “Look at the original indictment there were five
substantive counts of the indictment, two of them dismissed and
on three of them I’m found not guilty. The only remaining count
of indictment is a formalistic one, having to do with how we
discussed things at cabinet meetings. It has nothing, nothing
what so ever to do with the origins of the financial crisis.
Therefore in my view it’s ridiculous, the charge was ridiculous
and the conclusion -- the verdict on this -- is also ridiculous.
If you look at the six counts and if you look at the guilty
verdict comes with no punishment and I’m awarded a big sum in
legal fees, I can only say that I won this case easily and the
people that brought the case, they lost it and they should think
of what the political consequences for themselves should be. I
think they should resign.  His role in the crisis:  “I don’t think that I have a particular role in the global
financial crisis. Of course I was in charge of the government
here when the global financial crisis hit. But it’s very
difficult to establish causality or guilt on the part of one
particular person. I don’t shy away from my responsibilities,
but I have not committed criminal acts -- and that’s the
important thing -- in the running of this country and in
preparing things back in 2008. And I think this court outcome
shows and confirms that, even though there’s this formalistic
detail for which I was found guilty of without punishment.  On motivation:  “It was a political majority in parliament that brought
this case forward. It later turned out that this parliamentary
majority had shrunk -- there was no longer a majority. But
through some parliamentary maneuvers, the new majority that had
been created was not able to withdraw the indictment. The
objective of those behind this political process was to
discredit me, personally, and to hurt my political party in a
way that it would never recover. This has not been successful,
so much I can tell you.  On the European Court of Human Rights:  “It’s because I think the outcome of this one particular
count is ridiculous, and I’m going to go over that with my
lawyers; whether or not that’s a possibility that we should
investigate.” 