-- Haarde Cleared on Most Counts in Iceland Bank Meltdown Trial
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-04-23T16:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/iceland-s-haarde-acquitted-on-most-counts-in-collapse-trial-1-.html
Iceland’s former Prime Minister
Geir H. Haarde was acquitted on the major counts in a trial
probing his responsibility for the country’s economic collapse
in 2008.  The 61-year-old was found guilty of failing to keep his
Cabinet apprised of key developments through formal meetings,
according to a ruling today from the Reykjavik-based  Landsdomur 
court. Haarde, who won’t be punished, was acquitted on three
other charges, including failing to check the expansion of the
country’s banks and neglecting to monitor financial stability.  “I don’t shy away from my responsibilities, but I have not
committed criminal acts -- and that’s the important thing -- in
the running of this country and in preparing things back in
2008,” Haarde said in an interview after the verdict. “This
court outcome shows and confirms that even though there’s this
formalistic detail for which I was found guilty of without
punishment.”  Haarde in September 2010 became the first political leader
to be indicted for economic mismanagement during the global
financial crisis that started in 2007. Iceland’s biggest banks
defaulted on $85 billion in October the following year, plunging
the $13 billion economy into its worst recession in more than
six decades and sending unemployment surging nine-fold.  Other Charges  The court last year also threw out charges that Haarde
neglected his duties as prime minister and failed to ensure the
government studied the risks facing the banks.  The island is emerging from its financial turmoil after
receiving loans from its Nordic neighbors and the  International
Monetary Fund  and thanks to capital controls that have protected
the krona since the end of 2008.  Iceland completed a 33-month IMF program in August and is
this year estimated to outgrow the 17-member euro area and post
a smaller deficit. Haarde’s decision to impose emergency
legislation at the end of 2008 and allow the banks to fail has
won praise for speeding the island’s resurrection from
economists including Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman.  Haarde, who became prime minister in 2006, was ousted
during public protests in 2009. The parliamentary committee that
in 2010 recommended his indictment said his actions from
February 2008 to October that year exacerbated the island’s boom
and subsequent bust. Haarde didn’t exert enough pressure on the
banks after they amassed debts equivalent to 10 times the
country’s economy, the committee said. He was also faulted for
not pressuring  Landsbanki Islands hf  into establishing foreign
subsidiaries for its U.K. and Dutch Icesave accounts.  Legal Escape  The European Free Trade Agreement’s  Surveillance Authority 
is suing Iceland for failing to honor about $5.1 billion in
depositor guarantees for U.K. and Dutch Landsbanki Icesave
account holders. Iceland said in September that proceeds from
the estate of Landsbanki will reach about $11 billion, about
twice the amount owed under the guarantee directive.  The parliamentary committee found that former central bank
Governor David Oddsson, as well as then head of the Financial
Supervisory Authority Jonas Fr. Jonsson, also acted negligently
in the years before the meltdown, according to an April 2010
report. Jonsson and Oddsson, who now runs the country’s second-
biggest newspaper,  Morgunbladid , escaped legal action when the
state prosecutor said in June 2010 that a Special Investigation
Commission’s findings didn’t warrant a criminal probe.  Oddsson was head of government from 1991 until 2004, making
him Iceland’s longest-serving prime minister and the principal
architect of the privatization of the island’s banks in the
1990s. Haarde was finance minister from 1998 until 2005.  Gas and Clubs  Haarde’s case marked the first time Landsdomur, a special
court created in 1905 to hear such trials, convened.  He stepped down in January 2009 following weeks of protests
in which police used tear gas and clubs to control demonstrators
enraged by the banking failure and an 80 percent offshore krona
slump against the euro. Haarde’s Independence Party had been in
government since 1991 and ruled in a coalition with the  Social
Democrats  from May 2007.  Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir, who assumed the job
in 2009, has opposed the trial. During her testimony in March
she told the court she believed “Haarde did everything in his
power to tackle this problem.” She also said there were already
signs the banks posed a threat to the economy in 2006.  Iceland’s economy, which contracted 6.7 percent in 2009,
will expand 2.4 percent this year and 2.6 percent next year, the
IMF said in a report released this month. That compares with a
0.3 percent contraction in the 17-member euro area, the European
Commission said Feb. 23.  Iceland’s economic resurrection has been achieved “with
very heterodox policies -- debt repudiation,  capital controls ,
and  currency depreciation ,” Krugman wrote in his New York Times
blog on Sept. 1. “It was as close as you can get to the polar
opposite of the gold standard. And it has worked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 