-- Mideast Oil-Tanker Supply Reaches Six-Month High, Marex Says
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-04-23T16:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/mideast-oil-tanker-supply-is-biggest-since-october-marex-says.html
The supply of the largest  oil
tankers  competing to load cargoes of crude in the  Persian Gulf 
rose to a six-month high on weaker demand to charter vessels,
Marex Spectron Group said.  There are 103 very large crude carriers available in the
gulf over the next four weeks, Kevin Sy, a Singapore-based
freight-derivatives broker at Marex Spectron, said by e-mail
today. That’s the biggest local supply of the ships since Oct.
10, when 110 vessels were available, he said. Each of the
tankers can hold 2 million barrels of crude.  Refineries in  Asia  typically carry out maintenance during
the second quarter, so vessel demand usually slows in the
period, Oslo-based investment bank RS Platou Markets AS said in
an e-mailed report. Hire rates and daily  returns  for VLCCs on
the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route rose today after last
week’s slump, according to the London-based Baltic Exchange.  “Charterers have been holding back from hiring vessels
ready for loading cargoes in May, so there’s not that many
cargoes absorbing the vessel supply,” Sy said. Ships available
for May’s first 10 days outnumber cargoes almost three to one,
he said.  Tanker Earnings  Charter  costs  for VLCCs on the benchmark route gained 0.5
percent to 53.63 industry-standard Worldscale points, exchange
data showed. They slid 20 percent last week, the most since
February 2011. Earnings rose 4.9 percent to $16,390 a day after
last week’s 56 percent plunge.  The cost of ship fuel, or  bunkers , vessel owners’ main
expense, was little changed at $707.65 a metric ton, figures
compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide showed.  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at reducing fuel costs. Owners can curb those expenses by
slowing ships on return journeys after unloading cargoes.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
advanced 0.1 percent to 741, according to bourse data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  