-- Illinois ‘Treads Water’ as Unpaid Bills Top $9 Billion
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-23T18:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/illinois-treads-water-as-unpaid-bills-top-9-billion.html
Illinois ’s backlog of unpaid bills
has risen to more than $9 billion because of pension costs and
falling federal aid, leaving the state “essentially treading
water,” Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka said.  While revenue grew from higher personal and corporate
taxes, “Illinois’ financial position has not improved,”
Topinka said in a report today. The combination of unpaid bills
to vendors and Medicaid obligations, estimated at $8.5 billion
in January, means payment delays will persist, according to the
report.  Illinois is second only to  California  as the state with the
lowest credit grade from  Standard & Poor’s . S&P may cut the
general-obligation rating from A+, fifth highest, “if there is
no progress on structural budget solutions and if Illinois does
not address the significant pension liabilities and associated
cost pressure,” the company said last week.  While tax increases boosted revenue by about $7 billion, or
3.9 percent in the first three quarters of the fiscal year that
began in June, the gains were undercut by the loss of federal
funding and financing of pension contributions directly, rather
than through bonds as in the past two years, Baar Topinka said.  Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  has proposed a voluntary 3
percent increase in pension contributions from current employees
and a cut in cost-of-living increases for retirees.  “Bold action” is required to save the retirement systems,
the governor told reporters in Chicago April 20. In fiscal 2010,
Illinois had the lowest-funded state pension in the U.S., with
assets equal to 45.4 percent of projected obligations, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The state plans to sell $1.8 billion in general-obligation
refunding debt as soon as April 30, which would lower interest
costs by more than $100 million, Moody’s Investors Service said
in a statement.  Illinois had its general-obligation bond rating reduced
Jan. 6 by Moody’s to A2 from A1, the company’s lowest grade for
a U.S. state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Jones in  Chicago  at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  