-- India’s Mahindra Plans Unmanned Sea Surveillance Vessels
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-04-23T15:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/india-s-mahindra-plans-unmanned-sea-surveillance-vessels.html
(Corrects to remove reference to artillery guns in sixth
paragraph.)  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s
biggest sport-utility vehicle maker, plans to build unmanned
coastal surveillance vessels as the nation boosts security along
its coastline following the 2008  Mumbai  terrorist attack.  The company’s newly formed joint venture with  Israel ’s
Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd. will assemble the vessel at
a facility in Pune, western India, “in a phased manner” after
initially importing models from its partner, K.A. Hai, chief
executive officer of Mahindra’s defense unit, said in an e-mail
reply to Bloomberg questions. He didn’t give a timeframe.  “Unmanned patrol vessels will be needed in large numbers
to protect from infiltration by terrorists, protect our offshore
assets and patrol vital coastal assets such as nuclear plants,”
Hai said April 18.  India  created a specialized force and added interceptor
boats to strengthen security along its about 7,500 kilometers
(4,660 miles) of coastline after militants reached Mumbai in
November 2008 through the west coast and killed 166 people in an
attack that lasted almost three days. The government also
encourages local private companies to build defense equipment to
help pare the nation’s reliance on overseas suppliers.  “This is a good opportunity for Mahindra as India is now
reducing its dependence on foreign companies for defense,” said
Umesh Karne, a Mumbai-based analyst at Brics Securities Ltd.
“It’s also a strategy to hedge against fluctuations in its main
business.”  Indian Venture  Rafael, which will hold a 26 percent stake in the Indian
venture, currently builds  Protector , a remotely controlled naval
combat vessel. The business, to be operational by July, expects
sales to reach $50 million in the first year, Hai said last
month.  Mahindra fell 1.6 percent, the most in two weeks, to 714.6
rupees at close of trading in Mumbai. The benchmark BSE India
Sensitive Index also declined by a similar margin.  The company, based in Mumbai, got  61 percent  of revenue
from the automotive business in the quarter ended in December,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Farm equipment
contributed the balance.  Armored Vehicles  Mahindra has also formed a venture with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  for
armored vehicles and a partnership with Telephonics Corp. for
radars as it expects sales of about $500 million in 10 years for
its defense unit.  India last year overtook  China  as the world’s largest arms
importer, according to the Stockholm International Peace
Research Institute. Locally made defense equipment now account
for about 40 percent of total purchases, from 30 percent
previously, Defense Minister A.K. Antony said March 29.  The world’s second-most populous country plans to raise
defense spending by 13 percent to 1.93 trillion rupees ($37
billion) in the year that began April 1.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , owner
of Jaguar Land Rover, and truckmaker  Ashok Leyland Ltd. (AL)  are also
expanding military equipment business after India opened defense
production to private players in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  