-- Indonesia Plans to Cap Sale of Subsidized Fuel Starting in May
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-04-23T11:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/indonesia-plans-to-cap-sale-of-subsidized-fuel-starting-in-may.html
Indonesia’s government plans to cap
the sale of subsidized fuel for vehicles in May to curb costs
after failing to win legislators’ approval to increase prices
this month.  Vehicles with an engine size including and greater than
1,500 cubic centimeters will not be allowed to buy subsidized
low-octane gasoline,  Evita Legowo , director general of oil and
gas at the nation’s energy ministry, said in Jakarta today.  “We hope fuel consumption can be kept at 40 million
kiloliters,” Legowo said. “It will depend on how soon we can
start it.”  Lawmakers last month rejected the government’s proposal for
a 33 percent increase in subsidized-fuel from April 1, instead
allowing it to raise levels only if the Indonesia Crude Price
exceeds the state budgetary assumption of $105 a barrel by an
average 15 percent over a six-month period.  The government plans to apply the rule to vehicles of state
institutions and state-owned companies a week after the
announcement, Legowo said. The fuel limit for state cars may be
effective in May, she said.  The plan will be effective for private-owned vehicles 60
days to 90 days after the announcement starting in Jakarta and
surrounding areas, Legowo said. Java and Bali will follow a
month after Jakarta, she said.  Legowo didn’t say when the government will make the
official announcement.  Indonesia  consumed 41.7 million kiloliters of subsidized
fuel in 2011, according to data released by state oil company PT
Pertamina on Jan. 18. It was 3.3 percent more than 40.4 million
kiloliters allocated in the 2011 state budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  