-- Infosys, WPP Start Service to Mine Facebook, Social Media Data
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-04-23T23:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/infosys-wpp-start-service-to-mine-facebook-social-media-data.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-
largest computer services company, started a service with WPP
Plc to help clients track marketing information on sites
including  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc.  The pay-per-use service will be hosted on the cloud, the
company said in a statement yesterday. It contains “listening
tools” that help users gather, organize and analyze consumer
responses to online campaigns, according to a product brochure.  Infosys is moving into products as  revenue growth  in
computer services slows and profit margins narrow, and after
competitors outside India built similar platforms. Larger rival
 Accenture Plc ’s Accenture Interactive also offers services to
help customers benefit, as online advertising is forecast to
surge to more than $102 billion in 2013 from an estimated $88
billion this year, according to ZenithOptimedia.  “They’re moving into products and platforms because it’s
definitely got higher margins, for one,” said Ankita Somani, an
analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai who rates Infosys buy.
“You develop products, you develop IP, and you sell it.”  Infosys aims for products,  platforms and solutions  to
contribute one-third of its total revenue, compared with 5.8
percent in the year ended March 31, most of which came from the
Bangalore-based company’s banking products.  Slowing IT Spending  Worldwide spending on IT services will increase at a  slower
pace  of 1.3 percent to $856 billion this year, after climbing
6.5 percent in 2011,  Stamford , Connecticut-based research
company Gartner Inc. said April 5.  The new Infosys platform, called BrandEdge, has customers
including GlaxoSmithKline Plc and has been released in a test
version, said Sanjay Purohit, global head of products, platforms
and solutions at Infosys.  Competing platforms include Sapient Corp.’s SapientNitro,
Accenture’s Accenture Interactive and a digital advertising
suite from Adobe Systems Inc.  “Whether it’s Facebook pages, whether it’s presence on
Myspace, presence on Twitter -- there’s a lot of build
involved,” Purohit said. “Nowadays, the number of channels
opening up in the social media space are so many that you need
to know the pecking order, where is the maximum consumer
interaction happening? And you need to understand consumer
sentiment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  