-- Iran Computer Worm Targets Oil Ministry, State Companies
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-04-23T12:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/iran-detects-computer-worm-targeting-oil-ministry-mehr-says.html
Iran ’s crude industry has been the
target of a cyber attack, crippling some computer systems at the
Oil Ministry, the National Iranian Oil Co. and several other
state-owned businesses, according to government officials.  The damage may be more widespread than earlier reported by
state-run agencies. Yesterday’s attack, which disrupted the
Internet, was detected before it could spread more widely, the
 Mehr  news agency said today.  The systems were down and may be affected by the malicious
software for several days, said one of two officials at the
ministry and the company who confirmed the attack. They declined
to be identified because they aren’t allowed to comment.  The software hasn’t affected production and distribution of
crude to terminals in the  Persian Gulf , Mehr said without saying
where it got the information. It’s at least the second time in
two years that so-called malware has hit government-related
computer systems in Iran, the second-largest crude producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia .  The cyber attack caused limited damage and didn’t affect
the Oil Ministry and NIOC’s key data, Ali Nikzad, a ministry
spokesman, told the state-run  Fars  news agency. Only a server
providing public information has been harmed, Nikzad said.  ‘Crisis Headquarters’  The ministry has established a “crisis headquarters” to
respond to the attack, Mehr said today, citing the deputy oil
minister for engineering affairs, Hamdollah Mohammadnejad.  The Internet access of employees in the Tehran offices and
operational sites of the Oil Ministry, NIOC, the National
Iranian Oil Refining and Distribution Co. as well as Iran’s
National Petrochemical Co. has been interrupted in an effort to
contain the malware, Mehr said, citing an unidentified official
with the National Iranian Oil Refining and Distribution Co.  Iran’s financial and energy industries are the target of
sanctions imposed by the U.S. and European Union in an attempt
to force the government to curb its nuclear program. An EU oil
embargo against Iranian oil is set to go into effect July 1.  Stuxnet Attack  Two years ago, malicious software known as Stuxnet affected
computer systems and several centrifuges used in  Iran’s nuclear
program  to enrich uranium, Iranian officials said at the time.
Stuxnet may have been part of a campaign to disrupt Iranian
nuclear installations, international computer-security
researchers have said.  The latest attack comes a week after Iran and the world
powers ended a 15-month stalemate on discussions about the
country’s nuclear program. Iran and the five permanent United
Nations Security Council members -- the U.S., Britain,  China ,
 France , and  Russia  -- plus  Germany  agreed to reconvene for talks
in Baghdad May 23.  Iran’s uranium-enrichment program is at the center of the
dispute between the U.S., its allies and Iran. Iran denies
allegations it’s trying to build atomic weapons and says it is
producing uranium to use as fuel in nuclear reactors and
generate electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  
 barden@bloomberg.net  