-- Israel’s Liberman Says Egypt Gas Cut Is a Commercial Spat
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-04-23T12:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/israel-s-liberman-says-egypt-gas-cut-commercial-spat.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  toned down the country’s initial reaction to  Egypt ’s
cancellation of an agreement to supply natural gas, saying it
was a commercial dispute and not politically motivated.  The Israeli Finance Ministry late yesterday called the
Egyptian decision “a dangerous precedent that casts clouds over
the peace agreements and the atmosphere of peace between Egypt
and  Israel .”  Israel’s relationship with Egypt has grown increasingly
tense since street protests led to the resignation of former
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  in February 2011. Mubarak had
been Israel’s closest regional ally, and was considered a
staunch supporter of the 1978 Camp David peace accords that
ended decades of hostilities between the countries.  “We don’t see this cut-off of the gas as something that is
born out of political developments,” Netanyahu said in an-
emailed statement today. “It’s actually a business dispute
between the Israeli company and the Egyptian company.  Ampal-American Israel (AMPL)  Corp., which owns 12.5 percent of
East Mediterranean Gas Co., said yesterday it had been advised
by EMG that Egyptian General Petroleum Corp. and the Egyptian
Natural Gas Holding Co. were terminating the gas-supply
agreement between the companies.  Egyptian Natural Gas Chairman Mohamed Shoeib said in an
interview on state television that the company hasn’t been paid
for the gas it is sending and, therefore, EMG is in breach of
the deal. “It was our right to end the contract, per the terms
of the contract,” he said.  ‘Exercising Our Rights’  Egyptian Oil Minister Abdalla Ghorab said yesterday in a
telephone interview that this is “a contractual matter, and we
are exercising our rights under the contract.”  “We want to believe this is a commercial dispute, and not
a political one,” Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman
said in an interview with Israeli  Army Radio  today. “The peace
agreement is important to Israel, and no less so to Egypt.”  The gas agreement, valued at $2.5 billion, was signed in
2005 and was supposed to run 15 years, according to the website
of Israel’s Foreign Ministry. The gas supply had been
interrupted sporadically when the Sinai pipeline that carries
the fuel was bombed 14 times since the start of Egypt’s
political turmoil. The latest attack took place on April 8.  The termination of a gas accord with Israel was the right
step and affirms Egypt’s sovereignty, Muslim Brotherhood
spokesman Mahmoud Ghozlan said in a telephone interview today.  Egyptian Needs  Ghozlan said the agreement to supply gas was signed by the
Mubarak government and that Egypt needs the gas more than Israel
does. The Brotherhood holds almost 50 percent of the seats in
the Egyptian parliament’s lower house.  “If there’s a contract that’s breached, should we continue
even if the contract gives the Egyptian side the right to
terminate the contract?” Ghozlan said.  EMG considers the gas-termination attempt unlawful and in
bad faith, and consequently demanded its withdrawal,” Ampal
said in an e-mailed statement filed yesterday with the  Tel Aviv 
Stock Exchange. Ampal shares declined 19 percent to 0.78 shekel
at 3:24 p.m. in Tel Aviv today.  EMG had previously requested that the Egyptian gas
companies be brought to international arbitration for failing to
meet their contractual obligations to supply gas over the past
year.  Until the Sinai pipeline attacks began, Egyptian gas had
accounted for some 40 percent of fuel used to meet Israel’s
electricity needs.  More Expensive Fuels  Israel Electric Corp. has resorted to using more expensive
substitute fuels, and raised its rates by 9 percent on April 1.
The company said the termination of the Egyptian gas deal may
not have an additional negative financial impact since the
supply had already been interrupted for more than a year.  “I don’t see an impact on inflation expectations or on
monetary policy from this announcement since the impact is
already priced in,” said  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based
economist for HSBC Holdings Plc.  Israel is hoping to make up the shortfall in its fuel
supply by tapping into significant gas discoveries over the past
three years off its Mediterranean coast totaling about 30
trillion cubic feet.  Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said that Israel must
hasten arrangements to bring gas to market from the Tamar
discovery earlier than the current target date of April 2013. It
may be possible to begin pumping from Tamar before the end of
this year, he said today at a conference in Jerusalem.  Former Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, seen as the
Israeli official who was closest to Mubarak, expressed concern
over the gas termination, pointing to the pipeline running from
Sinai into Israel as an essential component of the peace
agreement between the countries. “It’s a severing of the last
link between Israel and Egypt,” he told Army Radio today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  