-- Italy Consumer Confidence Plunges to Record Low in April
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-04-23T10:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/italy-consumer-confidence-plunges-to-record-low-in-april.html
Italian  consumer confidence  plunged
to the lowest in more than 15 years in April as Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s austerity drive deepens the recession in  Europe ’s
fourth-biggest economy.  The confidence index declined to 89, the lowest since the
series began in 1996, from a revised 96.3 in March, national
statistics office  Istat  said in  Rome  today. Economists forecast
a reading of 96.2, according to the median of 12 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The drop is due to a technical correction after the rise
seen in the previous months and to the fact that consumers are
starting to become more aware of the negative effects of the
austerity measures in the short term”, Annalisa Piazza, a
strategist at Newedge Group in  London , said by phone. “None of
the sub-indexes give encouraging signals,” she added.  Monti is implementing 20 billion euros ($26.5 billion) of
spending cuts and tax hikes to fight the debt crisis. The
measures, which will also lower pensions, have brought record
gasoline prices and helped push the economy into its fourth
recession since 2001. Italy will shrink 1.2 percent this year
and joblessness at an 11-year high of 9.3 percent won’t start
falling until 2013, the government forecast last week.  Rising Unemployment  “Unemployment will keep soaring sharply as the conditions
that caused it will remain,” Confindustria, the country’s main
employers’ lobby, said in an April 18 report. “There will be
more job cuts and an increase in people looking for employment
amid a decline in real income.”  In addition to the austerity plan, the government
introduced measures aimed at bolstering economic growth by
deregulating services and cutting bureaucratic red tape. Earlier
this month, it also passed an overhaul of the labor market,
including more leeway for employers to fire staff and a new
system of  unemployment benefits . The bill must be approved by
lawmakers.  Istat originally reported March consumer confidence of
96.8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net  