-- Mitsubishi UFJ to Add 50 Traders in Derivatives Push
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-04-24T06:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/mitsubishi-ufj-to-add-50-traders-in-derivatives-push.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
will hire 50 currency and interest-rate derivatives traders
globally in the next three years to help more than double annual
profit in the business to 500 billion yen ($6.1 billion).  Lending unit Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. will also
add 150 sales and research staff in Asia, Europe and the U.S.,
taking headcount for the derivatives business to 1,700 by March
2015, global markets head Hitoshi Suzuki said in an April 20
interview. The bank plans to meet the profit goal by March 2017.  Japan ’s biggest bank is betting that the market for over-
the-counter currency and interest-rate derivatives, valued at
$15.5 trillion as of last June, will help to spur earnings as
the economy fails to grow enough to fuel  lending  and lessen its
dependence on government bond trading. The hiring plans contrast
with the global banking industry’s more than 130,000 job cuts
announced last year.  “The key would be whether or not Mitsubishi UFJ will be
able to spend decent money to hire talented traders, marketers
and product developers worldwide,” Shinichiro Nakamura, a
Tokyo-based banking analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said.
“This risk hedging-type of business may be the one that can
help them gradually reduce their dependence on profit from the
Japanese government bond trading.”  Mitsubishi UFJ fell 2.3 percent to 383 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of  Tokyo  Stock Exchange trading. They have risen 17
percent this year, outpacing the Topix Index’s 10 percent gain.  Acquisitions Considered  Mitsubishi UFJ may use its business alliance with  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  to help achieve the profit target, said Suzuki, 58. It
owns 21.8 percent of New York-based Morgan Stanley, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Japanese  bank  is also considering acquiring derivatives
trading assets overseas, Suzuki said, without elaborating.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities. Airlines, utilities,
oil refiners, manufacturers and trading companies buy such
instruments to buffer against risk related to fluctuating costs
for production, fuel, material and overseas sales.  “In addition to  China , India and Thailand, we would like
to add personnel in Australia, Malaysia and Indonesia in the
coming years,” Suzuki said. “Our traditional hubs for this
trading business have been in  New York ,  London , Singapore and
 Hong Kong .”  Citigroup, HSBC  Mitsubishi UFJ aims to boost gross profit from the sales
and trading business by at least 30 percent in the next three
years to 260 billion yen annually from 200 billion yen now,
competing with global banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , he said.  The Bank for International Settlements estimates the gross
market value of  over-the-counter derivatives contracts 
outstanding in 11 developed countries including the U.S.,
Germany and Japan fell 21 percent to $19.5 trillion in June 2011
from a year earlier, according to its latest report.  Foreign-exchange contracts such as forwards and currency
swaps dropped 7.9 percent to $2.3 trillion last June, while
interest-rate contracts including rate swaps fell 25 percent to
$13.2 trillion, the report shows.  In the foreign-exchange derivatives market, Mitsubishi UFJ
aims to handle most currencies, including those of developing
countries such as China and Turkey, Suzuki said.  Mitsubishi UFJ increased profit from JGB and other
securities trading by 28 percent in the nine months ended Dec.
31 to help offset a 7.9 percent decline in lending income,
according to its earnings statement on Feb. 1. Japanese banks
held a record 167.8 trillion yen of the country’s sovereign debt
in February, according to  Bank of Japan (8301)  data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 