-- Jack White Gets Furious, Norah Jones Goes Pop on CDs
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-04-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/jack-white-gets-furious-norah-jones-goes-pop-on-cds.html
After years in groups such as the
White Stripes, Jack White is stepping out as a solo star.  “Blunderbuss,” out today, is as weird and intriguing as
White himself, the main man behind the White Stripes as well as
Raconteurs and Dead Weather.  The CD has many of the crazed guitar licks that have made
White one of indie rock’s biggest stars. For all this, it’s less
a continuation of previous work, and more a genuine surprise.  This is White’s divorce record, and he has been battered.
He mixes metaphors in the lyrics, maintaining he has had his
fingers broken, feet severed and face bashed. It’s a wonder that
despite these wounds White manages to be as prolific as Prince,
 Jimi Hendrix  or  David Bowie  at their peaks.  Instead of retreating to a Swiss clinic, White seems to
live in dark recording studios and clubs (witness his
fashionably gothic pallor). While this work ethic might not have
helped his marriage, we can savor the results on tracks such as
“Weep Themselves to Sleep” where White rants to a piano tune
before a guitar solo as mind-blowing as 1960s  Frank Zappa .  White seems to be making a habit of working with his former
spouses: His first wife was drummer Meg White, who he continued
working with in the White Stripes, and this album features U.K.
model  Karen Elson , the source of his latest divorce blues, who
nonetheless turns up on backing vocals.  The brew of blues, jazz,  Bob Dylan  and Led Zeppelin is
sometimes too much as White shows off his versatility. If he
learns to slow down a little, he could go far. Rating: ****.  Norah Jones  Norah Jones’s fifth studio album “Little Broken Hearts”
is the polar opposite of White’s.  Her smooth vocals are ideal for a quiet evening cocooning
before an early bedtime, hence the nickname “S’Norah Jones.”  This made the recent White-Jones collaboration on the
“Rome” LP all the more unexpected. The project led to Jones
meeting producer Brian Burton, better known as Danger Mouse, who
now helms the latest release, pushing her into new territory.  Jones’s dinner-jazz sound worked well on “Come Away With
Me,” which shifted more than 20 million copies. That style went
stale, and now she has pop synthesizers and an upbeat attitude.  Like White, she has made a breakup album, with plenty of
angst and anger. Still, this is a lot better than her last
attempt at the same, “The Fall” in 2009, which was full of sob
stories about her split from bassist Lee Alexander. Rating: ***.  Santogold Returns  Santi White (no relation to Jack) has been struggling to
play down expectations after her impressive 2008 disc was hyped
to the heavens and lauded by critics. That was released under
the name Santogold. She’s back -- under the slightly revised
name of Santigold -- with “Master of My Make-Believe.”  She hasn’t rushed this. The first single, “Go!,” was
released a year ago. The song, featuring Karen O of the Yeah
Yeah Yeahs, is the lead track and comes with crashing beats that
suggest greatness will follow. It doesn’t.  Instead, we get half-baked rants about fame and an M.I.A.-
like dance vibe that’s supposed to sound menacing. “Go!” is
about the best thing here. What a letdown. Rating: **.  The Jack White album is released today on Third Man/ XL
Columbia. Santigold, on Atlantic, is out in the U.K. now and in
the U.S. next week. Both titles are priced about $10.  The  Norah Jones  record, on Parlophone/Blue Note, is out on
May 1 and already streaming at  NPR  and elsewhere. Download fees
vary across services. Information:  http://jackwhiteiii.com/ ,
 http://www.norahjones.com/index.php  or  http://santigold.com/   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Manuela Hoelterhoff on
 Pablo Heras-Casado ; Jeremy Gerard on  Broadway . See more 
music reviews and writing by  Mark Beech .  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 