-- Jakks Pacific Investor to File Proxy Pushing for Auction
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-04-23T20:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/jakks-pacific-investor-to-file-proxy-pushing-for-auction.html
Jakks Pacific Inc. (JAKK)  gained the most
in three months after agreeing to meet with Oaktree Capital
Management LP, the investor that reiterated last week its
interest in acquiring the toymaker.  Jakks also approved a tender offer to buy at least $80
million of its shares for at least $20 each, and will add two
independent directors, the Malibu, California-based company said
today in a statement disclosing it will meet with and provide
information to Oaktree. Jakks rose 4.6 percent to $18.29 at the
close in New York for the biggest gain since Jan. 23.  Jakks also entered into an agreement with Clinton Group
Inc., a New York-based hedge fund, that gives it approval of new
board members in exchange for supporting current directors.
Clinton wrote a letter to Jakks on March 14, asking it to
undertake a strategic review, including considering Oaktree’s
bid.  “We are pleased the board of directors has acted
convincingly to increase  shareholder value ,” Joseph De Perio, a
senior portfolio manager at Clinton Group, said in an e-mail.
“We are confident that the new board will evaluate a potential
offer from Oaktree, and do what is right for shareholders.”  Clinton now owns 4.9 percent of Jakks, De Perio also said.  The shares had gained 9.3 percent from Sept. 13, the day
Oaktree made its bid public, through April 20. Today, Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. raised its rating of Jakks to buy from hold, with
a price target of $23 a share.  Sales Declines  Oaktree approached Jakks about acquiring the company in
March 2011, according to public filings. The companies met in
May and Jakks’s board rejected selling the company in July,
saying that pursuing management’s plans to improve results would
be better for shareholders. Oaktree went public with its
interest and offer of $20 a share in September.  The toymaker posted three straight years of sales declines
as U.S. consumers cut back on spending and more children favored
video games over the stuffed animals and action figures it
offers. Revenue sank 25 percent to $677.8 million last year from
$903.4 million three years earlier.  Los Angeles-based Oaktree reiterated its interest in
December and met with Jakks’s financial advisers in February and
outlined a deal, according to public filings.  Poison Pill  The Jakks board adopted a poison-pill defense on March 5
that will last for a year, in response to Oaktree’s desire to
buy the company. Oaktree owned 5.1 percent of shares as of Dec.
31.  Oaktree countered by sending another letter to the Jakks
board on April 17, saying that it has “no confidence” in the
capability of management and the board and that “immediate
change” was needed. Oaktree has hired Guggenheim Securities LLC
as financial adviser and MacKenzie Partners Inc. as proxy
solicitor, according to the letter.  Fidelity Management & Research owns 11 percent as the
 largest holder , and company insiders have 2.8 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  