-- Japanese Pensions Plan More Alternative Investments After AIJ
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-04-23T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/japanese-pensions-plan-more-alternative-investments-after-aij.html
Japanese pension funds plan to
boost investments in alternative assets even after the fallout
of AIJ Investment Advisors Co., which allegedly lost pension
clients’ money, a survey by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  showed.  Retirement funds that plan to increase investments in the
asset class, which includes  hedge funds  and private-equity
funds, in the current fiscal year that started April 1 totaled
20.6 percent, according to the survey by JPMorgan’s Tokyo-based
asset management unit. That was the most among 10 asset types.  Japanese pensions’ struggle to meet expected returns in the
world’s most rapidly aging society amid sluggish markets was
highlighted after Tokyo-based AIJ allegedly lost more than $1
billion after offering hedge-fund strategies. Many pension plans
are reviewing their investment processes, including governance
and managers, following AIJ, the survey showed.         Fifty-three percent of respondents said they paid attention
to the AIJ scandal and it will affect their investments. Some 
67 percent said they are implementing some sort of preventive 
measures.  AIJ oversaw 145.8 billion yen ($1.8 billion) of clients’
money and lost 109.2 billion yen from derivatives trades
directed over nine years, the country’s Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission said last month.  Almost 25 percent of pensions lifted allocations to
alternative assets in the last fiscal year.  Retiring Boomers  Japanese pensions, which have traditionally invested mainly
in bonds, are seeking other assets to maintain steady returns
and fund retiree benefits as the country faces a shrinking
workforce, with 2012 marking the first year the nation’s baby
boomers are set to retire.  Among other investments, 6.3 percent of pensions said they
plan to increase investments in emerging-market bonds and 7.9
percent in emerging-market equities, the survey showed. By
contrast, 26.2 percent of the respondents plan to reduce
holdings of domestic equities and 19 percent of them in foreign
equities.  The stock benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average is about a
quarter of its 1989 peak, while the 10-year Japanese government
bond yield is at around 0.9 percent, the second-lowest after
 Switzerland .  Pension plans have been hit by the strengthening yen,
prompting them to take a “cautious” stance on their investment
plans, and employing more currency hedges with their
investments, according to the survey.  JPMorgan surveyed 126 Japanese pension funds in its
preliminary report. It plans to release a full report in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 