-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Fall on Europe Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-04-23T23:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/japan-australian-stock-futures-fall-on-europe-concern.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  fell as Europe’s backlash against budget cuts
intensified with the resignation of Dutch Prime Minister  Mark
Rutte  and as services and manufacturing output in the euro zone
contracted, damping the outlook for Asian exporters.  American depositary receipts of Canon Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest
camera maker that gets 31 percent of its sales in Europe, lost
1.1 percent from the closing share price in  Tokyo . ADRs of Sony
Corp., Japan’s No. 1 exporter of consumer electronics that gets
a fifth of its revenue in Europe, dropped 1 percent. Those of
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, fell 1.3
percent as commodity prices dropped.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 9,450 in  Chicago  yesterday, down from 9,550 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,470 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index slid 0.5 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell
0.2 percent in Wellington.  Rutte’s resignation is “creating an aura of uncertainty
and that’s the last thing that investors need,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing director at White Funds Management in Sydney
who manages more than $350 million. “This is destabilizing for
the markets as a whole. Europe is still really the focus.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. The index dropped 0.8 percent in  New York  yesterday, with
Bank of America Corp. falling 2.2 percent, following a drop in
European lenders.  Europe Debt  Europe ’s front against austerity has expanded in recent
weeks after Spain struggled to meet European Union-imposed
deficit targets, election campaigns in Greece faced anti-
austerity rumblings and a revolt against extra spending cuts in
the traditionally budget-conscious  Netherlands  propelled Prime
Minister Rutte’s coalition toward an early breakup.  Rutte, who ran out of room for maneuver after budget talks
with Geert Wilders’s Freedom Party collapsed, is struggling for
domestic support to dispel investor concerns the Netherlands can
regain control of its finances. With the two-year crisis again
rippling across Europe, global equities slumped as Rutte offered
his cabinet’s resignation yesterday, triggering election
uncertainty and fresh doubts about his country’s ability to
retain its AAA credit rating.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the services and manufacturing industries fell to
47.4, a five-month low, from 49.1 in March, London-based Markit
Economics said in an initial estimate yesterday. Economists had
forecast an increase to 49.3, according to the median of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  Annual Gain  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 8.5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with an 8.7 percent gain by the  S&P
500  and a 3 percent advance by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with a multiple of 13 for the S&P
500 and 10.5 times for the Stoxx 600.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. sank 2.3 percent to 100.98 yesterday
in New York, the lowest close since April 10. Commodity stocks
led declines as data signaled manufacturing in the world’s
second-largest economy may shrink for a sixth month in April.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum sank 1.6 percent
yesterday. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw
materials slid 0.3 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  