-- Edwards’s Ambition Led to Campaign Crimes, U.S. Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-04-23T22:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/john-edwards-jury-seated-for-trial-over-payments-for-mistress.html
John Edwards  knowingly chose to
break the law and accept illegal campaign contributions to hide
an affair because of his relentless ambition to reach the White
House, prosecutors told a jury.  In the heat of his second run for U.S. president in 2007,
Edwards decided to accept money well over federal election
limits with his marriage and candidacy for the Democratic
nomination on the line, the federal government’s lead lawyer,
David Harbach, told jurors today in Greensboro, North Carolina.  “It’s often said ambition is an important quality for a
politician,” Harbach said. “Like many things in life too much
ambition is dangerous. It can become all-consuming that the
person will do anything to get what they want. If the affair
went public, it would destroy any chance he had to be president,
and he knew it.”  Edwards, 58, also a former U.S. senator for  North Carolina ,
is accused of illegally using almost $1 million in contributions
from two wealthy donors to conceal his extramarital relationship
with filmmaker Rielle Hunter.  U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles selected nine men and
seven women from a final pool of 42 candidates. The jury pool
was pulled from North Carolina’s federal middle district, an
area that includes 24 counties in the central part of the state
and Edwards’s hometown of Robbins. The panel of 16 jurors
includes four alternates.  Personal Expenses  The Federal Election Act prohibits the use of campaign
funds for personal expenses and caps the amount individuals may
contribute to candidates. Edwards, who fathered a child with
Hunter, faces a maximum five-year prison term for each of the
six counts against him, including conspiracy, false statements
and accepting illegal contributions.  The trial should last six weeks, said Eagles, a former
state-court judge who was appointed to the federal bench in 2010
by President  Barack Obama , a Democrat.  Edwards, who has maintained his innocence, argues that the
funds in question weren’t campaign donations and came from his
friendships with a 101-year-old multimillionaire heiress, Rachel Mellon, and  Fred Baron , a now-deceased trial attorney.  Harbach, who accused Edwards of having selective memory,
argued that the former senator knew he was breaking the law when
he asked campaign aide Andrew Young to approach Mellon for
money.  ‘Dirty Work’  “He sent Young to do his dirty work,” Harbach said.  Young, who published a book in 2010 detailing the affair,
is expected to testify for the government, as is Hunter. Both
were granted some immunity in exchange for their testimony,
according to court documents. Also on the witness list is Wendy
Button, Edwards’s former speechwriter.  Allison Van Laningham, an attorney for Edwards, sought to
paint Young as the opportunist who used the candidate’s name to
gain access to Mellon’s checkbook.  “John Edwards did not get one penny of this money. All of
the cash went into the accounts of Andrew and Cheri Young,” Van
Laningham said. “Andrew Young made his life about John. Every
menial task Young performed, make no mistake -- what he did, he
did for a purpose.”  “He saw John Edwards as his ticket to the top,” Van
Laningham said.  ‘Follow the Money’  She urged jurors to “follow the money,” arguing that the
Youngs received more than $1.7 million in their bank accounts
and reported to the  Internal Revenue Service  that they gave
Hunter about $180,000. Part of the money Mellon gave Young was
used to build a $1.5 million house in Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, Laningham said.  “John Edwards is a man who has committed many sins but no
crimes,” Laningham said. “Humiliation. This is what was
motivating John Edwards.”  Last week, Eagles reserved ruling on Button’s request to
quash a subpoena from Edwards seeking details on her
communications with Young and Edwards since 2009 as well as her
dealings with government attorneys during a two-year
investigation.  Eagles today allowed defense lawyers to tell jurors about
Young’s attempts to contact three former Edwards staffers about
their potential testimony in the case. She reserved ruling on
how far defense lawyers could question Young on his own alleged
affair with a co-worker in 2007. The unidentified co-worker is
among the three people he attempted to contact in the past two
weeks, Eagles said today.  Voice Mail  Prosecutors may lay out the case against Edwards with audio
recordings of voice-mail messages, including ones between the
former North Carolina senator and Hunter, as well as e-mails,
handwritten notes from Mellon, tax records, hotel bills and bank
statements, according to court documents.  Edwards met Hunter, an unemployed filmmaker, at a bar in
February 2006, Harbach said. The affair began that night and
Edwards would later hire Hunter as a videographer for the
campaign, Harbach said.  By Dec. 30, 2006, the night Edwards officially announced
his candidacy in Chapel Hill,  Elizabeth Edwards  had found out
about the affair and forced him to fire Hunter, which he did.
Elizabeth Edwards died in December 2010.  Mellon’s Enthusiasm  In February 2007, Edwards turned to Young, his longtime
personal aide, for assistance in locating money to support
Hunter, Harbach said. Young remembered Mellon and her enthusiasm
for Edwards, Harbach said. Young, a law-school graduate who
never took the bar exam, expressed concern that what they were
doing was against the law, Harbach said. Edwards told Young it
was perfectly legal, Harbach said.  “He manipulated him into doing what he wanted and it
worked,” Harbach told jurors.  By June 2007 Mellon had sent out her first check. She would
write several more, totaling more than $725,000. The checks were
made payable to an interior decorator who endorsed them and sent
them to the Youngs, Harbach said. The money went toward a
monthly allowance of $5,000 to $6,000, a BMW for Hunter and the
rental of a house in a gated community in  Chapel Hill .  In December 2007 when tabloid photographers took pictures
of a very pregnant Hunter leaving a North Carolina supermarket,
Edwards allegedly persuaded Young to claim paternity of the
child, telling him it was important for the country, the
campaign’s cause and his dying wife, Harbach said.  Enter Baron  Baron entered the picture, offering his personal jet to
take the Youngs and Hunter to  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . That
trip led to five weeks of private jets and first-class
accommodations in Aspen,  Colorado ,  San Diego  and  Santa Barbara ,
 California , as Edwards sought to keep Hunter out of the media
spotlight, Harbach said. In all, Baron spent more than $200,000
to hide the affair from the public and Edwards knew it, the
prosecutor said. Baron died in October 2008.  “He told Young repeatedly he didn’t want to know where
they were since he didn’t want to have to lie about it,”
Harbach said. “He knew full well what he’d done was against the
law.”  Young testified he began working for Edwards in 1998 and
eventually became a special assistant to the senator in June
2001 when he moved with Edwards to  Washington .  “I was the gatekeeper,” Young said his role at the time.
“I took care of his briefing book. We spent a great deal of
time together.”  Mellon Relationship  Young testified he was the first to cultivate a
relationship with Mellon after she called him in 2005. Mellon
told him in that conversation she had been friends with the
Kennedy brothers and she believed Edwards was the best of both,
Young told jurors today.  Young didn’t attend Edwards’s first meeting with Mellon
where she pledged $1 million to organizations supportive of the
candidate’s 2008 platform on poverty. Young met Mellon in person
in June 2006 when she flew him in on a private jet to her
Virginia estate. It was there Young first asked for money for
Edwards’s presidential campaign.  “She said ‘I believe John Edwards should be president of
the  United States . What do I need to do to help him achieve
that?‘” Young said. “She felt he would be the savior of
America.”  Young said he first met Hunter several months later in
September 2006 when she flew into Washington’s Dulles airport
with Edwards.  Young’s testimony continues tomorrow.  Van Laningham argued that Edwards wasn’t aware Young
solicited money from Mellon beyond her official donations. By
2007, Mellon had given more than $6 million to various groups
supportive of Edwards, Van Laningham said.  Edwards first learned of the money Mellon gave to Young in
August 2008 when an attorney for Mellon raised the issue at an
event.  Edwards was “genuinely shocked” and told Mellon that if
anyone asks for money in his name not to give it to them, Van
Laningham said. No more money was sent after Aug. 14, 2008, she
said.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  