-- Kazakh Central Bank Forms Bad-Loan Fund, Readies Pilot Purchases
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-04-23T11:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/kazakh-central-bank-forms-bad-loan-fund-readies-pilot-purchases.html
Kazakhstan ’s central bank created a
“problem-loan” fund to relieve strains in the country’s
financial industry and plans a pilot project to buy non-
performing assets from commercial lenders.  The entity, which is 100 percent controlled by the
regulator, is collecting information about bad loans and later
plans to issue bonds against which its purchases of delinquent
debt will be made, the National Bank of Kazakhstan said in a
statement e-mailed today.  The fund will consider overdue credit secured with
collateral and owed by companies resident in Kazakhstan, the
central bank said. It will purchase “hopeless” assets and
loans rated as category 5, according to the statement.  Central Asia’s biggest energy producer used $10 billion
from its oil fund to support banks and companies after credit
markets froze and a property bubble burst in 2008.  BTA Bank (BTAS) , the
biggest lender at the time,  Alliance Bank (ASBNP)  and Temirbank agreed
with creditors’ on discount and extension of payments on about
$20 billion of debt after they defaulted in 2009.  Loans overdue by more than 90 days at Kazakhstan’s 38 banks
reached 3.35 trillion tenge ($22.7 billion) as of March 1, or
31.8 percent of total holdings, led by BTA with 1.6 trillion
tenge, central bank data show. State-owned BTA is seeking its
second debt restructuring in as many years.  Kazakhstan initially sought to create a fund for non-
performing loans by July 1 last year. It may sell 150 billion
tenge of bonds, with the National Bank of Kazakhstan buying a
third of the securities should lenders and pension funds
purchase two-thirds of the debt in the first two sales, central
bank Chairman Grigori Marchenko said April 27 last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  