-- N.J. State Police Investigating Sports-Car ‘Death Race’
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-04-23T21:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/n-j-state-police-investigating-death-race-sports-car-caravan.html
New Jersey State Police are
investigating whether troopers escorted a “Death Race” convoy
of Porsches, Lamborghinis and Ferraris speeding at 100 miles per
hour to  Atlantic City .  Witnesses said they saw two cruisers on March 30 escorting
a pack of  sports cars , according to two complaints filed with
the authority that runs the Garden State Parkway.  “It shouldn’t have happened; it was a dumb thing to do,”
Republican Governor  Chris Christie  said in his first public
comments on the matter. “Those people who made this mistake
should be held accountable for it, and I’m sure they will.”  A witness, Wayne Gantt of Little Egg Harbor, dubbed the
incident “Death Race 2012” in his complaint. The State Police
cruisers had flashing lights on, and the sports cars were
weaving in and out of traffic and had license plates covered
with tape, according to the complaints.  Former  New York Giants  running back  Brandon Jacobs  was in
the group, the Newark Star-Ledger said, citing an unidentified
person with knowledge of the trip. Jacobs drove to Atlantic City
last month, though it was unclear whether it was the occasion
under investigation, his agent said today.  Another Jaunt?  “Yes, he went down to Atlantic City in a group that
included a police escort,” Justin Schulman, Jacobs’s Irvine,
California-based agent representative, said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t know, nor does he know, if that was his
caravan.”  Jacobs, 29, was released in March by the Giants after seven
seasons. He signed a one-year contract in April with the  San
Francisco 49ers .  The complaints filed with the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority, which oversees the 148-mile (238-kilometer) Turnpike
and 173-mile Parkway, spurred the investigation, said State
Police Lieutenant  Stephen Jones . He declined in a telephone
interview today to go into specifics of the allegations.  Gantt, who didn’t return a voice-mail message left at his
home, said in his complaint that “the state is very lucky no
one was killed.”  “I had the great pleasure today of nearly being killed by,
not one, but two, Lamborghinis traveling in excess of 110 mph in
a NJSP-escorted ‘caravan’ of approximately 30 exotic vehicles
all traveling well over 100 mph,” Gantt wrote in a March 30
complaint provided by the Turnpike Authority.  ‘Above the Law’  John W. Kennedy reported the pack of cars on April 1,
according to his complaint.  Kennedy said he and his wife were traveling to Atlantic
City when the caravan approached as he drove in the left lane.
After pulling over, he said, he saw many cars struggle to get
out of the way of the police-led pack. Once in town, Kennedy
said he spotted one of the drivers parked and removing the tape
from his plates.  “I felt bad for all of the drivers pulled over during the
trip, because it was obvious that the authorities were abetting
others to break the laws,” Kennedy said in the complaint.
“Some remain above the law.”  Kennedy, a vice president for Cofely Airport Services and a
Madison resident, said in a telephone interview today that he
didn’t want to discuss the incident.  “I sent a complaint based on an observation,” Kennedy
said. “The fact that it was leaked was very disappointing to
me.”  The Death Race incident was  reported  earlier by the Star-
Ledger.  It’s not the first time speed has drawn scrutiny to the
state police. A trooper driving then-Governor  Jon Corzine  at 91
miles per hour on the parkway in April 2007 caused a near-fatal
crash. Corzine was the front passenger of the sports utility
vehicle and wasn’t wearing a seatbelt. The trooper was
sanctioned after an investigation found that he could have
prevented the wreck.  Christie said the new investigation left him chagrined.  “I just shook my head, but what are you going to do?” he
said. “It’s a completely ridiculous story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Newark at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  