-- Nestle Said to Plan Pfizer Asset Sales to Sooth Regulator
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-04-23T22:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/nestle-is-said-to-plan-pfizer-asset-sales-to-appease-regulators.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  may sell as much as $1.8
billion of the infant-nutrition assets it is buying from  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  as antitrust concerns in countries such as Mexico force
divestitures, said people with knowledge of the matter.  About 10 percent to 15 percent of the $11.9 billion unit
may be put up for sale by Nestle, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the discussions are private. The Vevey,
Switzerland-based company has overlapping baby-food businesses
in more than a dozen countries and may eventually have to sell
 divisions  in places including  Australia , Venezuela and Thailand,
the people said.  Nestle, the world’s biggest foodmaker, plans to meet with
regulators in the countries where it operates during the coming
weeks and months to determine which assets it may have to
divest, the people said. Some private-equity funds and consumer-
product companies such as  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ)  or Abbott Laboratories
may be interested in these assets when they come on the block,
the people said.  “It is premature to comment on and prejudge the decisions
of the regulatory authorities,” Robin Tickle, a Nestle
spokesman, said by telephone.  A forced sale of assets in Australia and some Latin
American countries could help companies that are looking to
expand in those regions, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts  Robert Moskow  and Marcela Giraldo said in a report last week.  Buying Assets  Heinz Chief Executive Officer William R. Johnson said in
February that the Pittsburgh-based company would consider
“bolt-on acquisitions in  emerging markets  to accelerate
growth,” though it has been primarily focused on organic
expansion.  Michael Mullen , a Heinz spokesman, declined to
comment beyond Johnson’s remarks.  Adelle Infante, an Abbott spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The assets Nestle may need to sell have annual earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $60
million to $90 million, the people said. They may fetch $1.2
billion to $1.8 billion based on the multiple Nestle is paying
for the entire unit.  Nestle is already the top seller of infant-nutrition
products and the purchase of Pfizer’s business will help the
company regain traction in the Chinese baby-food market, where
it has been losing market share since 2005. The Pfizer unit gets
about 85 percent of  sales  from emerging markets such as  Asia ,
Africa and the  Middle East .  Pfizer picked Nestle to buy the infant-nutrition unit over
Danone SA, which had even greater antitrust hurdles, especially
in  China , people familiar with the matter said. Danone had
previously tried to partner with Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. in a
deal that would have pre-sold some of the Pfizer assets where
there was risk of overlap, said these people. The talks between
Danone and Mead Johnson had broken down by the final round of
bidding, the people said.  “We look at both organic and external growth
opportunities, but we do not speculate on specific actions,
investments or geographies,” Chris Perille, a spokesman for
Mead Johnson, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ; 