-- Nestle Leads Busiest Day for Europe Deals Since Xstrata
-- B y   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2012-04-23T14:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/nestle-leads-busiest-day-for-europe-deals-since-glencore-xstrata.html
Western European companies
announced $15 billion of acquisitions today, led by  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s
purchase of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s infant-nutrition unit, driven by the
desire to buy revenue growth outside their home markets.  In addition to Nestle’s $11.9 billion deal,  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  bid $1.8 billion for  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  and
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  agreed to buy  Ardea Biosciences Inc. (RDEA)  for $1.3
billion. The three made up the busiest day in European takeovers
since Glencore’s $45 billion bid for Xstrata in February.  “Many companies are sitting on a big pile of cash and are
looking for growth, so it makes a lot of sense for them to start
making acquisitions,” Peter Braendle, who helps manage about
$60 billion at Zurich-based Swisscanto Asset Management AG, said
by phone today. “Even as stock markets remain very shaky, I
would expect the number of M&A deals to increase.”  European companies have been hoarding cash in response to
the sovereign-debt crisis. The 50 European companies on the
benchmark Euro Stoxx 50 Index have boosted their cash and near-
cash holdings since to 532 billion euros ($699 billion),
according to Bloomberg data. That marks an increase of 77
percent over 2007 and 32 percent over 2010.  After European banks, carmakers such as Volkswagen AG,
energy firms such as  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and industrial companies like
 Siemens AG (SIE)  hold the most cash, according to the data. VW’s Audi
agreed to buy Italian motorcycle maker Ducati Motor Holding SpA
on April 18. The VW unit will pay about 860 million euros,
including debt, two people familiar with the matter said.  Health Activity  European health-care companies are also vying for deals as
some of their best-selling drugs come in for generic
competition.  Last week, U.K. drugmaker  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  confirmed a
$2.59 billion bid for U.S. biotechnology company  Human Genome
Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  Roche Holding AG, the world’s largest producer of
cancer drugs, may seek other opportunities after walking away
from a $6.7 billion offer to buy the U.S. genetic sequencer
Illumina Inc.  AstraZeneca would acquire late-stage assets even outside
its research and development focus, said Shaun Grady, head of
business development at the London-based company, in a telephone
interview today.  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker is currently in talks
with several companies about possible licensing deals and
acquisitions, Grady said. He declined to comment about whether
one of those companies is Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc., which is
said to be seeking a buyer.  ‘More and More’  “You’re going to see more and more of this,” said Rajesh
Varma, who helps manage 5 billion euros at DNCA Finance SA in
Paris. “The pharma guys and the big biotechs are saying: ‘We
need growth, we’ve got money, let’s go out and buy.’”  Other European companies on the prowl for acquisitions
include chemicals maker BASF AG, which completed the integration
of cosmetics-ingredient maker Cognis in February. Munich-based
Siemens is sitting on about 12 billion euros of cash. ABB Ltd.,
which bought Thomas & Betts Corp. for $3.7 billion in January,
has indicated it could spend another $8 billion over three
years.  Future deals, like those announced today, will probably
help large European corporations expand in  emerging markets ,
according to Pip McCrostie, global vice-chair, Transaction
Advisory Services at Ernst& Young.  “Nestle buying the baby food unit from Pfizer really gives
it a strong position in  China ,” McCrostie said. “There will be
other larger corporates looking at larger deals in BRIC
countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  