-- Nestle to Acquire Pfizer Baby Food Unit for $11.9 Billion
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-04-23T20:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/nestle-agrees-to-buy-pfizer-baby-food-unit-for-11-9-billion-1-.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, agreed to buy  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s infant-nutrition unit for
$11.9 billion, edging out Danone in a contest for a business
that gets most of its sales in fast-growing emerging markets.  The purchase, Nestle’s biggest since it bought pet-food
maker Ralston Purina Co. in 2001, will lead to annual cost
benefits of $160 million and will boost earnings per share in
the first full year, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said
today on a conference call. The unit will increase Nestle’s
annual sales of infant formula to $7 billion from $5 billion.  Nestle’s offer beat a bid of about $11 billion from Danone,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The
acquisition will help the Vevey, Switzerland-based company,
already the top seller of infant-nutrition products, regain
traction in the Chinese baby-food market, where it has been
losing market share since 2005. The Pfizer unit gets about 85
percent of  sales  from emerging markets such as  Asia ,  Africa  and
the  Middle East .  “From a long-term perspective, it makes strategic sense as
it will really strengthen Nestle’s position in Asia,” said Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.  Pfizer fell less than 1 percent to $22.38 at the close in
 New York . Nestle  fell  2.8 percent in Zurich as the shares
started trading without the right to a dividend. Adjusted for
that, the stock rose 0.6 percent to 55.50 Swiss francs.  Danone
rose (BN)  1.3 percent to 53.13 euros.  Acquisition Multiple  Nestle will fund the purchase through a combination of  debt 
and cash, according to Chief Financial Officer Wan Ling Martello. The Swiss company had 7.9 billion Swiss francs ($8.6
billion) in cash and short-term investments at the end of 2011.  Nestle said it’s paying 19.8 times 2012 earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of the Pfizer unit.
The multiple falls to 15.6 times after estimated cost savings,
according to the Nestle. The price “seems realistic for an
asset that’s almost 100 percent in  emerging markets ,” said
 Marco Gulpers , an analyst at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam.  In 2007, Danone paid about 22 times Ebitda for baby-food
company Royal Numico NV, Merrill Lynch analysts said at the
time. The same year, Nestle paid Novartis AG 15.7 times Ebitda
for its Gerber baby-food division, while last year the Swiss
company paid 16.8 times for Chinese candy maker Hsu Fu Chi.  Nestle, which was advised by Deutsche Bank AG and
Rothschild, may have been perceived by Pfizer as having fewer
regulatory obstacles to overcome than Danone, Gulpers said. The
acquisition is the second-biggest announced this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, behind Glencore International
Inc.’s $45 billion bid for Xstrata Plc.  Two Major Exits  “From a regulatory perspective, Nestle does make more
sense,” the analyst said, adding that Europe and  China  would
have presented hurdles for Danone.  Bulcke declined to comment on possible regulatory
complications. Agnes Berthet-d’Anthonay, a spokeswoman for
Danone, declined to comment.  The sale will be Pfizer’s largest divestiture since the
$16.6 billion sale of consumer-health brands including Sudafed
cold medicine and Bengay pain cream to Johnson & Johnson in
2006. It is the first of two major exits that Chief Executive
Officer  Ian Read  outlined to shrink the New York-based company
and concentrate on producing new drugs.  Pfizer’s nutrition business  includes infant formulas such
as SMA and Promil. The unit, which also makes Enercal
supplements for adults, sells products in more than 60
countries, according to its website, and accounted for 3.2
percent of the company’s 2011 revenue. Pfizer gained the formula
division through its $68 billion purchase of Wyeth in 2009.  Animal-Health Spinoff  Pfizer had the fifth-largest global market share of the
infant-formula business in 2010, trailing Nestle,  Mead-Johnson
Nutrition Co., (MJN)  Danone, and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , according to
research company Euromonitor International. Its market positions
are strongest in the Middle East and Africa, and in the Asia-
Pacific region, where Pfizer’s unit is the third- and fourth-
largest respectively, said Euromonitor analyst Lee Linthicum.  Global sales of baby-food products are likely to gain 6
percent a year from 2011 to 2016, helped by low private-label
penetration and the importance of infant nutrition to consumers,
according to Euromonitor.  The sale is the largest for a nutrition business of 77
deals in the last three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The next largest was when Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
split off its majority stake in Mead Johnson in 2009, leaving
the food company with a $8.94 billion market capitalization at
the end of that year.  In addition to the infant-nutrition business, Read is also
spinning off Pfizer’s animal-health unit, which had $4.18
billion in 2011 revenue. The drugmaker is planning an initial
public offering for the unit and has hired JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley to handle that deal, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Morgan Stanley and  Centerview Partners  advised Pfizer on
the sale of the infant-nutrition unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  