-- Nestle to Finance Pfizer Baby-Food Unit Purchase With Debt
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-04-23T15:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/nestle-to-finance-pfizer-baby-food-unit-purchase-with-debt-1-.html
Nestle SA, (NESN)  the world’s biggest food
maker, plans to fund its $11.9 billion acquisition of  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s baby-food unit with debt.  “The acquisition will be fully debt financed, namely
through internal cash resources and through the bond markets,”
Chris Hogg, a spokesman for Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle,
said in an e-mail. Hogg declined to disclose details of the debt
financing.  A debt-funded acquisition may put “some rating pressure”
on Nestle, as its net borrowing could rise above the
management’s target range of 15 billion francs ($16.4 billion)
to 18 billion francs for 2012 and 2013,  Fitch Ratings  said April
19. Fitch ranks Nestle at AA+, equivalent to Moody’s Investors
Service’s Aa1 rating, while  Standard & Poor’s  grades it at AA.  The purchase will help Nestle, already the top seller of
infant-nutrition products, regain traction in the Chinese baby-
food market, where it has been losing market share since 2005.
The Pfizer unit gets about 85 percent of sales from  emerging
markets  such as  Asia , Africa and the  Middle East .  The transaction is subject to regulatory approval, Nestle
said today in a statement.  “If this deal goes through, we think that Nestle will most
likely be required by regulators to sell some of their
businesses in certain countries due to issues about market
share,” said Michie Yana, a senior investment analyst at
European Credit Management Ltd. in  London . “The increase of net
debt could well be mitigated by inflows from asset disposals.”  Spreads Narrow  Nestle has 7.4 billion francs of  bonds outstanding ,
including 1.8 billion francs of securities due this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nestle’s $550 million of 2.125 percent bonds due 2014 yield
12 basis points less than the benchmark swap rate, down from as
much as 31 basis points above the benchmark on Jan. 26,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The cost to insure Nestle’s debt against default was little
changed at 31 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps on the foodmaker have fallen 37
percent this year, indicating an improvement in investor
perceptions of the company’s credit quality.  Nestle signed a 4.5 billion-euro ($6 billion) 364-day
 credit line  in October that pays interest of 10 basis points
more than the euro interbank offered rate on drawn funds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nestle said today the acquisition will lead to annual cost
benefits of $160 million and will boost earnings per share in
the first full year. The Pfizer unit will increase Nestle’s
sales of infant formula to $7 billion a year from $5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  