-- Netflix Tumbles After Forecasting Slower Online Growth
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-04-24T20:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/netflix-tumbles-after-forecasting-slower-online-growth.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest
video-subscription service, fell the most in almost six months
after projecting a slowdown in growth of U.S. streaming
customers.  The shares tumbled 14 percent to $87.68 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since Oct. 25, when Netflix reported a
loss in U.S. subscribers for the third quarter. The stock has
 retreated  71 percent from the all-time closing high of $298.73
set in July 2011.  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings , presiding over the
company’s first loss since early 2005, cited higher seasonal
customer turnover for the slowdown. The company is racing to add
viewers to confront competition from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s StreamPix
and  Verizon Communication Inc. (VZ) ’s online venture with  Coinstar
Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox. While Netflix may post a second-quarter profit,
investors are focused on subscriber additions.  “They guided to subscriber growth dropping a ton quarter-
over-quarter, and some people think as soon as growth stops,
this thing’s over,” said  Michael Pachter , a Wedbush Securities
Inc. analyst in  Los Angeles  who has an underperform rating on
the stock. “They are saying, ‘We’re not going to grow very much
and instead we’re going to focus on making money.’”  Netflix will end the second quarter with 23.6 million to
24.2 million domestic online subscribers, up from 23.4 million
on March 31, the  Los Gatos , California-based company said
yesterday on its  website . That suggests 200,000 to 800,000 user
additions, down from 1.74 million in the first quarter.  First Quarter  Netflix posted a first-quarter net loss of $4.58 million,
or 8 cents a share, the result of costs for its Latin American
and U.K. expansion. That was smaller than the $9 million to $27
million loss the company predicted in January. Sales rose 21
percent to $869.8 million, beating the $865.5 million average of
27 analysts’  estimates .  U.S. subscriber growth met analysts’ projections in the
first quarter. Hastings said the entry into the U.K. has been
well-received and that Netflix plans to enter an additional
European market this year. He halted expansion plans in October,
after losing 800,000 subscribers following a price increase and
an aborted plan to spin off the DVD business.  “We’re growing content spending and content offerings very
aggressively going forward, and revenue is growing faster than
that,” Hastings said.  The company set an all-time streaming record in the first
quarter, with customers on average watching at least one hour
daily, Hastings said.  DVD Drop  Analysts were predicting a gain of 781,000 U.S. streaming
accounts in the second quarter, above the 500,000 midpoint of
Netflix’s forecast. DVD users will shrink between 740,000 and
1.14 million this period, to as little as 8.95 million, Netflix
said. Analysts had forecast a drop of 623,000.  This quarter may range from a loss of as much as $6
million, or 10 cents a share, to a profit of $8 million, or 14
cents, on sales of $873 million to $895 million, Netflix said.  “Our domestic business is growing in profitability, and
then we’re investing that in more and more international
expansion,” Hastings said in an interview. The company has
“tons of deals” it’s negotiating in the U.S. and abroad that
could increase content costs in the next year, he said.  Analysts and investors say Netflix’s domestic streaming
business may stall this year, at a time when the company needs
additional revenue to stay ahead of new competitors and counter
unprofitable growth overseas, including continued losses in
 Latin America .  Netflix has commitments to spend $3.9 billion over the next
five years on films and TV shows, according to filings. The
company has no plans to sell or spin off its DVD business,
Hastings said.  He also confirmed the women’s prison comedy “Orange Is the
New Black” will be the company’s fifth original program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  