-- Netflix Counting On U.S. Growth as Overseas Eats Profits
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-04-23T14:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/netflix-counting-on-u-s-growth-as-overseas-eats-profits.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest
video-subscription service, reports first-quarter results today
that will tell investors whether the company can sustain a
rebound in customers.  Netflix, which posts earnings on its website after markets
close, is expected to report 23.4 million U.S. online
subscribers, the average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg and a gain of 1.73 million from December. Analysts
 project  a net loss of 27 cents a share on sales that rose 21
percent to $866 million from a year earlier.  The outlook for second-quarter growth in U.S. subscriptions
may be the most important number of the day. Netflix needs to
keep adding domestic viewers to keep rivals at bay and counter
expansion costs overseas.  “Netflix is potentially being impacted by the law of large
numbers and rising competition,” said  Aaron Kessler , a San
Francisco-based analyst with Raymond James & Associates.  The  Los Gatos , California-based company  forecasts  losses
this year in  Latin America  and the U.K., and will spend more
than $3 billion on TV shows and movies in the next three years.
With competition from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the largest Web retailer,
and media groups including  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO and Hulu LLC,
some analysts say U.S. online subscribers may peak.  Kessler, who recommends investors sell the stock, said
online subscribers may stall at about 26.8 million this year as
competing services cannibalize the U.S. market in the second
half of 2012. Seven analysts  recommend  buying Netflix, while 20
say hold and nine have sell ratings.  U.S. Potential  “They’re the leading player in an industry with strong
secular tailwinds, and can grow to 35 million domestic
subscribers,” said Justin White, an analyst at T. Rowe Price
Group Inc., the largest  holder , with 4.97 million shares as of
Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “Their
content costs aren’t going to rise terribly until 2014-2016,
when they begin competing with HBO and Starz for content that
comes up for renewal on those services.”  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  has said Netflix has
the potential to reach 90 million U.S. streaming subscribers.
Since 2009, 31 million customers have quit the service, Kessler
estimated in a Feb. 27 note, indicating the company already may
have reached more than half the market.  Steve Swasey , a company spokesman, said Netflix won’t
discuss subscriber numbers or its outlook before the results.  Investors will look at today’s second-quarter forecast for
changes in the company’s momentum. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg project Netflix will sign 781,000 new customers to its
$7.99 monthly streaming plan.  January Effect  In January, optimism over the fourth quarter, when Netflix
stemmed midyear customer losses and added 220,000 online users,
drove a 73 percent rebound in the stock. It has retreated about
18 percent from the 2012 high of $129.25 on Feb. 6.  Netflix fell 2.8 percent to $103.14 at 10:36 a.m. in New
York, and had gained 53 percent this year before today. The
stock peaked at a closing high of $298.73 in July 2011, just as
a price increase and aborted bid to split off the DVD mail-order
business led some customers to cancel the service and triggered
a selloff.  Tony Wible , a Janney Montgomery Scott LLC analyst who has
mostly recommended selling the stock, lists reasons for
pessimism. Traffic growth at the Netflix website is slowing,
while  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , operator of Redbox DVD kiosks, posted
quarterly results that may suggest it’s gaining share.  Netflix also recently bought the DVD.com site, suggesting
it may revive plans to split off the mail-order disc operation,
Wible wrote in an April 19 note.  Loss Forecast  In January, the company forecast a first-quarter loss of 16
cents to 49 cents a share, on sales of $842 million to $877
million. Domestic streaming customers will range from 22.8
million to 23.6 million, suggesting growth of 1.13 million to
1.93 million viewers.  Analysts predict quarterly net losses through the third
quarter and a return to profit in the final three months.  Hastings says Netflix will benefit as more customers sign
up for online viewing instead of mail-order plans. The shift
saves postage and handling charges, and has little incremental
cost per customer, he said. Profit margins in the streaming
business, measured as sales minus content costs, may widen to 11
percent in the first quarter, the company said on Jan. 25.  The mail-order DVD business, which ended the year at 11.2
million customers, probably shrank to 9.8 million through March,
analysts said, and will lose 623,000 more this quarter.  Future Costs  Hastings’s strategy of expanding the streaming business
faces challenges from Hollywood studios that are seeking higher
fees when contracts come up for renewal,  Anthony DiClemente , a
Barclays Capital Inc. analyst in  New York , wrote in an April 3
note. He has an equal weight, or hold, rating on the stock.  Netflix’s total future program commitments, costs extending
out five years or more, rose to $3.9 billion at the end of 2011
from $1.3 billion a year ago, according to Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott. Current costs amount to half of
projected 2012 sales of $3.64 billion.  If those continue to rise, the company may be forced to
raise prices and accelerate marketing and advertising to acquire
new customers, said  Michael Pachter , a Wedbush Securities
analyst in  Los Angeles  with an “underperform” or sell rating.
First-quarter growth probably wouldn’t have been as robust
without heavy advertising and marketing, he said.  “The key question is whether they are necessarily going to
need additional content to attract subscribers,” Justin Colatosti, an analyst at Dawson James Securities in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida , said in an interview. “Spending more to attract
customers, what does that do ultimately to long-term margins?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  