-- New York Developer Seeks Designs for Iconic Office Tower
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-04-23T16:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/new-york-developer-seeks-designs-for-iconic-office-tower.html
New York  developer L&L Holding Co.
is soliciting architectural firms to design an “iconic” office
tower on Manhattan’s Park Avenue, just north of the street’s
landmark Seagram and Lever House buildings.  L&L, whose principals include developers David Levinson and
Robert Lapidus, are seeking a replacement for the 32-story tower
that currently sits at 425 Park Ave., between East 55th and 56th
streets. That 552,000 square-foot (51,000-square-meter) building
was completed in 1957, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  L&L invited 11 architects to compete for the design,
including  Norman Foster , designer of London’s “Gherkin”
skyscraper;  Renzo Piano , architect of the  New York Times (NYT) 
headquarters tower; and Zaha Hadid, designer of the Guangzhou
Opera House in  China , according to a statement today from the
company. Midtown Manhattan’s Plaza District, where the site is
located, boasts the highest  office rents  in the city.  “An opportunity like this has not presented itself to New
York in half a century, and it is unlikely that another
opportunity will materialize again in our lifetimes,” Levinson,
L&L’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.  The new tower would be about 650,000 square feet and have
Central Park views on the upper floors, the company said. L&L
expects construction to start in 2015, with completion by the
end of 2017.  The architects’ responses are due in early May and L&L
expects to select finalists by the middle of the month. Final
selection probably will be in October, the company said.  The other invitees are Atelier Christian de Portzamparc,
Ateliers  Jean Nouvel , Herzog & de Meuron, Kohn Pederson Fox
Associates, Maki and Associates, OMA/Rem Koolhaas, Richard Meier
and Partners, and Rogers Stirk Harbour + Partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  