-- New York University to Create Sciences Campus in Brooklyn
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-04-23T16:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/new-york-university-to-create-sciences-campus-in-brooklyn-1-.html
New York University  will create an
applied sciences campus in Brooklyn after becoming the second
winner in a contest sponsored by Mayor Michael Bloomberg to
boost New York’s global competitiveness in the sciences.  NYU will team with Carnegie Mellon University, City
University of New York, University of Toronto, University of
Warwick and the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay on the
campus in downtown Brooklyn, according to an e-mailed statement
today from the mayor’s office.  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  are also part of the consortium.  New York City  is seeking to diversify its economy beyond
 Wall Street  with the development of science campuses that will
create technology companies and jobs. The NYU campus is expected
to generate $5.5 billion in new jobs and tax and other benefits
for the city through businesses that are spun off by the campus
and related research, according to an analysis conducted by the
city’s Economic Development Corp.  “Our administration has long seen the promise of Downtown
 Brooklyn , and we’ve made the investments needed to transform it
into a thriving center for business,” Bloomberg said in the
statement. “With the addition of this new campus, Brooklyn will
be one of the most dynamic environments for entrepreneurs
anywhere in the country.”  Business Incubator  The NYU Center for Urban Science and Progress will begin
offering classes in 2013 and after renovation will move into the
former headquarters of the city’s transit authority. It will
feature classrooms, as well as an incubator for businesses.  The city sought proposals for applied sciences schools from
universities worldwide in July. Bloomberg selected Cornell
University and Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in
December to create an engineering campus on Roosevelt Island.
 New York  is giving Cornell and Technion $100 million in city
funds to help develop that $2 billion campus. Those schools beat
out six competing bids, including one from  Stanford University ,
which withdrew from the contest.  NYU’s campus in Brooklyn will focus on research and
technological development to help cities in areas such as
infrastructure, technology integration, energy efficiency,
transportation congestion, public safety and public health,
according to the statement.  Largely Vacant  Much of the 460,000-square-foot, city-owned building has
been vacant for more than a decade. It’s now partially occupied
by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the New York
City Police Department.  The city will continue to own the building and will lease
it to NYU for 99 years. NYU will pay $50 million to the MTA to
relocate, said  Julie Wood , a spokeswoman for the mayor’s office.
The campus would receive about $15 million in tax breaks and
energy cost savings, she said.  NYU is the largest private nonprofit research university in
the U.S. by enrollment, with more than 55,000 students and
16,000 employees, according to its  website .  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson in Boston at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  