-- N.J. Drops Out of Multistate Ozone Lawsuit Against EPA
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g ,   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-23T21:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/new-jersey-drops-out-of-national-ozone-standards-lawsuit.html
New Jersey  dropped out of a lawsuit
filed four years ago by a group of U.S. states seeking to force
the Environmental Protection Agency to implement more stringent
air quality standards.  More than a dozen states sued the federal regulator in 2008
during the administration of President  George W. Bush , saying it
failed to heed the recommendations of independent science
advisers to adopt a stricter standard for ozone, a component of
smog. The lawsuit was put on hold after the EPA said it would
reconsider the standard, according to court papers.  The case was revived after President  Barack Obama  in
September asked the EPA to hold off on a draft of the new
standard until a 2013 review. New Jersey wasn’t among the
states, which include  New York  and  California , to challenge the
delay, according to an April 17 court filing.  Jeff Tittel ,
director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, the
national environmental lobbying group, said Christie was
choosing “his national political ambitions over the health and
welfare of New Jerseyans.”  “There’s been a long history in New Jersey where every
governor, Democrat or Republican, has joined lawsuits on air
pollution,” Tittel said today in a telephone interview.
“Ground-level ozone sends people to hospitals. If it’s an ozone
alert day, your lungs will turn red.”  ‘No Direct Claim’  New Jersey Attorney General Jeffrey S. Chiesa said in a
motion filed April 20 with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  the withdrawal “is appropriate as there is
no direct claim made against the State of New Jersey.” The
motion was granted today.  “It was a waste of time and a waste of money,” Christie
said following a bill signing in Newark today. “I don’t think
it makes any sense for us to be involved in lawsuit to try and
change something that is going to change in two years anyway.”  Christie, a Republican, in May withdrew the state from the
 Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative , a cap-and-trade arrangement
involving 10 northeastern and middle Atlantic U.S. states. He
said the system, to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from  power
plants , wasn’t working as intended and amounted to a tax.  Ozone, a gas with three oxygen atoms, protects the Earth
from harmful ultraviolet in the upper atmosphere. At ground
level it’s formed when nitrogen oxides and volatile organic
compounds, the byproducts of combustion, interact with sunlight
and heat. The gas, which is most problematic during hot, dry
summers, causes respiratory and cardiovascular ailments
including asthma, shortness of breath and chest tightness.  Air Quality  The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
reported the cleanest air-quality year in 2009, a year after it
strengthened ozone standards. In 2010, it recorded “a much more
typical summer in New Jersey for air pollution,” with 35 days
exceeding ozone standards, according to the department’s 2010
annual report.  “Additional control measures to reduce ozone levels will
be needed,” the report stated. “These measures will have to be
implemented over a wide area and will require the cooperative
effort of many states and the federal government if they are to
be successful.”  In a separate lawsuit filed in October with the federal
appeals court in  Washington , Obama’s rejection of stricter ozone
standards was challenged by environmental groups as “illegal
and irresponsible.”  The administration told the EPA last year to quash the rule
after industry representatives including the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce ,  National Association of Manufacturers  and the Business
Roundtable lobbied White House officials to drop it because of
the weakened economy.  Administration Decision  The American Lung Association, Environmental Defense Fund
and National Resources Defense Council asked the appeals court,
which has jurisdiction over administrative rulemaking by federal
agencies, to review the decision in a petition filed Oct. 11.  EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  told a congressional panel
last year the agency recommended a cap for ozone at 70 parts per
billion, below the level of 75 parts per billion issued in 2008
under the  Bush administration . A scientific advisory panel had
said a limit of 60 to 70 parts per billion was necessary to
protect public health.  Jackson had called the Bush-era standard “not legally
defensible.”  After release of the EPA’s proposed changes was delayed for
months, Obama announced Sept. 2 that the revised ozone
restrictions would be reconsidered because it was scheduled for
a routine review in 2013 and he wanted to “underscore the
importance of reducing regulatory burdens and regulatory
uncertainty.”  The cases are State of  Mississippi  v. Environmental
Protection Agency, 08-1200, and American Lung Association v.
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 11-1396,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at   eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 