-- Nikolic Leads in Poll Ahead of Serbia’s Presidential Vote
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-04-23T13:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/nikolic-leads-in-poll-ahead-of-serbia-s-presidential-vote.html
Serbia’s opposition  Progressive
Party  leads the ruling  Democrats  in the race before the May 6
presidential and parliamentary elections, a survey showed.  Tomislav Nikolic , leader of the Serbian Progressive Party,
has 36.1 percent popular support, compared with 35.7 percent for
 Boris Tadic , according to the poll conducted among 1,084 people
last week by the Belgrade-based Faktor Plus. Tadic was slightly
ahead with 35.8 percent against Nikolic’s 35.7 percent in
Faktor’s previous survey, published April 9. Both candidates are
neck-and-neck in public support as the two surveys had a 3
percent margin of error.  “The gaps are still small and may fluctuate a lot in the
final days of campaigning,” Factor Plus Managing Director
Vladimir Pejic told reporters today. As many as 46 percent of
the respondents said they made up their mind on who to vote for,
up from about 35 percent in mid-March, he added.  The May 6 ballot is both for  Serbia ’s parliament and the
head of state. All surveys indicate there will be a second round
in the race for president as no candidate is going to win more
than 50 percent of the votes cast for outright victory.  Some 27 percent of the respondents said they would not vote
at all, 18 percent haven’t decided whether to vote and another 8
percent said they hadn’t made up their mind for which party or
candidate to vote.  “This indicates a turnout of at least 60 percent,” Pejic
said, adding that “a bigger turnout benefits bigger parties.”  The poll ranked the popularity of the seven leading parties
and coalitions, of which six will “comfortably” win more than
5 percent of the votes cast, which is the legal minimum for
entering the parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  