-- Nokia, Harley-Davidson, Disney, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-23T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/nokia-harley-davidson-disney-google-intellectual-property.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  lost a ruling in a patent
lawsuit by IPCom GmbH & Co. over wireless technology that could
remove Nokia third-generation handsets from the German market.  Nokia must stop all 3G phone sales in  Germany  under the
Regional Court of Mannheim’s ruling, IPCom said April 20 in an
e-mailed statement. Nokia will appeal, spokesman Mark Durrant
said. Most of the phones affected came out before the patent and
today’s products use different methods, he said.  IPCom, based in Pullach, Germany, is seeking to force Nokia
to pay royalties for a portfolio of mobile-technology patents it
acquired from  Robert Bosch GmbH  in 2007. The two companies are
entangled in patent litigation across  Europe . The ruling
concerns a patent known as 100DE, which is part of a group of
patents that cover how to connect devices to 3G wireless
networks and prioritize them.  The court ruling “clearly says that none of Nokia’s UMTS-
compatible mobile phones must be distributed in the German
market,” said Bernhard Frohwitter, chief executive officer of
IPCom, referring to 3G devices. “The decision does not say that
only older models are affected.”  The Mannheim tribunal didn’t accept that alternative
designs by Nokia didn’t infringe the patent, and said that all
phones capable of using UMTS 3G technology were affected, IPCom
said in its statement.  Under German law, patent infringement rulings don’t take
effect immediately. During appeal, the ruling only takes effect
if the winning party enforces it. In such a case, the losing
party as a rule asks the court to halt enforcement while the
matter is pending.  IPCom would have to post a bond of at least 100 million
euros ($132 million) if it wants to enforce the injunction while
the case is still pending on appeal, according to the judgment.  Germany was Nokia’s fifth-biggest market by revenue in 2011
and the largest in Western Europe, according to a company
 filing . The market rankings include equipment joint venture
Nokia Siemens Networks.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Harley-Davidson Forces Domain Name Change to IronRides.com  One month after receiving a  cease-and-desist letter  from
Milwaukee-based  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , a Delaware resident
changed the domain name for his motorcycle-fan social-networking
site, the York Daily Record  reported .  Jimmy Coulbourne dropped HarleySpace.com in favor of
 IronRides.com , even though he told the newspaper “they’ll never
convince me that my members are foolish enough to think this
site is owned by Harley.”  The newspaper provided a link to the letter from Harley-
Davidson’s trademark counsel,  David M. Kelly  of Washington-based
Finnegan Henderson Farabow Garrett & Dunner LLP to Coulbourne’s
lawyer  Fritz Clapp , who is also known as the general counsel to
the  Hells Angels Motorcycle Club .  In the letter, Kelly said that while his client wasn’t
objecting to the discussions of the Harley-Davidson products on
the website, the HarleySpace domain name was unacceptable
because the public could mistakenly consider it an official
site.  University Licenses ‘American Need Farmers’ Mark for $250  The  Iowa Farm Bureau  licensed the “ America Needs Farmers ”
trademark from the University of Iowa for a fee of $250 for a
five-year license, the Des Moines Register  reported .  Although the school has used the mark since 1985, it was
registered as a state trademark in August 2011 on the same day
the license agreement was signed with the Farm Bureau, the
newspaper reported.  Two other entities that were also charged a $250 trademark
fee by the university received contracts of less than a year:
 Monsanto Co. (MON) , which had a four-month contract to place the
school’s Hawkeye logo on seed corn caps; and Case International
Ltd., which has a one-year contract to distribute T-shirts with
the Hawkeye logo, according to the Register.  University officials told the Register that the low fee
paid by the farm bureau is balanced by a separate agreement the
bureau has with Learfield Sports Inc.’s Hawkeye Sports
Properties, which sells marketing opportunities related to the
school’s athletic programs.  China Court Encourages Apple, Proview to Settle IPad Dispute  A Chinese court is mediating talks between Apple Inc. and
Proview Technology (Shenzhen) Co. in a bid to get the companies
to settle their dispute over the iPad trademark in the country.  “On the one hand, we are trying to process this case, and
on the other, we are working on encouraging both sides to
settle,” Zhao Le, an official at the foreign affairs office of
the Higher People’s Court of Guangdong, said by telephone April
19. Zhao said he had no further information on the effort.  On Feb. 29, the Guangdong court heard Apple’s appeal
against a lower court ruling last year that Proview owned the
iPad trademark in  China . Proview, a failed maker of computer
displays, has filed separate complaints alleging that Apple’s
sale of iPad tablets in the country infringed intellectual-
property laws.  “We started work, through the mediation of the court, on
trying to get both sides to settle,” Roger Xie, a lawyer for
Proview, said by phone. Before issuing rulings, Chinese courts
typically initiate proceedings for litigants to settle, he said.  Carolyn Wu, a spokeswoman at Apple in Beijing, didn’t
immediately return messages sent by mobile phone and e-mail
seeking comment.  Apple has said it acquired the rights to the iPad trademark
in China from Proview.  Proview Technology is a unit of Hong Kong-listed  Proview
International Holdings Ltd. (334) , whose shares have been suspended
from trading since 2010.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Hollywood Studios Lose Australian Piracy Suit at High Court  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures are
among Hollywood’s biggest movie studios that lost a piracy
lawsuit in Australia as the country’s top court upheld rulings
that a local Internet provider wasn’t responsible for customers
illegally downloading films.  Iinet Ltd., based in Perth, didn’t authorize the
infringement when customers illegally downloaded pirated copies
of movies, the  High Court  of Australia ruled, according to a
summary of the decision released on the court’s website.  Village Roadshow Ltd. (VRL) ’s Roadshow Films led the companies
trying to stop  iiNet  customers from using BitTorrent software to
illegally download copyrighted films, in a precedent-setting
case for Internet providers in Australia. The studios were
appealing earlier court decisions vindicating iiNet, and seeking
damages that they said could include royalties on illegally
downloaded movies.  The Australian government agreed to review the Copyright
Act after Singtel Optus Ltd. was cleared by a judge of
wrongdoing in letting its customers watch downloads of
Australian Football League and National Rugby League games on
mobile devices, sometimes within minutes of the live action on
free-to-air television.  Tony Bannon, a lawyer representing the film studios, cited
a case of an iiNet customer downloading a copy of “Pineapple
Express” in 2008, which could be identified from the BitTorrent
application information. Iinet failed to warn its customers that
downloading unauthorized content was illegal, Bannon told the
five-member High Court panel at a Dec. 1 hearing.  “Without providing a warning of some form, they are
authorizing,” Bannon said, referring to the Internet provider.  IiNet takes a lot of steps to encourage people to use
legitimate content, Richard Cobden, the company’s lawyer, told
the court at the same hearing.  The  Internet service provider  has an agreement with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes, for example, that lets customers download films
without affecting their monthly download allowance, Cobden said.  An appeal court last year upheld Justice Dennis Cowdroy’s
2010 verdict that iiNet wasn’t liable.  The High Court judgment supported the company’s position
and proved the studios’ claims were unfounded, iiNet Chief
Executive Officer Michael Malone said April 20.  “Iinet has never supported or encouraged unauthorized
sharing or file downloading,” Malone said in an e-mailed
statement.  Also appealing were  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc., Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp., a unit of
 News Corp. (NWSA) , and 30 other entities who owned or had exclusive
licenses to commercially released films.  The  case  is Roadshow Films Pty. Ltd. v  iiNet
Ltd (IIN) .2011/HCATrans 323, High Court of Australia (Canberra).  Google’s YouTube Must Help Detect Illegal Uploads, Court Says  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest Internet search engine
company, partly lost a German copyright infringement suit over
how much it must do to remove illegal music videos from its
YouTube website.  A Hamburg court partly ruled in favor of a suit brought by
German music royalty collecting society GEMA that argued Google
doesn’t do enough to monitor YouTube content. Google must
implement features to detect future violations if a rights
holder alerts the company, Presiding Judge Heiner Steeneck said
in a ruling that gave both sides reason to declare victory.  “But YouTube isn’t the perpetrator here, it’s those people
who illegally upload songs,” Steeneck said. “That’s why
YouTube doesn’t have to search all videos uploaded in the past.
It only has to help detect videos from the moment it is alerted
about possible violations.”  The suit was filed in 2010 after talks between GEMA and
Google on license fees for songs played on YouTube faltered.
GEMA collects royalties for composers and songwriters. An
earlier agreement between the two sides expired in 2009. Google
has reached licensing agreements with about 40 collecting
societies from other nations.  While Google maintained that that it provides enough
mechanisms for rights holders to detect violations, GEMA sought
a ruling expanding YouTube’s obligations to any illegal upload
in the past. The court ruled that YouTube’s must add a word
search to help detect videos. The current “ContentID”
application, which allows searches for audio content, isn’t
enough, according to the judges.  “This is a good ruling for us as YouTube must react once
it is alerted,” said Kerstin Baecker, GEMA’s lawyer. “So far
they have said they don’t have to do anything.”  Google spokesman Kay Oberbeck said the ruling provides
legal certainty and is important “for artists, musicians and
fans.”  Both sides said they will decide whether to appeal the part
of the ruling they lost after studying the written judgment.  The case is LG Hamburg, 310 O 461/10.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Cafe Drops Trade Secret Suit Over Recipe for ‘Cinnamon Bombs’  The proprietor of a bakery cafe in Evanston, Illinois, has
dropped a suit against a former employee she accused of stealing
her recipe, the  Chicago Tribune   reported .  Susan Davis Friedman of the  Fraiche Bakery Cafe  settled the
dispute with former employee Maryann Huppert over the recipe for
Cinnamon Bombs, a donut-like muffin that had become the bakery’s
signature offering, according to the newspaper.  Huppert had said she brought the recipe from home, that it
originated in a cookbook and that it never was the restaurant’s
property, the Tribune reported.  Friedman was represented in the dispute by her husband
Benson Friedman, who told the newspaper that while the recipe
initially may have come from a book, his wife altered it and
made it her own, according to the Tribune.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 