-- Nordic Capital Said to Plan 1.5% Management Fee
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-04-23T11:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/nordic-capital-said-to-plan-1-5-management-fee-correct-.html
(Corrects headline, first and second paragraph to show
management fee is unchanged from previous fund, in story
originally published April 20.)  Nordic Capital , a private-equity
firm that invests in Northern  Europe , is offering a 1.5 percent
management fee for a buyout fund that seeks to raise 4 billion
euros ($5.3 billion), according to a person briefed on the
fundraising.  The fee for Nordic Capital Fund VIII is the same as for the
prior fund, Fund VII, which raised 4.3 billion euros in 2008,
said the person, who asked not to be named because the
information is private. The new fund has a so-called hard cap,
or limit, of 4.5 billion euros, according to a marketing
document seen by Bloomberg News.  EQT Partners AB and Cinven Ltd. have offered discounts on
management fees to secure money for an initial round of
commitments known as a first close. Nordic Capital, based in
 Stockholm , has decided against offering discounts for investors
that commit during the first close, according to the documents.  MVision Private Equity Advisors, based in  London , is
serving as  placement agent for the new Nordic fund, according
to the marketing document. A spokeswoman for Nordic Capital
declined to comment.  Nordic’s eighth fund will make private-equity investments
across industries in the Nordic region and  Germany , and health
care buyouts all over Europe.  The prior fund, Nordic Capital Fund VII, has not exited any
investments, according to the marketing materials. Nordic
Capital said in its documents that on a capital-weighted basis,
that fund is just over two years old.  Fund VI Exits  The sixth fund, which primarily invested during 2006 and
2007, was valued at 1.2 times the cost of investments made as of
the fourth quarter, according to the documents. The fund, which
has realized 19 percent of the capital invested, has returned
1.2 billion euros to investors.  Nordic Capital exited five investments last year which
generated gross proceeds of 4.4 billion euros from  Atos (ATO)  Medical,
a voice prosthesis; Falck A/S, a Danish provider of emergency
and assistance services; FinnvedenBulten, a Swedish engineering
group; Nycomed, a Swiss pharmaceutical company; and Point, a
provider of electronic payment services, the documents show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  