-- Nowotny Says He Sees ‘No Point’ in Cutting ECB Interest Rate
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-23T11:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/nowotny-says-he-sees-no-point-in-cutting-ecb-interest-rate-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Ewald Nowotny  suggested that policy makers
currently don’t plan to cut interest rates or offer another
three-year loan to banks.  “At least for the time being, there is no point in
lowering interest rates” because the ECB’s deposit rate, which
serves as a “de facto” benchmark rate, is already at 0.25
percent, Nowotny said in an interview with broadcaster CNBC
today. “As a member of the Governing Council, I would not
advise a quick succession of steps but a steady-hand approach,”
Nowotny said when asked whether policy makers are considering a
third three-year loan.  The deposit rate has set the cost of short-term money since
the ECB started to offer banks unlimited liquidity in October
2008, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze
financial markets. At 0.25 percent, the ECB’s deposit rate
matches the main policy rate of the  Federal Reserve  and is lower
than the Bank of England’s key rate of 0.5 percent.  The ECB has already done “quite a lot” to help financial
markets, Nowotny said. “ Monetary policy  needs some time” to
show effects so “let’s see how it works,” he added.  Policy makers have cut the ECB’s benchmark rate to 1
percent and injected more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
of cheap cash into the banking system for three years to avert a
credit crunch. While debt markets rallied after the tenders in
December and February as banks used some of the liquidity to buy
 government bonds , that effect is waning.  Spanish 10-year yields breached 6 percent last week and the
cost of insuring the country’s bonds against default advanced to
a record.  The ECB can act in a “very forceful way” if needed,
Nowotny said.  Asked whether  Spain  will need a bailout, he said “I don’t
see that for the time being.”  “Spain is doing reforms in the labor market, the fiscal
system and the fiscal system in the provinces,” he said. “I
think in six months or one year we will see progress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  