-- Noyer Says Steps to Exit Crisis Are Starting to Bear Fruit
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-04-23T18:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/noyer-says-steps-to-exit-crisis-are-starting-to-bear-fruit-1-.html
The “important steps” taken by
the euro area to alleviate the region’s sovereign debt crisis
are beginning to bear fruit,  European Central Bank  governing
council member  Christian Noyer  said.  Bank-funding market and money-market conditions are “much
better,” Noyer said at an event in New York today. In addition,
sovereign-debt market “tensions” have also eased, and the
economy is “stabilizing,” albeit at a low level, he said.  Stocks fell and the euro weakened today as  Europe ’s
backlash against budget cuts gained momentum. Dutch Prime
Minister Mark Rutte’s minority government lost the support of
the opposition  Freedom Party  amid a revolt against spending
cuts. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first round of
his re-election bid as the anti-euro National Front won a record
share of the vote.  Noyer said there remain challenges to be addressed, and
that each euro country must achieve “strong fiscal
consolidation while ensuring long-term growth.” The banking
system must also “ensure that the economy is properly financed
while strengthening the financial sector,” and the European
economic union must also be reinforced, he said.  “The Eurosystem is providing the European economy with key
elements of stability,” Noyer said. “We are providing  price
stability ,” he said, adding “our recent exceptional and
temporary measures should be seen as a window of opportunity for
banks to strengthen their balance sheets and for governments to
step up their efforts in a less troubled financial
environment.”  Additional Steps  Officials in Europe and around the world are bickering
about additional crisis-calming steps, as turmoil returns amid
concern that Spain may need a bailout. While ECB officials say
Spain and Italy need to agree on further action, Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy’s government wants the ECB to reactivate its bond-
buying program.  The central bank said today it didn’t settle any government
bond purchases for a sixth straight week, having halted the
program after its two three-year loans to banks totaling more
than 1 trillion euros initially helped debt markets to rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  