-- Obama Moves to Block Technology Used by Regimes on Rebels
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-04-23T16:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/obama-moves-to-block-technology-used-by-regimes-against-protests.html
President  Barack Obama  authorized
sanctions against individuals and entities that provide
information technology that aid regimes in cracking down on
dissidents.  The executive order from the president is aimed at
thwarting the governments of  Syria  and  Iran  in particular for
their “malign use of technology” to track, monitor and disrupt
anti government protesters.  The targets of the sanctions are those who operated, sold,
leased or provided services or technology that those governments
use to abuse human rights, according to an executive order that
Obama signed yesterday. It was released by the White House this
morning as Obama paid tribute to victims of the Holocaust.  “We are haunted by the atrocities we did not stop,” the
president said at a Holocaust Days of Remembrance event at the
U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington. Stopping such
tragedies is “a core national security interest and core moral
responsibility of the  United States of America .”  Technology should be used to “empower citizens, not to
suppress them,” he said.  A unit of the State Department will offer grants to
technology companies to find new ways to boost the government’s
ability “for early warning, prevention, and response” to
prevent mass atrocities. Obama also announced creation of a
board that will assess the U.S. capability to prevent such acts.  Surveillance Systems  A Bloomberg News  investigation  last year exposed Western
companies’ sales of surveillance systems to repressive
governments, including Iran and Syria.  In Iran, European companies provided or marketed gear to
track citizens’ locations and communications that  law
enforcement  or state security agencies would have access to, the
investigation showed.  Several Middle Eastern countries, including Syria,
purchased surveillance technology from a chain of businesses
that had been a  Siemens AG (SIE)  unit, the Bloomberg probe showed. In
Bahrain, transcripts from such gear were used in brutal
interrogations, Bloomberg reported Aug. 23.  Syria Crackdown  In Syria, an Italian company,  Area SpA (YAI) , was building a
system to intercept, scan and catalog virtually every e-mail
that flows through the country, Bloomberg reported Nov. 4.
Following the disclosure, Area said it was exiting the deal. The
system included components from German and French firms, as well
as two U.S. companies, California-based  NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  And  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  In December, the European Union barred exports of
surveillance technology to Syria.  Also last year, Telecomix, a group of online activists,
discovered that technology from Sunnyvale, California-based Blue
Coat Systems Inc. was filtering websites in Syria. Blue Coat
said in a Dec. 15 statement that an internal review showed its
technology was transferred illegally to Syria by a third party.  The order was reported earlier by the  Washington  Post.  Obama directed attention to the uprising in Syria, where
clashes between anti-government protesters and security forces
persist even as the  United Nations  backed sending unarmed
observers in to monitor a cease fire.  Syrian rebels are fighting to oust President Bashar al- Assad in a conflict that the UN estimates has killed more than
9,000 people since March last year.  “The Syrian people have not given up, which is why we’ve
not given up,” Obama said.  Lord’s Resistance Army  Obama, citing another threat, said he’ll continue the
mission of U.S. military advisers in Central Africa to help
 Uganda  and neighboring armies track down warlord Joseph Kony and
members of the Lord’s Resistance Army.  Kony was indicted in 2005 on charges of murder, mutilation,
rape and abduction of 30,000 children for use as soldiers and
sex slaves. Obama, last October, authorized deployment of 100
combat-equipped soldiers, primarily special operations personnel
to the region.  Visiting for the first time as president, Obama toured the
museum before speaking with Elie Wiesel, a Nobel Peace Prize
laureate and Holocaust survivor.  Obama also announced he would award the Medal of Freedom
posthumously to Jan Karski, a member of the Polish resistance
who smuggled evidence about the Holocaust to the U.S. and
delivered it to President  Franklin Roosevelt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  