-- Occupy London Placards Enter Museum of London Collection
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/occupy-london-placards-enter-museum-of-london-collection.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  smiles
and raises his middle finger on a protest placard that just
entered the  Museum of London ’s collections.  The wooden panel, spray-painted in the style of the street
artist Banksy, portrays the U.K. head of government with a red
percentage sign on his tie, suggesting that he represents the
wealthiest 1 percent of the planet’s population.  The placard was put on public display by Occupy London
demonstrators, who, inspired by  New York ’s Occupy Wall Street
rally, camped outside  St. Paul’s Cathedral  from October 2011
until their police-led eviction on Feb. 28. The Museum of London
is compiling select items from the protest.  “The museum tries to document all major events in  London 
history,” says Jim Gledhill, curator of social and working
history at the museum, which is near St. Paul’s. “This was such
a major event, and it was going on 10 minutes down the road.”  “The  City of London  as a financial institution also
features in our collections: We’re an impartial observer,” says
Gledhill.  The museum, which reopened in 2010 after a 20.5 million
pound ($32.9 million) revamp, plots London life from 1666 to the
present in its new galleries. The collections as a whole date 
back to prehistoric times. Among the items on display is a 
pinstriped Armani woman’s suit, donated by a  Royal Bank of 
Scotland Group Plc  banker, as well as the trophy she won for 
clinching a deal.  Sick Bags  Last year, the museum acquired paper plates, china plates
and souvenir sick bags commemorating the wedding of  Prince William . In the 1980s, badges and photographs from the Campaign
for Nuclear Disarmament demonstrations entered its collections.  Now, its storerooms house an 8-foot (2.4 meter) banner that
hung on an empty  UBS AG (UBSN)  building that protesters occupied in a
“public repossession” last November and renamed the Bank of
Ideas. When the occupiers were evicted in late January, UBS
said, “We are pleased that this matter has now been resolved.”  The banner bears the words “You Owe Us” and shows the UBS
logo flanked by a group of pensioners.  “The UBS banner was made the night before the opening of
the Bank of Ideas by three people on the floor of a squat which
used to be an old pub,” says Hilary Young, digital curator at
the Museum of London, who interviewed its three makers.  “It’s really long and really tall, so they unfurled it on
the floor, painted it on the floor, and hung it up to dry before
they folded it and took it to the Bank of Ideas,” Young says.  Clenched Fist  Another addition to the collections is a giant board
illustrated with a clenched fist and inscribed with the words:
“Stand Strong Occupy On.” It hung from a tree at St. Paul’s,
and after the eviction, the  Corporation of London  -- the City’s
local government -- offered it to the museum.  Also now in the archives is the first issue of “The
Occupied Times,” a Xeroxed, black-and-white leaflet-style
newspaper with the front-page headline “Here to Stay.” It
pictures a young man yelling into the mouthpiece of a megaphone
held up by a young woman beside him.  The movement’s links to the three-month-long anti-austerity
demonstration in central  Madrid  is illustrated by a donation
from a Spanish protester at St. Paul’s: a red wool cap, one of
many knitted by Latin American pensioners who were keen to
contribute and protect the London militants from the cold.  Gledhill says the museum prefers handmade, personalized
items to “mass-produced badges, leaflets and placards that
everybody had,” and which union- or party-led protests
generated in the past.  Occupier Mask  One exception is a mass-produced Guy Fawkes mask, an anti-
establishment emblem borrowed from the “V for Vendetta” comic-
book series and widely used in Occupy movements worldwide.  Ephemeral items, such as signs made with water-soluble
marker, get turned down. “If it’s auto-destructive and will not
last more than five years, there’s no point in taking it,” says
Gledhill.  It’s too soon to say what the museum will do with the
material, he says.  For now, the items are being photographed and displayed
online along with the rest of the collection. Sometime in the
future, a Web browser will come across the image of a British
prime minister making an unusual gesture.  Museum of London, 150 London Wall, London EC2Y 5HN.
Information:  http://www.museumoflondon.org.uk/   (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Manuela Hoelterhoff
interviews  Pablo Heras-Casado ; Mark Beech on new  rock CDs ;
Jeremy Gerard on  Broadway .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri, in London, at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 