-- Oil Declines as Manufacturing Shrinks in China, Euro Area
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-04-23T19:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/oil-decreases-after-manufacturing-shrinks-in-china-euro.html
Oil declined as manufacturing
shrank in  China  and the euro area, bolstering concern that fuel
consumption will diminish.  Futures fell 0.7 percent after  China’s economy  contracted
for a sixth month in April, based on a preliminary reading of a
purchasing managers’ index. Euro-area services and manufacturing
output slipped. The drop in crude accelerated as stocks dropped
after  Europe ’s backlash against budget cuts gained momentum.  “The negative Chinese and European economic data are
weighing on the markets,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“There are increasing worries about the European outlook and
whether the euro zone will be able to hold it together.”  Crude oil for June delivery decreased 77 cents to settle at
$103.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
have declined 8.2 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for June settlement dropped 5 cents to end the
session at $118.71 a barrel on the London-based ICE exchange.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $15.60 to
New York futures, up from $14.88 on April 20. The spread between
the contracts surged to a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.8 percent at
3:55 p.m. The dollar strengthened 0.5 percent versus the euro. A
stronger U.S. currency reduces the appeal of raw materials as an
investment. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities
was down 0.3 percent.  Manufacturing Slumps  The preliminary reading of the purchasing managers index
for China by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed a
contraction that would be the longest since the global financial
crisis began if confirmed in the final reading May 2. A euro-
area  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers in
services and manufacturing fell to a five-month low, London-
based Markit said in an initial estimate today.  “The Chinese manufacturing numbers are a bit disappointing
as is the European data,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at futures brokerage PFGBest in Chicago. “The apparent
slowdown in manufacturing in these important markets is raising
demand concern.”  The  S&P 500  declined, joining a global slump in equities,
as the Dutch cabinet offered its resignation to  Queen Beatrix 
after losing the Freedom Party’s support over disagreement on an
austerity package. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  finished
second behind Socialist Francois Hollande in the first round of
elections as the anti-euro National Front won a record share of
the vote.  Oil prices  have moved for more than two years on the latest
developments in the euro region’s debt crisis and its projected
impact on the continent’s energy demand. The crisis that began
in Greece has spread to Ireland, Portugal, Italy and Spain.  ‘Unsettling’ Result  “The French election results are unsettling,” Kilduff
said. “They won’t make it any easier for the euro-zone to agree
on a common approach.”  China accounted for 11 percent of the world’s oil
consumption in 2010, compared with 21 percent for the U.S.,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy
released in June. The 17 countries using the euro accounted for
about 12 percent of world use.  Oil in New York reached $110.55 on March 1, the highest
intraday level since May 4, amid speculation that Western
sanctions aimed at halting  Iran’s nuclear program  will disrupt
Middle East shipments. Prices have dropped 6.7 percent since
that peak as tensions have eased.  The first international talks in 15 months on Iran’s
nuclear program were held April 14 in Istanbul. The United
Nations’ five permanent Security Council members plus Germany
are scheduled to meet Iranian delegates next at a May 23 meeting
in Iraq.  ‘Slowly Bleeding’  “Recent economic headlines are beginning to reflect the
damage done by the oil price rise earlier this year,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group in Villanova,
Pennsylvania. “People are antsy about the economy now. The
market has been slowly bleeding in recent weeks.”  Electronic trading volume of crude oil on the Nymex was
344,932 contracts as of 3:56 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled
449,851 contracts April 20, 29 percent below the three-month
average. Open interest was 1.53 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  