-- Oil Trades Near Two-Day Low on Bets U.S. Supplies to Gain
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-24T07:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-on-sign-u-s-supplies-rising.html
Oil traded near the lowest level in
two days in  New York  before data that may show inventories rose
to an 11-month high in the U.S., the world’s biggest consumer of
the commodity.  Futures for June delivery were little changed after falling
0.7 percent yesterday. U.S. stockpiles increased 2.65 million
barrels last week to 371.7 million, according to the median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before a
government report tomorrow. The U.S. may still tap strategic
reserves to limit price gains stoked by tension with  Iran , with
a release likely before a European Union embargo starts on July
1,  Societe Generale  SA said.  “The market is very evenly divided between the bulls and
the bears,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s
Bulletin, a commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney. “There are
quite a few things that could move it but no one is prepared to
lead and I think that’s keeping the prices relatively subdued.”  Crude for June delivery was at $102.94 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 17
cents, at 2:55 p.m. Singapore time. The contract fell 77 cents
to $103.11 yesterday. Front-month prices are 4.2 percent higher
this year.  Brent oil for June settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange declined 13 cents to $118.58 a barrel,
leaving the European benchmark contract at a  premium  of $15.64
to New York futures. The difference was $15.60 yesterday, the
most in six days.  Crude Supplies  Oil in New York is in a technical downtrend, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. On the daily chart, the top of a
downward-sloping channel going back about two months is $104.53
a barrel today and represents price resistance, a level at which
sell orders tend to be clustered.  U.S. crude stockpiles are forecast to climb for a fifth
week to the highest since May, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  Gasoline supplies  probably dropped 750,000 barrels last
week, the survey showed. Distillate-fuel inventories, a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, gained an estimated
625,000 barrels.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
supply data today. The industry group collects stockpile
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the Energy Department for its weekly
survey.  Strategic Oil Release  A release of strategic oil stockpiles will probably happen
in June, before the start of the sanctions on July 1,  Michael Wittner , global head of oil-market research at Societe Generale
in New York, said in a note dated yesterday. About 60 million
barrels may be freed up, with only a “brief, temporary”
lowering of prices, according to the report.  A decision to tap the reserves is “pretty likely” when
the EU embargo starts, Seth Kleinman, a Citigroup Inc. analyst
in  London , said on a conference call yesterday. The Persian Gulf
nation has threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit
route for a fifth of the world’s oil, in retaliation against
sanctions.  Iran can compensate for lost European Union markets by
redirecting oil supplies to  Asia  if the EU implements its ban,
Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi said yesterday in Astana,
 Kazakhstan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at   manderson34@bloomberg.net  