-- Hollande Meets German Resistance in Anti-Austerity Push
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-04-24T12:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/hollande-blames-europe-s-austerity-only-plan-for-le-pen-s-rise.html
French Socialist presidential
candidate  Francois Hollande ’s campaign pledge to reverse
Europe’s austerity drive met German resistance, pointing to
tension between the region’s two biggest economies.  Hollande, who polls show will oust incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  in May 6 elections, yesterday said the absence of
economic growth prospects explained anti-euro National Front
leader Marine Le Pen’s record score in the April 22 first round.  Le Pen, the leader of the nationalist, anti-immigrant
party, won 17.9 percent, or 6.4 million votes, surpassing poll
estimates with the highest tally for the National Front created
by her father Jean-Marie Le Pen in 1972. Hollande got 28.6
percent and Sarkozy 27.2 percent.  “Europe can’t just impose austerity,” Hollande said in an
interview today on a train to Laon, in the Aisne district
northeast of Paris. “Of course, we won’t depart from rigorous
budget rules, but austerity in the sense that it’s only a burden
or pressure is unbearable for people.”  Hollande has repeated his criticism of the German-advocated
austerity and said the  European Central Bank  needs to do more to
support Europe’s growth, comments that may put him at odds with
France’s neighbor and Europe’s biggest economy. He says he’ll
seek to add growth and investment measures to the fiscal treaty
signed by its European partners.  “We’re not saying that saving solves all problems,”
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said at a conference in Berlin
today. Still, “you can’t spend more than you take in. You can’t
live your whole life this way. Everybody knows this.”  Question of Confidence  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said that the
fiscal pact is a done deal and won’t be renegotiated to reflect
election results.  Peter Altmaier , the chief whip of  Germany ’s
ruling coalition, said today that he expects the budget pact to
be implemented whoever wins the May 6 vote in France.  “If Mr. Hollande were to say that he wants to increase
 government spending  and save less, he’ll lose the confidence of
the financial markets,” Altmaier said in an interview in
Berlin. “We will stick to our fundamental principles because
there’s really no alternative.”  Europe’s front against austerity has expanded in recent
weeks after  Spain  struggled to meet European Union-imposed
deficit targets, election campaigns in  Greece  faced anti-
austerity rumblings and a revolt against extra spending cuts in
the traditionally budget-conscious  Netherlands  propelled Prime
Minister Mark Rutte’s coalition toward an early breakup.  Losers of Globalization  Austerity critical views have boosted anti-European
sentiments that play into themes at the core of Le Pen’s
campaign. Le Pen, a member of the European Parliament, focused a
large part of her campaigning against Europe, calling for  France 
to exit the euro. She has repeatedly criticized the close
relations between Sarkozy andMerkel.  Le Pen’s voters “are the workers, the unemployed, those
without a diploma, the losers of globalization,” said Sylvain
Crepon, a professor in sociology at the University of Paris-
Nanterre. “Le Pen gave them recognition more than solutions.”  Hollande’s call for growth measures may generate fresh
doubts about the German-driven strategy for coming to grips with
the more than three-year-old European debt crisis.  Still, the imposition of fiscal discipline hasn’t resulted
in “a tidal wave of far-right, anti-European, xenophobic
parties,” Thomas Klau, a senior policy fellow at the European
Council on Foreign Relations, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Paris. “Voters haven’t returned extreme
parties to the government.”  Protective Europe  The euro-area crisis in  Europe  has resulted in the ouster
of leaders in Ireland,  Portugal , Greece,  Italy , Spain, Slovenia,
Slovakia and  Finland .  The European Commission “often calls on the region’s
leaders not to give in to the temptation of populist speeches
and to continue to move on with a Europe of peace and growth,”
Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for its president Jose Manuel Barroso said,  Agence France-Presse  reported. The remarks echoed
concerns across Europe after Le Pen’s record-high vote.  “A Europe that doesn’t defend its citizens is finished, a
Europe that doesn’t defend its borders is finished, a Europe
that opens its markets without reciprocity is finished,”
Sarkozy said at  a campaign rally  near Tours yesterday.  Merkel, who has dominated Europe’s crisis response, said
debt reduction is the best route to economic health.  “Solid budget management is a factor for producing growth,
but of course not the only one,” Merkel said yesterday at the
Hanover trade fair, a showcase for high-tech products. “We’re
still in the process of overcoming this crisis.”  Refocus Europe  Hollande said, if elected, he would send a draft proposal
of the changes he would like to see to the treaty to the 25 EU
leaders who signed the German-inspired treaty on March 2.  Hollande’s support ranges from 53 percent to 56 percent,
while Sarkozy’s backing is at 44 percent to 47 percent, recent
polls showed. The surveys were conducted after first round
voting ended by pollster CSA, BVA, Ifop and Ipsos.  “If we win, France will refocus European construction and
put growth, industry, sustainable growth (…) at the center,”
said Hollande in the Brittany town of Quimper yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  