-- Thomson Reuters to Sell Health-Care Unit for $1.25 Billion
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-04-23T20:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/thomson-reuters-to-sell-health-care-unit-for-1-25-billion-1-.html
Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) , the
financial news and information provider, agreed to sell its
health-care division to Veritas Capital for $1.25 billion as the
publisher focuses on its main businesses.  The sale to the private-equity firm will probably be
completed in the next few months, Thomson Reuters said in a
statement today. Veritas has obtained debt financing commitments
for the deal, Thomson Reuters said. Both parties are based in
New York.  Thomson Reuters put the health-care business, which
provides data and analytics to hospitals, government agencies
and employers, up for sale in June, saying it lacked the global
scale of the company’s other units. The sale makes sense
strategically and allows Thomson Reuters to buy assets related
to its tax and legal businesses, said Douglas Arthur, an analyst
with  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)   “The health-care unit wasn’t the highest-margin business
and wasn’t going to be a big growth area for them,” said the
analyst, who is based in New York and has an equal-weight  rating 
on Thomson Reuters.  Thomson Reuters  fell  1.6 percent to C$28.20 in Toronto at
the close. The shares have gained 3.6 percent this year.  ‘More Focused’  “With the completion of the divestiture, Thomson Reuters
will be even more focused on our core global businesses,”  James Smith , chief executive officer, said in today’s statement.  Thomson Reuters temporarily suspended its search for a
buyer for the unit in December, citing “challenging” economic
conditions. This year, Chief Financial Officer Stephane Bello
said on a conference call that the division had “performed
quite well last year, actually exceeding the projections we had
included in the offering memorandum,” and that the company was
“not ready to dispose of the business at a fire sale.”  Thomson Reuters  has said it also plans to sell its
property-tax service business, its law-school publishing house
and EXimius, a wealth-management unit, by the middle of the
year.  Veritas invests in government service providers and has
been involved in deals totaling about $14 billion since its
founding in 1992. The transaction with Thomson Reuters brings
the value of global private-equity deals in health care to about
$2.7 billion so far this year, up 76 percent from the same
period a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thomson Reuters is getting financial advice from Morgan
Stanley and Allen & Co., and Covington & Burling LLC is acting
as its legal adviser. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News, competes with Thomson Reuters in selling financial and
legal information and trading systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  