-- Long Bond Rallies as QE Inflation Proves Elusive
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-04-23T12:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/long-bond-rallies-as-qe-inflation-proves-elusive.html
Lacy Hunt, whose bond fund has
beaten 99 percent of its peers during the past five years by
buying the longest maturity Treasuries, says 30-year  government
securities  remain the world’s best debt investment.  “The long end of the Treasury curve offers the greatest
value,” Hunt, the chief economist at Austin, Texas-based
Hoisington Investment Management, which oversees more than $4.5
billion, said April 17 in a telephone interview. “The risk of
deflation is greater than the risk of inflation over the next
several years,” said Hunt, whose firm’s  Wasatch-Hoisington U.S.
Treasury Fund (WHOSX)  has returned 76 percent since April 2007.  While the  U.S. economy  is expanding, it isn’t sparking
faster inflation, helping push bond yields and  government
borrowing  costs back toward record lows following the worst
selloff since 2010 during the first quarter. After losing 7.6
percent in January through March as  consumer confidence , retail
sales and jobs gained, the 30-year Treasury has returned 4.4
percent in April.  Falling yields on longer-maturity fixed-income securities
signal renewed confidence in the ability of Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to keep consumer prices in check even
as the economy grows.  Real Yields  Inflation concerns are abating even after the Fed pumped
$2.3 trillion into the financial system by purchasing bonds in a
policy known as  quantitative easing , or QE, and kept benchmark
 interest rates  near zero since December 2008. Thirty-year bonds
have the added benefit of paying a yield that is higher than the
rate of inflation, unlike notes due in 10 years or less.  In the first quarter, “you had concern of the Fed
providing too much lighter fuel on the barbecue for too long,”
Jim Hannan, a senior  money manager  in Baltimore at Wilmington
Trust Investment Advisors Inc., which oversees about $25 billion
in fixed-income assets, said April 18 in a telephone interview.  Confidence in the Fed is also seen in the difference
between 10- and 30-year Treasury yields, which is little changed
since the central bank raised its assessment of the economy on
March 13. That spread, at about 1.16 percentage points,
typically widens as investors demand higher yields on longer
maturity debt when they expect faster growth to spark inflation.  “All of a sudden the 30-year looks a little bit better,”
Hannan said.  Falling Yields  After falling from the high this year of 3.49 percent on
March 19,  yields  on 30-year Treasuries were little changed last
week at 3.13 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The yield was 3.08 percent at 8:48 a.m.  New York  time. The
benchmark 3.125 percent bond due February 2042 rose 29/32, or
$9.06 per $1,000 face value, to 100 28/32.  A year ago, the yield was almost 4.5 percent. It has
averaged 7.19 percent since 1980 and compares with a trailing
12-month inflation rate of 2.7 percent.  The long bond served as a benchmark for governments and
companies from when the Treasury began regular  sales  of the debt
in 1977 until 2001, when then-Undersecretary for Domestic
Finance  Peter Fisher  suspended auctions, saying they were too
costly. Investors turned to the 10-year note as the market
benchmark.  Expanding budget deficits led Treasury officials to resume
30-year sales in 2006. Offerings increased as the financial
crisis worsened and tax receipts plummeted, causing the
shortfall to reach $1.42 trillion in 2009.  ‘Significant’ Losses  Last quarter’s slump may just be a preview of what’s to
come, according to John Hendrick, senior vice president of
global inflation-linked assets in Hartford,  Connecticut , at
Hartford Investment Asset Management, which oversees $165
billion.  “Long-run inflation will definitely rise at some point,”
Hendrick said April 19 in a telephone interview. “It won’t take
much of an increase in interest rates for investors to have
significant capital losses.”  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said in his annual letter to shareholders that
bonds and other holdings tied to currencies “are among the most
dangerous of assets.”  Leon Cooperman , founder of equity hedge fund Omega Advisors
Inc., said Feb. 22 in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack” with  Erik Schatzker  that buying Treasuries is
the least attractive investment and the worst place to put money
for the next three years.  Yield Forecasts  Yields will likely rise to 4 percent by the third quarter
of 2013, according to the median estimate of almost 50
economists and strategist surveyed by Bloomberg News. If that
happens, investors stand to lose $70 million on every $1 billion
of 3.125 percent Treasuries due in February 2042.  The U.S. sold $16 billion in five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities on April 19 at a record low negative yield
of minus 1.08 percent as investors sought a hedge against the
threat of rising consumer prices.  For Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading in New York
at Deutsche Bank AG’s private wealth management unit, which
oversees $12 billion in bonds, demand may be more of a
reflection of Fed purchases than confidence in lower inflation.
The central bank has been replacing $400 billion of shorter-
dated maturities in its holdings with longer-term debt to
contain borrowing costs. The strategy, dubbed Operation Twist by
traders, is due to end in June.  ‘Constant Buyer’  “The Fed has been a constant buyer every week and that has
been a big supporter of long-term interest and has caused the
curve to flatten,” Pollack said April 18 in a telephone
interview in reference to the difference between short- and
long-term yields. “The Fed is a big part of it.”  With the Fed reiterating last month that it expects to keep
 rates  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent through 2014, a selloff
in bonds is remote, according to bulls. Central bank members
meet this week to discuss monetary policy.  Inflation as measured by the personal consumption
expenditures index, excluding food and fuel, the gauge used by
the Fed in its forecasts, rose 1.9 percent in February from a
year earlier. That compares with more than 2.5 percent as
recently as 2008.  The five-year, five-year forward breakeven rate, a bond
market  gauge  used by the Fed to forecast inflation expectations
starting five years from now, is coming down. It fell to 2.6
percent this month from last year’s high of 3.23 percent in
August. The measure has averaged 2.76 percent the past decade.  ‘Beyond Our Means’  Hoisington told clients in a first-quarter report that
sustained inflation is unlikely after real median  household
income  fell 5 percent in the decade ending in 2009 and probably
declined to the lowest level last year since 1995.  High levels of household and government  debt  will continue
to curb growth, Hoisington said. U.S. private and public debt to
gross-domestic-product ratio is about 174 percentage points
higher than the average since 1870, the firm said, citing  Bureau
of Economic Analysis , Fed and Census Bureau data.  “We lived beyond our means,” Hunt said. “To correct,
you’re going to need a period of living inside your means,”
which will curb growth, he said. “We’re looking for the long
rates to go down from where they are.”  The $241.5 million Wasatch-Hoisington fund has gained 12
percent on average the past five years, topping the 6.4 percent
gain for the benchmark Barclays U.S. Aggregate Total Return
Index and better than 99 percent of its peers, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The fund has bought longer-maturity Treasuries
since 1996, with bonds due May 2030 its largest holding.  Wage Gains  While the median estimate of 68 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the Commerce Department to say this week that
gross domestic product expanded 2.5 percent last quarter, wage
growth isn’t keeping up.  Average hourly earnings have risen 1.9 percent on average
since the start of 2010, down from 2.7 percent in 2009, 3.2
percent in 2008 and 3.5 percent in 2007, according to Labor
Department data released April 6.  Tame inflation contributed to a 35.5 percent return,
including reinvested interest, in the 30-year Treasury bond in
2011 as measured Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. That’s
the best year for the long bond after the 41.2 percent gain in
2008 amid the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
About $675 billion of marketable coupon securities yield more
than inflation, Treasury data show.  The 30-year Treasury is a proxy for inflation “over a long
period of the time,” said Hunt, 69, who was chief U.S.
economist for HSBC Group and senior economist at the Federal
Reserve Bank of  Dallas  before joining Hoisington in 1996.
“That’s where the economic fundamentals are most dominant,” he
said. “It conveys a lot of information about economic
conditions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  