-- Los Angeles Gasoline Rises to Six-Week High on Conoco Plant Work
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-04-23T22:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/los-angeles-gasoline-rises-to-six-week-high-on-conoco-plant-work.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  advanced to a six-week high against futures after
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  was said to be performing work on a hydrotreater
and a co-generation plant at its Southern California refinery.  The 139,000-barrel-a-day Los Angeles refinery is conducting
a maintenance turnaround on the co-generation plant and
performing a catalyst regeneration on a unifier and hydrotreater
unit, a person with direct knowledge of the work said. The work
is expected to last about two weeks, the person said.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles jumped
6 cents to a premium of 9.5 cents a gallon against futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:09 p.m. East
Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest level for the fuel in Los Angeles since March 12.  “There is planned maintenance currently under way at the
Los Angeles refinery,”  Rich Johnson , a Conoco spokesman at the
company’s headquarters in Houston, said in an e-mail today.
“Details regarding the specific units involved and the duration
of the work are considered proprietary.”  San Francisco Carbob rose 3.5 cents to 11 cents a gallon
above gasoline futures, the highest level in a week.  Conoco was scheduled to shut the hydrocracker at the
128,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo refinery in Northern California for
planned maintenance, two people with direct knowledge of the
work said March 15. The turnaround is expected to last six to
eight weeks, they said.  Johnson didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail today
requesting comment on the unit work.  Diesel Premium  CARB diesel in Los Angeles slipped 0.25 cent to a premium
of 6.5 cents a gallon versus Nymex heating oil futures. The same
fuel in  San Francisco  dropped 3 cents to a 9-cent premium.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , a
benchmark for the U.S. Northwest, slipped 0.25 cent to 5.25
cents a gallon above gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel  there 
fell 3 cents to a premium of 17.5 cents a gallon against heating
oil futures.  Conoco finished planned work at the 100,000-barrel-a-day
Ferndale refinery in  Washington , Johnson said in an e-mail. The
plant began shutting units March 9 for a maintenance turnaround,
a state regulatory notice shows. The work was expected to halt
production for about 37 days, a person with direct knowledge of
the work said March 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  