-- China’s Stocks Decline on Manufacturing Report, ChiNext Rules
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-23T07:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/most-chinese-stocks-fall-before-preliminary-manufacturing-report.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in
almost a week after a preliminary report on manufacturing
signaled a sixth month of contraction and officials tightened
standards for small companies listed on the ChiNext Board.  SAIC Motor Corp. and Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. led declines
for automakers and steelmakers after the so-called Flash PMI was
49.1 in April.  China  Petroleum & Chemical Corp.,  Asia ’s largest
refiner, slid 1.1 percent after China National Radio reported
the government may cut gasoline prices next month because a
slowing economy has cut demand. Chongqing Department Store Co.
rose 1 percent after the company reported an increase in profit.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 18.28 points, or 0.8
percent, to 2,388.59 at the close, the biggest drop since April
17. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 0.8 percent to 2,606.04. The ChiNext
index declined 5.3 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, was
little changed in  New York .  “The HSBC PMI further proves the economy is heading
towards a soft landing, but it should stabilize in the second
half of this year,”  Zhang Qi , an analyst at Haitong Securities
Co., said in a telephone interview. “There’s some correction in
stocks as small companies, especially those with bad earnings,
are down following the tightening of standards in the  ChiNext. (SZ399006) ”  The Shanghai index has climbed 8.6 percent this year amid
speculation the government will take measures to boost the
economy. Stocks in the Shanghai gauge are valued at 10.1 times
estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on
Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg. About
11.6 billion shares changed hands on the Shanghai Composite on
April 20, 46 percent higher than the daily average this year.
Thirty-day  volatility  in the gauge was at 19.01.  Manufacturing Index  The preliminary reading of the purchasing managers’ index
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today compares with
a final 48.3 in March. A number below 50 points to a
contraction. The report underscores risks the second-biggest
economy may see a deeper slowdown that will restrain world
growth as U.S. expansion shows signs of moderating.  “The numbers in recent months have never been that good,
but don’t show signs of falling off a cliff either,”  Paul
Cavey , a Hong Kong-based economist with Macquarie Securities
Ltd., said of the HSBC PMI. “Today’s number would suggest
continuation of the government’s current policy of slow,
cautious loosening.”  SAIC Motor, the biggest automaker, lost 1.8 percent to
15.11 yuan. Baoshan Iron & Steel retreated 0.6 percent to 4.96
yuan.  ChiNext Rules  China may cut gasoline and diesel prices next month, China
National Radio reported yesterday, citing Zhang Bin, an analyst
at researcher Chem99.com.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
known as Sinopec, slid 1.1 percent to 7.27 yuan. PetroChina Co.
declined 1 percent to 9.85 yuan. They are the nation’s biggest
refiners.  Companies listed on the ChiNext Board will be delisted if
they are censured by the exchange three times over a three-year
period, the exchange said in an April 20 statement. The
companies will also be removed from the board if their share
prices close below par values for 20 consecutive days or net
asset values are negative for the latest year, according to the
statement.  The exchange said it won’t support ChiNext companies
seeking to regain listing status by means of reverse takeovers.
The rules, which amend a plan announced in February, will come
into effect on May 1, according to the statement.  Beijing Originwater Technology Co., which has the biggest
weighting on the ChiNext, dropped 3.5 percent to 39 yuan. Lepu
Medical Technology Co., the second-largest, lost 3.3 percent to
13.37 yuan.  Don’t Overweight  Chongqing Department Store (600729)  Co. rose 1 percent to 29.98 yuan
after the company said first quarter net income rose 10.5
percent from a year earlier.  Chinese stocks’ low valuations aren’t sufficient reason to
overweight a market where earnings revisions are Asia’s second-
worst and economic data are disappointing, according to
Citigroup Inc.  “China is cheap,” Citigroup analysts led by  Markus Rosgen 
wrote in a report dated today. “This is necessary, but not
enough for an overweight. Plenty of markets in the region and
the world are now cheap.”  Chinese stocks are now the second-most overweight market
among institutional investors in Asia after  Thailand , Rosgen
wrote. As institutions have already bought into the market,
inflows from retail investors are needed to drive equities
higher, he wrote. Yet growing  bank deposits  signal a lack of
enthusiasm by the public to shares, Rosgen wrote.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  