-- Motorola Mobility Wins Ruling on Microsoft Xbox Patents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-04-24T15:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/motorola-mobility-wins-ruling-in-microsoft-xbox-patent-case.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  won
a U.S. International Trade Commission judge’s ruling that
bolsters its chances of blocking imports of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Xbox gaming system from entering the U.S.  ITC Judge  David Shaw  said yesterday that Microsoft was
violating four of five Motorola Mobility patents. The judge’s
 findings  are subject to review by the six-member commission,
which has the power to ban imports that infringe U.S. patents. A
second judge at the ITC delayed until today issuing his findings
in a separate Motorola Mobility case against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The ruling gives Motorola Mobility leverage in its patent
fights with Microsoft that may force settlement talks to avoid
an Xbox import ban. Motorola Mobility filed in retaliation for
Microsoft lodging patent-infringement claims against Motorola
Mobility phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system, the most popular platform for mobile devices.  “Microsoft continues to infringe Motorola Mobility’s
patent portfolio, and we remain confident in our position,”
said Becki Leonard, a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility, in an
e-mailed statement. “This case was filed in response to
Microsoft’s litigate-first patent attack strategy, and we look
forward to the full commission’s ruling in August.”  The commission has set a target of completing the
investigation by Aug. 23. A separate judge at the agency found
that Motorola Mobility infringed one of seven Microsoft patents.
The commission is reviewing that determination, and is scheduled
to release its decision May 18.  Review Pending  Motorola Mobility contends that three of the four patents
found to be infringed relate to industry-established standards
covering Wi-Fi technology and video decoding. Motorola Mobility
took part in establishing those standards in return for a pledge
to license any standard-essential patents on fair and reasonable
terms.  Microsoft had sought to delay Shaw’s decision until a
federal judge in  Seattle  can rule on the software maker’s claims
that Motorola Mobility breached its licensing obligations. A
hearing in the Seattle case is scheduled for May 7. Shaw, in his
one-page synopsis of his findings, said Microsoft had not
prevailed in its arguments.  Microsoft, which has pledged to never seek a legal ban on
products that infringe standard-essential patents, said it would
be vindicated once the six-member commission reviews the case.  Commission Process  The recommendation by the administrative law judge “is the
first step in the process leading to the commission’s final
ruling,” Microsoft said in an e-mailed statement. “We remain
confident the commission will ultimately rule in Microsoft’s
favor in this case and that Motorola will be held to its promise
to make its standard-essential patents available on fair and
reasonable terms.”  Motorola Mobility, the Libertyville, Illinois-based creator
of the consumer market for mobile phones with the  DynaTAC 8000X 
that cost $4,000 in 1983, has a portfolio of more than 17,000
patents. Google has agreed to pay $12.5 billion to buy Motorola
Mobility.  Motorola Mobility contends that Microsoft is infringing two
patents that cover aspects of an industry standard for video
decoding, two for Wi-Fi technology and a fifth patent on a way
that to establish communication between the Xbox and
accessories. The second Wi-Fi patent wasn’t infringed, and one
aspect of one of the video-coding patents was invalid, the judge
said.  Royalty Demand  Shaw won’t release the full findings until both sides get a
chance to redact confidential information.  Motorola Mobility sent letters to Microsoft demanding a
2.25 percent royalty on the end price of products that use the
inventions, including the Xbox and Windows products. The
entertainment division, which includes sales of the Xbox,
generated $8.9 billion in global sales in fiscal 2011, about 13
percent of Microsoft’s review.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , has challenged
Motorola Mobility’s right to bring patents that the company says
cover essential aspects of an industry standard in a case at the
agency. Microsoft has accused Motorola Mobility of violating its
commitment to license those patents on “reasonable and non-
discriminatory” terms.  Suit Filed  The software maker filed the Seattle breach-of-contract
lawsuit against Motorola Mobility before the ITC case was filed.
Microsoft claimed that Motorola Mobility’s demand, if met, would
result in $4 billion a year in royalties.  Motorola Mobility said the numbers were misleading. It said
the offer is typical of those it makes to start negotiations and
Microsoft never made a counter-offer.  “Motorola is saying, ‘If you want to go to war with me,
that’s ok, but then you can’t say I should play nice in the
sandbox,” Tom Scott, a patent lawyer with Goodwin Procter in
Washington, said before the findings were released. “There
really isn’t a standard for fair, reasonable and non-
discriminatory.”  The European Union is investigating complaints by Microsoft
and Apple that Motorola Mobility is unfairly using standard-
essential patents to block competition.  The standards are established to ensure products work
together across platforms to let, for instance, a video be
downloaded to a home computer, laptop and smartphone no matter
who makes the electronic device. Manufacturers are limited in
their ability to claim they don’t infringe patents that are
deemed critical to following an industry standard.  ‘Competitive Tool’  Microsoft has argued that, since the ITC has only the power
to block imports and not to award cash damages, standard-
essential patents shouldn’t be part of infringement cases at the
agency. The proper forum, Microsoft contends, is a district
court that can resolve licensing disputes.  Motorola Mobility has called Microsoft’s objections “a
competitive tool rather than a principled objection.” Last
year, in a written  statement  to the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission, Microsoft supported the right to assert standard-
essential patents at the ITC.  In a March 15 letter to the  Justice Department  and the ITC,
the Senate Judiciary Committee said it was concerned “that
patent holders may choose to seek an exclusionary order from the
ITC in a manner that would threaten competition, rather than
simply dispute the reasonable terms of the license in court in a
way that would allow continued use by competitors.”  Legal Issue  The letter was signed by Senate Judiciary Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, and Wisconsin Democrat  Herb Kohl , who
heads the antitrust, competition policy and consumer rights
subcommittee.  “It would surprise me if the end result is that they’re
precluded from practicing a standard,” said David Long of Dow
Lohnes in Washington, who specializes in telecommunications
patents. “The question is how we get there.”  The Motorola Mobility case against Microsoft is In the
Matter of Gaming and Entertainment Consoles, 337-752 and the
Microsoft case against Motorola Mobility is In the Matter of
Mobile Devices, Associated Software and Components Thereof,
337-744, both U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  