-- Lloyds Said to Choose BDL as Manager of Hotels Tied to Loans
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-04-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/lloyds-said-to-choose-bdl-as-manager-of-hotels-tied-to-loans.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  signed an
agreement with BDL Ireland Management Ltd. that may allow the
company to manage hotels tied to the bank’s 1 billion-euro ($1.3
billion) of Irish lodging loans, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Receivers to hotels that defaulted on their loans from the
London-based bank will have the option to use  BDL ’s property
management services, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. BDL built 30 hotels in
the U.K. and managed 45 through November, according to its
website. Lloyds spokesman Ian Kitts and BDL Ireland managing
director Andrew Gill declined to comment.  Lloyds said in February that two-thirds of its 24.8 billion
pounds ($40 billion) of loans in Ireland are unlikely to be paid
back in full following the country’s real-estate crash. That’s
up from 53 percent at the end of 2010. The bank is reaching
incentive-laden deals in Ireland and the U.K. with real-estate
management groups such as BDL as it seeks to boost recovery on
its loans.  “The hotel market in Ireland is still plagued by
oversupply,” Jonathan Hubbard, Northern Europe chief executive
officer at the hotels division of broker  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL) , said in an April 10 statement. “The divergent trading
performance of the Dublin tourism and hotel market compared to
Ireland’s provinces has created something of a two-tiered
marketplace, with the Dublin hotel market attracting the
majority of investor attention.”  More than half of the loans to Ireland’s hotels and
restaurants weren’t performing at the end of 2010, according to
a report by its central bank. One in seven had defaulted or was
impaired.  Values Plunge  Hotel values in Dublin have fallen by 50 percent to 60
percent since their peak in 2007,  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  director Paul
Collins said. He handled last month’s sale of the Morrison Hotel
on Dublin’s north quays for 22 million euros to Russian
businesswoman Elena Baturina, who bought it through Austrian
company Beneco Privatstiftung, according to a statement from the
broker.  About 12 bids for the hotel were received after more than
“70 serious expressions of interest,” Collins said by
telephone. “The market for prime Dublin hotels is very strong,
fuelled by predominantly overseas buyers.”  Last year Lloyds agreed to allow Dublin-based Green
Property Ventures Ltd. to manage real estate tied to as much as
1 billion euros in Irish loans. The bank also signed a deal with
London-based  Grainger Plc (GRI)  to manage U.K. residential properties
that are in the insolvency process after borrowers defaulted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 