-- Panetta Targets Drug and Arms Deals in South America Tour
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/panetta-targets-drug-and-arms-deals-in-south-america-tour.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
is embarking today on a week-long visit to Colombia,  Brazil  and
Chile for talks on drug trafficking, arms deals and bolstering
smaller militaries in  Latin America  and elsewhere.  His agenda includes potential military aircraft deals with
Brazil and a request from Colombia for more intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance aid to fight the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of Colombia guerrilla group, known as FARC, two
U.S. defense officials said in briefing reporters before the
trip.  Panetta also is looking to coordinate with the three
regional powers to provide military training for smaller
countries in Central America and Africa that are fighting the
drug trade, the officials said. They spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss the private talks in advance.  “These are three countries that are on the upswing in many
areas,” said George Little, a spokesman for the Pentagon.
“It’s time for us to enhance our already strong cooperation
with all three.”  The visits underscore the Pentagon’s increasing reliance on
partner nations to confront common threats, support the U.S.
 defense industry  and provide military assistance worldwide. The
Defense Department has begun making at least $490 billion in
budget cuts over the next 10 years, paring personnel,
eliminating major weapons programs and replacing forces deployed
overseas with rotating units.  Brazil Deals  In Brazil, Panetta will be prepared to discuss weapons
deals involving U.S. and Brazilian companies and the two
governments, the officials said, declining to elaborate on
specific transactions.  Brazilian airplane maker  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  is subcontractor to
closely held American partner Sierra Nevada Corp. on a
potentially $1 billion U.S. Air Force contract for light attack
aircraft that they won, then lost when it was canceled earlier
this year. The Air Force said April 13 it would restart the
competition, aimed at acquiring aircraft for Afghanistan’s
military.  In another potential deal,  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s F/A-18E/F Super
Hornet is competing against  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ’s Rafale and
 Saab AB (SAABB) ’s Grippen for a contract to supply Brazil with a fleet
of fighter jets that the U.S. State Department estimates could
be worth as much as $4 billion. Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff said she didn’t discuss the plans with President Barack
Obama during her White House visit earlier this month.  Military Training  Before his visits to Brasilia and Rio de Janeiro, Panetta
will stop in Bogota to discuss joint efforts against the FARC
under Plan  Colombia , an aid program that has cost more the U.S.
more than $7 billion since 2000. The U.S. has about 150 military
trainers and an additional 150 contractors working in Colombia.  Panetta and his counterparts also will discuss coordinating
assistance to police and military forces in  Mexico  and other
Central American countries. Colombia is training helicopter
pilots in Mexico and police in Honduras and Guatemala, the U.S.
defense officials said.  Outgoing World Bank President Robert Zoellick said last
week that rising drug violence in Central America, including
some of the world’s highest murder rates, represents a security
threat to the U.S. and a significant drag on the region’s
growth.  Brazil might help train military forces in  Africa  on
operations such as maritime drug interdiction. More traffickers
are ferrying narcotics from  South America  through Central
America and across the Atlantic to  Europe  via North Africa, one
of the officials said.  Humanitarian Aid  Guatemala’s Pacific coast is becoming a destination for
precursor chemicals for methamphetamine and other drugs from the
eastern Pacific, the official said. Chile, the final stop on
Panetta’s five-day tour, is trying to assist with naval patrols
off the Central American coast, the official said.  Panetta also will follow up on plans discussed by his
predecessor, Robert Gates, at the last Conference of Defense
Ministers of the Americas in November 2010, to improve
humanitarian aid coordination among the region’s militaries.  The assistance effort after  Haiti ’s 2010 earthquake
faltered in the early days in part because many different
military forces arrived to help, one of the U.S. defense
officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  