-- PDVSA Leads Dollar-Bond Trading on Chavez Health Speculation
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-04-23T19:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/pdvsa-leads-dollar-bond-trading-on-chavez-health-speculation.html
Bonds from Petroleos de Venezuela
SA, the state  oil company , were the most traded corporate
securities today as speculation mounted that President  Hugo Chavez ’s health is faltering amid a battle with cancer.  The notes are the most actively traded dollar-denominated
corporate securities by dealers today, with 102 trades of $1
million or more as of 3:40 p.m. in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Chavez, 57, spoke on state television today for the first
time since leaving for Cuba on April 13 to receive radiation
therapy for an undisclosed form of cancer, saying that
speculation about his health is likely to continue. Venezuelan
 government bonds  have returned 20 percent this year, second
among emerging-market economies after  Ivory Coast , as investors
speculate that there may be a change in government that would
end policies that have led to inflation and nationalizations.  “Venezuela is holding up really well considering weak
equities and a reversal of gains in Argentina,” said Siobhan Morden, head of Latin America strategy at Jefferies & Co.  Chavez’s 10-day absence from speaking on state television
had been the longest since at least November. He spoke via
telephone today with National Assembly President  Diosdado
Cabello .  The yield on the oil company’s benchmark 8.5 percent bonds
due in 2017 fell 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
11.76 percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The bond’s price rose 0.3 cent to 87.04 cents on the dollar.  Venezuela depends on oil sales for 95 percent of export
revenue and about 45 percent of  government spending . PDVSA, as
the oil company is known, said that revenue rose to $124 billion
in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  