-- Peru’s Stealthy Advance Toward a Modern Economy
-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 2012-04-23T23:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/peru-s-stealthy-advance-toward-a-modern-economy.html
Something extraordinary is
happening in  Peru .  There has been considerable improvement in the economy and
in the stability of political life. And the country is
experiencing strong -- though still limited -- progress in its
social programs. But above and beyond these achievements,
Peruvians are changing the painful perception they have long had
of themselves and their country’s place in the world; they are
altering the country’s mentality, that set of conceptions and
practices known as its “customs” (las costumbres).  “Time has created customs with the same patience and slow
pace as the growth of mountains,” wrote the great Spanish
novelist  Benito Perez Galdos .  If there is a country that confirms this aphorism, it is
the mountainous and hierarchically traditional Peru. When I
first went there in 1979, I noticed how Peruvians ridiculed
themselves: “The modern Inca is inca-pable,” they would pun.
They displayed a nostalgia for an archaic Inca Eden destroyed by
the Spanish Conquest. They also despaired at the backwardness of
the Andean region compared with the coast, the poverty and
submissiveness of the Indian majority, the omnipresence (in
language, social treatment, political disputes) of fierce ethnic
rancor, and even their geographic remoteness from  Europe  and the
U.S., the true centers of power and development.  Bloody Conquest  I remember walking in Cuzco, past the colonial churches
whose beautifully fitted masonry was built on the visible
foundations of Inca temples; clear architectural emblems of the
bloody conquest of Peru. It was a golden twilight and I heard an
Indian melody being played on an Andean flute. It was probably a
Quechua love song, but it seemed the saddest music I had ever
heard.  I next visited in 1990. The country had passed through
various military regimes and was now mired in a careless
populism that had almost destroyed the economy. And it was
wracked by the savage uprising of the Shining Path, the Maoist
guerrilla group that inflicted a parade of horrors. I saw an
army of child beggars flooding the commercial zones of  Lima ,
soldiers patrolling the streets -- alert to the next terrorist
outrage, kidnapping or assassination -- and speculators in the
streets waving handfuls of devalued currency. The Peruvian
central bank had exhausted its reserves. In 1989, inflation had
risen to 2,600 percent and gross national product had fallen 15
percent.  The novelist Mario Vargas Llosa was running for president.
He advocated a program of economic modernization to open the
frontiers to trade and expand the free market. In a bitter
campaign, the future Nobel laureate was defeated by Alberto Fujimori (a loss that would wind up being greatly to the benefit
of world literature.) Many (especially poorer) Peruvians were
convinced that Vargas Llosa’s social proposals were harmful, but
Fujimori incorporated a number of them into his economic
program. Fujimori had a measure of success in the early years of
his first term. Then his presidency, besieged and degraded by
the brutal struggle against the Shining Path, degenerated into
internal violence and rampant corruption. He defeated the
guerrillas, yet the many abuses of his dictatorial government
eventually led to his conviction by a Peruvian court and
imprisonment.  But the movement toward economic modernization (and the
defeat of the Shining Path) seems, in retrospect, to mark the
beginning of Peru’s ascent. Good omens appeared amid the
country’s troubles. First, there was the election of President
 Alejandro Toledo , of Indian origins and a graduate of  Stanford
University , whose biography in itself seems to represent the
beginning of reconciliation between the past, violently divided
factions of Peruvian history.  ‘State of Law’  Then, there was a populist president (Alan Garcia) who, in
his second term, recognized his previous economic errors and
chose the road of modernization. He was followed by the current
president,  Ollanta Humala , who had once led an abortive attempt
at a leftist military coup but now considers “the divisions of
left and right to be obsolete,” defends the “state of law”
and is following not the path of  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez  but the
highly successful Brazilian road of democracy championed by  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  and his presidential successor,  Dilma Rousseff , combining a modernized economy with strong social
commitment.  Peru’s problems continue to be immense, but they are being
actively confronted. There is, of course, the menace of the drug
trade, which hangs like a dark cloud over much of Latin America.
And the country has a long backlog of deficits in
infrastructure, housing, basic services, education and fair
competition. But focused programs of social aid now exist, and
the Humala government has created a Ministry of Development and
Social Inclusion meant to supervise, coordinate and maintain
their integrity. According to the Peruvian Ministry of Economy
and Finance, the absolute poverty rate is being reduced and has
already been shrinking over the past 10 years (to 31 percent
from 53 percent -- though it still stands at 54 percent in rural
areas). The objective is to reduce this rate to 15 percent by
2020.  At the same time, a modernizing economy and business-
friendly environment is being maintained, and only  Chile  is
considered a more hospitable environment for investment in the
region.  Globalization has transformed the economic geography of
Peru. “We’re a  China  in miniature,” said the intellectual
Alfredo Barnechea, noting the impressive migration from the
poverty-plagued Andean regions to the coastal cities, where
 employment  has grown 37 percent, due to an expansion of
construction and consumption. China has become a major market
for Peruvian raw materials, receiving 15 percent of total
exports. With an inflation rate forecast to be only 2.4 percent
to 2.6 percent this year, the country is now  growing  by about 6
percent per year, has quintupled its external investments and
boosted its exports sixfold. Its economic growth has been
favorably compared to  Singapore , China and  South Korea .  A few weeks ago, I visited the Sacred Valley near the
ancient Inca city of  Machu Picchu  and stood by the crystal-clear
waters of the Vilcanota River. The streets of its villages were
clean and well-kept. The signs of economic improvement were
everywhere. I looked at the striking array of ancient
agricultural terraces on the mountain slopes. They were sculpted
into the mountains six centuries ago by Inca peasants and
engineers, along with astronomical observatories and temples to
their gods.  Today, the modern Peruvians, the new Incas, are performing
their own miracles of national construction, moving new
mountains for the benefit of the present and the future.  ( Enrique Krauze , the author of “ Mexico : Biography of
Power” and “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in  Latin America ,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.
This article was translated from the Spanish by Hank Heifetz.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on European  austerity  and
 antibiotics  in farm animals;  Edward Glaeser  on Mitt Romney’s
 plan  to shut the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on the  space shuttle ; Ramesh Ponnuru on the
 Buffett rule  and David Crane on  California ’s rising taxes.  To contact the writer of this article:
Enrique Krauze at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  