-- Pfizer Says Cash From Nestle Deal Will Go to Share Buybacks
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-23T20:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/pfizer-says-cash-from-nestle-deal-will-go-to-share-buybacks-1-.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , with almost $27
billion in its existing cash hoard, will add more with the $12
billion sale of its infant nutrition unit, opening the way for
buybacks that will help shore up the shares as the company
cycles in new products over the next several years.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, will initially use
the “vast majority” of the money from the sale to buy back
shares, rather than pouring the money into expensive
acquisitions, said  Mark Schoenebaum , a pharmaceutical industry
analyst with ISI Group Inc. in New York.  “We don’t expect a major M&A deal,” Schoenebaum said in a
conference call with investors today. “There’s been this
speculation that they might buy Bristol-Myers, but that’s not
going to happen in our opinion.”  Pfizer needs  new products  as it enters an era without
Lipitor, the cholesterol pill that lost patent protection in
2011 after generating $9.58 billion in revenue. The New York-
based company doesn’t have a drug in its pipeline that will
replace all of Lipitor’s sales. Instead, it’s trying to fill the
hole with several products, including two under review by U.S.
regulators for possible approval this year.  Tofacitinib, an arthritis pill, could be worth $1.1 billion
million for Pfizer by 2017, according to John Boris, an analyst
with Citigroup in  New York . Eliquis, a blood thinner developed
with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., could be worth $3 billion, though
those sales will be split.  Revenue Cut  Divestitures of two Pfizer units will cut revenue by about
10 percent once completed this year. Buybacks and a spinoff of
the animal-health business, expected to be announced before July
1, could cut Pfizer’s share count by as much as 15 percent and
boost earnings per share by 20 cents, Schoenebaum said.  Pfizer announced the $11.9 billion sale of its infant
nutrition unit to Vevey, Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN)  today.
Pfizer shares fell less than 1 percent to $22.38 at the close in
New York. The  stock  has gained 3.4 percent so far this year.  The price of the nutrition unit was at the “upper end” of
expectations, said  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink
Swann & Co. in  Boston  who has a market perform rating on Pfizer.  The sale “should be viewed as a positive,” Fernandez said
in a note to clients today. “The attractive valuation around
today’s sale will very likely be well received by investors.”  In a statement today, Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read 
reiterated comments that Pfizer’s free cash would be used for
buybacks before anything else.  ‘Case to Beat’  “We expect to allocate the after-tax proceeds to further
share repurchases, or invest in other business-development
opportunities, with the return on share repurchases remaining
our case to beat,” Read said.  The company’s evolved to a phase of its corporate life
where it’s no longer rapidly growing as it did over the last
decade, said Paul Danos, dean of the  Tuck School  of Business at
 Dartmouth College  in  New Hampshire .  Under Read, the drugmaker is shifting from quickly adding
mass to cutting fat and focusing on what it wants to do best,
Danos said in a telephone interview from Hanover.  “There’ll come a time when you have a more elegant
organization,” he said.  Along with cutting units, the company’s is also shrinking
expenses. Read has said he plans to cut another $1 billion from
the company’s expenses this year, specifically focusing on what
the company describes as selling, informational and
administrative costs. Severance packages for workers who are
fired are to be cut in May, as part of that plan.  Animal-Health Unit  Pfizer’s animal-health unit, which generated $4.18 billion
in 2011 revenue, will be spun off in an initial public offering
that may be announced before June, people familiar with the
proceedings have said. The company has hired JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley to handle that
deal, said one of the people.  Pfizer’s sale is the largest for a nutrition business of 77
deals in the last three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The next largest was when Bristol-Myers split off its
majority stake in Mead Johnson in 2009, leaving the food company
with a $8.94 billion market capitalization at the end of that
year.  The $11.9 billion cash sale to Nestle closed a contest
between the Swiss food company and Paris-based  Danone (BN) , which
also offered about $11 billion for the unit. Pfizer made the
decision to sell to Nestle yesterday after months of negotiating
with potential buyers, according to a person familiar with the
process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  