-- Pfizer Said to Be Near $11 Billion Unit Sale to Nestle
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-04-23T04:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/pfizer-said-to-be-near-11-billion-unit-sale-to-nestle.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drug maker, is near an agreement to sell its infant-nutrition
business to  Nestle SA (NESN)  for about $11 billion, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  An announcement may come as soon as today, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the matter is private.
Nestle was chosen on April 22 over  Danone SA (BN) , which also bid
about $11 billion, one of the people said.  The purchase will help Nestle, already the top seller of
infant-nutrition products, regain traction in the Chinese baby-
food market where Pfizer has a 7 percent share. Nestle has been
losing market share in the country since 2005, when it withdrew
two varieties of Neslac milk powder because authorities found
they contained excessive iodine. China accounted for about 23
percent of the 30.9 billion euro ($41 billion) market for baby-
food products in 2011, according to Euromonitor International.  The sale would be Pfizer’s largest divestiture since the
$16.6 billion sale of consumer health brands including Sudafed
cold medicine and Bengay pain cream to Johnson & Johnson in
2006. It is the first of two major exits that Pfizer Chief
Executive Officer  Ian Read  outlined to shrink the New York-based
company and concentrate its efforts on producing new drugs.
Pfizer was close to choosing between Nestle and Danone, people
knowledge of the deal said last week.  “This deal makes huge strategic sense for Nestle,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote April 18 in a
note to clients. “It is in the right categories and the right
markets and with a reasonable price we would expect a fairly
positive reaction from investors.”  Infant Nutrition Benefits  Pfizer has “no comments at this time,” said Trupti Wagh,
a Singapore-based spokeswoman for the company. Two calls made
outside of business hours to Nestle’s corporate media relations
line in  Switzerland  went unanswered.  Pfizer’s business  includes infant formulas such as SMA and
Promil. The unit, which also makes Enercal supplements for
adults, offers products in more than 60 countries, according to
its website, and accounted for 3.2 percent of the company’s 2011
revenue. Pfizer gained the formula division through its $68
billion purchase of Wyeth in 2009.  Pfizer had the fifth-largest global market share of the
infant formula business in 2010, trailing Nestle,  Mead-Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN) , Danone, and Abbott Laboratories, according to Lee
Linthicum, an analyst with Euromonitor in  London . Its market
positions are strongest in the  Middle East  and  Africa , and in
the Asia-Pacific region, where Pfizer’s unit is the third- and
fourth-largest respectively, Linthicum said.  Global sales of baby-food products are likely to gain 6
percent a year from 2011 to 2016, helped by low private-label
penetration and the importance of infant nutrition to consumers,
according to Euromonitor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  