-- Philips Profit Beats on Disposals and Cost-Cutting Program
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-04-23T11:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/philips-profit-beats-estimates-bolstered-by-disposals-savings.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV, the
world’s largest lighting company, reported profit that beat
analysts’ estimates after cutting costs and selling assets,
sending the shares up the most in almost two years.  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization rose to
552 million euros ($725 million) in the first quarter from 438
million euros, the Amsterdam-based company said today. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expected 439 million euros.  Frans van Houten is a year into his role of chief executive
officer, with the challenge of struggling consumer electronic
businesses such as MP3 music headsets. Philips sold the Senseo
coffee brand to Sara Lee, divested real estate and appointed new
managers for healthcare and lighting units in the first quarter
as it competes with  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  General Electric (GE)  Co.  “These results are much better than expected, particularly
if you look at healthcare, compared to what General Electric
said on Friday,” said Jos Versteeg, an analyst at Theodoor
Gilissen Bankiers, who has a buy rating on Philips. “The slight
improvement in lighting is encouraging.”  Philips jumped as much as 9.3 percent to 15.68 euros, the
biggest intraday gain since May 10, 2010. The stock traded at 15
euros as of 12:23 p.m. Before today, the shares had lost 12
percent so far this year.  The quarter was a “good step forward” toward the
company’s target of increasing Ebita to 10 percent to 12 percent
of sales by 2013,  Van Houten  said. GE reported a 6 percent
decline in European healthcare equipment orders, compared with a
1 percent decrease at Philips.  Toward Target  The CEO started a program called “Accelerate” last year
after concluding Philips lacked the speed needed in bringing
products such as electrical toothbrushes and electric shavers to
the market. He is also pushing to change the work culture to
become more competitive, immersing about 200 managers in an
intensive three-day course. The top 800 managers will have gone
through the program by the end of the year, he said.  Van Houten announced a revamp to cut 4,500 jobs to save 800
million euros as demand for healthcare equipment and
construction markets deteriorated. Cumulative savings to the end
of 2012 are expected to be about 400 million euros.  Sales in the first quarter rose to 5.6 billion euros from
5.25 billion euros, Philips said in the statement. Analysts
predicted 5.4 billion euros.  “We remain cautious about the remainder of 2012 given the
uncertainties in  Europe , particularly in the healthcare and
construction markets and the slowing growth rate in the global
economy,” Van Houten said.  Leading Light  Lighting chief Eric Rondolat has the job of lifting profit
as a percentage of sales at the unit to 8 to 10 percent by 2013,
after profitability dwindled to 3 percent in the first quarter.  Philips has been cutting jobs and shifted production of
fluorescent lamps from Roosendaal to  Poland  to boost
competitiveness in the past three months.  “We are on the right path to systematically improve
lighting,” Van Houten said. The CEO expects margins at the unit
to further improve during the rest of the year. In the fourth
quarter lighting profitability dropped to 2 percent.  A turnaround at the division would be a crucial catalyst
for Philips shares, analysts including Sanford C. Bernstein’s
Martin Prozesky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  