-- Piramal Shunning Bankers Show India Challenge for Fees
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-04-24T06:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/piramal-shunning-bankers-show-india-challenge-for-fees.html
Indian billionaire Ajay Piramal may
spend $1 billion to acquire biotechnology and defense assets for
his health care-to-real estate empire. Investment bankers are
unlikely to get a share of that money.  “I don’t believe they add much value,” Piramal said in an
interview in his Mumbai headquarters on April 20. “The banker’s
incentive is to see that a deal gets done. So whether the deal
is good or bad, he will push the deal for you.”  Piramal, 56, exacted an above-market valuation when he sold
his Indian pharmaceuticals business to  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  for
$3.8 billion in 2010 without using bankers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. He’s now scouting for takeovers that will
allow his  Piramal Healthcare Ltd. (PIHC)  to move from making generic
copycat drugs to selling patent-protected medicines that
typically require novel research and are more profitable.  The billionaire’s attitude toward bankers underscores the
challenge facing global firms like  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
UBS AG as they try to squeeze revenues from a country where fees
are a fifth of those in  China , according to New York-based
researcher Freeman & Co. The money banks earned from services
such as arranging mergers, stock sales and bond offerings in
 India  tumbled 25 percent last year, Freeman estimates.  Abbott’s acquisition of Piramal’s Indian business valued
the unit at 8.7 times annual sales for fiscal 2010. That’s more
than double the median valuation among 21 purchases of Indian
pharmaceutical assets worth at least $100 million since the
start of 2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Sweet Deal’  “They cut a very sweet deal for themselves,” said Nitin Agarwal, a pharmaceutical analyst at IDFC Securities Ltd. in
Mumbai. “Since then, we have not seen any other deal in pharma
with that kind of size or valuation.”  Abbott was advised by  Morgan Stanley (MS) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Piramal Healthcare  shares  were trading at 437.95 rupees at
11:30 a.m. local time. They have risen 17 percent this year, in
line with gains in the  BSE India Healthcare Index. (BSETHC)   All six Indian companies that were involved in cross-border
deals of at least $500 million in the past year used financial
advisers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Advisers provide introductions, give companies
perspective on the markets they are entering, provide tactical
advice and bring experience in doing deals in those regions,”
said Aisha De Sequeira, the local head of  investment banking  at
Morgan Stanley, the top-ranked mergers adviser India in the past
12 months.  Ranbaxy Settlement  Piramal pointed to Daiichi Sankyo Co.’s $4.6 billion
purchase of a majority stake in  Ranbaxy (RBXY)  Laboratories Ltd. as an
example of inbound acquisitions that have “had issues.”  Three months after Daiichi agreed to the investment in June
2008, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration barred imports from
the Indian drugmaker’s Paonta Sahib and Dewas plants in north
India because of manufacturing defects. In February 2009, the
agency said it halted reviews of new products from one of
Ranbaxy’s factories because the company falsified data about the
products’ shelf life. The dispute was resolved in December,
after the Indian company agreed to a $500 million settlement
with the FDA.  Nomura Holdings Inc. and  ICICI Securities Ltd. (ICICIBC)  advised
Daiichi on the transaction. Spokesmen for both investment banks
in Mumbai declined to comment on the deal.  Deals not involving bankers have also run into
difficulties.  France ’s biggest drugmaker  Sanofi (SAN)  didn’t employ an
adviser when it spent $721 million to acquire Indian vaccine
maker Shantha Biotechnics Pvt. in July 2009.  Fee Underperformer  Eight months after the purchase, the  World Health
Organization  suspended its approval for Shantha’s combination
vaccine used to prevent five childhood diseases in poor nations,
after impurities were found in some batches.  “The issue on our pentavalent vaccine, Shan5, has been
sorted out,” Shantha Chief Executive Officer Harish Iyer said
today in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.
“We are likely to sell the vaccine in India in late 2013 and
expect to commence exports in early 2014.”  India, a nation of 1.2 billion people whose economy grew an
estimated 6.9 percent last fiscal year, has underperformed as an
investment-banking market as large initial public offerings
yielded near-zero fees and state-owned companies in the coal and
metals industries struggled to get approvals for overseas
takeovers.  Six investment banks split a fee of 1,548 rupees ($29.5) to
manage the October 2010 initial share sale of  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) ,
India’s largest IPO.  Never Say Never  For all of Piramal’s reservations against bankers, he won’t
always refuse to hire them. UBS advised Piramal Healthcare on
its acquisition of Rx Elite Holdings Inc. for $4.2 million in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s not like we never have bankers, but by and large we
don’t believe in that,” Piramal said. “I think we have that
strength in our group to get a direct relationship with the
buyer or seller.”  Piramal Healthcare acquired  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s molecular imaging
portfolio, the company said in a statement this month. Piramal
didn’t hire advisers for the purchase, which includes rights to
florbetaben, an experimental tracer which may be used to detect
 Alzheimer’s disease .  The group is also planning to purchase a company in the
defense business to provide surveillance technology to the
Indian armed forces or other government agencies, Piramal said.  “Investment would be international, but part of it will be
serving the Indian domestic market,” he said.  In-house Teams  Piramal Healthcare bought an 11 percent stake in  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) ’s Indian unit for $1.21 billion without help from
bankers. The investment is for the “short term” and an exit
through an initial public offering or some other means may
happen in 12 to 18 months, Piramal said in February.  Last year’s fee drop in India -- to $810 million -- was
more than eight times steeper than the 3 percent decline
globally, according to Freeman. China yielded advisory revenues
of $4.3 billion, making it  Asia ’s largest market, Freeman
estimates. The value of acquisitions involving Indian companies
fell 45 percent last year to $39 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Large Indian companies with in-house M&A teams may be able
to close deals on their own, while smaller businesses need help
from bankers, said Rajeev Krishnan, president of  SBI Capital
Markets Ltd. (SBIN)   “A lot of midmarket companies are on the lookout globally,
particularly in  Europe , and they need our expertise,” Krishnan
said. Companies may not be familiar with labor and bankruptcy
laws in new jurisdictions and that’s where bankers bring value,
he said.  “Reputation is more important for us than making fees on a
deal,” Krishnan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  