-- Planned Parenthood Targeted as Ohio Considers Grant Restrictions
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/planned-parenthood-targeted-as-ohio-considers-grant-restrictions.html
Ohio  lawmakers are considering a
budget provision like one that caused five of six Planned
Parenthood affiliates in  Texas  to lose funding and, the group
says, left poor women without access to preventive health care.  Republicans who control the Legislature amended a fast-
moving budget bill last week to put Planned Parenthood at the
end of the line to apply for federal dollars that Ohio
distributes for contraceptives and other family-planning
services. Public health departments and other providers would
have priority.  Agencies that don’t provide abortions should get the first
chance for the funds, said Representative Ron Amstutz, chairman
of the House Finance Committee. While advocates say health care
wouldn't be affected, access to family planning would be reduced
in a fight reaching statehouses after congressional attempts
last year to defund  Planned Parenthood , said Elizabeth Nash,
state issues manager for New York-based Guttmacher Institute,
which studies abortion trends.  “We have never seen this level of activity around
restricting family-planning dollars,” Nash said in a telephone
interview from  Washington .  Ohio would be the second U.S. state besides Texas to enact
such a priority system, and  Arizona ,  Kansas ,  New Hampshire  and
 Oklahoma  are considering a similar approach, Nash said. Ohio
also is joining  Iowa ,  Michigan ,  New York  and  Tennessee  in
seeking to prohibit groups that provide abortions from receiving
federal funding for  health services  such as under the Breast and
Cervical Cancer Mortality Prevention Act and Minority HIV/AIDS
Initiative, Nash said.  Going Without  In Texas, the priority funding enacted last year dissuaded
two Planned Parenthood affiliates from applying, and five of the
other six lost their family-planning money, Sarah Wheat, co-
chief executive of the Austin affiliate, said in a telephone
interview.  That affiliate and two other independent, nonprofit centers
that don’t provide abortions lost $1.2 million, and while exact
numbers are not available, it’s clear that not all the 16,000
women the providers served last year can get the same services
elsewhere, Wheat said.  “It’s just not possible for as many women to receive the
care when you remove Planned Parenthood from the available
options,” Wheat said.  ‘Denied Access’  Planned Parenthood Affiliates of Ohio received $1.63
million of the $4.3 million in federal family-planning funds the
state got last year, according to its Health Department. It is
too soon to say how Planned Parenthood would be affected by the
budget measure, though the group serves 100,000 women a year,
said Gary Dougherty, state legislative director.  More than 96 percent of what Planned Parenthood does in
Ohio involves services other than abortion, such as cancer
screenings and prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted
diseases, Dougherty said. Only three of its 32 clinics provide
abortions, he said.  “Thousands of women should not be denied access to
preventive care and family-planning services due to the
philosophical opposition of some to a small percentage of what
Planned Parenthood does,” Dougherty testified at an April 18
committee hearing in Columbus.  ‘Abortion Minded’  Women wouldn’t be denied services, because Ohio has more 
than 160 other community-health centers and 130 health 
districts, according to Ohio Right to Life in Columbus. 
The measure seeks to keep taxpayer dollars “out of the pockets
of the abortion industry,” said Stephanie Krider, the group's 
director of legislative affairs.  “We don’t want to send women to an abortion-minded clinic
when we can send women all of these other places that provide
comprehensive medical care,” Krider said at an April 19
hearing.  Thirteen of Ohio’s 88 counties without Planned Parenthood
family-planning programs might still lose funding because other
nonpublic providers also would be placed last in line to apply,
Jaime Miracle, policy director of NARAL Pro-Choice Ohio in
 Cleveland , said in written testimony.  “Is it OK with the Ohio General Assembly that thousands of
these patients could lose access to family-planning services
just because their service provider was caught in the cross-fire
of a political power play in an election year?” Miracle said.  Doctors and hospitals are studying the bill to see whether
they might lose funding as well because they provide emergency
contraceptives or abortions to save a mother’s life, said
Melissa Arnold, executive director of the Ohio Chapter of the
 American Academy  of Pediatrics.  ‘In Women’s Wombs’  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has backed
legislation to allow some employers to deny  health insurance 
coverage for contraception and said he would stop funding
Planned Parenthood. Echoing a national theme, Democratic
lawmakers say the Ohio budget measure is part of a “war on
women.”  It’s hypocritical for Republicans who say they want limited
government to be pushing measures that will have “big
government in women’s wombs across this nation,” said Senator
Nina Turner, a Cleveland Democrat.  “Women do not need a permission slip from government to
decide what is in the best interest of their bodies,” Turner
said at an April 18 press conference in Columbus.  The conflict is about abortion and not women’s health,
Amstutz told reporters April 18.  “There’s a war over the morality of how we view life in
this country,” Amstutz said. “We’re finding that it’s moving
in the direction of life, and so this is another attempt to keep
moving in that direction.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  