-- Polish Second-Quarter Confidence Grows, Central Bank Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2012-04-23T09:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/polish-second-quarter-confidence-grows-central-bank-says.html
Polish companies are more confident
about their prospects for the second quarter on stable foreign
orders, slower growth of export costs and higher capacity
utilization, a survey by the  Narodowy Bank Polski  showed.  The business-outlook index rose to 9.1 points, up 3.7
points from the previous quarter and 7.7 points below its level
a year ago, the central bank in Warsaw said today on its
 website . The bank surveyed 1,267 companies, of which 74.4
percent described their situation in the three months through
March as “very good or good,” down from 75.7 percent in the
fourth quarter of last year.  Companies raised their forecasts for demand and new orders,
breaking three quarters of decline, though estimates for new
business are below their level a year ago. Industry used 81.1
percent of capacity in the first quarter, compared with 80.4
percent in the fourth quarter, the central bank said. Planned
new investments for three months through June increased the most
since 2009, as 23.9 percent of companies surveyed plan capital
expenditures.  “After three quarters of gradually deteriorating forecasts
and growing uncertainty, the second-quarter outlook shows minor
improvement,” according to executive summary of the report by
the central bank’s Economic Institute. “It’s hard to say
whether growing optimism signals a change in trend and improved
sentiment in coming months, or whether it’s simply correcting
undue pessimism from earlier periods.”  Slowing Growth  Poland’s economy, forecast by the European Commission to be
the fastest growing in the European Union this year, is slowing
due to a contraction in the euro region, the country’s main
export market. Industrial-output growth slowed in March to 0.7
percent for the past year, the lowest since 2009. The central
bank  said  on April 4 it may raise rates “unless signs of
considerable economic weakening appear.”  While the  International Monetary Fund  raised its forecast
for the euro-area economy on April 17, saying it will shrink 0.3
percent this year compared with a previously estimated 0.5
percent contraction,  Europe ’s two-year debt crisis reignited
this month as Italian borrowing costs rose and  Spain ’s 10-year
bond yield approached the level at which Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  required bailouts.  Polish companies’ appetite for bank borrowing increased,
especially among bigger companies, although more businesses plan
to cut bank debt than to take new loans, the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McQuaid in Warsaw 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  