-- Preparations Under Way for New Union Vote Rules Next Week
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-04-23T18:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/preparations-under-way-for-new-union-vote-rules-next-week.html
Labor-relations consultant Phillip
Wilson has had a busy month, flying from  Arizona  to  Virginia 
holding seminars and conducting online workshops to get
employers ready for what he says is one of the biggest changes
in labor law in decades.  The flurry of activity stems from preparations by employers
across the country for National Labor Relations Board rules to
speed up union organizing elections that are set to go into
effect a week from today.  The regulation will simplify union-election procedures and
shorten the time for balloting after employees request a vote.
The compressed schedule, which may cut in half the time
permitted for voting to as few as 15 days, could tilt votes in
favor of unions at a time when their share of the workforce is
falling, Wilson said.  “The compressed election rule is a huge change,” said
Wilson, the vice president and general counsel of  Labor
Relations Institute Inc.  in Broken Arrow,  Oklahoma . “It’s a
dramatic new way in the way elections are held.”  Lawyers and consultants are rushing to educate employers on
the new  ground rules . Because they will have less time to make a
case against collective bargaining, they should have arguments
ready before the workers seek a vote, lawyers say.  Less Time  “This is going to make elections a lot quicker and
employers will have less time to communicate with workers,”
said G. Roger King, an attorney with  Jones Day  in Columbus,
 Ohio , who represents companies in employment matters.  Unions argue that reducing the time to hold an election
limits the ability of managers to intimidate workers.  “The rules will make the process a little freer, with less
frivolous delays,” said Elizabeth Bunn, who heads organizing
for the AFL-CIO, the largest American trade union federation.  Some Republicans and business groups such as the National
Association of Manufacturers counter that the labor board has
created “ambush elections.” The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has
filed suit to block the rule and is awaiting a ruling from a
federal judge in  Washington .  “We just want a fair process, a chance for the companies
to make their case,” said  Michael Eastman , the chamber’s
executive director for labor law policy said in an interview.  Disapproval Resolution  Additionally, Republican Senator Mike Enzi of  Wyoming 
sponsored a resolution of disapproval of the election rule,
saying the standard leaves little time for workers and employees
to learn their rights. The proposal, backed by 43 other Senate
Republicans, is scheduled to be voted on tomorrow.  “The changes that are being made are going to be a big
surprise for employers and employees who are caught in this
net,” Enzi said today during Senate debate.  Advisers to President  Barack Obama  would recommend that he
veto the resolution should it pass, according to a statement
today from the White House Office of Management and Budget.  “The administration is committed to supporting the right
of workers to join and participate in a union and bargain for
fair wages, benefits and a safe workplace,” according to the
statement.  The rate of union membership in the U.S. fell to a record
low in 2011 for a second-straight year, according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics. The total union  membership rate  --
reflecting both public and private-sector workers -- was 11.8
percent, down from 11.9 percent in 2010, though the number of
unionized workers went up by about 50,000, to 14.8 million.  Declining Membership  The speedy election rule is unlikely to stop the decline of
unionization rates in the U.S., Jeff Farmer, the director of
organizing for the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, said
in an interview.  “It’s a small step in the right direction,” said Farmer.
“But we’re under no illusion that it will fundamentally change
the equation with workers.”  Workers will still be intimidated by managers discouraging
collective bargaining, said Bunn. Employers and managers will
have ample time to influence the outcome in the days or weeks
before the vote is held.  “Even shortening it by one day is one day that
intimidation doesn’t happen,” Bunn said in an interview.  Unions win 87 percent of elections held 15 days or less
after a request, a rate that falls to 58 percent when the vote
takes place after 36 to 40 days, according to a February report
by Bloomberg Government.  Union Victories  About 60 percent of the 1,706 representation elections in
2010 went in favor of unionization, according to the most recent
data available from the NLRB.  Nancy Cleeland , a spokeswoman for the Washington-based
agency, said 90 percent of the elections won’t be affected by
the new rule, as they occur after management and unions agree to
a schedule. The labor board plans to provide guidelines on the
rules to its regional offices this week.  A separate rule was also scheduled to go into place April
30 which would have required employers to tell workers their
labor rights on a workplace poster. An appeals court in
Washington last week granted a request by employer groups to put
the rule on hold until legal challenges are heard.  Wilson, who helps employers in labor strategies, said
companies have little to fear if workers are content with their
managers. Managers should be trained to recognize workers’
concerns and address them before support builds for a union.  “The No. 1 thing they need to do it work on the frontline
supervisory group,” said Wilson. “If they’re doing a good job,
they don’t have to worry about unions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  