-- Providence Equity Invests $200 Million in Chernin Group
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-04-23T06:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/providence-equity-invests-200-million-in-chernin-group.html
Peter Chernin , former chief
operating officer of News Corp., sold a minority stake in his
company to  Providence Equity Partners  for $200 million, a person
with knowledge of the situation said.  Providence representatives will join the board of Santa
Monica, California-based Chernin Group and Chernin, 60, will
become a senior adviser to Providence, the companies said today
in an e-mailed statement. The investment puts a $500 million
valuation on Chernin’s company, said the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  The companies will work together to invest in, acquire,
build and operate media assets, with a focus on the U.S. and
India, Indonesia and  China , according to the statement. Proceeds
from the transaction will be used primarily for Chernin Group
investments. The company’s assets include Chernin Entertainment,
producer of “Rise of the Planet of the Apes” film and “The
New Girl” television series.  “Our goal is to build a global, diversified media
company,” Chernin said in the statement. “Providence brings an
exceptional track record of identifying and supporting the
growth of innovative media and entertainment companies. With
their additional expertise and resources, we intend to expand
our company across all fronts.”  The Providence, Rhode Island-based private-equity company
is an investor in Hulu.com, the online video service championed
by Chernin while he was at  News Corp. (NWSA)  He left News Corp. in July
2009.  Providence explored bidding for Yahoo! Inc. with Chernin,
who would have taken a chairman-level role if the offer had
succeeded, people with knowledge of the situation said in
October.  “We have worked closely with Peter for many years and have
tremendous respect for his extraordinary creative savvy and
world-class business acumen,”  Jonathan Nelson , chief executive
officer of Providence, said in the statement. “We share the
same outlook and enthusiasm for the significant media and
entertainment investment opportunities around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  