-- Rates Rising as Record Chinese Oil Imports Affect Ships: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-04-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/rates-rising-as-record-chinese-oil-imports-affect-ships-freight.html
Record Chinese oil imports are
emptying the Atlantic Ocean of very large crude carriers and
their 2 million-barrel cargoes, driving a rebound in rates for
the smaller vessels left to supply the U.S. from West Africa.  Suezmaxes, each holding 1 million barrels, will earn an
average of $18,750 a day this quarter, 45 percent more than now,
according to the median of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
That’s 25 percent more than the $15,000 anticipated in forward
freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to bet on rates,
providing an opportunity for profit. Shares of  Nordic American
Tankers Ltd. (NAT) , which owns 20 of the vessels, will rise 10 percent
in 12 months, according to the average of eight forecasts.  China, which is importing 11 percent more oil than a year
ago to expand stockpiles, is buying more from Nigeria and Angola
as alternatives to supply from Iran, whose exports are plunging
because of sanctions over its nuclear program. VLCC earnings
jumped as much as 63 percent this year as the longer journeys
and extra cargoes diminished a glut of vessels. Suezmaxes slid
56 percent in part because their carrying capacity made them
more expensive for voyages from the Atlantic to the Pacific.  “VLCCs are getting picked up by  China  as much as possible,
and Suezmaxes are still in the Atlantic to do business,” said
Urs Dur, a New York-based analyst at Clarkson Capital Markets
LLC, the investment-banking unit of Clarkson Plc, the world’s
biggest shipbroker. “The market is figuring out that this is a
cheaper way of moving a million barrels to the U.S.”  Port Fees  Suezmax rates fell to $12,915 this year, the lowest since
November, as VLCCs rose as high as $51,413, the most since June
2010, data from Clarkson show. While the smaller ships are still
4.3 percent costlier a barrel than supertankers once expenses
such as fuel and port fees are included, the five-year average
is 22 percent, according to Poten & Partners Inc., a tanker
consultant in New York. Suezmaxes usually trade at a premium
because their smaller size means they can call at more ports
than VLCCs.  China imported an average of about 800,000 barrels a day of
crude from Nigeria and  Angola  in February, part of that month’s
record 6 million barrels a day of purchases, customs data show.
Combined imports were 5.2 million barrels a day in February
2011. The two West African countries will ship 1.1 million
barrels a day to China next month, according to data from
schedules detailing how much crude will be loaded onto tankers.  The Asian nation, already the biggest destination for VLCCs
with cargoes, will overtake the U.S. next year as the largest
customer for the fleet of tankers of all sizes, according to
Arctic Securities ASA, an investment bank in Oslo. Fourteen
percent of VLCCs were signaling China as their destination on
April 20, compared with 2 percent of Suezmaxes, ship-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Oil Fields  Among the biggest threats to Suezmaxes in the Atlantic is a
decline in U.S. cargoes as the world’s biggest economy curbs its
dependence on overseas shipments by boosting domestic production
to an 11-year high. Total imports averaged 8.9 million barrels a
day last year, the least since 1999, according to the Energy
Department. U.S. oil consumption will decline 1.1 percent to
18.7 million barrels a day this year, the Paris-based
International Energy Agency estimates.  U.S. East Coast refineries are closing at the fastest pace
in at least two decades because they rely on West African oil
whose price reflects that of  Brent crude , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Midwest rivals use cheaper domestic
supply. Benchmark West Texas Intermediate trades at $102.29 a
barrel in New York and Brent is at $117.79 in  London .  Gauge of Rates  That may curb demand just as new Suezmaxes leave shipyards,
with outstanding orders equal to 22 percent of existing
capacity, the most of any major tanker class, according to data
from Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay. The fleet expanded 21
percent to 440 ships since the end of 2008, a year in which
rates averaged $73,863, IHS and London-based Clarkson data show.  Suezmaxes are not the only class of merchant vessel
contending with a glut. The fleet of VLCCs will expand 6.5
percent this year as demand advances 3.6 percent, Clarkson
estimates. The number of VLCCs rose 12 percent to 560 since the
end of 2008, according to IHS. The Baltic Dry Index, a gauge of
rates for shipping coal and  iron ore , fell 37 percent this year,
according to the London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes
costs across more than 50 maritime routes.  Reserve Capacity  While the $18,750 predicted for Suezmaxes by the analysts
is 24 percent below the first-quarter average, it’s above the
$16,400 that Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Frontline Ltd. (FRO)  says it
needs to break even. The company, which lists 17 Suezmaxes in
its fleet, will narrow its net loss to $52.5 million this year
from $529.6 million in 2011, the mean of 18 analyst estimates
shows. Frontline rose 34 percent in Oslo trading this year.  Jens Martin Jensen, chief executive officer of the
company’s management unit, declined to comment.  Nordic American, also based in Hamilton, advanced 16
percent to $13.95 in  New York  and will reach $15.38 in 12
months, the  estimates  show. The company, which operates only
Suezmaxes, will report a loss of $38.6 million for 2012,
narrowing from $72.3 million last year, the mean of five
estimates shows.  “Suezmaxes are very versatile,” Herbjorn Hansson, Nordic
American’s chief executive officer, said by phone yesterday.
“When there is increased demand for VLCC ships in the  Far East ,
you could envisage a stronger need for Suezmaxes, or Suezmaxes
are alone to have the market for themselves in a way in the
Atlantic basin.”  Emergency Stockpiling  China will complete eight new emergency oil-stockpiling
centers by early next year, part of a strategy to raise reserve
capacity to 271.8 million barrels from 103.2 million, according
to China National Petroleum Corp., the nation’s largest crude
producer. That’s enough for about 28 days of consumption, IEA
data show. The U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve has almost 700
million barrels, according to the Energy Department.  Asia will buy 1.8 million barrels of West African oil a day
in May, compared with 1.3 million in September, according to a
survey of five traders and data from loading programs. Shipments
are rising in part to compensate for lost supply from  Iran , the
second-biggest member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Sanctions will cut Iran’s daily production to 2.6
million barrels by mid-2012, from 3.55 million at the end of
last year, the IEA said in a report April 12.  “Atlantic activity for Suezmaxes will pick up at the
expense of VLCCs,” said Frode Morkedal, an analyst at RS Platou
Markets AS in Oslo whose recommendations on the shares of
shipping companies returned 8.3 percent in the past six months.
“Traders historically have been willing to pay a bigger premium
for Suezmaxes because they are so much more flexible, so I would
expect the spread to start moving back to normal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  