-- Treasury Notes Rise for Fourth Day on Euro Debt Concern
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-23T21:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/treasury-yield-holds-near-record-low-before-fed-meeting.html
Treasuries climbed for a fourth
day, pushing the 10-year note yield to the lowest level in
almost two months, as concern the euro-area debt crisis may slow
U.S. economic growth stoked demand for safety.  The yield on the 30-year bond dropped to the least in
almost seven weeks before Federal Reserve policy makers begin a
two-day meeting tomorrow. Treasuries were supported as a first
round of French elections ended with President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
trailing his Socialist rival and the Dutch government offered to
quit. The U.S. will sell $99 billion of debt starting tomorrow.  “It’s all about  Europe  again,” said Terry Belton, the
global head of fixed-income strategy for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York, in a video report. “Treasuries will be held hostage
by Europe. They are likely to rally here for a little while
longer as the situation in Europe continues to deteriorate.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.93 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield earlier
reached 1.91 percent, the least since Feb. 28. The 2 percent
note due February 2022 rose 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 19/32. The record low yield was 1.67 percent set
Sept. 23. Ten-year yields have fallen for five weeks.  The 30-year bond yield fell four basis points to 3.09
percent. It earlier touched 3.06 percent, the lowest since Feb.
29.  ‘Softened a Little’  “It’s not just concern over a specific country, it’s
concern over the entire European region,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors. “The
Fed has been clear in their thoughts that they are willing to
use tools if needed, but it looks like they are in a wait-and-
see mode.”  Treasuries rose amid speculation Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will say this week that more needs to be done to help
the  U.S. economy . The  Federal Open Market Committee  will issue a
statement and Bernanke is scheduled to give a press conference
on April 25. He said last month that unemployment is too high.  “Their economic assessment is going to be important,”
said  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  who helps
oversee $500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,
 Massachusetts . “The U.S. economy has softened a little. We’re
also getting close to the end of Operation Twist, so there may
be verbiage steering the market in some type of direction.”  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-term debt in
its holdings with longer maturities to hold down borrowing costs
in a program known as Operation Twist. The Fed purchased $1.832
billion of Treasuries due from February 2036 to August 2041
today as part of the program.  FOMC Watch  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing, known as QE1 and QE2,
from December 2008 to June. Policy makers have said they will
probably keep their target for overnight lending between banks
at almost zero, where it’s been since December 2008, at least
until late 2014 to boost the economy.  U.S. jobs growth slowed to 120,000 in March from 240,000 in
February, the Labor Department reported April 6, fueling the
debate over whether the Fed needs to start a new program of debt
purchases to spur growth.  GDP probably expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate,
according to the median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Commerce Department report on April
27. It advanced at a 3 percent pace in the previous three-month
period.  “It will be ‘steady as she goes’ with the FOMC,” Ahrens
of UBS said. “We’re not expecting for them to announce they are
engaging in another round of QE, or an extension of Operation
Twist.”  Price Swings  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
Treasury price swings based on options, dropped April 20 to 71.4
basis points, the lowest level this year. It reached 93.3 basis
points on March 20, the highest level this year.  Trading  volume  climbed to $171 billion after dropping April
20 to the lowest level this year, with $130 billion of
Treasuries changing hands through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
interdealer broker. The average in 2012 is $248 billion. Volume
reached $439 billion on March 14, the highest since August.  The U.S. plans to sell $35 billion of two-year notes
tomorrow, the same amount of five-year debt the following day
and $29 billion of seven-year debt on April 26.  Hunt’s View  The decline in yields has narrowed the  difference  between
the upper end of the Fed’s rate target and seven-year rates to
1.07 percentage points, the least since Feb. 2.  Valuation measures show Treasuries are at the most
expensive level in almost seven weeks. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.68 percent,
the most expensive since March 6. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  Lacy Hunt, whose bond fund has beaten 99 percent of its
peers during the past five years by buying the longest maturity
Treasuries, said 30-year  government securities  are the world’s
best debt investment.  “The long end of the Treasury curve offers the greatest
value,” Hunt, the chief economist at Austin, Texas-based
Hoisington Investment Management, which oversees more than $4.5
billion, said April 17 in a telephone interview. “The risk of
deflation is greater than the risk of inflation over the next
several years,” said Hunt, whose firm’s  Wasatch-Hoisington U.S.
Treasury Fund (WHOSX)  has returned 76 percent since April 2007.  Europe ‘Still Driving’  France ’s Sarkozy and Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande 
made it to the final round of France’s presidential election,
while Marine Le Pen’s anti-euro National Front got a record 18.1
percent. Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered to resign, a
move that would trigger early elections, as he sought to win
parliamentary support for additional budget cuts to help ward
off the debt crisis.  “Europe is still driving U.S. rates,” said  Chris Ahrens ,
head interest-rate strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at UBS
AG, one of 21 primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the
Fed. “There’s a concern regarding how these events will play
out, given the austerity fatigue percolating among the populous.
People are buying the risk-free asset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  