-- Record Pension Deficit Drop Lifts Textron, Alcoa
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-04-23T15:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/record-pension-deficit-drop-lifts-textron-alcoa.html
Companies that faced the biggest
pension deficits ever last year are narrowing the gap at a
record pace as gains in assets and a rise in corporate bond
yields in March trimmed liabilities last quarter.  The deficit between the assets of the 100 biggest company
pensions and projected liabilities shrank by $110 billion to
$227 billion in the three months ended in March, the best first-
quarter improvement since at least 2001, according to Milliman
Inc., a Seattle-based actuarial and consulting firm.  Smaller funding gaps are helping to bolster sentiment in
credit markets for companies from  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  to  Textron Inc. (TXT) 
that have some of the largest pension deficits. The average cost
of protecting against their default has dropped more than five-
fold this year relative to similarly rated companies. The best
equity returns since 1998 in the first quarter helped narrow
pension obligations and supported a move into fixed-income
assets that provide more stable returns.  “As funded statuses improve, more plans are looking to
take risks off the table” by shifting to bonds, said Zorast
Wadia, a principal and consulting actuary with Milliman.  The companies in the firm’s index held 85.1 percent of
their future payout to retirees at the end of March, up from
78.7 percent in December. For the first time last year,
companies shifted to investing the majority of their assets in
bonds rather than stocks, Zorast said.  Digging Out  Companies are digging out of deficits created by near-zero
interest  rates , which drive down the corporate bond yields that
determine future pension liabilities. Lower rates mean they have
to set aside more cash for future payouts to retirees.  The average cost of credit-default swaps on Alcoa, Textron,
 L-3 Communications Corp. (LLL)  and  Owens Corning Inc. (OC) , all of which
 Fitch Ratings  says are funding about 80 percent of their
pensions, fell to within 6 basis points of the average for a
group of 37 companies with the same BBB- credit grade by the
firm, prices compiled by Bloomberg and data provider CMA show.
That’s down from about 34 basis points at the end of 2011.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are said to be
teaming up to bid on $7.49 billion of commercial-real estate
securities the Federal Reserve Bank of New York took on in the
2008 rescue of American International Group Inc. A benchmark
gauge of U.S. company credit risk rose to the highest level in
more than a week.  Credit Swaps Rise  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, rose 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of 102
basis points as of 11:28 a.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The index is trading at the highest level
since April 11, the day after it reached an almost three-month
intraday high of 105.1.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings added 5.6 to 149.2.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall it improves. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 33 trades of $1 million or
more as of 11:33 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Maiden Lane Bids  Citigroup, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs expect to
distribute the group’s preliminary price estimates tomorrow on
the commercial real-estate debt, composed of two collateralized
debt obligations issued by Deutsche Bank AG in 2007 and 2008.
Final bids are due on April 26 by 9 a.m. in New York, according
to three people with knowledge of the auction, who declined to
be identified because the negotiations are private.  The New York Fed invited eight broker-dealers to compete
for the so-called MAX CDOs after receiving “several”
unsolicited bids for the holdings in its Maiden Lane III LLC
portfolio, according to an April 10 statement. The other banks
invited to bid are Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of
America Corp., Morgan Stanley and Nomura Holdings Inc.  After reaching a record $439 billion in September, pension
deficits for the companies in Milliman’s index contracted every
month in the first quarter.  L-3, Owens Corning  Funding levels were bolstered by a 5 percent gain in asset
values, according to Milliman. The first monthly increase in
 corporate bond yields  since November added another boost by
lowering companies’ future liabilities. Yields on investment-
grade bonds in the U.S. climbed 0.06 percentage point in March
to 3.5 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  The discount rate rose 19 basis points last month, to 4.88
percent from 4.69 percent in February, Milliman said. That led
to a deficit reduction of $58 billion for the month, the largest
monthly gain in the first quarter, Wadia said.  Credit swaps on Alcoa, which reported $10.7 billion in
pension obligations as of Dec. 31, dropped 91 basis points to
297 basis points this year through April 20, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Contracts on L-3, which reported $2.7 billion, tumbled 37
to 164. Owens Corning, with $1.1 billion in obligations, fell 67
to 195, while Textron, which reported $6.3 billion in
obligations, plunged 75 to 162, Bloomberg data show.  Boost Payments  The average price for credit swaps on 37 companies with
BBB- ratings from Fitch fell 40 basis points during the same
period to 197, according to data from CMA.  Representatives for the companies declined to comment or
didn’t return phone calls seeking comment. The pension
obligations are taken from the companies’ 2011 annual reports
and are calculated on the basis of generally accepted accounting
principles, giving a different deficit amount compared with
rules set by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.  Companies with pension obligations have to contend with
 interest rates  that have dropped back to record lows, said Mark Oline, an analyst with Fitch in  Chicago . He’s expecting pension
managers to boost payments to plans this year based on
projections of corporate bond yields.  “They’ll have to make up the difference in increased
contributions,” he said.  The discount rate is three times as important as investment
returns in determining pension obligations, said Kenneth Hackel,
president of CT Capital LLC in Alpine,  New Jersey .  Record-Low Yields  “The discount rate is the most important” and doesn’t
appear headed upward, he said. “Economic growth is slow and
half of  Europe  is in a recession. That does not bode well for
the discount rate.”  Investment-grade corporate bond yields fell to a record low
3.392 percent on April 19 and ended the week at 3.403 percent,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate
Master index.  As companies move closer to fully funding their pensions,
they’re likely to continue to transfer assets into bond markets
that provide more stability than stocks, Milliman’s Wadia said.  Equities accounted for 38.1 percent of invested assets in
2011 while fixed-income was 41.4 percent, he said.  The shift was “a major revelation” in the firm’s 2011
report on pension plans, Wadia said. The firm hasn’t published
data on first-quarter  asset allocation , he said.  Bonds Beat Stocks  U.S. corporate pension plans sold $24.8 billion of equities
during the fourth quarter, and increased their fixed-income
assets by $9.9 billion to $898 billion, according to data from
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York . The fourth-quarter figure
represents the largest sale of equities for corporate plans
since the third quarter of 2010. First-quarter Fed data on asset
purchases by pension plans is expected in June.  The move into fixed-income markets last year benefited
asset returns as global investment-grade debt gained 5.2 percent
in 2011 while the  S&P 500 index  of stocks increased 2.1 percent
after reinvested dividends, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Corporate bonds in the U.S. are again outperforming stocks
this month for the first time since December, gaining 0.8
percent compared with a loss of 2 percent for the  S&P 500 .  As more companies end their pension plans, they’re looking
for the stable returns of the bond market compared with stocks,
said Fitch’s Oline.  “Over time that can certainly de-risk the portfolio
because you’re going to get less volatility,” he said. Pensions
may have to accept lower returns for the strategy as they lock
in historically low yields in credit markets now, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  