-- Cisco-Backed Repatriation Tax-Break Lobby Effort Ceases
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-24T14:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/repatriation-tax-lobbying-campaign-said-to-disband.html
A lobbying coalition seeking a tax
holiday for repatriating offshore profits ended its campaign
amid bipartisan congressional reluctance after spending more
than a year and $760,000 on the effort.  The Win America Campaign, which included  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , severed its relationship
with all three lobbying firms in March, according to forms filed
with the  U.S. Senate  over the past week. The coalition
“temporarily suspended” lobbying on the issue, said Jennifer
Dunn, a spokeswoman for Cisco. The company still considers
repatriation and a tax-code overhaul to be top priorities, she
said.  “We believe both are critical to leveling the playing
field for American businesses as they compete overseas and to
creating a boost for the  U.S. economy ,” Dunn said in a
statement yesterday.  The technology-heavy group of multinational corporations
that backed the repatriation holiday tried to use its lobbying
muscle and support from lawmakers in both parties to secure a
tax break. The effort fizzled as some Republicans focused on
permanent  tax policy  and Democrats warned of the potential
revenue loss.  The group wanted Congress to reprise a 2004 tax holiday
that let companies bring home offshore profits at a discount.
Critics, including the Obama administration, said the proposal
would cost the government money, encourage companies to move
profits offshore and undermine efforts to overhaul the U.S. tax
code.  Not Promising  Prospects for the legislation weren’t promising,
contributing to the group’s decision to end operations, said a
lobbyist who worked on the effort and wouldn’t discuss the
decision publicly.  At one point last year, the repatriation effort looked
“unstoppable” in Congress, said Steve Wamhoff, legislative
director of  Citizens for Tax Justice , a Washington group that
opposed the proposal.  “This is a great sign for anyone who cares about tax
fairness,” he said. “A lot of people have figured out that
this is a proposal that really would offer the greatest benefits
to some of the worst abusers of the corporate tax system, the
companies that are really shifting their profits to  tax
havens .”  Doug Thornell , who had been a spokesman for the campaign,
declined to comment.  Under current law, companies can defer U.S. taxation of
profits earned outside the country until they bring the money
back. Then, they must pay  corporate taxes  of as much as 35
percent minus tax credits for payments to foreign governments.  Overseas Profits  U.S. companies have stockpiled more than $1 trillion in
untaxed profits outside the country. Seventy companies with the
most money outside the U.S. held a total of $1.2 trillion
overseas, according to data compiled by Bloomberg last month.
Those companies increased their offshore holdings by 18.4
percent over the past year.  Other companies involved in  the effort  included  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   The companies maintain that a repatriation holiday -- like
one enacted in 2004 that allowed profits to return to the U.S.
at a 5.25 percent tax rate -- would inject money into the U.S.
economy. Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican,
sponsored a bill that would have repeated the 2004 holiday.  The Joint Committee on Taxation, the nonpartisan
scorekeeper of tax bills for Congress, estimated that the
repatriation proposal would cost the government $78.7 billion in
tax revenue over a decade, because companies would stockpile
profits outside the U.S. in anticipation of another tax holiday.  Tax-Code Overhaul  The repatriation campaign ran into resistance in part
because the money held outside the U.S. was seen in Congress as
a way to help finance an overhaul of the  tax code , the lobbyist
said.  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee,
proposed an overhaul of the international tax system that would
end most taxation of overseas profits. It would require
companies to pay taxes on their untaxed offshore balances as if
they were brought home and taxed at a 5.25 percent rate.  Camp, a Michigan Republican, didn’t endorse a stand-alone
repatriation holiday bill.  Brady and others tried to insert a tax holiday proposal in
a measure extending the payroll tax cut at the end of 2011.
House Republican leaders chose not to include it.  The bill is H.R. 1834.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  