-- Republican Group Subject of IRS Complaint on Lobbying
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-04-23T19:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/republican-group-subject-of-irs-complaint-on-lobbying.html
Common Cause, a Washington-based
political ethics watchdog group, today filed a complaint
accusing the American Legislative Exchange Council of violating
its tax-exempt status by lobbying state legislators.  The filing asks the  Internal Revenue Service  to force ALEC
to pay back taxes and penalties. ALEC is incorporated as a
charitable organization, meaning donations to it are tax-
deductible.  “ALEC is a corporate lobby front group masquerading as a
public charity,” Common Cause President Bob Edgar, a former
Democratic congressman from Pennsylvania, said in a statement
announcing the complaint. “It tells the IRS in its tax returns
that it does no lobbying, yet it exists to pass profit-driven
legislation in statehouses all over the country that benefits
its corporate members.”  ALEC’s legal counsel, Alan P. Dye, called the complaint “a
tired campaign to abuse the legal system, distort the facts and
tarnish the reputation of ideological foes.” The attacks on
ALEC, he said in a statement, “are based on patently false
claims being made by liberal front groups that differ with ALEC
on philosophical terms.”  Drafting Bills  Bloomberg News reported in July how ALEC, a Washington-
based policy group, allows representatives of corporations and
interest groups to help draft legislation with state lawmakers,
who then try to enact those bills in their home states.
Companies pay dues of as much as $25,000 a year. The group was
also the subject of a New York Times story yesterday that cited
internal ALEC documents that suggest the group lobbied state
lawmakers on key votes.  Ohio state Senator Bill Seitz, a Republican who sits on
ALEC’s board of directors, told the Times that opponents were
going after the organization because “they don’t have a
comparable group that is as effective as ALEC in enacting
policies into law.”  Democratic state representative Marc Pocan of Wisconsin
said he has attended several ALEC meetings and “it is clear to
me that ALEC’s primary role is as a lobbying advocacy
organization.” Pocan made his comments in a letter today to
ALEC Chairman Dave Frizzell, an Indiana Republican lawmaker,
asking him to justify the group’s tax status.  Pressuring Corporations  A coalition of public advocacy groups, including  Common
Cause , has been pressuring companies to drop their ALEC
memberships following the killing of Trayvon Martin in Sanford,
Florida. The shooter, George Zimmerman, claimed self-defense
under the state’s “Stand Your Ground” law, which allows
individuals to use deadly force if they feel threatened. Similar
laws have been enacted in other states with the support of ALEC
and the  National Rifle Association .  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and the  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
are among companies that have announced they won’t renew their
ALEC memberships. Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  said
today that also was leaving the policy group.  ALEC said on April 17 that it will focus on economic issues
as it abolished the  task force  that drafted the “Stand Your
Ground” measure and one requiring voters to show photo
identification at the polls.  The U.S.  Justice Department  has used its powers under the
Voting Rights Act to challenge ALEC-inspired voter laws in  South
Carolina  and Texas, saying the measures disproportionately
disenfranchise minorities.  Bloomberg reported this month that 13 of the 22 companies
and trade associations represented on ALEC’s private enterprise
board also contributed at least $2 million to the Congressional
Black Caucus Foundation. The Congressional Black Caucus has said
that voter-ID laws “suppress” the right to vote of minorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 