-- Republican Groups Help Romney Fill Cash Gap With Obama
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-04-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/republican-groups-help-romney-fill-cash-gap-with-obama.html
President  Barack Obama  held a 10-
to-1 cash advantage at the start of this month in the campaign
fundraising contest with  Republican Party  front-runner  Mitt Romney .  The president had $100 million in the bank at the end of
March, while the former Massachusetts governor had $10 million
in cash, according to disclosure forms filed with the Federal
Election Commission.  In prior presidential races, such a financial imbalance
would define the dynamics of the race as a cash-strapped
challenger facing an empowered incumbent. Not so this year, as
Obama’s fundraising advantage shrinks to 2-to-1 when independent
political groups aligned with the Republican Party are matched
against the president and his Democratic allies.  “President Obama has been counting on the fundraising
prowess that comes with being an incumbent as well as the
network of donors on who he relied in 2008,” said  Julian Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton
University in  New Jersey . “But changes in campaign finance
practices and the  Supreme Court ’s Citizens United decision have
opened an opportunity for the GOP to match him.”  The ability of the Republicans to remain competitive with a
president who faced no primary and holds a record for raising
about $745 million for his 2008 campaign illustrates the impact
of the Supreme Court’s 2010 decision removing limits on
corporate and union campaign spending.  Republicans Outraise Democrats  As they did in 2010, Republican super-political action
committees and groups organized as tax-exempt public policy
organizations are out-raising the Democrats with the help of
multi-million dollar donations from wealthy individuals and
corporations.  Republican donor Harold Simmons, chairman of Dallas-based
Contran Corp., contributed the maximum $2,500 to Romney’s
primary campaign in June. Thanks to the Citizens United
decision, Simmons had committees in which to give more,
including $10 million to pro-Republican American Crossroads and
$800,000 to Restore Our Future, a pro-Romney group, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign donations.  In contrast,  Jeffrey Katzenberg , chief executive officer of
Glendale, California-based DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc., is
among the Democrats’ biggest givers. He donated $5,000 in April
2011 to Obama’s primary and re-election bids; $30,800 to the
Democratic National Committee; and $2 million in May 2011 to
Priorities USA Action, a super-PAC supporting the president’s
re-election.  Shrinking Advantage  As a consequence, Obama’s re-election committee; the super-
PAC supporting his candidacy, Priorities USA Action; and the
Democratic National Committee combined had $133.6 million cash
on hand entering April.  Romney’s campaign committee; the super-PACs backing him
Restore Our Future and American Crossroads; and the Republican
National Committee had $73.6 million in their bank accounts at
the beginning of this month.  “It is not a stretch that Romney will be building a
formidable money-harvesting machine,” said Steffen W. Schmidt,
political science professor at Iowa State University in Ames.  Obama in February urged supporters to begin contributing to
the Priorities USA super-PAC. The pro-Obama committee has asked
former President  Bill Clinton  to help raise money for it.  The ties among the campaign and the outside groups are
significant.  Campaign Connections  Carl Forti, political director of American Crossroads, also
serves on the board of Restore Our Future. Former  Republican
National Committee  Chairman  Ed Gillespie , who earlier this month
became a senior adviser to the Romney campaign, helped set up
the Crossroads groups with Karl Rove. Both Gillespie and Rove
worked in the White House under President  George W. Bush .  The Democratic groups also carry familiar names. Among the
founders of Priorities USA is  Bill Burton , a former spokesman
for the White House, bringing expertise to the general election.  “So far, the Romney campaign cannot match Obama’s
technology nor its outreach in the field,” said Stephen Wayne,
a professor of government at Georgetown University in
Washington. “Obama’s early start gives him an advantage here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Giroux in  Washington  at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 