-- Republicans Push Spending to Dump Waste in Reid Back Yard
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/republicans-push-spending-to-dump-waste-in-reid-back-yard.html
A proposed nuclear waste dump
outside  Las Vegas  that the U.S. Senate’s top Democrat has spent
years trying to kill is back on the congressional agenda as
Republicans are pushing for it in spending bills.  House Republicans  want to provide $25 million to revive the
Yucca Mountain site in Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ’s home
state of  Nevada , one of the thousands of spending line items
that lawmakers began considering last week. The waste site
proposal illustrates the parties’ divergent visions for dividing
as much as $1.047 trillion Congress can allocate for the fiscal
year that starts Oct. 1.  “There are different priorities on each side of the
rotunda,” Illinois Senator  Richard Durbin , the chamber’s
second-ranking Democrat and a member of the Appropriations
Committee, said last week in an interview. “Then, of course,
we’re in a presidential campaign year, and there are going to be
differences, whether it comes to individual projects or overall
spending. So all of these things together make it more
challenging.”  Each chamber writes its version of the 12 bills funding the
day-to-day operations of the federal government, and those
measures often reflect the majority party’s spending priorities.  Senate Democrats , for example, unveiled a measure last week
that would provide $248 million - more than three times as much
as House Republicans are seeking - for a Justice Department
grant program started by President  Bill Clinton  that supports
community-oriented policing. Democrats who control the Senate
also want to boost by $152 million the funds for the Community
Development Block Grant housing program, which Republicans have
sought to cut.  Preferred Programs  Early indications this year are that Republicans who
control the House will seek to direct any funding increases to
preferred programs such as the Yucca Mountain proposal. House
Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers, whose home state of  Kentucky 
is the third-largest U.S. coal producer, has proposed increasing
by $207 million, to $554 million, funding for projects
supporting oil, natural gas and cleaner coal.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat, said in an
April 17 interview that money for Yucca Mountain won’t be in the
spending bill she is writing.  Reid was pleased by President Barack Obama’s 2010 decision
to pull the Yucca Mountain project’s license application. Reid’s
opposition to a waste site in Nevada means the Republican
proposal won’t become law, as he controls the Senate agenda and
can block it from advancing there.  ‘Won’t Let It’  “The president won’t let it happen, I won’t let it
happen,” Reid said April 19 in an interview.  Still, the dispute will be played out again this year in
the appropriations process. Last year, the House-passed bill
funding energy programs included $45 million for activities
related to Yucca Mountain and barred funding to shutter the
project. Those provisions didn’t become law.  While this year’s spending debate reprises many of the
policy fights of past years, several additional factors will
make this round of decisions especially complicated.  House Republican leaders opted to work with a pot of
discretionary money for fiscal 2013 that is $19 billion less
than the $1.047 trillion cap set in the August law raising the
federal  debt ceiling . Current funding for government operations
expires Sept. 30, and lawmakers say they probably will have to
pass a stopgap measure before then to avert a government
shutdown as individual spending bills won’t be completed.  Across-the-board spending cuts set to take effect in
January create an incentive for those who write spending bills
to target funding increases to favored projects, further
squeezing other programs.  Limiting Policy Changes  Rogers is seeking to gain Democratic votes for spending
bills by limiting policy changes that in the past have prompted
Democratic opposition, said a Republican aide who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  While minimizing policy prescriptions in the bills was a
favorable step, differences over funding priorities probably
will prompt  House Democrats  to oppose Republicans’ spending
proposals, Washington Representative  Norm Dicks , the House’s top
Democratic appropriator, said last week in an interview.  Senate appropriators last week unveiled how they would
distribute the discretionary funds over 12 subcommittees. The
panels that fund the Agriculture, Interior, Labor, Education,
Health and Human Services and Veterans Affairs departments, as
well as agencies including the  Internal Revenue Service  and
Environmental Protection Agency, will receive more funds than
last year.  The subcommittees that fund the Commerce, Defense, Energy,
Homeland Security, Justice, Housing and  Urban Development , State
and Transportation departments will receive less.  More Funding  Senate Democrats said it was a positive signal that
Republicans in their chamber agreed to a higher funding level
than the House adopted.  “I thought it was a very encouraging sign, what happened
in the appropriations committee,” Senator  Charles Schumer  of
 New York , the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, said last week
in an interview. “The Senate Republicans, over the last several
months, have been showing a desire to reach out and work with us
and I think that’s very healthy for the country, on this issue
in particular.”  In December, hours before the government was set to shut
down, lawmakers passed a $1 trillion, 1,200-page measure funding
the operations of hundreds of government programs across 10
Cabinet agencies. The government had operated for almost three
months of the new fiscal year through stopgap spending measures.  Appropriators say that while their preference would be to
pass each spending bill individually this year, lawmakers are
likely to wind up combining at least some of them.  “We’re going to pass our bills in the House here, and
we’ll see what happens in the Senate,” Representative Tom Latham, an Iowa Republican and Appropriations Committee member,
said last week in an interview. “It’s going to be difficult to
get the bills done and signed into law by the end of the fiscal
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  