-- Romney Vetting Running Mates to Stump With Rubio
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-04-23T22:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/romney-vetting-running-mates-to-stump-with-rubio-in-pennsylvania.html
Mitt Romney  softened his tone on
federal student loan aid and illegal immigrants while
campaigning in Pennsylvania alongside Marco Rubio, the first
potential running mate to stump with him since Romney became the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee.  Romney today sided with President  Barack Obama  on a push to
temporarily freeze  interest rates  on government-subsidized loans
-- due to double on July 1. He also said he is reviewing a
proposal by Rubio, a Florida senator, to permit visas for some
children brought to the U.S. illegally by their immigrant
parents.  The positions represented more moderated views from Romney
than when the Republican race was still in doubt, telling
students asking about financing college costs then not to expect
government money and, at several debates, stressing his
opposition to any proposal granting legal status to illegal
immigrants.  Romney is seeking to repair damage done to his image in the
Republican primary and appeal to independents and groups that
polls show are resisting him, including women, Hispanics and
young people.  Job Market  “I fully support the effort to extend the low interest
rate on  student loans ,” Romney told reporters in Aston,
Pennsylvania, adding that he backed the relief “in part because
of the extraordinarily poor conditions in the job market.”  Obama is traveling this week to  North Carolina ,  Iowa  and
 Colorado  to press for the freeze, which has been opposed by
congressional Republicans.  At a joint media session with Rubio before a town-hall
meeting with voters, Romney also said he is reviewing the first-
term senator’s proposal to give non-immigrant visas to certain
young people brought to the U.S. illegally as youngsters.  The proposed measure is Rubio’s more restrictive
alternative to a congressional bill known as the DREAM Act that
would let some undocumented youngsters earn legal residency if
they attended college or joined the military. Backed by some
lawmakers in both parties -- including Obama and most Democrats
-- the bill has been blocked by Republican congressional
leaders.  Citizenship Concern  “The one that’s been proposed in the Senate creates a new
category of citizenship for certain individuals,” Romney said,
referring to the DREAM ACT. Rubio’s plan “does not create that
new category,” Romney said. “It has many features to commend
it. But it’s something that we’re studying.”  Some Republicans believe adding Rubio, 40, a Cuban-American
and favorite of anti-tax Tea Party supporters, to the Republican
ticket could boost Romney’s standing with Hispanic voters, who
 polls show  hold a low opinion of him after months in which he
has focused on the need to crack down on illegal immigration.  The joint appearance called attention to Romney’s vice
presidential search, which he officially kicked off last week as
he named longtime aide Beth Myers to lead the process.  Rubio, who has insisted he isn’t interested in the running-
mate slot, refused for the second day in a row to discuss the
matter.  “I’m not talking about that process anymore,” Rubio said.  Romney said his search is in its earliest stages.  No List  “The process for selecting a vice presidential running
mate is just beginning,” he said. “Beth Myers has begun to put
together a number of the names and criteria and so forth that
would be associated with that process, but we really haven’t had
a discussion yet of putting together a list or evaluating
various candidates.”  Romney’s appearance with Rubio was his first with a vice
presidential prospect since  Rick Santorum ’s exit from the
Republican race on April 10 made the former Massachusetts
governor the presumptive Republican nominee.  Rubio received a rousing reception from hundreds of voters
in the warehouse of Mustang Expediting, a transport company, who
cheered loudly as he spoke about Romney, his own experience
growing up in an immigrant family in the U.S., and his belief in
U.S. ideals of self-sufficiency and upward mobility.  ‘Greatest Society’  Rubio said he had opportunities his parents didn’t because
“I had something they didn’t: the privilege and the honor of
being born in the single greatest society in all of human
history, in a place where anyone from anywhere can accomplish
anything.”  Obama, he added, “is telling Americans that the reasons
why they’re hurting is because other people are doing too well,
that the way they can climb up the ladder is to pull other
people down. If we do that, we become like every other country
in the world.”  Romney’s victory in tomorrow’s  Pennsylvania  primary became
virtually certain when Santorum, who once represented the state
in the Senate, ended his candidacy. Also voting tomorrow are
 Connecticut ,  Delaware ,  New York  and  Rhode Island .  Romney picked up the endorsement today of former New York
Mayor  Rudy Giuliani , one of his rivals in the race for 2008
Republican presidential nomination, won by Arizona Senator  John McCain .  “Mitt has won fair and square,” Giuliani said on Fox News
Channel. “He’s proven he’s the most effective Republican. He’s
taken on everybody and won an incredible number of primaries.
He’s got the resume and the background for the job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at  jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  