-- Rupee Drops Most in Three Weeks on Growth Concerns: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-04-23T11:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/rupee-drops-most-in-three-weeks-on-growth-concerns-mumbai-mover.html
India ’s rupee weakened the most in
more than three weeks on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will hurt
economic growth in  emerging markets .  The currency fell to the lowest level in more than three
months after a survey of companies in  China  showed manufacturing
in Asia’s biggest economy may shrink for a sixth month in April,
the longest period of contraction since the global financial
crisis. The rupee gained earlier after India’s central bank
 eased rules  on overseas borrowings by local companies.  “The economic concerns are not allowing an appreciation in
the rupee,” said Vikas Babu, a currency trader at state-run
Andhra Bank in Mumbai. “Concern about dollar paucity eased a
bit as the new external borrowings can be used to refinance
foreign-currency bonds due later this year.”  The rupee declined 0.8 percent to 52.5250 per dollar in
Mumbai, after strengthening 0.1 percent earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That is the biggest drop since March
29 and it touched 52.58, the lowest level since Jan. 9. One-
month implied volatility for the rupee, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 9.89 percent.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics reported a
preliminary reading of 49.1 for their China purchasing managers’
index in April, compared with a final 48.3 in March. A number
less than 50 signals contraction.  European Central Bank officials led by President Mario
Draghi resisted calls from the  International Monetary Fund  and
U.S. Treasury to do more to stem the debt crisis roiling the
euro-area economy.  Refinancing Overseas Loans  The  Reserve Bank  of India allowed domestic firms to pay
higher  interest rates  to refinance foreign-currency loans,
according to a statement on April 20. Indian companies may
default on 20 percent of $7 billion in dollar-denominated
equity-linked bond payments due in 2012,  Fitch Ratings  said in
February.  India, which runs a trade deficit, faces a shortage of
dollars when capital inflows slow or reverse, according to BNP
Paribas SA. Overseas funds cut  holdings  of Indian debt by $100
million last week through April 19, exchange data show.  “The extent of the rupee’s recent weakening might have
caught some off guard,” said Chin Loo Thio, a senior analyst at
BNP Paribas in  Singapore . “The RBI is likely to be concerned
that there might be unhedged dollar exposures which could drive
the rupee lower, especially if flows are not enough to cover the
deficits.”  The French bank today recommended investors sell the rupee
and buy the  U.S. dollar , targeting 53.50, and exit the trade at
51.75 to limit losses, should the Indian currency strengthen.  Six-month onshore forwards traded at 54.39 per dollar,
compared with  53.89 at the end of last week, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 54.49 versus 54.02. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  