-- Russia OFZ Euroclear Timing Being Discussed, Aganbegyan Says
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2012-04-23T16:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/russia-ofz-euroclear-timing-being-discussed-aganbegyan-says-1-.html
Russia’s financial regulator is
considering doubts raised by market participants over the timing
and conditions of a plan to allow foreign investors to settle
ruble bond trades via Euroclear Bank SA, according to Micex-RTS
President Ruben Aganbegyan.  Dmitry Pankin, chief of the  Federal Financial Markets
Service , will deliver his verdict on concerns that were raised
at a meeting with banks, brokers and other officials, Aganbegyan
said in an interview with Bloomberg at the “Invest in Russia”
conference in London today.  A majority of President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s working group
voted on April 20 against allowing foreign depositaries
Euroclear and Clearstream International SA direct access to the
Russian market, Interfax reported today, citing three
unidentified participants. The government previously said its
plan was to allow ruble-denominated sovereign bonds known as
OFZs to settle through Euroclear from July 1.  “I don’t think anybody’s against euroclearibility or
against Euroclear working in our market,” Aganbegyan said. “I
think there’s a discussion about the timing and the
conditions.”  Nominee Account  Pankin told financial market representatives “that he
heard everybody, he will keep on thinking and we will know what
his position is in due course,” according to Aganbegyan.  Euroclear Bank has received no official confirmation of
reports that it will not be permitted to set up a nominee
account with  Russia ’s central depositary, Philippe Laurensy,
head of sales for central and northern  Europe , said by phone
today.  Settlement of the notes through Euroclear would be “very
difficult” without access to the depositary, Laurensy said.  Allowing settlement through Euroclear, the world’s biggest
bond-settlement system, from July may boost foreign ownership of
OFZs to 25 percent of total holdings from about 3 percent,
Konstantin Vyshkovsky, the head of the  Finance Ministry ’s debt
department, said in Moscow on April 3.  The yield on ruble notes due August 2016 rose seven basis
points to 7.44 percent today, the biggest jump since March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  