-- Russian Ambassador Says U.S. Rights Bill May Undermine Relations
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-04-23T22:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/russian-ambassador-says-u-s-rights-bill-may-undermine-relations.html
An effort by Congress to link a
human-rights bill to legislation granting  Russia  normal trade
status may undermine Russian-U.S. relations, the Russian
ambassador to the U.S. said.  Proposals for travel and financial restrictions to counter
the use of violence to quash anti-corruption efforts in Russia
infringe on the nation’s sovereignty, Ambassador Sergey Kislyak
said yesterday at a luncheon for journalists at his residence in
 Washington .  “If anything of the type is adopted, there will be
significant reaction,” he said. “In Russia, I cannot predict
the way we will react, but I’m certain that it would undermine”
the ability to work together “on a number of issues.”  Russian officials want U.S. President  Barack Obama  to grant
permanent normal trade status as the nation prepares to join the
Geneva-based World Trade Organization this year. Congress must
eliminate a 1974 law that restricted trade with the former
 Soviet Union , a move backed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a
Washington-based group representing businesses.  Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, the senior Republican on
the Foreign Relations Committee, is among lawmakers who have
endorsed the human-rights measure, sponsored in the Senate by
Ben Cardin, a Maryland Democrat, and in the House by Jim McGovern, a Massachusetts Democrat.  ‘Serious Country’  “We are a serious country,” Kislyak said. “We do not
want to be told what we need to do within the limits of Russian
law.” Trade relations and U.S. human-rights concerns about
Russia are separate issues, Kislyak said.  The Russian parliament has until July 23 to approve the
terms of WTO membership, according to the Congressional Research
Service. Russia is the world’s largest economy that isn’t in the
WTO. Russia’s membership will boost global economic output by
$162 billion annually, according to the  World Bank .  A permanent normal-trade relationship initially would be
most beneficial to U.S. companies, which would pay lower tariff
rates on trade with Russia, Kislyak said.  “We want to see economic relations between the  United
States  and Russia develop in a normal, predictable, reliable
fashion” that would benefit both countries, he said. “For us,
the  Cold War  is over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  