-- SABMiller Says European Chief Clark to Succeed Mackay as CEO
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-04-23T09:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/sabmiller-says-european-chief-clark-will-succeed-mackay-as-ceo.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, said the head of its European unit
will succeed Graham Mackay as chief executive officer after
naming the current CEO as the successor to Chairman Meyer Kahn.  Alan Clark, 52, will succeed Mackay as CEO at the annual
shareholder meeting next year, a year after Mackay, 62, takes
over from Kahn, who is retiring after 46 years with the brewer,
according to a statement today from the London-based brewer.
Mackay will be chairman and CEO for a period of one year.  SABMiller has written to shareholders seeking approval of
the plans given that U.K. corporate code of governance doesn’t
recommend CEOs should become chairman. Management has the
“strong backing” of the two biggest  shareholders , Altria Group
Inc. and Bevco International LLC, the holding company for
 Colombia ’s Santo Domingo family, according to the letter. They
hold 27 percent and 14.1 percent respectively, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stable Team  “It again proves there is a lot of stability in this top
management team, that for me is the most important conclusion,”
 Gerard Rijk , an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, said by
phone. “It’s a continuation of a characteristic which SABMiller
is famous.”  Still, many people don’t like chairman becoming CEOs, Rijk
said, as the chairman can limit freedom of the new management.
“There is a risk on flexibility, new thoughts in the
organization, but at this stage of SABMiller, with the big deals
done, I think this is risk that can be handled.”  Clark has been SABMiller’s European head since 2003.  SABMiller fell 20.5 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 2,592.5 pence
as of 9:02 a.m. in London trading. The decline pared this year’s
gain to 14 percent.  SABMiller told shareholders any risk of an “over-
concentration of power” by Mackay will be mitigated by the
appointment of John Manser as deputy chairman, the one-year
timeframe on Mackay’s tenure as executive chairman and Clark’s
appointment as a third  executive director .  Mackay will become non-executive chairman at the company’s
annual general meeting in 2013.  Acquisition Spree  Mackay has led the maker of Grolsch, Peroni and Pilsner
Urquell since 1999, overseeing a slew of acquisitions that led
to SABMiller becoming the world’s second-biggest brewer by
volume. Last year, the company bought Foster’s Group Ltd. in a
deal worth about A$10.5 billion ($10.8 billion), helping it to
take about half the Australian beer market.  Manser will become deputy chairman, as part of the changes,
while Sue Clark, director of corporate affairs, will replace
Alan Clark as European head.  Rob Pieterse, an independent non-executive director, will
also be retiring from the board on July 26, after four years,
SABMiller said in a separate statement.  The brewer said last week it maintained growth in beer
volume during the fourth quarter as gains in  Africa  and  Latin
America  offset a drop in Chinese consumption caused by wet
weather. In  Europe , lager volumes fell 1 percent due to
“subdued” beer market growth and aggressive promotions.  Clark has kept profit margins high compared with rivals and
helped the company gain a stake in  Turkey ’s Anadolu Efes
Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS, ING’s Rijk said.  The executive in 2003 took over the European division,
which includes Ukraine, Russia and more developed beer markets
including the  Czech Republic  and U.K. Previously he spent
several years overseeing the South Africa beer business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  