-- Sarkozy Promises ‘Protective’ Europe to National Front Voters
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-23T17:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/sarkozy-promises-protective-europe-to-national-front-voters.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
in his first campaign outing after the initial round of the
presidential elections, said he understood the almost one-fifth
of the electorate that voted for the anti-euro National Front
and promised he’d deliver them a more protective  Europe .  “A Europe that doesn’t defend its citizens is finished, a
Europe that doesn’t defend its borders is finished, a Europe
that opens its markets without reciprocity is finished,” he
said at a campaign rally near Tours in the Loire valley.  Sarkozy yesterday won through to a May 6 run-off against
challenger  Francois Hollande , though the surprise of the first
round was the third-place finish with a record 17.9 percent for
the National Front’s Marine Le Pen. Sarkozy, who won 27.2
percent, needs her votes if he has any chance of winning against
Hollande, who topped the round with 28.6 percent.  “I see this vote as a cry of suffering, a cry of revolt,”
Sarkozy said about the Front’s vote. “I don’t accept that we
castigate this suffering, this revolt. They deserve our respect.
I don’t judge others by how they vote. The best way to respond
is with precise engagements.”  Sarkozy reiterated earlier campaign promises to renegotiate
Europe treaties to tighten up on border controls, and to push
for a “Buy Europe” act that would reserve public contracts for
European companies.  ‘Siamese Twins’  “I understand the French and what they want is to defend
their way of life, and that’s what I’ll defend in the second
round,” he said. “We don’t want a Europe that doesn’t defend
us, but that instead inundates us with norms and rules.”  Le Pen, who garnered more votes than her father Jean-Marie
did in 2002 when he won through to the second round, refused to
endorse a candidate, saying that Sarkozy and Hollande are
establishment “Siamese twins” unable to fix  France ’s problems.  About 57 percent of Le Pen voters will back Sarkozy in the
second round, while 23 percent will abstain and 20 percent will
back Hollande, according to a survey by the BVA polling company.
Partly as a result of that lukewarm support from Le Pen voters,
Sarkozy would lose to Hollande by 56 percent to 44 percent in
the final round, according to separate surveys conducted
yesterday by the CSA polling company and  Harris Interactive .  Sarkozy said voters opted for the National Front because
France’s main parties haven’t dealt with issues such as
immigration and crime. “If we don’t respond to these
sufferings, then we only add to the ranks of the extreme
right,” he said.  Sarkozy, who last week revived his calls for a more pro-
growth strategy from the  European Central Bank , never mentioned
the central bank or euro policy in today’s speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  