-- Sarkozy Joins Hollande to Woo Voters Split by Immigration, Euro
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-23T10:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/sarkozy-joins-hollande-to-woo-voters-split-by-immigration-euro.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
challenger  Francois Hollande  threw themselves into the second
round of France’s election, vying to lead a country split over
tackling immigration and ending a sovereign debt crisis that
threatens to engulf the euro region’s second-largest economy.  French bonds fell after the results of the election’s first
round were announced late yesterday, with a record 17.9 percent
showing for anti-euro National Front leader Marine le Pen.
Socialist Hollande won the first round with 28.6 percent while
Sarkozy’s 27.2 percent score made him the first incumbent not to
lead in the first round. Holland and Sarkozy square off May 6.  The risk for investors is that the National Front’s
performance will make the next president reluctant to embrace
policies needed to revamp the economy just as other European
leaders try to prevent  Spain  from unleashing a new round of
 market turmoil . Sarkozy told reporters today that National Front
voters “must be respected.”  “The high score of the extreme right will thus likely
reinforce the natural unwillingness of the traditional political
class towards reforms, creating a climate of uncertainty that
the market will resent,” said Nicolas Doisy, an economist at CA
Cheuvreux. “Thus, just like Mitterrand in the early 1980s,
Hollande will likely relent only under market pressure, thus
disappointing popular voters.”  Hollande is slated to give a speech to supporters in
Brittany at around 4 p.m. local time. “We must talk to all
those who feel abandoned and those who feel humiliated,”
 Martine Aubry , his Socialist party’s first secretary, said today
in Paris.  Market Reaction  The extra yield demanded by investors to hold French 10-
year bonds over German bunds rose 5 basis points to 143 today.
 France ’s CAC 40 Index fell 1.9 percent, less than other
benchmarks around  Europe , which were spooked by weakening
economic data from the euro region and  China .  Governments across Europe are struggling to reassure voters
that they can cope with the tensions unleashed by the region’s
debt crisis. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte today called
elections after an anti-immigrant ally refused to back deficit
cuts. In the  Czech Republic , premier Petr Nacas’s government is
being torn apart by a dispute over austerity measures.  In France, almost one in every five voters backed Le Pen’s
anti-euro and anti-immigration message as she attacked Sarkozy
and Hollande for being “Siamese twins” unable to fix France’s
problems.  Her score may force Sarkozy to step up his call for the
 European Central Bank  to expand its mandate to include fostering
economic growth. It may also encourage him to lure more voters
concerned by rising immigration at a time when the country
jobless claims are at a 12-year high.  Fiscal Treaty  Already yesterday, Sarkozy touched on immigration and crime
as issues he is likely to focus on in his campaign, referring to
a “crisis of immigration” and calling for greater border
controls. For his part, Hollande blamed Sarkozy’s economic and
social policies for the rise of the National Front.  “Voters of the National Front must be respected,” said
Sarkozy in Paris today. “It was a vote of suffering, a vote of
crisis.”  Hollande will also have to be wary of voters alienated by
the mainstream political parties that have pledged to cut the
 budget deficit . While the Communist Party-based Jean-Luc Melenchon fell short of some pollsters’ forecasts, he still got
11.1 percent of the first round vote.  Hollande has pledged to renegotiate parts of a fiscal pact
seen by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  as a key pillar to
fighting the debt crisis and, like Sarkozy, has called on the
ECB to do more to stop the turmoil. Merkel still backs Sarkozy,
a German government spokesman said today.  “If Sarkozy had won comfortably yesterday, it would have
been business as usual with France and  Germany  trying to hold
the Eurozone together,” said  David Miller , a partner at Cheviot
Asset Management in  London . “However, the new prospect of a new
President and new approach to dealing with the eurozone crisis
has made investors and European markets nervous. We’ll see
muddled markets until the final result is declared.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher in Paris at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  