-- HSBC Islamic Hedging, Investment Grew Double-Digits in 2011
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-04-23T12:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/hsbc-islamic-hedging-investment-grew-double-digits-in-2011-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc’s (HSBA)  Islamic risk
management business posted double-digit growth last year on
rising demand for Shariah-compliant hedging and investment
products.  The bank has “more than 100 Islamic hedging and investment
products, from about 10 products two and a half years ago,”
Abhishek Mishra, head of multi-asset structuring at HSBC Global
Banking and Markets,  Middle East  and North Africa, said at a
conference in Dubai. He forecasts similar growth in the bank’s
Islamic hedging and investment business in 2012.  While Saudi Arabia made up most of HSBC’s business last
year, there has been growth among other Gulf Cooperation Council
nations in 2012, Mishra said. The Islamic finance industry is
forecast to more than double to $2.8 trillion by 2015, the Kuala
Lumpur-based Islamic Financial Services Board said. The six-
nation GCC, including  Saudi Arabia  and the United Arab Emirates,
have a 25 percent share and  Malaysia  has 22 percent, Ernst &
Young said in a report this month.  Speculation is forbidden under Islamic law, and derivatives
are limited to hedging. Derivatives are contracts whose value is
derived from stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities, or
events such as  interest rates  or the weather.  The Manama, Bahrain-based  International Islamic Financial
Market  and the New York-based International Swaps and
Derivatives Association published standards for Islamic profit-
rate swaps in March.  “HSBC has benefited from the global financial crisis,
because as more foreign banks focus on their geographies and
their existing products, we were able to take advantage of the
gap,” Mishra said. HSBC is the biggest underwriter of Islamic
bonds this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  