-- Scene in D.C.: Bob McDonnell, Mark Warner, Karen Akers
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-23T14:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/scene-in-d-c-bob-mcdonnell-mark-warner-karen-akers.html
Brushing off speculation that he’s
at the top of Mitt Romney’s vice presidential short list,
Virginia Governor  Bob McDonnell  said he just wants to “help
Mitt win.”  The Washington Performing Arts Society Annual Gala and
Auction Saturday night was held at the  Marriott (MAR)  Wardman Park
Hotel. Arne Sorenson, president and chief executive officer of
Marriott International Inc./DE, chatted with McDonnell “about
travel, of course.” Sorenson’s wife, Ruth, is on the society’s
board.  New York Broadway star Karen Akers, a guest of
philanthropist Adrienne Arsht, wore a Harriet Kassman emerald
dress that accentuated her signature auburn bob.  During dinner, a spirited pledge drive inspired Reginald Van Lee,  Booz Allen Hamilton (BAH)  executive vice president, to donate
$30,000 to the society. Mexican Ambassador Arturo Sarukhan,
active on Twitter while he socialized, said, “I have 75,000
followers.”  Other diplomats present included Italian Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero and Japanese Ambassador Ichiro Fujisaki, the honorary
diplomatic chairman of the gala. Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg 
wore a mandarin-style jacket to honor  Japan ’s patronage of the
event, which raised almost $1 million.  Broadway singer Brian Stokes Mitchell entertained the 600
guests with “One Enchanted Evening” and other favorites.
McDonnell said his musical tastes include “a little bit of
everything”, especially country and rock ‘n’ roll from the
“‘60s and ‘70s.”  Corcoran Ball  He wasn’t the only Virginian who crossed the Potomac for
art over the weekend. Senator  Mark Warner , the Virginia
Democrat, was present for the 57th annual Corcoran Ball Friday
night at the Corcoran Gallery of Art.  “He’s the real muckety-muck here,” Warner said, pointing
at Russell Sullivan, the Democratic staff director for the
Senate Committee on Finance, as the two caught up at the top of
the Corcoran’s imposing white staircase.  The first floor of the gallery was frosted in pink to
resemble Marie Antoinette’s salon. Each gallery room had tables
set with exquisite china and floral centerpieces.  Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano stood with
her predecessor, Michael Chertoff, who now runs the Chertoff
Group, in front of a work by Nancy Spero. Timothy Ring, the
chairman of  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR) , admired a sculpture by Lee Bontecou.  White House social secretary Jeremy Bernard called the
ambience “absolutely beautiful,” adding that he was relieved
to be entertained rather than doing the entertaining.  Francois Delattre, the French Ambassador to the U.S. and
honorary patron of the gala, gallantly kissed the hand of every
woman introduced to him. He said he was calling it an early
night because of the French presidential election Sunday.  After dinner, a Marilyn Monroe impersonator sashayed
through the crowd and planted a flaming-red-lipstick memento on
the cheek of Arthur Jackson, the president of  One on One
Basketball Inc.   ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater 
and  John Mariani  on  wine .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 