-- Schneider Set to Expand Market Share in Romania, Spaolanse Says
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-04-23T10:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/schneider-set-to-expand-market-share-in-romania-spaolanse-says.html
Schneider Electric SA (DG) , the biggest
maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, is set to expand its
market share in Romania and may consider acquisitions in the
Balkan country, Saulo Spaolanse, the chairman of the local unit,
said.  The French company seeks to invest mostly in energy-
efficiency service as the Balkan country is expanding its  power
grid  to face growing output especially from renewable sources,
such as wind and hydro power plants, Spaolanse said in an
interview from Bucharest today.  “Our plan is to always increase the market share and
invest in local competencies,” Spaolanse said. “We focus more
on customer service, investment in providing more special
services to our customers and we keep hiring.”  Schneider, based in Rueil-Malmaison near Paris, spent $3.8
billion last year on takeovers to expand in  emerging markets  and
broaden power-management systems. The acquisitions included
Spanish software company Telvent GIT SA, Chinese maker of energy
saving equipment Leader Harvest Power Technologies and Luminous
Power Technologies, an Indian maker of inverters and power-
storage systems.  “This year we are more focused on the consolidation of the
integrated business and if we find some good opportunities we
are open to discussions, including in Romania,” Spaolanse said,
adding that the company is not interested in buying a production
plant in Romania, because it has production units in Bulgaria,
 Hungary  and the  Czech Republic .  Schneider started its operation in Romania 15 years ago and
now employs 180 people in the country, where it specializes in
the sale of power distribution equipment and industrial
automation, according to Spaolanse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  