-- SEC Claims Ex-Calpers CEO Steered $20 Million to Friend
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-04-23T20:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/sec-sues-ex-calpers-ceo-over-claims-he-steered-money-to-friend.html
A former chief executive of the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  was sued by U.S.
regulators over claims he defrauded an investment firm into
paying $20 million in fees to a friend’s placement agencies.  Federico Buenrostro, who was Calpers CEO from 2002 to 2008,
and  Alfred Villalobos , the former deputy mayor of Los Angeles,
fabricated documents given to New York private-equity firm
 Apollo Global Management (APO)  to present the false impression that
the pension fund had reviewed and signed placement-agent fee-
disclosure letters, the Securities and Exchange Commission said
today in a lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court in  Nevada .  The lawsuit is the latest to come from a series of federal
and state investigations of influence-peddling for access to the
$2 trillion in U.S. public retirement funds. California
regulators sued the two men in May 2010 over similar claims
related to Calpers, the largest U.S. public pension with $235
billion of assets.  “Buenrostro and Villalobos not only tricked Apollo into
paying more than $20 million in placement agent fees it would
not otherwise have paid, but also undermined procedures designed
to ensure that investors like Calpers have full disclosure of
such fees,” John McCoy, associate regional director of the
SEC’s  Los Angeles  office, said in a statement.  The lawsuit also names Villalobos and his firm ARVCO
Capital Research LLC as defendants. The SEC is seeking an order
requiring Buenrostro and Villalobos to disgorge any ill-gotten
gains and pay fines.  ‘Strongly Denies’  “Mr. Buenrostro strongly denies any allegation that he was
involved in any type of fraudulent or illegal conduct,” Bill Kimball, an attorney for the former CEO, said today in a
telephone interview. A call to a phone number listed for ARVCO
in Stateline, Nevada, was answered by a recording saying it was
out of service.  According to the SEC, Apollo in 2007 began requiring signed
letters from investors such as Calpers before it would pay fees
to a placement agent that assisted in raising funds. In January
2008, Villalobos fabricated a letter using a phony Calpers logo,
which Buenrostro then signed, the SEC said.  Less than two weeks later, the two men created false
letters for at least four more Apollo investments, according to
the lawsuit. Apollo was induced to pay ARVCO more than $20
million in placement agent fees it would not have paid without
the letters, the SEC said.  ‘Impressive Action’  “It’s another impressive action by law enforcement
authorities and I expect more from them to come,” Philip Khinda, the Steptoe & Johnson lawyer who led a Calpers special
review, said in an e-mail statement.  Anne Stauboll, Calpers’ current CEO, said in a statement
today that “we condemn in the strongest way possible the
alleged misconduct of these individuals, and pledge to continue
working with all law enforcement authorities investigating these
issues.”  “We have dedicated ourselves as an organization to pursue
all of the appropriate policy changes and remedies available to
prevent further misconduct,” Stauboll said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  