-- Shekel Weakens on Concern Egypt Gas Halt May Stoke Mideast Risk
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-04-23T11:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/shekel-weakens-on-concern-egypt-gas-halt-may-stoke-mideast-risk.html
Israel ’s shekel was set for the
biggest decline in almost three weeks as demand for riskier
assets waned on concern  Egypt ’s decision to halt a natural gas
supply agreement may fuel Middle East geopolitical tensions.  The currency dropped 0.3 percent to 3.7618 a dollar, headed
for the biggest drop on a closing basis since April 3, at 1:40
p.m. in  Tel Aviv . That brings the monthly decline to 1.4
percent. It earlier fell 0.5 percent, the most since April 18.
The  Tel-Bond 40 index  of corporate bonds fell for the first time
in more than a week, declining 0.2 percent to 267.51. The  TA-25
Index (TA-25)  retreated 1.3 percent, the most in more than a week.  Ampal-American Israel Corp. (AMPL) , which owns a stake in a
company that exports natural gas from Egypt to Israel, said it
was advised by East Mediterranean Gas Co. that Egyptian General
Petroleum Corp. and the Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Co. were
terminating the gas-supply agreement. Israel’s Finance Ministry
said it views “with great concern” the termination and warned
the step could damage peace agreements between the countries.  “Investors are turning away from the shekel as Egypt
tension is increasing geopolitical risk in the region,” said
Eytan Admoni, head of the international department at  Bank of
Jerusalem (JBNK)  Ltd. “The local currency is also weakening as
 interest rates  are expected to remain low in coming months and
the dollar is gaining around the world on renewed concern about
the crisis in  Europe .”  European Risk  The Bank of Israel may keep the benchmark  interest rate  at
2.5 percent, according to all 24 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. The bank will announce its decision at 5:30 p.m.
today.  One-year interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, rose two basis points to
2.59 percent.  Israel’s trade deficit widened in March as exports of goods
declined amid renewed debt turmoil in Europe, one of the
country’s main trade partners. The deficit, excluding polished
diamonds, ships and aircraft, widened to a seasonally adjusted
$2.07 billion from a revised $1.88 billion the previous month,
the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics said today.  In Europe, Dutch bonds fell on speculation the Netherlands
will need to hold early elections, derailing efforts to stem
Europe’s crisis.  France ’s notes slid after election results
showed Socialist  Francois Hollande  took a greater share of the
first-round vote than President Nicolas Sarkozy.  Italian  consumer confidence  plunged to the lowest in more
than 15 years in April as Prime Minister Mario Monti’s austerity
drive deepens the recession in Europe’s fourth-biggest economy.
The yield on the 5.5 percent notes due January 2022 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to at 4.68 percent.  15-Year Deal  Ampal’s 15-year gas agreement, valued at $2.5 billion and
signed in 2005, had already been interrupted sporadically as the
Sinai pipeline that carries the fuel was bombed 14 times since
the start of Egypt’s political turmoil. The latest such attack
took place on April 8.  The  Finance Ministry  sold a combined 1.4 billion shekels
($372 million) of bonds at an auction today. The sale included
250 million shekels each of the benchmark notes, the 3.5 percent
bonds due August 2014, and the inflation-linked bonds due May
2017, according to ministry data posted on Bloomberg. Investors
bid for 5.1 times of the benchmark debt on sale compared with
4.7 times at the April 16 sale.  The two-year break-even rate, the yield difference between
inflation-linked bond and fixed-rate government bonds of similar
maturity, fell two basis points to 294. That implies an average
annual inflation rate of 2.94 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  