-- Siluanov Says Extra Oil Revenue Will Cut Borrowing
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-23T16:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/siluanov-says-extra-oil-revenue-will-cut-russian-borrowing-1-.html
Russia  expects additional revenue
from oil and gas of 800 billion rubles ($27 billion) this year,
allowing the government to eliminate foreign debt sales and pare
domestic borrowing, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.  The government will sell 1.3 trillion rubles ($44 billion)
of bonds domestically this year, compared with the originally
planned 1.8 trillion rubles, Siluanov said today at an event in
New York. Russia will borrow the equivalent of $7 billion abroad
next year, he said.  Brent crude futures, the benchmark for Russia, have
averaged $114 a barrel in the past year, up from $89.41 in the
previous 12 months. Russia is the world’s largest energy
exporter, and the increased revenue will help the country post a
 budget surplus  this year, Siluanov said.  The country isn’t looking to “seriously increase” its
foreign borrowing this year “even as conditions are
favorable,” Siluanov said.  Russia’s state debt is equal to 9.8 percent of gross
domestic product and together with corporate borrowing doesn’t
exceed 30 percent, he said. Russia’s budget will be based on a
lower oil price of $97 a barrel next year, compared with $100 in
2012, Siluanov said.  The nation’s economic situation “is not bad” and capital
outflows will probably decrease this year, he said. The economy
is growing at the same pace as last year, when it expanded 4.3
percent, Siluanov said.  European Crisis  The government is “very concerned” about  Europe ’s debt
burden as Russia’s economy depends on how the situation in the
region develops, Siluanov said. He said it was unlikely European
policy makers would keep interest rates low for a long period of
time.  “By injecting trillions of dollars into the economy the
ECB has somewhat softened the situation, but the debt question
is still there,” he said, referring to the  European Central
Bank .  The debt crisis needs to be resolved, and Russia expects
the  International Monetary Fund  will get more money than it is
seeking for its Europe fund, Siluanov said. Russia’s government
may commit more than $10 billion to the fund, he said.  Russia will also take part in a $250 million fund for the
nations involved in the Arab Spring, the minister said, without
providing specific details on his country’s contributions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  