-- Singapore Praises U.S., EU Move to Ease Myanmar Sanctions
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-04-23T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/singapore-praises-u-s-eu-move-to-ease-myanmar-sanctions.html
Singapore  praised the U.S., the
European Union and  Australia  for moving to ease sanctions
against Myanmar and called for further engagement to help the
former dictatorship transition to democracy.  “Sanctions ought to go,” Singapore’s Foreign Affairs
Minister K. Shanmugam said in an interview. Myanmar’s government
“is keen to do what is necessary to uplift the lives of
ordinary Myanmarese” and “we have to continue to encourage
Myanmar diplomatically and commercially.”  EU foreign ministers yesterday suspended sanctions against
Myanmar while the U.S. is considering lifting trade and
financial restrictions for certain industries. The 10-member
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations , which includes Myanmar
and Singapore, has repeatedly called on the West to lift
sanctions on the nation of 64 million people.  Shanmugam also said the firing in China of former Politburo
member Bo Xilai is only a “kerfuffle” and that Singapore is as
positioned as it can be for a world economy “coming out of life
support.”  Both Myanmar’s government and Western nations should
continue the path they’ve taken after President Thein Sein took
steps to reconcile with his opponents, Shanmugam said. U.S. and
EU sanctions have increased Myanmar’s dependence on neighbors
 India , China and  Thailand .  ‘Unprecedented Developments’  Myanmar’s per capita gross domestic product amounts to
$2.25 a day, about half that of  Vietnam  and 14 percent of
neighboring Thailand’s, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. Only one in 30 people has a mobile phone and even
fewer have  Internet access , Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a March
14 report.  The “unprecedented developments” allow the EU to open a
“new chapter” in its relations with Myanmar, the bloc said in
a statement yesterday. It called for the unconditional release
of remaining political prisoners and for humanitarian assistance
to reach Kachin state, where government troops have clashed with
ethnic minorities.  The sanctions “can be reimposed then if  Burma  turns in the
wrong direction,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told
reporters as EU foreign ministers made the decision in
Luxembourg, referring to the country by its former name. “Great
progress is being made in Burma, but we remain very concerned
about conflict and human-rights abuses.”  The EU praised the “transparent and credible” April 1 by-
elections in which former political prisoner  Aung San Suu Kyi 
won a parliamentary seat. The vote built on government moves to
ease restrictions on the media, releasing dissidents from jail
and negotiate peace agreements with ethnic rebels.  Reversible Changes  “What has happened between October and March has been
nothing short of stunning,” Shanmugam said. Still, he said,
“No one is saying the changes are irreversible.”  Suu Kyi’s parliamentarians said they won’t take their seats
in Parliament without changes to an oath to protect the
constitution. Thein Sein said he has no plans to change the
oath’s wording and called on Suu Kyi to decide whether she wants
to join parliament,  Kyodo News  reported yesterday.  “The president and his government ought to be recognized
and appreciated and encouraged and we all hope that the course
will be stayed on,” said Shanmugam, who is also Singapore’s law
minister. Singapore has helped train Myanmar public officials
and has offered to do more, including helping on rule of law
issues, he said.  Protectionist Rhetoric  Barriers to trade and finance make countries poorer and
should be resisted, he said. With a weak world economy,
Shanmugam said, a main concern is that the rhetoric of
protectionism is getting stronger.  The IMF’s doubling of its war chest to fight possible
further financial contagion will help bring confidence back to
the world economy, Shanmugam said.  China ’s once-in-a-decade leadership change later this year
isn’t causing Shanmugam to lose sleep, he said. Bo, a contender
for one of the country’s top posts, was ousted as chief for
Chongqing municipality.  “It’s big news, but in terms of big high-stake politics,
in terms of political stability of China, in terms of
transition, I don’t see a major impact,” Shanmugam said.  “The risks are more economic for China: what sort of
landing. I think  China’s economy  is managed competently, so the
downside risks aren’t something I lose sleep over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  