-- Singapore to License More Foreign Law Firms as Fees Fall
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-04-24T04:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/singapore-to-license-more-foreign-law-firms-as-fees-fall.html
Singapore , where the number of
foreign lawyers has doubled in the last four years after opening
its legal market to foreign firms, will award a second round of
licenses by next year, Law Minister K. Shanmugam said.  Firms can apply in the second half of 2012, with the
process to be completed by early next year, he said in an
interview yesterday. The first round of liberalization has done
“better than we could have expected,” he said.  International law firms have expanded in Asia, the world’s
fastest growing region, boosting competition as more lawyers
fight to advise companies amid slowing deal activity. Mergers
and acquisitions involving Singapore-based companies fell by 53
percent to $41.5 billion in 2011 from 2007 levels, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Overall I think the trend is very positive. The rate of
growth has been very encouraging,” Shanmugam said. Singapore’s
legal industry has grown by about 10 percent each year for the
past five years, he said.  New York-based White & Case LLP, Los Angeles-based Latham
and Watkins LLP, and Clifford Chance LLP, Herbert Smith LLP,
Allen & Overy LLP and  Norton Rose  LLP -- all headquartered in
London -- got licenses in 2008. Twenty firms had applied on the
day that year that Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy.  “We’re not quite looking at the edge of the precipice
now,” Shanmugam, who is also Singapore’s Foreign Minister,
said. “We think 2012 is the right time for the second round.”  Impact on Fees  Most of the foreign firms are doing better than their
projections, Shanmugam said. Foreign lawyers in Singapore have
almost doubled to 1,200 at the end of 2011 from 633 in 2007.  “There are probably too many lawyers in the market and
there may well be an impact on fees,” said  Jeff Smith , head of
South East Asia at Norton Rose. “However, at the top end of the
corporate and financial services market, the competition has
remained stable for many years.”  While the new licenses may increase competition for local
firms, they will give an incentive to international firms to use
Singapore law for their regional work, according to Krishna
Ramachandra, the managing director of  Duane Morris & Selvam LLP .  “This is a positive move for Singapore lawyers,” he said.
The joint venture of Philadelphia and Singapore firms plans to
add to its 30 lawyers in the city state, he said.  IPOs Considered  Companies including Formula One and  Manchester United  have
been said to be considering initial share sales in Singapore
this year, adding to the $21.6 billion raised from first-time
offerings since the beginning of 2007 in the city, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “How much legal work there is, how much cross-border work
there is, really depends on the regional economy,” Shanmugam
said.  Mergers and acquisitions in developed  Asia  have fallen 17
percent to $458.8 billion in 2011 from 2007 while deals in
emerging Asia rose 3 percent to $381.5 billion in the same
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging Asian economies may expand 6.8 percent in 2012,
after growing 7.3 percent last year, the  International Monetary
Fund  said on April 17. Singapore’s economy rose an annualized
9.9 percent in the three months through March 31 from the
previous quarter, when it dropped 2.5 percent.  Legal Hub  “If the regional economy is doing well, then the question
is are we shooting ourselves in the foot by having a regulatory
framework that doesn’t allow us to become a legal hub?”
Shanmugam said. “We have removed most of those impediments.”  Singapore began opening its legal industry in 2000, when it
allowed foreign firms to set up joint ventures with local ones.
Several tie-ups, including those involving New York-based
Shearman & Sterling LLP and  London ’s Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer LLP have ended.  In February when Singapore amended legislation allowing
foreign law firms to take a stake in local practices, the local
bar and lawmakers expressed concern that domestic firms would
take a back seat as international firms dominate.  Shanmugam said while the government has “suggested” that
some local law firms could consolidate, market forces should
determine the corporate structure of Singapore firms.  “The Singapore firms will find it more difficult to grow,
handle more high-end work, and compete on the international
level,” said Lee Eng Beng, managing partner of Rajah & Tann
LLP. “Singapore firms will have to ready themselves for the new
landscape.”  Clifford Chance, which has more than 70 lawyers in
Singapore now, said the licenses for foreign law firms have
increased the city’s attractiveness as a venue for transacting
regional and global business.  “A further benefit is that it has allowed Singaporeans who
have been working outside their country to return home with
their expertise,” said Geraint Hughes,  Clifford Chance ’s
Singapore managing partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  