-- Sky News E-Mail Hack Broke Criminal Law, Judge Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-04-23T16:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/sky-news-breached-criminal-law-in-e-mail-hack-ethics-judge-says.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY) ’s Sky News channel breached criminal law by hacking into e-
mail accounts for stories, a judge said at a media-ethics
inquiry triggered by wrongdoing at News Corp. tabloids.  The unit of BSkyB, which is 39 percent owned by News Corp.,
can’t use a “public-interest” defense for hacking, even though
the e-mails were given to authorities and used as evidence
against a man on trial for faking his own death to collect
insurance money, Judge Brian Leveson said. Regulator Ofcom also
said it started a probe of Sky News over the incident.  “What you were doing wasn’t just invading somebody’s
privacy, it was breaching the criminal law,” Leveson said today
during testimony in London by the head of  Sky News , John Ryley.
“At the end of the day you committed a crime.”  The Leveson probe was called for last year by U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  in response to the phone-hacking scandal
at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid.  James Murdoch , son of
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , stepped down as chairman of
BSkyB earlier this month following demands that he resign over
his role as the chairman of the News Corp. unit that published
the News of the World.  BSkyB said earlier this month that Sky News executives
cleared a reporter to access e-mails as part of his
investigations into criminal activity, including the 2008 case
of a British couple who faked the husband’s death in a canoe
accident. Another case involved a British couple wanted by
police who fled to  Spain . Sky News has said the hacking of e-
mails was in the public interest.  ‘Ruling It Out’  “I am pretty much ruling it out,” Ryley said of the
possibility of breaking the law again to get stories.
“Journalism is at times a tough business and we need to at
times shed light onto wrongdoing. There might be an occasion,
but I think it would be very, very rare.”  The reporter, Gerard Tubb, guessed a password to access e-
mails between John Darwin and his wife Anne to prove a
conspiracy in the fake death. Both were sentenced in 2008 to
more than six years in prison. Tubb had sought editorial
approval to hack into the e-mails after learning from sources
close to the case that prosecutors didn’t plan to, Ryley said
today.  The Leveson media inquiry began after evidence emerged that
phone hacking at the News of the World tabloid was rampant and
not limited to a rogue reporter, as  News Corp. (NWSA)  had claimed.  45 Arrests  The scandal has led to 45 arrests, the closing of the News
of the World and police investigations into phone hacking,
computer hacking and bribery at the company’s other papers,
including the Sun, the best-selling daily title in Britain.
Ofcom is also examining whether News Corp. is “fit and proper”
to hold its BSkyB stake.  News Corp. dropped its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion)
bid to buy all of BSkyB in July after revelations that News of
the World hacked a murdered schoolgirl’s phone for a story.  The Leveson inquiry, which started last year, is entering
its third phase, probing the relationship between U.K. media
companies and politicians, after previously examining the
media’s relationship with celebrities and police.  Evgeny Lebedev, chairman of the companies that run the
Independent and London’s Evening Standard titles, told the
inquiry today that it’s impossible to erect a wall between media
owners and politicians.  ‘Having Contact’  “I don’t see any problem with proprietors and politicians
having contact,” Lebedev said. “The problem is when
proprietors try to exert influence on politics.” The inquiry
would probably hear examples of that this week, he said.  Aidan Barclay, chairman of Telegraph Media Group, publisher
of the Telegraph newspaper, told Leveson he had a “relaxed”
relationship with former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , discussed
economic theory with Blair’s successor,  Gordon Brown , and
exchanged personal  text messages  with Cameron in 2010.  “There hasn’t been a lot of them over time,” Barclay said
of the text messages. “I like to think it’s more useful because
it goes directly to the recipient instead of being lost in the
system. I can’t say its extra useful. Could I send an e-mail?
Probably.”  Cameron also asked Barclay at a 2010 dinner to give his
view on News Corp.’s then-proposed takeover of BSkyB, Barclay
said. He said he told the prime minister he didn’t like the deal
and the conversation moved to another topic, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  