-- Social Security Fund to Run Out in 2035, Trustees Say
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/social-security-fund-to-run-out-in-2035-trustees-say.html
The budget outlook for Social
Security is getting dimmer, the U.S. government said, with its
primary trust fund now projected to run dry three years sooner
than anticipated.  The fund that helps finance benefits for 44 million senior
citizens and survivors of deceased workers will be exhausted by
2035, the program’s trustees said in an annual report yesterday.
Aid would have to be cut at that point if Congress doesn’t
intervene.  Social Security’s disability program, which helps support
11 million Americans, will run through its trust fund in 2016,
two years earlier than predicted. The report attributed the
fiscal stress in part to the weak economy.  The main trust fund that supports the Medicare health-care
program for the elderly will run out of money in 2024, the
report said.  The giant retirement programs are straining the U.S.
government’s finances, and what to do about them is a central
issue in the election-year debate between Democrats and
Republicans as President  Barack Obama  seeks a second term.  “Millions of Americans rely on Social Security and
Medicare for income and for health care, and millions more will
do so in the future,” said Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner ,
one of the programs’ six trustees. “These programs have the
resources they need to fulfill their commitments to the American
people for years to come. But what these reports also reinforce
is that we must take steps to keep these programs whole for the
future.”  Combined Trust Funds  The combined Social Security retirement and disability
trust funds would be depleted in 2033, three years earlier than
projected. After that, incoming revenue would be enough to cover
only three-quarters of scheduled benefits.  House Republicans  have proposed replacing Medicare with
government subsidies to help seniors buy private insurance.
Democrats and the Obama administration rejected that plan and
have said they want to find ways to shore up the traditional
program.  Neither side has offered a plan for Social Security, which
at a 2011 cost of $736 billion is the U.S. government’s largest
single program.  Lawmakers traded shots over the report. House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, said
“rather than work together to advance solutions, the president
has opted to play politics with seniors’ care” by distorting
“efforts to save and strengthen Medicare.”  ‘Never Weakened’  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
said, “despite the repeated efforts of Republicans to privatize
Social Security and end the Medicare guarantee, these vital
initiatives remain strong” and “Democrats will always ensure
they are strengthened, never weakened.”  Presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
proposes raising the Social Security retirement age for younger
people and indexing benefit increases for higher-income retirees
to inflation instead of wages. For Medicare, he endorsed the
House Republicans’ plan, authored by Ryan.  Some Democrats said the numbers show there is plenty of
time to address Social Security’s finances. “The program will
be fully funded for more than 20 years, so we have time to find
smart ways to improve it,” said Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat whose committee has
jurisdiction over the program.  The slow economy harms the programs because, when
unemployment rises, fewer Americans pay the payroll taxes that
support Social Security and Medicare. At the same time, some
people unable to find work apply for Social Security benefits
earlier than they had planned.  Cost of Living  Also, the report said, a higher-than-expected 3.6 percent
cost-of-living adjustment awarded last year to Social Security
beneficiaries helped push up program costs. The trustees said
they anticipate beneficiaries will be awarded a 1.8 percent
increase later this year.  In addition to Geithner, the trustees are the secretaries
of Labor and Health and Human Services, the Social Security
administrator and two public representatives.  Social Security has two parts: the old-age and survivors
insurance program, which supports senior citizens, and the
disability insurance program. Each has a trust fund financed
primarily by a payroll tax split between workers and employers.
Medicare is funded through a combination of payroll taxes,
beneficiaries’ premiums and general  tax revenue .  Enrollment in the disability insurance program has soared
in recent years. There will be 10.9 million beneficiaries this
year, according to the report, up 64 percent since 2000.  Spending on the disability program last year totaled $132
billion, while it took in $106 billion, the trustees said. It
had $154 billion left in its trust fund last year. Once that
dries up, the report said, incoming revenue will cover only 80
percent of scheduled benefits.  “The DI program faces the most immediate financing
shortfall of any of the separate trust funds,” the report said.
“Thus lawmakers need to act soon to avoid reduced payments to
DI beneficiaries four years from now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  