-- South Sudan Says It Will No Longer Export Oil Through Sudan
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-04-23T13:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/south-sudan-says-it-will-no-longer-export-oil-through-sudan-1-.html
South Sudan ’s government will no
longer export crude via neighboring Sudan and all future
negotiations between the two countries will exclude oil, said
 Pagan Amum , South Sudan’s chief negotiator.  South Sudan has secured funding to build a new oil
pipeline, Amum said in a phone interview today from  Addis Ababa ,
the capital of Ethiopia. He didn’t provide further details.  “Oil is off the table,” he said. “South Sudan has taken a
strategic decision not to export our oil through Sudan.”  South Sudan in January shut down its oil production, which
accounts for 98 percent of government revenue, after accusing
Sudan of stealing $815 million worth of its oil from a pipeline
that is used to transport the fuel to a  Port Sudan  on the  Red
Sea . Sudan said it confiscated the crude to make up for unpaid
fees, amid a dispute over how much South Sudan should pay to
ferry the crude.  In January, South Sudan’s government said it was
considering alternative pipelines to the Sudanese one. In
February, it signed a memorandum with Ethiopia to build an oil
pipeline via Djibouti, and said it’s in talks with a Texas-based
construction company to build a pipeline to the Kenyan coastal
town of Lamu.  Amum’s comments may be intended to influence bilateral
talks once they resume in Addis Ababa, said Marc Mercer, an
independent analyst who researches the region’s oil industry.  “I can’t imagine his words are more than just rhetoric or
leverage for negotiations,” he said in a phone interview from
Dubai.  Security Concerns  Building a new pipeline across the Turkana region of
northern  Kenya , a mountainous area that is also unsecure because
of ethnic tensions, may not be commercially viable, he said.
Securing financing would be difficult, insurance premiums would
be “through the roof,” and a pipeline may take “years to build.  South Sudanese President Salva Kiir will discuss the
pipeline and other economic issues with Chinese officials during
a six-day visit to Beijing that starts today, he said.  China  lost 260,000 barrels a day of supplies when South
Sudan halted output in January, New York-based Eurasia Group
said in February. China National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s ONGC Videsh Ltd. pump most
of the oil in the two countries.  Secession  South  Sudan  seceded from Sudan in July, acquiring three
quarters of the formerly united country’s oil production.
Negotiations since then have failed to yield an agreement on how
much the landlocked south should pay to use a pipeline and
processing facilities in Sudan.  Intermittent clashes between the neighboring nations
escalated since April 10 after South Sudan occupied the disputed
border region of Heglig. South Sudan announced on April 20 it
was withdrawing its forces from the oil-rich region, while Sudan
said its soldiers forced them to retreat and said its “war” with
South Sudan started with “liberating Heglig and will continue
until we liberate the whole Sudan.”  Earlier today, South Sudan accused Sudan’s military of
carrying out aerial bombardments of four towns and of carrying
out ground attacks on South Sudanese territory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 