-- Netherlands Leads Rise in Sovereign Credit Risk on Deficit Woes
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-04-23T14:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/sovereign-corporate-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The Netherlands led an increase in
the cost of insuring against default on European sovereign debt
to the highest in four weeks as the government offered to resign
after lawmakers split over austerity plans.  Credit-default swaps on Dutch bonds jumped 11.5 basis
points to 130 at 3:20 p.m. in  London , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, the highest in five months. Corporate credit risk
also rose as reports showed manufacturing contracted in the euro
area and China.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered his cabinet’s
resignation after losing support of Geert Wilders’s  Freedom
Party  in his coalition following disagreement over deficit
reduction plans. His government’s fall could stifle policy
making as euro-region debt rose last year to the highest since
the start of the single currency, European Union figures showed.  “There is a danger that we will see a move to more
radical, less Europe-friendly policies in the Netherlands,”
said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc in
London. “A change in the Dutch government raises concern as to
whether they will get the budget through and whether they lose
their triple A rating which is causing the widening at the
moment.”  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments jumped four basis points to 285.
An increase signals worsening perceptions of  credit quality .  The debt of the 17 euro nations climbed to 87.2 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011 from 85.3 percent the previous
year, official European Union figures showed. That’s the highest
since the euro was introduced in 1999.  Greece  topped the list
with debt at 165.3 percent of GDP, while Estonia had the least
at 6 percent of GDP.  Manufacturing Output  Euro-area services and manufacturing output declined for a
third month in April as the economy struggled to rebound from a
fourth-quarter contraction. A euro-area composite index based on
a survey of purchasing managers in both industries fell to 47.4,
a five-month low, from 49.1 in March, London-based Markit
Economics said in an initial estimate today. Economists had
forecast an increase to 49.3.  China ’s manufacturing may shrink for a sixth month in
April, maintaining pressure on officials to adopt more policies
to stimulate economic growth, a survey of companies showed. The
49.1 preliminary reading of the purchasing managers’ index from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today compares with a
final 48.3 in March. A number below 50 points to a contraction.  Crossover Index  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps linked to 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings increased 22.5
basis points to 695.5. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings advanced 6.5 basis
points to 150.25 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers rose eight basis points to 263 and the
subordinated index jumped 12.5 to 422.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.1 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  