-- Spain Banks May Pool Written-Down Real Estate in Joint Units
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-04-23T15:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/spain-banks-may-create-companies-for-real-estate-official-says.html
Spanish banks may pool property in
jointly owned companies under a proposal designed to get assets
off lenders’ books, an official at the  Economy Ministry  said.  Taxpayer funds wouldn’t be used, and no bank would have
control of the property entities, meaning they wouldn’t have to
consolidate the companies’ results and asset values on their own
balance sheets, the official said today. He declined to be named
as the plan is still being considered. Banks would transfer the
assets at market prices to the companies, which would be run by
independent managers, and will have to book a loss if that price
is below the value for which an asset has been provisioned.  “It raises a lot of follow-up questions: who’s going to do
the valuations, and how aggressive are they going to be?”
Daragh Quinn, a Madrid-based analyst at Nomura International,
said by phone. The move could be a good idea “if it’s done
properly,” he said.  Less than three months after changing the banking law to
force lenders to recognize deeper real estate losses,  Spain ’s
government is seeking more ways to restore confidence in its
financial industry. Spanish 10-year  bond yields  surged above 6
percent today amid concern that lenders’ bad loans risk swamping
 public  finances, while the second recession in three years
threatens efforts to cut the deficit.  Bad Bank  Last week, the Bank of Spain’s regulation chief, Jose Maria Roldan, raised the  possibility  of letting banks split off bad
assets once losses have been recognized. The Bank of Spain gave
no more details in the text it published after Roldan made a
presentation to analysts in London.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos has repeatedly ruled out
creating a so-called bad bank to take on toxic assets, funded by
taxpayers. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  asked for at least two
academic papers on how to create a bad bank before coming to
power in December, two people with knowledge of the matter said
in November.  De Guindos introduced rules to accelerate the overhaul of
the banking system in February, forcing lenders to recognize
deeper losses from the collapse of the building boom and
encouraging mergers. Banks have to increase the ratio of
provisions set aside for land to 80 percent from 31 percent,
while increasing provisions for unfinished developments to 65
percent and to 35 percent for finished homes.  Slumping Prices  Since the market’s peak in 2007, the average price of urban
land has dropped 36 percent, according to data from the Ministry
of Infrastructure. Asking prices for homes have fallen by an
average of 30 percent during that time, according to a March 1
report by Fotocasa.es, a real-estate website, and the IESE
Business School.  Prices may fall further as the economy is suffering its
second  recession  since 2009 and the  unemployment rate , the
highest in the European Union, exceeds 23 percent. Banks are
tightening credit by the most on record, and the number of home
mortgages fell 41 percent in January from a year earlier,
government data show.  The plan being considered may be a revival of a previous
idea. Last year, five Spanish banks including  Bankia SA (BKIA)  planned
to set up a real estate company to sell off homes, land and
other unsold property in an entity managed by real-estate
consultant Aguirre Newman, Cinco Dias reported on Aug. 8. The
plan was never announced.  “It looks like something that might help,”  John Raymond ,
a bank analyst at CreditSights Inc., said by phone from  London .
“People may see it as a more efficient way of dealing with the
problem. We still need to know a lot more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  