-- Spanish Soccer Tax Deals Probed as Madrid Teams Prosper
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-04-24T09:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/spanish-soccer-tax-deals-probed-as-madrid-teams-go-for-trophies.html
The European Commission is
examining whether  Spain ’s top-division soccer clubs are
improperly receiving state aid under agreements that delay tax
payments.  The commission is analyzing information it requested from
the Spanish government about the tax pacts, commission
spokeswoman Marisa Gonzalez said in an e-mail.  Atletico Madrid ,
which signed top scorer Radamel Falcao for a club record outlay
of 40 million euros ($53 million) in August, is paying 15
million euros a year of a 115 million-euro tax debt, according
to Chief Executive Officer Miguel Angel Gil.  The commission’s pressure could end up forcing Spanish
teams to pay down debt faster and spend less on signing players
to boost performance, according to Sandalio Gomez, a professor
at  IESE business school  in  Madrid  who teaches soccer executives.
Spain has five of the eight semifinalists in Europe’s premier
soccer club competitions.  “The commission has to tidy up clubs’ financial
accounts,” Gomez said. “It’s clear that could affect the
performance of Spanish clubs.”  Clubs in Spain’s top two divisions have a total tax debt of
 673 million euros , the national league said March 15. Much of
the debt dates back to before the first of Spain’s most recent
two recessions began in 2008 and is linked to disputes the clubs
lost against tax authorities, according to Jose Maria Gay, an
Barcelona University accountancy professor who writes an annual
report on teams’ finances.  Confrontations  The government has avoided strong-arm tactics over repaying
the tax to risk shutting down clubs and sparking a political
backlash from fans, Gay said.  Miguel Cardenal, Spain’s secretary of state for sport,
denied soccer clubs receive favoritism because all companies in
the country can restructure tax repayments, he said.  “It’s not special treatment,” Cardenal said in an
interview in Madrid. Other teams competing in  Europe  also have
substantial debts, Cardenal added, citing English Premier League
defending champion  Manchester United .  Cardenal, who said he has had no direct contact with the
European Commission, said he will announce a plan tomorrow for
clubs to repay their tax debts by 2020.  If no action is taken, soccer team debts “could bring
imbalances in competitions and affect” Spanish soccer’s
reputation, Cardenal said in an April 21 speech to a group of
sports executives including Atletico’s Gil.  Atletico is paying an annual interest rate of 4.5 percent
on its tax debt, Gil said.  Tax Debts  “This arrangement has been going on for years,” Gil said.
“Other teams have bank debt, we have tax debt.”  About 46 million euros of Atletico’s debt stems from when
it was relegated to the second division in 2000 and stopped
paying taxes for two years, Gil said. Another 50 million euros
is due following tax reviews, he said  “It can’t be seen as an advantage to pay 5 percent
interest and meet all payment deadlines,” Gil said in an e-mail
response to questions. “It would only be an advantage if they
gave us a discount or we didn’t pay any interest.”  Atletico paid 52.5 million euros to tax authorities last
year, when it paid the first 20 million euros of Falcao’s fee to
Porto, Gil said.  Atletico Madrid ’s accord with the tax authority wouldn’t be
permitted in other parts of Europe, IESE professor Gomez said.
In  Scotland , Rangers are in financial administration over a
claim by U.K. tax authorities for as much as 75 million pounds
($121 million). The club owes 93 million pounds in tax, its
administrators Duff & Phelps said April 5.  Rangers Woes  Rangers owner  Craig Whyte  was banned for life from
involvement in Scottish soccer and the 54-time league champion
was given a yearlong embargo on signing players, the Scottish
Football Association said in a statement last night, adding they
had brought the game into disrepute.  Atletico, the 2010 champion, leads Valencia 4-2 heading
into the deciding game of their  Europa League semifinal  on April
26. In the other semifinal of the second-tier competition,
 Athletic Bilbao  trails Sporting Lisbon 2-1.  In the elite  Champions League , defending champion Barcelona
trails Chelsea 1-0 ahead of the second part of their semifinal
today. Ahead of tomorrow’s semifinal, Real Madrid is 2-1 down to
Bayern.  European soccer’s ruling body UEFA, whose president is
 Michel Platini , is introducing so-called financial fair play
rules that don’t allow clubs a deficit of more than 45 million
euros over three seasons. The regulations don’t directly address
the issue of deferring tax.  Real Madrid had deferred tax payments of 20 million euros
in June 2011, while Barcelona and Valencia both owed 1 million
euros, according to Gay’s research. Real Madrid said in a March
14 statement it has zero tax debt.  “We have a top-notch  credit rating ,” Real Madrid said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  