-- STMicroelectronics Forecasts Second-Quarter Sales Gain
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-04-24T08:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/stmicroelectronics-posts-q1-loss-on-wireless-division.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s
largest semiconductor maker, forecast rising revenue in the
current quarter after first-quarter bookings picked up despite
weakness in the wireless business and European markets.  Second-quarter sales will advance by about 7.5 percent,
plus or minus 3 percentage points, from $2.02 billion in the
first three months of the year, the Geneva-based  company  said
yesterday in a statement issued after the close of trading in
 New York . It reported a net loss of $176 million in the first
period, compared with net income of $170 million a year earlier
and wider than the $75 million loss estimated by analysts.  “While there are still macro-economic uncertainties, we
believe billings have bottomed in the first quarter,” said Chief
Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti . “Bookings have improved across
the board during the course of the first quarter,” he said.  The stock fell 14 percent yesterday in Paris trading for
its biggest drop in more than 13 years, after ST-Ericsson, a
joint venture with Ericsson AB, unveiled a plan to eliminate
1,700 jobs and transfer development of some of its more advanced
processors to STMicroelectronics to trim costs. The shares rose
3.8 percent to 4.47 euros as of 10:45 a.m. today.  “The results were disappointing in terms of higher than
expected operating loss, but guidance confirms that the first
quarter was the trough for semiconductors and points to a
recovery trend for the sector in the second quarter,” said
Saverio Papagno, an analyst at AZ Fund Management in Luxembourg.  Gross Margin  The company’s operating loss was $352 million in the first
quarter compared with operating income of $118 million a year
earlier. STMicroelectronics forecast a gross margin, the
percentage of revenue left after subtracting manufacturing
costs, of 34.4 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, in
the second quarter from 29.6 percent in the first quarter and
compared with 39.1 percent in the first three months of 2011.  STMicroelectronics’s fortunes have been affected by the
performance of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , one of the company’s biggest
 customers . In November, Nokia released its first smartphones in
Europe running Microsoft Corp. software. The handset maker has
previously struggled to provide handsets to compete with Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and devices running Google Inc.’s Android.  Sales declined 20 percent in the first quarter, missing
analysts’ estimates of $2.03 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Our wireless segment losses weighed heavily on our
quarterly results again,” Bozotti said.  Manufacturing Costs  STMicroelectronics said earlier this month that it was
ordered to pay about $59 million to NXP Semiconductors
Netherlands BV in an arbitration proceeding.  “Several hundred” workers will move to
STMicroelectronics, ST-Ericsson CEO Didier Lamouche said
yesterday on a conference call. The venture said it expects
yearly savings of $320 million by the end of 2013, and total
restructuring costs are estimated to be $130 million to $150
million.  ST-Ericsson, which hasn’t turned profitable since being
formed in 2009, said yesterday that its first-quarter net loss
widened to $312 million from $178 million. Revenue fell 35
percent to $290 million in the period. The company, which is in
a transition to new products, said yesterday that it expects net
sales to increase sequentially in a “low double-digit range” in
the second quarter.  “Though the move is responsible, it seems like too little
too late,” said Adib Ghubril, a Toronto-based analyst at
researcher Gartner Inc. “More partnerships, more alliances,
more joint efforts, all that speaks of political issues and a
reluctance to make the moves necessary for swifter returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  