-- Stocks Drop to 3-Month Low on Shrinking Output: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-23T22:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/stocks-drop-to-3-month-low-on-shrinking-output-russia-overnight.html
Russian equities traded in New York
tumbled to a three-month low on concern shrinking manufacturing
in  China  and  Europe  will curb demand for metals and oil.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S. dropped 1.9 percent to 101.81 in
New York, the lowest level since Jan. 24, led by hydropower
company OAO RusHydro and OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s
biggest producer of the metal. Moscow’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slipped 2.6
percent to close at 1,466.34, after the evening session of
trading was halted for about four hours for technical reasons.  All but three of the 14 stocks in the  Russia-US gauge 
dropped yesterday as a preliminary purchasing managers’ index
signaled Chinese manufacturing may contract for a sixth month in
April. Crude, Russia’s biggest export earner, slid the most in
two weeks and copper, nickel and aluminum prices sank. In the
 euro zone , an index based on a survey of purchasing managers in
services and manufacturing fell to a five-month low.  “Russia, being a high beta market, gets negatively
impacted when there is evidence of global slowdown,” Arjun Jayaraman, who manages $400 million in emerging-market equities
at Causeway Capital Management LLC in  Los Angeles , said by e-
mail yesterday. “The PMI numbers coming out of China, as well
as Europe, indicate contraction.  Oil prices  are also being
negatively impacted by this.”  Futures expiring in June on Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS
Index, which weren’t affected by the Micex-RTS trading
disruption, added 0.8 percent to 153,475.  RusHydro Slump  RusHydro’s  American depositary receipts  fell 4.1 percent in
 New York , the most since March 6, to $3.50. The ADRs traded at a
0.8 percent discount to the company’s Moscow-listed shares, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Moscow-based company was the
biggest decliner on the Bloomberg Russia-US Equity index today.  In Moscow, RusHydro dropped 3.8 percent to 1.0425 rubles,
or 4 U.S. cents. One U.S.-traded ADR in the company is equal to
100 ordinary shares in Moscow.  Norilsk fell 3.8 percent in New York to $17.34, the most
since March 20, to trade at a 0.5 percent discount to the
company’s Moscow-listed shares. Ten U.S.-listed ADRs are equal
to one ordinary share of Norilsk. The  stock  fell 3.4 percent to
5,147 rubles, or $174.23, in Moscow yesterday.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, declined 2.3 percent, the most since April
10, to $29.63 yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the index futures, dropped 0.9
percent to 32.97 points in U.S. trading.  ‘Spread Too Thin’  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the world’s sixth-largest wireless operator
by subscribers, said in a statement yesterday that it sold its
entire 49 percent stake in its GTEL subsidiary in  Vietnam  for
$45 million in cash. VimpelCom slipped 3.6 percent to $9.82 in
New York, the lowest since Jan. 4.  “VimpelCom selling its Vietnam operations fits in with
what I have been saying about them being spread too thin to
manage so many markets,” Hawk Sunshine, who manages $300
million in assets at brokerage IFC Metropol in Moscow, said by
e-mail.  Russia ’s Micex-RTS Exchange resumed trading on its indexes
at 9:50 p.m. yesterday in Moscow, according to a statement on
the bourse’s website. Trading data from 5:41 p.m. on will be
restored, the statement said.  It was the second trading halt since the Micex and RTS
exchanges merged in December and the third in the past 12
months, Nikita Bekasov, spokesman for the exchange, said
yesterday by phone. False data was reflected in the trading
system for an unknown reason and the Micex-RTS is undertaking an
investigation, he said.  Micex-RTS ‘Emergency’  “We hope there will be no loss to anyone,” Bekasov said,
adding that equities and bonds trading on the Micex’s main
market were affected. “We treated the situation as an
emergency, making sure no one left work here at the Micex before
the system was restored.”  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index has delayed the start of trading
three times over the past 12 months in  Sao Paulo . The last time
the exchange used a circuit breaker to halt trading was in
October 2008.  “Clients seem frustrated,”  Luis Saenz , chief executive
officer of the U.S. unit of Moscow brokerage Otkritie Financial
Corp., said in a phone interview yesterday. “I hope that it
doesn’t resemble how they deal with the future reforms coming
up.”  Russia’s Micex-RTS Exchange plans to debut a central
securities depositary in July and move away from immediate
settlement of transactions, changes that bring the market into
line with developed market bourses and will allow conservative
investors such as pension funds to buy Russian equities, Micex-
RTS President Ruben Aganbegyan said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York on April 16.  Crude Slides  Crude oil for June delivery dropped 0.7 percent to $103.11
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Futures
have declined 8.2 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for June settlement was little changed at $118.71
a barrel on the London-based ICE exchange.  Urals crude , Russia’s
main export blend, was little changed at $115.75.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities declined
0.3 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  