-- Suu Kyi Seeks Myanmar Oath Change Before Parliament Entry
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-04-23T06:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/suu-kyi-seeks-myanmar-oath-change-before-parliament-entry.html
Myanmar’s president said he has no
plans to change an oath taken by incoming lawmakers as demanded
by  Aung San Suu Kyi ’s party,  Kyodo News  reported, signaling a
potential row following April 1 by-elections.  Suu Kyi must decide herself whether to be part of
parliament, Thein Sein told reporters today in  Tokyo , according
to the report, whoch was carried on the Mainichi newspaper’s
website. Thein Sein said he would welcome Suu Kyi to the
lawmaking body and that he looks forward to working with her,
according to Kyodo.  Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy won’t join
Parliament until an oath requiring parliamentarians to
“protect” the  constitution  is changed, according to spokesman
Han Tha Myint. The NLD’s stand comes as western nations prepare
to ease sanctions and engage the country as it emerges from five
decades of military rule.  “We can reach some sort of solution to this,” Han Tha
Myint said by phone today from Yangon, without speculating on
how long the negotiations may last. “The democratization
process will go on. We wish to fulfill the wishes of voters, who
want us to be inside the parliament.”  European Union foreign ministers will probably suspend most
sanctions against Myanmar when they meet today, an official told
reporters in Brussels last week on condition of anonymity. The
U.S. has pledged to lift trade and financial restrictions on
certain sectors of the economy.  ‘Just a Hiccup’  The NLD demand “is just a hiccup,” said Thaung Tun, a
retired Myanmar diplomat who is a visiting senior research
fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore .
“Since Aung San Suu Kyi decided to participate in the process
she knew full well from the beginning what the oath was, so I
think they will find a way to find a compromise. It would be bad
for the country if it went for very long.”  Suu Kyi rejoined the political process last year after a
similar wording change to a law governing political parties. Her
party’s election win this month prompted the U.S. and European
Union to reassess sanctions against Myanmar in a reward for
Thein Sein’s shift to democracy.  Suu Kyi’s party boycotted a 2010 election because it
opposed the military-drafted constitution, which automatically
grants 25 percent of seats to the armed forces. Changing the
document requires the approval of more than 75 percent of the
664-member national parliament, which is dominated by  Thein
Sein ’s party and the military.  The NLD won’t oppose using the oath required of the
country’s president and vice president, which says they must
“uphold and abide” by the constitution, Han Tha Myint said.
The NLD won 43 of 45 by-election seats on April 1, including 37
in the lower house, four in the upper house and two in regional
assemblies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  