-- Swedish Stocks Fall on German PMI, Alfa Laval: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-23T15:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/swedish-stocks-fall-on-german-pmi-alfa-laval-stockholm-mover.html
Stockholm’s benchmark stock index
declined the most in seven months as a German manufacturing
index contracted to its lowest level since 2009 and exporter
 Alfa Laval AB (ALFA)  predicted demand would remain unchanged in the
current quarter.  The OMX Stockholm 30 Index fell as much as 4.9 percent and
was down 4.6 percent to 1,007.32 at the 5:30 p.m. close in the
Swedish capital, the most since Sept. 22 and with all 30  index
constituents falling .  Sandvik AB (SAND) , a Swedish maker of metal-
cutting tools and  SSAB (SSABA) , a maker of high-strength steel, declined
the most after Alfa Laval and were down 6.3 percent and 6.2
percent respectively.  “Stocks in  Sweden  are reacting to a combination of weak
German PMI, increased concern for the euro on the back of
 France ’s vote and the government crisis in the Netherlands, and
lackluster results from Alfa Laval this afternoon,” said Nordea
Bank AB equity strategist Magnus Dagel.  A German manufacturing index based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  fell to 46.3 in April, from 48.4 in March,
London-based Markit Economics said in an initial estimate today.
Economists had forecast an increase to 49 according to the
median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  Alfa Laval, the world’s largest maker of heat exchangers,
said today it sees second-quarter demand on about the same level
as in the first quarter, a softening of its guidance from the
first three months of this year, when it predicted demand in
line with or slightly higher than the fourth quarter.  The company, based in Lund, Sweden, makes tanks and
separation gear for cleaning wastewater and purifying ballast
water aboard ships, as well as refrigeration and cooling tanks
for food processing and beverages. It’s share fell as much as
6.9 percent and was down 6.8 percent, or 9.70 kronor, to 133.9
at the close.  The  OMX Stockholm 30 Index (OMX)  has fallen 2 percent this year,
in line with the STOXX Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  