-- Sweden AAA Bonds Deliver Biggest Rally as Investors See Rate Cut
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-04-23T12:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/sweden-s-10-year-government-bonds-rally-krona-weakens.html
Sweden’s AAA rated  government bonds 
rallied, delivering the biggest gain in developed debt markets,
as bets that the central bank will cut  interest rates  added to
the haven appeal of the securities.  Ten-year government bonds gained, sending the yield down
six basis points to 1.74 percent as of 1:22 p.m. in Stockholm.
Volatility in Swedish  government securities  was the highest
among developed nations today, according to measures of 10-year
bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Swedish bonds are safe haven assets, but there is also
another important reason for why Swedish bonds are performing,”
said Par Magnusson, chief analyst for Scandinavian rates at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stockholm . Some investors
are betting “that the Riksbank will deliver rate cuts and the
more bullish the market becomes on the Riksbank delivering rate
cuts the lower the bond yield will be.”  Sweden’s bonds have offered a haven from Europe’s debt
crisis as investors turn to markets backed by healthy public
finances. Government debt will narrow to 34.6 percent of gross
domestic product this year, compared with a euro-area average of
90.4 percent, the European Commission said Nov. 10. The
difference between Swedish 10-year yields and similar-maturity
German bunds narrowed to nine basis points today from 10 at the
end of last week. The spread was negative until Feb. 21.  Haven Trade  Investors flocked to bond markets back by  Europe ’s least-
indebted governments today amid speculation the Netherlands will
need to hold early elections and after Socialist Francois Hollande beat President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the first round of
 France ’s presidential elections.  The yield on  Germany ’s benchmark five-year note fell to a
euro-era record today, and was trading at 0.62 percent as of 2
p.m. local time.  The Riksbank last week kept its benchmark repo rate at 1.5
percent after cutting twice since December. Policy makers may
need to revise an outlook signaling they won’t deliver more cuts
this year, said Christian Borjesson, chief analyst Nordea
Markets in Stockholm.  “Our view is that the interest rate will fall,” Borjesson
said. “The reduction may not take place July, but it is likely
to happen at one point later this year.”  The krona weakened 0.9 percent against the dollar to
6.7435.  Sweden ’s currency lost 0.2 percent versus the euro to
8.8559.  “If you also think that the rate is going to be lower you
also think that the rate difference between Sweden and the euro
for instance is going to be lower and when the rate difference
goes down you usually see the Swedish krona depreciate because
that means that the carry becomes worse,” Magnusson said.  Sweden’s benchmark index of the country’s 30 most-traded
stocks slumped 3.2 percent, today’s worst performance of any
major index in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tasneem Brogger in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  