-- Swiss Exchange Upgrades Technology to Cut Trading Times
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-04-23T16:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/swiss-exchange-upgrades-technology-to-cut-trading-times.html
SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd. upgraded
its technology and allowed customers to set up nearby servers to
cut trading times as the operator of the Zurich bourse seeks to
fight off competition.  The changes mean that average round-trip latency has been
reduced to 37 microseconds from 800 microseconds, Christian Katz, chief executive officer of the Swiss stock exchange, said
in an interview today. The exchange also entered a partnership
with Equinix to provide a so-called co-location service in
Zurich, he said.  Market operators such as the Swiss exchange, Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc., NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  are allowing
customers to set up servers near their systems that match buy
and sell orders as they fight to stem the loss of market share
to alternative trading systems such as Bats Europe. The greater
proximity means clients can reduce the time it takes to receive
an execution or confirm that their order was canceled.  “We are investing in the future, our exchange and the
marketplace,” Katz said today. “We’ve been operating in a very
fierce competitive environment and we have to provide first-
class services.”  Led by Katz, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive,
the Zurich-based company has been working to become more
competitive, also boosting services in risk management and
trading. The Swiss exchange, home to Nestle SA and UBS AG, is
the largest of  Europe ’s bourses to remain closely held.  The parent company, SIX, is owned by about 150 brokers and
banks that are also users and was formed in a  three-way merger 
at the start of 2008. It offers securities trading, post-trade
services, financial information and data and payment
transactions. The group is owned by Swiss banks including UBS
and Credit Suisse Group AG and asset managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  