-- U.K. Stocks Decline, BHP, Rio Tinto Fall on Metal Drop
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-04-23T16:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/u-k-stocks-decline-bhp-rio-tinto-fall-on-metal-drop.html
U.K. stocks  declined as a report
showed Britons experienced the biggest fall in discretionary
spending power in more than a year and as the Dutch prime
minister failed to reach an agreement on austerity measures with
a coalition party.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, and
 Rio Tinto  Group retreated as metals prices dropped in London and
manufacturing in China contracted.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide
Plc (CW/)  soared 12 percent after  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  agreed to acquire
the company for 1.04 billion pounds ($1.7 billion) in cash.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slipped 1.9 percent to 5,665.57 at the
close in London. The measure rose 2.1 percent last week for the
biggest gain since the week ending Feb. 3. The benchmark gauge
has lost 5 percent since its 2012 high on March 16. The broader
 FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  fell 1.9 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index dropped 2.2 percent.  “Political developments in Europe are weighing on
indices,” Rupert Osborne, a futures dealer at IG Index in
 London , wrote. “Some resistance in the Netherlands coalition to
agree on austerity measures has added to the week’s negative
start. Manufacturing data out of China is playing its part.”  Britons suffered the biggest drop in discretionary spending
power in more than a year in March as income growth slowed and
consumers spent more on essential items such as food and utility
bills, according to Lloyds TSB.  U.K. consumers’ spending power for non-essential items
after inflation fell 1.1 percent from a year earlier, the most
since February 2011, the unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said
in an e-mailed report released in London today.  Dutch Elections  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered to quit, a move
that would trigger early elections, as he sought to win
parliamentary support for additional budget cuts needed to steer
the Netherlands clear of the debt crisis. Queen Beatrix will
consider the resignation, the government’s information service
said.  In France, Socialist Francois Hollande and President
Nicolas Sarkozy progressed to the final round of elections.
Hollande won 28.6 percent of the vote against 27.1 percent for
Sarkozy, the interior ministry said in Paris.  Euro-area services and manufacturing contracted more than
estimated in April. A  composite index  based on a survey of
purchasing managers in both industries fell to 47.4, a five-
month low, from 49.1 in March, London-based Markit Economics
said in an initial estimate. Economists had forecast an increase
to 49.3, according to the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  In  China , manufacturing shrank for a sixth month in April,
according to a survey of companies. Euro-area services and
manufacturing contracted more than estimated in April, a report
showed.  BHP, Rio Fall  BHP lost 3.6 percent to 1,898.5 pence. Rio Tinto, the
third-biggest mining company, slid 4.8 percent to 3,376 pence.
Copper, lead, nickel and tin were among metals falling in
London.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide surged 12 percent to 35.9 pence.
Vodafone, the world’s largest wireless operator, will pay 38
pence a share in an offer recommended by Cable & Wireless
directors, the companies said in a statement today. The stock
closed at 32 pence in London on April 20, giving it a market
value of 879 million pounds.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  slipped 1.9 percent to 2,811.5 pence. The
U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker said it agreed to buy Ardea
Biosciences Inc. for $1.26 billion.  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , a London-listed mining company, sank 8.5 percent
to 497.4 pence. Lenders of $437 million to PT Bakrie & Brothers
asked for about $100 million in cash as additional collateral, a
person familiar with the matter said. The loan is backed by
Bakrie’s stake in Bumi.  Oil Discovery  Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR) , U.K. explorer operating
in the Falkland Islands, tumbled 32 percent to 89.5 pence, the
most since at least May 2005. The stock soared 87 percent last
week as investors speculated that it discovered oil. The company
today said that it made a discovery at its Darwin prospect,
without saying how much oil may be recoverable from the field.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  lost 3.3 percent to 92.55 pence. RBC reduced
its price target 24 percent to 125 pence and said it expects a
45 percent  dividend  cut in 2013.  SuperGroup Plc (SGP) , a retailer, tumbled 4.8 percent to 335
pence, its lowest price since its initial public offering in
March 2010. The stock was downgraded to “fairly valued” from
“buy” at Singer Capital Markets.  Kenmare Resources Plc (KMR)  lost 7.3 percent to 50.9 pence.
Managing Director Michael Carvill said in the Sunday Times
yesterday said he was against a takeover of the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  