-- U.K.’s Fight to Deport Cleric Mirrors Old European Feuds
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-04-24T13:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/u-k-s-fight-to-deport-cleric-mirrors-old-european-feuds.html
When the  European Court  of Human
Rights blocked the U.K. from deporting a radical Muslim cleric
accused of terrorism, one British politician was so incensed he
called on the government to give “two fingers” to the
Strasbourg, France-based tribunal.  That gesture, which folklore says dates from when English
archers taunted French knights in medieval wars by waving the
digits used to draw their bows, is a fitting symbol of British
antipathy to the continent.  The U.K. hosted a summit last week on the future of the
 European Court of Human Rights  even as relations were strained
by a dispute over extraditing terrorism suspect Abu Qatada. The
ECHR said the Jordanian, whose real name is Omar Othman, can’t
be deported to his home country until it decides whether that
would infringe his rights.  Qatada’s case, in which he claims evidence obtained through
torture will be used against him, has revived old arguments
about Europe’s role in British affairs. Prime Minister  David Cameron  wants to limit the ECHR’s remit, so it focuses on major
cases and interferes less with national governments. Some
British politicians want to go further and ignore the court’s
rulings altogether.  “If you worry about the basic rights and freedoms of 800
million European citizens in 47 countries, the court does matter
very much,” said Anthony Lester, a human rights lawyer and
member of the U.K. House of Lords, who said the court works well
for Britain.  Little Britain  “One, as a little Englander, can say ‘we’ll put two
fingers up to all that,’ or, you have some solidarity with other
countries,” said Lester, who has argued cases at the ECHR for
more than 40 years.  Qatada won a January ruling from the ECHR blocking his
deportation over the potential evidence from torture. As a
result, he was released from a U.K. jail. The cleric was re-
arrested on April 17, and U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May said
he would be extradited, because Jordan assured her Qatada would
get a fair trial that wouldn’t include evidence from torture.  The night of his arrest, Qatada appealed the human rights
court’s rejection in that January decision of his claim that
sending him to Jordan also put him at risk of torture. The ECHR
said he can’t be deported pending a decision on that matter,
prompting May to appear before the House of Commons and say the
filing was improper.  ‘Unambiguous Advice’  Testifying to the parliamentary Home Affairs Committee in
 London  today, May said she received “unambiguous legal advice”
from British officials that the deadline to appeal the January
decision was midnight on April 16. “We are clearly arguing that
it is outside the deadline,” she said.  The court was established in 1959 to enforce the European
Convention on Human Rights, which protects personal freedoms and
bars torture and inhumane or degrading treatment. It has been
able to overrule British courts’ decisions since it was ratified
by the country in 1966.  That angers politicians skeptical of the U.K.’s role in the
European Union, who oppose any loss of power. Charles Walker, a
Conservative member of parliament, has said the government
should ignore the court and deport Qatada. The ECHR isn’t an EU
institution.  ‘Scumbag’  “You must not delay in getting this scumbag and his
murderous mates on a plane out of this country,” he said. “And
in so doing, would you send a metaphorical two fingers to the
ECHR?”  The British government has since made clear it supports the
ECHR. Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke praised the court as
“one of the greatest achievements of modern  Europe ” at the
Brighton summit on the future of the tribunal.  Representatives of 47 countries there backed a U.K.
 resolution  for  member states  to do more, and for greater
efficiency to clear a backlog of 150,000 cases.  The perception that the ECHR tells the U.K. what to do is
wrong, said  Richard Bellamy , director of the European institute
at  University College London .  Most of the time, the court agrees with British judges,
Bellamy said. Less than 2 percent of cases the court heard since
1966 have resulted in local rulings being overturned. A 2005
decision that prisoners must be allowed to vote was one of the
few examples of the ECHR imposing its will on the U.K., which
opposed the move.  ‘A Salutary Thing’  “Those very small number of cases that go against us is
probably a salutary thing. It makes people think,” Bellamy
said.  The court hasn’t just overruled the U.K. It also rejected
an appeal by U.S. billionaire  George Soros  to throw out a 2002
French insider-trading conviction. In 2010, former French
Foreign Minister Roland Dumas won a ruling that a French court
improperly convicted him of defamation for his book about
corruption allegations at oil company Elf Aquitaine SA.  The ECHR’s independence is vital, said Bellamy. “People in
power don’t like having the exercise of that power made
difficult.”  Qatada can’t be deported until the ECHR’s Grand Chamber
decides whether or not to hear his case. An argument between
Home Secretary May and the court about whether Qatada’s appeal
was made in time doesn’t matter, according to Lester, who said
he will probably lose anyway.  “There is no point of law I can think of that would cause
it to go to the grand chamber,” Lester said. “He’s certainly
not going to get anywhere in Strasbourg.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  