-- Terrorist Says Bin Laden Spoke of Mission to Destroy U.S.
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-23T19:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/u-k-terrorist-says-bin-laden-spoke-of-mission-to-destroy-u-s-.html
Saajid Muhammad Badat, convicted in
the U.K. in 2005 of plotting to explode an airplane, testified
that  Osama Bin Laden  told him his mission would help bring down
the  U.S. economy .  “He said that the American economy is like a chain. If you
break one -- one link of the chain -- the whole economy will be
brought down,” Badat said the now-deceased leader of the
terrorist group al-Qaeda told him in a one-on-one meeting in
Afghanistan shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  Badat testified today at the trial of a  New York  man, Adis Medunjanin, accused of plotting to blow up New York subways in
2009 on behalf of al-Qaeda.  Jurors heard Badat’s recorded testimony in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York. Badat, 33, is the first terrorist convicted
in the U.K. to present evidence in a U.S. trial, the  Crown
Prosecution Service  said in an April 16 statement.  Medunjanin, 28, Najibullah Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay were
recruited by al-Qaeda to bomb subway lines in  Manhattan  around
the eighth anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
according to the indictment. The plot was stopped within days of
its happening in 2009, prosecutors said. Zazi, 26, and Ahmedzay,
27, who pleaded guilty in 2010, are cooperating with the
government and testified at the trial.  Military Training  In August 2008, the three men went to join the Taliban in
Pakistan where they were recruited by  al-Qaeda , which gave them
military training and encouraged them to conduct suicide attacks
in the U.S., Ahmedzay and Zazi said. The plan was for an attack
during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.  The three men lived in the New York borough of Queens and
went to Flushing High School.  Badat pleaded guilty to plotting to bring a shoe bomb on an
airplane and was sentenced to 13 years, later lowered to 11
because of his cooperation. He abandoned the al-Qaeda plot. His
co-conspirator was  Richard Reid , who was flying to Miami from
Paris in December 2001 when he was found trying to light his
shoe. Reid pleaded guilty and is serving a life sentence in the
U.S.  Badat said he backed out of the plan because of reluctance,
fear and concern for his family.  “You’ll have to tell Van Damme that he could be on his
own,” Badat, by then in the U.K., e-mailed to his al-Qaeda
handler, referring to Reid.  War Crimes  Badat said one reason he agreed to cooperate in terrorism
trials was that he wanted to testify against Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed, the self-proclaimed mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks
who was captured in  Pakistan  in 2003 and is charged with  war
crimes .  Badat said he has come to believe that Mohammed’s views are
wrong and that he and others in al-Qaeda manipulate people,
including young people. He told U.K. authorities that the Sept.
11 terrorists were victims -- “to a lesser extent, a much
lesser extent” -- as were those who died in the attacks, he
testified.  He went to Afghanistan in 1999 to be trained in weapons,
explosives, navigation and intelligence, to fight “oppressors
of Muslims.” As with the accused subway bombers, he was then
recruited by al-Qaeda for a suicide mission.  Pending Charges  In his April 16 opening statement,  Robert Gottlieb , one of
Medunjanin’s lawyers, said Badat’s testimony will show that the
three subway-plot suspects received much less extensive training
in Pakistan. Badat testified that he received about six to eight
months of training in  Afghanistan  over three years.  Badat, who was arrested in November 2003, said he couldn’t
travel to New York to testify because U.S. charges are pending
against him stemming from the same incident and he would be
arrested. He was released after six years in prison in the U.K.
in March 2010.  The Medunjanin jury began hearing live testimony today of
Bryant Neal Vinas, a 29-year-old man from  Long Island , New York,
who also traveled to Pakistan to fight in Afghanistan and then
joined al-Qaeda. He participated in two efforts to attack U.S.
forces near the border of Pakistan and Afghanistan in September
2008, according to court records. He pleaded guilty in the U.S.
in 2009.  Suicide Mission  Vinas, a graduate of Longwood High School in Middle Island,
previously said he provided information to al-Qaeda leaders
about  New York City ’s transit system for a bomb attack,
according to court records.  He testified today that he suggested to al-Qaeda that it
bomb Wal-Mart and the Long Island Rail Road in the U.S.  He also agreed to conduct a suicide mission, Vinas
testified.  “I was having a difficult time with the altitude, I was
feeling very sick, so I thought it would be easier,” he said.
Such a “martyrdom operation” is “the highest, most honorable
death in jihad,” he said.  Ultimately, he was told he didn’t have enough religious
knowledge to carry out a mission, he said.  Medunjanin is a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Bosnia.
Ahmedzay immigrated to the U.S. from Afghanistan. Zazi was born
in Pakistan. He testified that he had falsely written on
immigration forms and told authorities that he was from
Afghanistan. The three have been in custody since their arrests.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson is presiding over the
trial, which may last about three weeks.  The case is U.S. v. Medunjanin, 1:10-cr-00019, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 