-- U.K. Needs ‘Bolder, Broader’ RenewableEnergy Policy
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-04-23T15:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/u-k-needs-bolder-broader-renewableenergy-policy.html
The U.K. needs “much bolder and
broader” renewable energy policies to encourage technologies
ranging from solar thermal power to liquid biofuels, said the
Renewable Energy Association, an industry lobby group.  Wind, solar, other renewables and their supply chains were
worth 12.5 billion pounds ($20 billion) to the economy in 2011,
a figure projected to rise to 24 billion pounds in 2020, the REA
said in an e-mailed report today. For Britain to meet its
binding European Union target of deriving 15 percent of energy
from renewables by 2020, sales from the industry would need to
be closer to 50 billion pounds, it said.  The REA said the renewable industry employs about 110,000
people in the U.K., a number that needs to reach more than
400,000 in 2020. U.K. Energy Minister  Greg Barker  said in an
interview he’s “determined” to meet the jobs and turnover
targets outlined by the report.  “There’s a huge opportunity here for the British supply
chain to support the deployment of our new green clean energy
infrastructure, and also grab a larger share of the global
market,” Barker said by phone.  The U.K. this week is holding a Clean Energy Ministerial
meeting hosted by Energy Secretary Ed Davey and U.S. Energy
Secretary Steven Chu. Energy ministers from 23 economies
accounting for 80 percent of greenhouse gas emissions and 90
percent of global clean energy investment are attending.  Floating Turbines  Barker said a series of bilateral agreements will be signed
between the U.K. and other governments to spur technologies
including wind power, carbon capture and storage and energy
efficiency. The U.S. and U.K. today announced an agreement to
develop floating offshore  wind turbines .  Britain is offering 25 million pounds to contractors who
can demonstrate floating offshore wind technology and will pick
winners of the funds next year. The program seeks turbines that
can generate as much as 7 megawatts of power by 2016. The U.S.
offered $180 million for four demonstration projects, one of
which may include a floating wind power system.  While Britain has “broadly positive” policies to spur
offshore wind and wave and tidal energy, other technologies
either suffer from “policy failures, or lack of political
support,” including biomass combined heat and power plants,
onshore wind, deep geothermal and anaerobic digestion plants on
farms, according to the REA.  “Despite the critical role of renewable energy in our
future prosperity, this vital sector remains marginalized in the
broader U.K. policy framework,” REA Chief Executive Officer
Gaynor Hartnell said in the report. “A renewable energy
revolution means we can be confident that 100 years from now
there will not just be a proud history to be told, but a hopeful
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  