-- U.S. Said to Hire Restructuring Adviser to Monitor Fisker
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/u-s-said-to-hire-restructuring-adviser-to-monitor-fisker-loan.html
The U.S. Energy Department, which
has loaned $193 million to Fisker Automotive Inc., hired a
restructuring adviser to track the company’s capital-raising
efforts, people familiar with the hiring said.  The agency retained Los Angeles-based Houlihan Lokey after
freezing the automaker’s $529 million  credit line  because of
delays with Fisker’s $103,000 plug-in hybrid Karma sedan, said
two of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
assignment isn’t public. Russell Datz, a Fisker spokesman, said
yesterday he couldn’t confirm the work.  “To ensure the strongest possible management of its
portfolio, the department’s loan program often hires industry-
leading consultants to supplement the work performed by experts
in the program,” the Energy Department said in an e-mailed
statement that didn’t comment on Fisker. “In October 2011, the
department contracted with Houlihan Lokey to provide expert
assistance on a variety of projects in the portfolio.”  Fisker failed to start making or selling cars by deadlines
tied to its U.S. loan agreement, said a person familiar with the
matter. The Energy Department approved Fisker for $529 million
in federal loans in 2009 from a program intended to encourage
the development of advanced-technology vehicles. Fisker was
using the money to develop the Karma and to revamp a former
 General Motors Co. (GM)  factory in Wilmington, Delaware.  In February, Anaheim, California-based Fisker disclosed
that the government froze its credit line last year after it
missed deadlines related to the Karma’s development. Fisker had
drawn down about $193 million. The company, with 47 U.S.
dealers, said it has delivered about 800 Karmas and generated
more $100 million in revenue.  One-Year Contract  Houlihan has worked for the Energy Department on a number
of troubled companies under a  $1.35 million contract  awarded
last October that is due to expire Nov. 15. Houlihan advised the
agency about  Beacon Power Corp. (BCONQ) , an energy-storage company, said
the people.  The Energy Department’s loan programs have drawn
congressional scrutiny since the bankruptcy of solar-panel maker
Solyndra LLC, a loan-guarantee recipient, in September.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who is his
party’s ranking member on the Senate Judiciary Committee, called
Fisker “one of the more unusual recipients” of the Energy
Department’s vehicle loans in a letter yesterday to Energy
Secretary Steven Chu. Grassley and Senator  John Thune , a South
Dakota Republican, asked Chu to respond to questions about
awarding a loan to a luxury carmaker.  Private Capital  “Our loans and loan guarantees have strict conditions in
place to protect taxpayers,” the Energy Department said in a
statement responding to the Grassley letter. The agency “is
working with Fisker to review a revised business plan and
determine the best path forward.”  Fisker, trying to become profitable selling cars powered by
lithium-ion batteries and gasoline, has raised more than $1
billion from private investors. It may use the money to resume
work on the  Delaware  factory where it had planned to build a
second, less-expensive model, the Atlantic.  The Karma, designed by company co-founder Henrik Fisker, is
produced by Valmet Automotive Oy, a contract manufacturer in
Uusikaupunki,  Finland . Prior to starting his own company, Fisker
designed cars for Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Aston Martin .  Fisker will decide before the end of the third quarter
where to build the Atlantic, Chief Executive Officer Tom LaSorda
told reporters earlier this month. The decision will be based on
“what’s best for the company,” not on Energy Department
funding, he said.  The U.S. awarded Fisker $169 million for engineering of the
Karma and $359 million for Atlantic production.  Karma Recall  The Karma, with a range of 30 miles (48 kilometers) to 50
miles on lithium-ion battery power before a gasoline engine
engages, was recalled in December to fix a battery-pack clamp.
Fisker sold 250 Karmas in March and expects to sell 4,000 by the
end of the year, LaSorda said this month.  Last month, the closely held company said defective battery
packs supplied by  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  caused a Karma to shut down
during tests by Consumer Reports magazine.  LaSorda visited A123’s factory in Michigan to investigate
the defect, which turned out to be a welding flaw, he said. The
battery supplier is absorbing the costs of the recall, said
LaSorda, a former chief executive of the predecessor of Chrysler
Group LLC.  Fisker is backed by investors including Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers and Palo Alto Investors LLC. A123 is also a
shareholder in Fisker.  Separately, Fisker yesterday announced plans to distribute
its cars in the  Middle East  and North Africa, following sales in
 North America  and  Europe .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  