-- U.S. Stocks Join Global Slump on Europe’s Political Woes
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-23T20:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/u-s-stock-futures-drop-on-china-economy-dutch-auserity.html
U.S. stocks joined a global selloff
as political uncertainty in  France  and the Netherlands
intensified concern about  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Bank of America Corp.  fell 2.2 percent, following a drop in
European lenders, as Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered to
quit after lawmakers split over austerity and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy lost the first round of his re-election bid.
 Monsanto (MON)  Co. and  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  slid at least 1.8 percent as
European and Chinese manufacturing shrank.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
retreated 4.7 percent amid a bribery probe in Mexico.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.8 percent to
1,366.94 at 4 p.m. New York time, near its highest level of the
day. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid 102.09 points, or 0.8
percent, to 12,927.17. The Russell 2000 Index retreated 1.5
percent to 791.85. About  6.6 billion  shares changed hands on
U.S. exchanges, or 2.5 percent below the three-month average.  “Markets are realizing that messy European national
politics could aggravate already complex economic and financial
conditions,” Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an e-mail today. His
company is manager of the world’s largest bond fund.  Equities from  Hong Kong (HSI)  to Paris and Sao Paulo slumped as
the Dutch prime minister ran out of room to maneuver after
budget talks with Geert Wilders’s Freedom Party collapsed,
triggering doubts about his country’s ability to retain its AAA
credit rating. French President Sarkozy and challenger  Francois
Hollande  will be in a second round of elections, vying to lead a
country split over measures to end a debt crisis.  Economic Data  Economic concern grew as euro-area manufacturing fell and
data indicated  China ’s production will contract for a sixth
month. Today’s drop trimmed this year’s gain in the  S&P 500  to
8.7 percent, which had been driven by better-than-estimated
economic and corporate data. Earnings per share have topped
forecasts at  84 percent  of S&P 500 companies that reported
results since April 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The financial markets are correcting, but they will do
better later in the year,” said  Byron Wien , the vice chairman
of Blackstone Advisory Partners LP, whose parent, New York-based
Blackstone Group LP, is the world’s biggest private-equity firm.
“The U.S. is closer to self-sustaining momentum.” Wien has a
forecast of 1,500 for the S&P 500 at the end of 2012, which
would imply a 9.7 percent advance.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg say that Federal Open
Market Committee members, who begin a two-day meeting tomorrow,
will likely keep monetary policy on hold as the U.S. shows signs
of strength following record accommodation.  Tied to Economy  All  10 groups  in the S&P 500 fell today. The Morgan Stanley
Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to economic growth lost 1
percent. The Dow Jones Transportation Average, a proxy for the
economy, declined 0.9 percent. A measure of homebuilders in S&P
indexes tumbled 2.3 percent.  American banks joined a 3 percent drop in a gauge of
European lenders.  Bank of America  declined 2.2 percent to $8.18.
The shares have risen 47 percent this year.  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
decreased 1.9 percent to $33.25.  A measure of commodity shares in the S&P 500 dropped 1.4
percent. Monsanto, the world’s largest seed company, slid 1.8
percent to $75.74. U.S. Steel, the country’s largest producer of
the metal by volume, lost 2.7 percent to $28.22.  Hedge funds cut their bets on higher commodity prices by
the most in four months on mounting concern that Europe’s debt
crisis will derail global growth and curb demand for raw
materials. Money managers lowered net-long positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 11 percent to 898,022 contracts in
the week ended April 17, the most since Dec. 20, data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Bribery Probe  Wal-Mart slumped 4.7 percent, the most in the Dow, to
$59.54. Its probe of possible bribery in Mexico may prompt
executive departures and steep U.S. government fines if it
reveals senior managers knew about the payments and didn’t take
strong enough action, corporate governance experts said.  Kellogg Co. (K)  tumbled 6.1 percent to $50.70. The largest U.S.
maker of breakfast cereal cut its full-year earnings forecast,
citing weaker-than-expected results in the first quarter.  Chief Executive Officer John Bryant said Kellogg faced
“more significant challenges” in Europe and some categories in
the U.S. in the first quarter than was expected. Net sales in
the first quarter declined about 1.3 percent while earnings of
$1 a share were unchanged from a year earlier, Kellogg said.  “We are obviously disappointed with the performance of the
company,” Bryant said in the statement.  Apple’s Results  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which reports results tomorrow, fell 0.2
percent to $571.70, after swinging between gains and losses.
Since rising to a record on April 9, the shares have lost 10
percent as some investors speculated Apple may not be able to
keep growing at the pace that made it the most valuable
technology company. On average, the analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg estimate fiscal second-quarter earnings of $9.96 a
share for the company.  Profits at the maker of iPhones and iPads have beaten
analysts’ estimates  97 percent  of the time since 2003, Birinyi
Associates Inc. said in a note today. The stock rises by an
average 2.6 percent from the close prior to earnings to 8 a.m.
the next day, the data showed.  Quarterly reports scheduled for this week also include
economic bellwether  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and AT&T Inc.,
the largest U.S. phone company. Caterpillar Inc., the world’s
biggest maker of construction and mining-equipment, and
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest Internet retailer, are due
to announce their results.  Higher Estimates  The analysts surveyed by Bloomberg raised their first-
quarter earnings estimates for S&P 500 companies. Per-share
profits grew 3.3 percent in the first three months of the year,
Bloomberg data showed on April 20. That’s up from the previous
week’s projection for a 1.7 percent increase. Earnings per share
will grow 8.8 percent during all of 2012, the data show.  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  jumped 2.8 percent to $23.23. The
eighth-largest U.S. lender by deposits reported first-quarter
profit that  beat  analysts’ estimates.  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  rallied 14 percent to $26.06.
The maker of the diabetes drugs Bydureon and Byetta is seeking a
buyer after rejecting an  unsolicited  bid from Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  advanced 18 percent to $13.41. Jana
Partners LLC, a hedge fund that has pushed for companies to sell
off assets, disclosed a 12 percent stake in the largest U.S.
bookstore chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Rita Nazareth} in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  