-- U.S., Afghanistan Draft Pact for American Role After 2014
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-04-23T21:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/u-s-afghanistan-draft-pact-for-american-role-after-2014.html
The U.S. and  Afghanistan  completed
a draft agreement on a strategic partnership during and after
the planned withdrawal of American combat forces by 2014.  President  Hamid Karzai ’s national security adviser, Rangin Dadfar Spanta, initialed a draft agreement with U.S. Ambassador
 Ryan Crocker , according to statements e-mailed yesterday from
Karzai’s office and the U.S. Embassy in Kabul. Negotiations took
more than a year, plagued by tensions over combat tactics,
civilian casualties and U.S. control of Afghan prisoners.  The two sides gave no details of the accord, including
provisions for an American military role in Afghanistan after
2014, which the U.S. seeks to sustain its fight against Islamic
militants. “Until the agreement is finalized, we’re not in a
position to discuss the elements it contains,” U.S. Embassy
spokesman Gavin Sundwall said by e-mail.  President  Barack Obama  faces political challenges
domestically and among allies to his effort to sustain a U.S.-
led role in Afghanistan after 10 years of combat. Only 30
percent of Americans queried this month in a Washington Post-ABC
News poll said the war has been worth fighting, the lowest level
since the question was first asked in February 2007.  The draft now will be reviewed by both governments, said
State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland , with a final U.S.
review conducted by Obama. Nuland said the draft primarily
concerns the medium- and long-term relationship between the two
countries.  ‘Fully Funded’  While Nuland said the administration wasn’t ready to make
an announcement on funding, she stressed the need to ensure
Afghan forces are “fully funded, fully equipped. We’re talking
to lots of countries about how we can foot the bill,” Nuland
said today at a briefing for reporters in Washington.  The U.S. is pressing its allies to help provide $4 billion
a year to fund Afghan troops and police after 2014.  Australia 
said last week it will bring home most of its troops by
mid-2013. French presidential candidate  Francois Hollande , who
yesterday won the most votes to move into a May 6 runoff with
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , has pledged a pullout this year.  ‘On Track’  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told reporters April 19
that “the transition is on track” to hand security duties to
Afghan forces who “are increasingly standing up for their own
security.” Statements from the U.S. intelligence community have
been less upbeat about the readiness of Afghan soldiers and
police. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper told a
Senate committee Jan. 30 that “corruption as well as poor
leadership and management will threaten Afghan National Security
Forces operational effectiveness.”  The draft signed yesterday “provides a strong foundation
for the security of Afghanistan, the region and the world,”
Spanta said in the statement from Karzai’s office.  The two sides have a month to review and sign the deal
before the May 21 NATO summit conference in  Chicago , a goal
voiced by Obama. Both governments will review the draft with
their legislatures before it is signed, according to e-mailed
statements from Karzai’s office and from the U.S. National
Security Council spokesman, Tommy Vietor.  Karzai Demands  Karzai has demanded that the U.S. give his government
control over Afghan prisoners it has captured and that it end
nighttime raids by special operations troops who swoop in on
homes to capture suspected Taliban fighters or organizers.
Karzai has said the raids cause civilian casualties and Afghan
public anger at U.S. forces.  “An important step” toward the partnership accord came
March 9, when the U.S. agreed to transfer its main prison in
Afghanistan to Afghan government control within six months, U.S.
Marine General John Allen said at the time.  U.S.-Afghan discussions snagged early this month over how
long American troops may hold newly captured prisoners for
interrogation before handing them to local authorities,
according to a U.S. official and a congressional staff member
who spoke then on condition of anonymity. An immediate handover
of suspected Taliban might cost the U.S. valuable intelligence
because it can take days or longer to extract and verify
information, said two U.S. security officials.  ‘Hammering Out’  As the draft accord was being negotiated, “senior U.S.
defense officials have spent a lot of time in Afghanistan quite
recently hammering out what the size, disposition and
composition of a U.S. stay-behind force would look like,”
Andrew Exum, a senior fellow with the Center for a New American
Security in  Washington , said early this month. The U.S. has been
seeking an agreement to cover issues such as the size of the
force that would stay on in Afghanistan past 2014, and
provisions of legal immunity for those troops, he said.  U.S. troops currently have immunity from prosecution under
diplomatic notes exchanged between the governments in 2003,
according to a  Congressional Research Service report  last month.  Karzai escalated his public demands for increased Afghan
control over U.S. activities in Afghanistan this year after
incidents that sparked street protests and deepened mistrust
between Afghans and U.S. troops.  When soldiers at the main U.S. base burned copies of the
Koran, the Muslim scripture, in a rubbish pit, Afghans rioted
nationwide at what they said was an act of desecration. Within
two weeks, Afghan security force members shot dead six U.S.
personnel in three attacks, and the U.S.-led International
Security and Assistance Force tightened security protection for
its advisers working alongside Afghan forces.  Last month, Afghan legislators protested the U.S.
military’s transfer to the U.S. of Staff Sergeant Robert Bales
after American officials said he killed 16 Afghan villagers in a
nighttime rampage near the southern city of Kandahar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  