-- U.S. Travel Industry Taps Rosanne Cash to Lure Visitors
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-04-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/u-s-travel-industry-taps-rosanne-cash-to-lure-visitors.html
The U.S. travel industry is kicking
off a first-ever, $12.3 million marketing campaign, featuring an
original song by country-music star  Rosanne Cash .  Television, Internet and billboard ads will begin rolling
out in the U.K.,  Canada  and  Japan  starting May 1, said Jim
Evans, chief executive officer of Washington-based  Brand USA , a
public-private marketing agency established by Congress in 2010.  The desire for travel to the U.S. has waned in the past
decade as people said in polls that they knew enough about
America from its films, TV shows and music, Evans said. Some
U.S. economic, homeland-security and immigration policies during
that time also made people around world believe America was
“less welcoming” to tourists, he said.  “We knew we had to change people’s opinions,” Evans said
in an interview. “It’s critical we show the U.S. as a nation of
freedom, diversity and a lot of fun.”  The advertising campaign, with the tagline “Discover this
land like never before,” will be unveiled today at the
International Pow Wow travel-industry conference in Los Angeles.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Marriott International (MAR)  and Best Western
International each contributed $1 million for the marketing
campaign The federal government is matching the contributions
two for one, financed by exit fees collected on visitors leaving
the U.S., Brand USA said on its website.  Brazil, South Korea  Marketing will expand to  Brazil  and  South Korea  on June 1,
Evans said. The $12.3 million budget supports the first three
months of the campaign.  The targeted countries were chosen based on the volume of
travel to the U.S., the ease of gaining visas, how much visitors
from those countries spend on average and the cost of
advertising in those territories.  Foreign travelers to the U.S. spend $4,000 per trip on
average, and each 35 incremental visitors results in a new job
being created, Brand USA said, citing  U.S. Travel Association 
data.  Cash, daughter of  Johnny Cash , composed “Land of Dreams”
for the campaign and appears in commercials that feature the
singer performing with other musicians from around the world
under the Brooklyn Bridge in  New York .  As part of the effort, musicians will be invited to perform
in their favorite U.S. cities, with profiles of their trips
appearing online and on social media. The videos, which also
will feature actors, chefs and other celebrities talking about
their favorite restaurants or attractions in America, will air
on TV networks around the world, Evans said.  The U.S. campaign is coordinating closely with the leaders
of New York,  California  and Las Vegas tourism efforts, Evans
said. Still, he says Brand USA’s efforts will be more broad.  “‘You won’t just see the Golden Gate Bridge, the Brooklyn
Bridge or the Washington Monument in these spots,” Evans said.
“This is a very broad-based ad that shows all of America.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  