-- Huawei Founder Ren Splits CEO Role With Rotating Panel
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-24T02:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/huawei-founder-ren-splits-ceo-role-with-rotating-panel.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest maker of phone equipment, said its founder Ren Zhengfei
is splitting the role of chief executive officer with a panel of
three executives who will rotate at six-month intervals.  Deputy Chairmen Guo Ping, Xu Zhijun, who uses the English
name Eric, and Hu Houkun, who uses the name Ken, will join Ren
as co-CEOs, spokesman Ross Gan said in an interview yesterday.
Ren, 67, retains his title as a deputy chairman of Huawei,
according to the company’s annual report released yesterday.  “This is succession planning with Chinese
characteristics,” said David Wolf, CEO of Wolf Group  Asia , a
Beijing-based marketing consulting firm, who has researched
China’s telecommunications industry with funding from Huawei.
“Ren wants to keep talent. This is excellent way to keep as
many tigers in his part of the forest as possible. What would be
terrible would be for one of these people to run off.”  Ren founded Huawei in 1987 after retiring from the Chinese
military in 1983 and built it into the world’s largest maker of
equipment for phone networks after  Ericsson AB. (ERICB)  Ren’s military
background has been cited as a cause for concern by U.S.
lawmakers in regards to Huawei’s prospective expansion in the
U.S. The U.S. House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
began a probe last November of whether Huawei poses a security
threat.  Huawei initially implemented a rotating CEO system last
year in which Ren mentored the executives, according to a
December note to employees from the founder.  Ren’s Dec. 25 memo to employees didn’t specify what role he
would play in the company’s new structure, or which executives
were participating in the CEO rotation. In the same memo, Ren
said he had been treated for cancer twice in the previous eight
years.  Chairwoman Sun Yafang’s role at Huawei is unchanged,
according to the report released yesterday.  2011 Profit Fell  Huawei profit fell to 11.6 billion yuan ($1.8 billion) in
2011, less than half the 24.7 billion yuan it reported a year
earlier, according to the annual report. Profit slipped as the
company increased investment in research and development and
funded the global expansion of new businesses targeting sales of
consumer devices including smartphones and computer services for
businesses. Sales rose to 203.9 billion, from 182.5 billion,
according to the report.  Hu took the first rotation as CEO from October through
March; Xu began the second rotation as CEO earlier this month;
and Guo is scheduled to take the title in October and the
rotation among the three would continue in that manner, Gan
said.  “The company’s fortunes will not be beholden to the whims
of one person,” Gan said. “Huawei will be governed by
consensus and collective wisdom.”  Co-CEOs Background  Current CEO Xu was born in 1967, and holds a doctorate from
Nanjing University of Science and Technology. He joined Huawei
in 1993 and has served in roles including president of the
wireless product line; chief strategy and marketing officer;
chief product officer; corporate executive vice president; and
chairman of the investment review board, according to his
official company biography.  Hu has a bachelor’s degree from Huazhong University of
Science and Technology in Wuhan. He joined  Huawei  in 1990. He
has held roles including president for the China market;
president for  Latin America ; president of global sales; chief
sales officer; chief strategy and marketing officer; chairman of
corporate global  cyber security ; chairman of U.S. operations;
corporate executive vice president, and chairman of the human
resources committee, according to his official company
biography.  ‘Bright Minds’  Guo, born in 1966, has a Master’s Degree from Huazhong
University of Science and Technology. He joined Huawei in 1988.
His previous roles include general manager of supply chain,
chief legal officer and president of information technology
management, according to his official company biography.  “By authorizing a group of ‘bright minds’ to act as
rotating and acting CEOs, the company allows them to make
decisions within certain boundaries while they face a constantly
changing world,” Ren said in the report. “As they seek harmony
in diversity, they can help the company adapt quickly to changes
in the environment. They make decisions collectively, which
avoids corporate rigidity.”  Disclosing Leadership  After the rotational period is over, the non-acting
rotating CEOs are still part of the company’s “decision-making
nucleus,” Ren said in the report.  Huawei only disclosed the members of its senior leadership
team and board of directors for the first time last April as it
raised transparency to offset security concerns in markets such
as the U.S. That information showed founder Ren was related to
at least two members of the company’s leadership: Chief
Financial Officer and executive director Meng Wanzhou is Ren’s
daughter, while Ren’s brother, Ren Shulu, is a member of the
supervisory board.  Ren established Huawei with about 21,000 yuan in capital,
after a career in the military’s Engineering Corps, according to
his official company biography. China’s central government had
disbanded the Engineering Corps in 1983 and Ren subsequently
retired from the army after a decade of service.  Ren’s military record and his selection to the 12th
National Congress of the  Communist Party of China  in 1982 have
been cited by U.S. lawmakers as reasons Huawei may pose a
security threat. Ren hasn’t maintained any ties with the
military since his retirement and the government and military
hold no stake in Huawei, according to the company.  Raising Transparency  Employee-owned Huawei increased disclosures over the past
year and moved to make its holding company structure more
transparent to reduce some of the security concerns raised by
Ren’s military background.  Huawei Technologies is a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Shenzhen Huawei Investment & Holding Co., according to the
annual report. Huawei Holding is solely owned by employees of
the company, without any third parties, including government
bodies, holding any of its shares.  Huawei Holding through a workers union manages an employee
shareholding plan that included 65,596 of the company’s staff as
of the end of 2011, according to the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  