-- UBS Hires Bank of America’s Forbes in Revamp of U.S. Unit
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-04-23T12:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/ubs-hires-bank-of-america-s-forbes-in-revamp-of-u-s-unit.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , revamping its U.S.
investment bank under Robert McCann, hired  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s James Forbes as vice chairman, adding to a roster of
recruits who previously worked at Merrill Lynch & Co.  Forbes will focus on trying to win  investment-banking 
mandates from health-care companies, buyout firms and “targeted
accounts,” McCann and UBS investment bank head Carsten Kengeter
said in a memo to staff. At Bank of America he oversaw $30
billion of principal investments, including HCA Holdings Inc.
and China Construction Bank Corp., according to the memo.  McCann, 54, has turned to former Merrill Lynch colleagues
as he seeks to reverse a three-year slide in the Zurich-based
bank’s U.S. market share. Earlier this month he named four
former Merrill executives including himself to a six-member
executive committee overseeing UBS’s Americas businesses. Two of
the bank’s most senior U.S. investment bankers quit last week.  “Jim’s decision to join UBS is an endorsement,” McCann
and Kengeter said in the memo today.  Forbes, 52, joined Merrill Lynch in 1995 after working at
 Credit Suisse First Boston  since 1988, according to his
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority record. He ran Merrill’s
health-care investment banking globally from 2002 to 2008, and
was head of Asia-Pacific corporate and investment banking in
 Hong Kong  from 2008 to 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  He was named to his most recent role overseeing principal
investments in 2009, after  Bank of America  completed its
takeover of Merrill Lynch. He oversaw the “monetization of over
$20 billion of equity investments,” according to the memo,
which was confirmed by a UBS spokeswoman, Torie von Alt.  Report to Hull  At UBS, Forbes will be based in New York and report to
McCann and Brian Hull, a former Merrill executive whom McCann
hired in 2009 and now leads a unit that focuses on strategic
clients and partnerships.  McCann worked at Merrill from 1982 through January 2009. He
joined UBS in 2009 as head of Americas wealth management, and
was appointed in December to oversee all of the Swiss bank’s
businesses in the region. He was put in the job by Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti , another Merrill alumnus.  In March, UBS announced the appointment of  Andrea Orcel ,
another former Merrill Lynch executive, to serve as co-head of
the investment bank alongside Kengeter. Orcel is scheduled to
join in July.  In an interview earlier this month, McCann said a
turnaround of the UBS investment bank in the Americas may take
two and a half years or more.  Longtime UBS bankers have departed, including two last
week. Aryeh Bourkoff, the head of investment banking for the
Americas, stepped down on April 17, and Ehren Stenzler, the co-
head of U.S. mergers and acquisitions, quit the following day.  Bourkoff and Stenzler are weighing job offers from two
banks and also exploring the idea of starting their own firm,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who declined
to be identified because the details are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 