-- UBS Chairman Says Bank’s Reputation Will Play Role in CEO’s Pay
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-04-23T12:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/ubs-chairman-says-bank-s-reputation-will-play-role-in-ceo-s-pay.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  will base Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Ermotti ’s bonus in part on the progress he makes
in restoring the reputation of  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
Chairman  Kaspar Villiger  said.  “The idea behind this is that you try to evaluate the CEO
according to what’s necessary for executing the company’s
strategy in the long term,” Villiger said in an April 18
interview in Vienna. “There are nine criteria in total, of
which some shall be qualitative,” he said. “Reputation is one
of them. It will count more than one ninth.”  Villiger, whose tasks include developing recommendations
for the CEO’s pay with the compensation committee, said the bank
won’t assess Ermotti’s performance by profit alone, but will
also include targets for boosting  capital ratios  and cutting
risk-weighted assets. Client and staff satisfaction will also
play a role, he said.  Ermotti’s predecessor,  Oswald Gruebel , left last year after
the bank uncovered a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading
at the investment bank in September. Gruebel, 68, and Villiger,
71, tried to rebuild the bank’s image after a near bankruptcy in
2008 and the unprecedented delivery of data about wealthy
clients to the U.S. to avoid a criminal indictment.  While many of the world’s largest banks, including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG, are curbing pay as they
grapple with shrinking revenue, UBS cut bonuses for last year at
a rate that was among the steepest. The lender reduced its bonus
pool for 2011 by 40 percent as  net income  dropped 45 percent on
losses at its investment-banking division.  May 3 Meeting  Shareholder scrutiny into compensation for top managers is
increasing.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shareholders rejected the bank’s
executive pay plan on April 18 amid criticism it lets CEO Vikram Pandit collect millions of dollars in rewards too easily.
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO  Robert Diamond  will forgo about 11 percent of
his total paycheck if he fails to meet profitability goals after
investors opposed his package.  Villiger will step down at UBS’s May 3 annual shareholder
meeting and former Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  is poised to
succeed him. Villiger said Ermotti helped develop the
performance criteria and he hoped UBS could set an example with
them.  “I would find it important that this would be done by more
people,” he said. “The CEO is very much in agreement with
this.”  Ermotti is convinced that management of the bank over
several executive levels should be evaluated according to such
criteria, in addition to the financial indicators, to ensure the
sustainable success of the company, said Michael Willi, a
spokesman for UBS.  Bonus Deferred  Ermotti, 51, joined UBS last April and took over as CEO
after Gruebel resigned. He received 6.35 million francs ($6.9
million) last year, including 1.39 million francs in base
salary, Zurich-based UBS said in its 2011 annual report,
published last month.  About 88 percent of Ermotti’s 4.6 million-franc bonus was
deferred into future years, the bank said. Gruebel, who returned
UBS to profitability after the bank posted the  biggest loss  in
Swiss corporate history in 2008, waived any bonus entitlement
for each of the three years he was in office.  UBS’s new rules will not rely only on quantitative criteria
that are easily measured, Villiger said.  “There will have to be a discretionary element,” he said.
The CEO’s impact on the bank’s reputation, for instance, would
be in part assessed by considerations such as media coverage.
“But there will be an element of judgment, which the board will
have to make together with him,” he said. “It can’t be done
just by a computer program.”  Revised Rules  UBS revamped its compensation system in late 2008. The
changes implemented then included the introduction of claw-back
provisions to allow taking back parts of bonuses for certain
executives and staff in the years after the award. The bank also
made fixed salaries a bigger part of total pay.  The existing framework allows “on one hand, to motivate
our employees by rewarding strong performance, and on the other
hand, to withdraw or reduce incentives where performance has
been weak or where employees act against the interests of the
firm,” the head of UBS’s Human Resources and Compensation
Committee, Ann Godbehere, said in the lender’s annual
 compensation report  for 2011. “We will keep our framework under
review to ensure that it continues to meet our key goal of
aligning employee and shareholder interests,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  