-- Lufthansa Freezes Capacity, Plane Orders in Savings Drive
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-04-23T10:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/lufthansa-freezes-capacity-plane-orders-in-savings-drive.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest airline, said it will hold passenger capacity
steady this year and won’t update its intercontinental fleet
until a 1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion) savings plan is completed.  Seating will increase by a maximum of 4 percent annually in
2013 and 2014 as unprofitable routes are scrapped,  Carsten Spohr , the head of Lufthansa’s main-brand passenger operations,
said in a letter to employees.  “The number of aircraft we have will therefore not
increase before 2014, contrary to our previous plans,” Spohr
wrote. Lufthansa won’t order a successor to the long-range
Airbus A340 airliner used on intercontinental flights until
cost-saving efforts “begin to bear fruit.”  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) ’s Iberia unit
said last week it planned to slash total pilot pay by 62 million
euros as it seeks to improve productivity by 25 percent and
match sister company British Airways’ profitability. Competitor
 Air France-KLM Group (AF)  is meanwhile seeking more than 2 billion
euros in annual savings.  Lufthansa fell as much as 4.4 percent to 9.45 euros, the
lowest intraday price since Jan. 17, and was trading down 4
percent at 12:57 p.m. in  Frankfurt . That pared the stock’s gain
this year to 3.3 percent.  Economic Risks  The risks from a deteriorating economy and increasing
competition from the likes of Emirates Airline “means that if
you were to grow too strongly and order too many planes, you
would quickly land yourself in a lot of problems because you’d
still have to buy the planes,” said Stefan Kick, a Frankfurt-
based analyst at Silvia Quandt. He recommends buying Lufthansa
shares.  Operating profit at the Cologne, Germany-based company’s
Lufthansa division tumbled 56 percent to 168 million euros last
year as fuel costs and slowing economic growth weighed on
margins. The unit will account for 900 million euros of the
total 1.5 billion-euro savings program, Spohr said in the letter
sent to employees on April 20.  Other reorganization measures include scaling back the six
plane-model groups used on European routes to four and combining
the LH Direct Services unit with the Germanwings operation for
short-haul flights, Spohr said.  “Everything will remain just as it is for customers --
there is Lufthansa and Germanwings,”  Andreas Bartels , a
Lufthansa spokesman in Frankfurt, said by telephone. “But
duplicated functions such as bookings control, route planning
and ticketing can be merged behind the scenes to save money.”  Operating profit this year will be in the “mid-three-
figure million-euro range,” versus the 820 million euros posted
in 2011, Lufthansa said in March, when the airline said it was
considering a capacity freeze.  The company also owns Austrian Airlines, which reported an
operating loss of 62 million euros in 2011, and Swiss
International, which had operating profit of 259 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  