-- Ukraine’s Opposition Unites to Compete With Yanukovych’s Party
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-04-23T12:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/ukraine-s-opposition-unites-to-compete-with-yanukovych-s-party.html
The Ukrainian opposition party
Fatherland, led by jailed former Premier  Yulia Tymoshenko , will
team up with the Front Zmin part of former parliamentary speaker
Arseniy Yatsenyuk in October elections.  The parties will agree on candidate lists “to win the
parliamentary elections and restore democracy and justice in
Ukraine,” the two groups based in the capital Kiev said today
in a  declaration of unity  published on their websites.  Ukrainians will vote for a new 450-seat legislature in
October. The European Union halted the signing of an Association
Agreement, which includes a free-trade area, after Tymoshenko
was imprisoned and has urged the former Soviet state to ensure
free and transparent elections.  Tymoshenko, 51, was sentenced in October to seven years in
prison for abuse of office when signing a 10-year natural-gas
supply and transit pact with  Russia  in 2009. She says President
 Viktor Yanukovych  engineered the case to prevent her from
participating in parliamentary elections scheduled for October.
The European Union has sought Tymoshenko’s release.  Yanukovych beat Tymoshenko in a presidential vote in Feb.
2010, winning 49 percent, compared with 45 percent for
Tymoshenko. Yatsenyuk came fourth in the first round of
elections.  Public Support  Support for Yanukovych’s Regions of Ukraine party shrank to
19.5 percent in April, compared with 39.5 percent in April 2010,
according to the  Razumkov Centre for Economic and Political
Studies , based in Kiev.  Tymoshenko’s party had the backing of 13.5 percent,
compared with 15.9 percent two years ago. Support for
Yatsenyuk’s party rose to 9.5 percent from 4.9 percent in April
2010, according to the survey.  The opinion poll of 2,009 eligible voters was conducted by
the Razumkov Centre and the Democratic Initiatives Foundation
between March 30 and April 4. The margin of error was 2.3
percent.  “We will form a new democratic majority in the parliament,
we will limit power of Yanukovych,” Tymoshenko and Yatsenyuk
said in the statement. “Our unity is strategic, we will work
further together to we will ensure victory of democratic forces
during the Presidential elections” in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in  Kiev  at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  