-- Hungary Plans New Taxes, Spending Cuts to Meet Deficit Goals
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-04-23T14:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/hungary-plans-new-taxes-spending-cuts-to-meet-deficit-goals-2-.html
Hungary ’s government plans new
taxes and spending cuts to increase budget savings and meet
deficit targets required to unlock European Union grants.  The Cabinet today sent its fiscal plan, dubbed Szell Kalman
Plan 2.0, detailing additional savings of 150 billion forint
($660 million) this year and 600 billion forint in 2013, the
 Economy Ministry  said on its  website  today. The measures are on
top of budget steps announced last year.  Hungary has been on the EU’s excessive-deficit list since
joining the bloc in 2004 and risks losing funds in 2013 if it
fails to show it can sustainably rein in its shortfall. The
country can “safely” meet its  deficit  targets of 2.5 percent
of gross domestic product in 2012 and 2.2 percent in 2013, the
Budapest-based ministry said today.  “This program proves that the government is able to
safeguard the stability of public finances and kickstart growth
even in a less favorable economic environment,” the Ministry
said on its website.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  turned to the  International
Monetary Fund  and the EU for financial assistance in November
after the forint dropped to a record against the euro and as
Hungary’s credit rating was cut to junk. Formal talks have yet
to start as the nation remains embroiled in a legal dispute with
the trading bloc over the independence of the central bank and
other institutions.  Won’t Compromise  Hungary won’t compromise in all EU conditions for bailout
talks, Orban told reporters in Brussels today. He is scheduled
to meet European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso
tomorrow.  Asked whether Hungary can start negotiations with contested
issues remaining unresolved, Orban said: “I can’t tell you,
we’ll try.”  The forint weakened 0.9 percent, the most in almost two
weeks, to 299.54 per euro by 4:40 p.m. in Budapest, depreciating
the most among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The benchmark BUX index  fell  1.8 percent, led by a
2.8 percent plunge in  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP)   Magyar Telekom Nyrt. (MTEL) 
declined 1.7 percent.  “The trouble with Hungary now is that everyone is so
focused on the talks between the EU, the IMF and the
government,” Christian Lawrence, a London-based currency
strategist at Rabobank International, said by telephone today.
The forint “will continue to drift lower unless we have a
concrete resolution to the EU-IMF deal,” Lawrence said.  The government expects the  economy  to expand 0.1 percent
this year and 1.6 percent in 2013 and sees annual average
inflation of 5.2 percent in 2013 and 4.2 percent in 2013.  Bank Transaction Tax  Hungary will levy a 0.1 percent tax on bank transactions
from 2013, yielding between 130 billion forint and 228 billion
forint of revenue a year. The tax will apply to private and
corporate  bank transactions , including cash deposits and
withdrawals, bank card transactions as well as financial
transactions carried out at post offices.  The limit will be 30,000 forint per transaction with the
possibility of turning it into a progressive tax or levying a
higher rate on cash withdrawal, according to the plan.  The government will introduce a telecommunications services
tax from the second half of 2012, charging 2 forint per minute
of phone call or per text or multimedia message. The new levy is
expected to yield 30 billion forint this year and 52 billion
forint annually from 2013.  ‘Can’t Get Rid’  The new levies on the financial and telecommunication
industries are designed to replace extraordinary industry taxes
that were in place since 2010 because of the crisis, Orban said.  “I have to say very openly that because the crisis is
still here we just simply can’t get rid of them,” he said.  The Cabinet will maintain a 16 percent income tax on energy
suppliers introduced in 2009 and will extend it to other public
 utility companies , boosting revenue by 55 billion forint a year,
according to the plan.  A unified insurance tax, to be levied on property and
accident policies with a 10 percent rate, on car insurance with
15 percent rate and a 30 percent rate for mandatory car
insurances, will result in 15 billion forint in extra revenue.  The Cabinet will cut drug subsidy spending by 10 billion
forint in 2012 and 40 billion forint in 2013, according to the
plan. Spending by ministries and other state institutions will
be reduced by 44.7 billion forint each this year and next.  Changing value-added tax rules in agriculture will bring in
10 billion forint in 2012 and 15 billion forint in 2013,
according to the document.  The budget plan presented today “suffers from the same
shortcomings as its 1.0 version: significant implementation
risks and no sight for better growth prospects,” Gabor Ambrus,
a London-based analyst at 4CAST Ltd., wrote in a note sent by e-
mail today. “Furthermore, the plan does not bring an EU/IMF
loan agreement any closer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  