-- Hungarian Premier Orban Says Mol Leaving Nabucco Gas Project
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-23T18:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/hungarian-premier-orban-says-mol-leaving-nabucco-gas-project-1-.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said that  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , the country’s largest company by
market capitalization, is leaving the 7.9 billion-euro ($10.4
billion) Nabucco natural gas pipeline project to ship Caspian
fuel to  Europe .  “I’m not an expert on the details, but what I have seen is
that even the Hungarian company, Mol, is leaving the whole
project,” Orban told reporters in Brussels today, adding that
“Nabucco is in trouble.” There are “many uncertainties around
the Nabucco project that would be hard to ignore,” Mol said in
an e-mail today, without confirming or denying that it had
abandoned the project.  Nabucco, a joint venture of Mol,  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE) , Vienna-
based  OMV AG (OMV) , Bulgargaz EAD, Romania’s Transgaz SA and Ankara-
based Boru Hatlari ile Petrol Tasima AS, or Botas, may be scaled
down and linked up with the Trans-Anatolia Pipeline, known as
Tanap, at the EU’s southern border, Nabucco Managing Director
Reinhard Mitschek said last month.  The link, which is slated to bring as much as 31 billion
cubic meters of natural gas a year from the  Caspian region  to
 Austria  starting in 2017, has repeatedly postponed its start
date after struggling to secure fuel sources.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  in January brought forward the start date for
building the rival 15 billion-euro South Stream natural-gas
pipeline, which will bypass transit nations such as Ukraine and
supply European customers directly.  ‘Strategic Interests’  Orban on April 17 met Gazprom Chief Executive Officer
Alexey Miller in Budapest, the Russian company said in an e-
mailed statement. Miller and Orban stressed the importance of
South Stream, which “meets the strategic interests” of both
countries, Gazprom said.  While Mol is committed to the diversification of the
region’s energy supply, it owes its “shareholders the highest
possible economic justification,” the company said in its
statement today.  “The Hungarian shareholder is the Mol subsidiary FGSZ and
we have so far no indication that this will change,” Nabucco
spokesman Christian Dolezal said by e-mail today.  Nabucco’s source of natural gas and financing are both
uncertain and Mol has experienced “a continuous increase
regarding the costs of the realization of the project, while it
is still unclear how much the final cost will be,” the
Hungarian company said, adding that it has “several times”
stated its concerns at Nabucco management board meetings.  ‘Important Issue’  Nabucco “is an important issue because it’s related to the
energy independence of the country,” Orban said, adding that
his “goal is that in three years Hungary could and should say
that we are not dependent” on one single country for energy.  The Hungarian government, which according to  data compiled
by Bloomberg  is Mol’s biggest shareholder with a stake of 26.8
percent, supports a pipeline with Slovakia and negotiations on a
link with  Croatia  are under way, Orban said, adding that “we
would like to find a way somehow to the Italians.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Brussels at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  