-- Universal Catalogs Said to Draw Interest From Providence
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-04-24T10:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/universal-catalogs-said-to-draw-providence-bertelsmann-interest.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music  Group
received interest from companies including Providence Equity
Partners and Bertelsmann AG for music-publishing catalogs it’s
selling, according to three people familiar with the situation.  Among the parties that requested more information about the
assets are independent music companies and other private-equity
companies, the people said, declining to be named as the talks
are private. Universal Music, which is divesting the catalogs to
help finance its purchase of EMI Group, plans to reduce the
number to about 20 to 30 candidates in the next two to three
weeks, one of the people said.  “What people like about this business is that the
publishing rights are still, over the long haul, likely to be
good growth stories,” said  Claudio Aspesi , a London-based
analyst at  Sanford C Bernstein . “The opportunity to make this a
growth industry within music is significant and at the same time
you have fairly predictable cash flows.”  Universal Music hired  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch to sell
classical, Christian and German schlager catalogs, and the
assets may fetch as much as $200 million, a person familiar with
the matter said last month. Universal Music, with headquarters
in New York and  Santa Monica , California, agreed in November to
buying EMI’s recorded music unit for $1.9 billion.  Warner Music  Warner Music  Group, which is owned by billionaire Len Blavatnik’s Access Industries Holdings Inc. and failed in its
bid to buy EMI, isn’t bidding for the catalogs, two people said.
Representatives for Universal Music, Providence,  Bertelsmann  and
Warner Music declined to comment.  Vivendi, based in Paris, rose 1.9 percent to 12.88 euros at
12:19 p.m. in Paris. The stock had lost 24 percent this year
before today, and has a market value of 16 billion euros ($21
billion).  Legal music-streaming services such as Spotify and Apple
Inc.’s iTunes have helped record labels blunt the effect of
plummeting CD sales, reviving investor interest in the sector.
Even Sean Parker, whose Napster music-sharing service helped
destroy music companies’ traditional business models, said last
year that labels were “dramatically undervalued” and were
poised to make gains as a result of new online applications.  Regulatory Scrutiny  EMI, the music company that owns Abbey Road Studios in
London, was seized by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in February 2011 after
falling out of compliance with debt covenants, and subsequently
sold. Sony/ATV, a joint-venture of Tokyo-based  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
the estate of  Michael Jackson , is purchasing EMI publishing for
$2.2 billion to become the world’s biggest music publisher.  Bertelsmann board member Thomas Hesse said last month the
company’s BMG Rights Management business, a joint venture with
buyout firm KKR & Co., would “in principle” consider any
catalogs coming to the market.  Expanding the BMG music-rights unit is part of
Bertelsmann’s plan to boost growth at Europe’s biggest media
company.  Vivendi faces scrutiny from regulators about the EMI deal,
which is being investigated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission
and the European Union. The latter last month extended its
review to Sept. 6.  Impala, a Brussels-based group of independent record
labels, opposes the deal on worries of increased prices and
reduced competition in the music industry. Vivendi Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  has said that the
combination will ultimately be good for the industry and
musicians.  Sony/ATV this month won European Union approval for its
purchase of EMI’s music publishing unit after it agreed to sell
rights to chart hits by Robbie Williams and Ozzy Osbourne. The
deal will give the Sony group control of EMI’s publishing rights
to classics such as “ New York , New York” and “Stand By Your
Man,” adding to a portfolio of songs by  Elvis Presley , the
Beatles and Bob Dylan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net 
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  