-- Usiminas Posts Quarterly Loss on Higher Financial Costs
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-04-23T23:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/usiminas-posts-quarterly-loss-on-higher-financial-costs-1-.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA , the second-largest Brazilian steelmaker by output, posted a
first-quarter net loss after foreign exchange and financial
costs rose and sales declined.  The company had a net loss of 36.8 million reais ($19.6
million), compared to a 16 million net income in the same
quarter a year ago, Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-
based company is known, said today in a regulatory filing.
Excluding minority interests, net loss was 70.8 million reais,
under International Financial Reporting Standards, more than
double the 26.1 million-real loss posted in the year-earlier
period, according to the statement.  Net sales fell 5.8 percent to 2.89 billion reais in the
period, while financial expenses grew 22 percent due to the
foreign exchange rate variation, the company said in the
statement, which was released after markets closed. Quarterly
crude steel output declined 6.2 percent to 1.67 million metric
tons from last year, Usiminas said.  The financial result “can be attributed to the effect of
foreign exchange losses and the increase in net financial costs,
partially compensated by swap operations,” Usiminas said in the
statement. “The scenario now is of recovery, but the world
economy still faces severe risks.”  Brazilian steelmakers are fighting a global supply glut at
a time when growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy slows
down. Sales of cars in  Brazil  fell 1.8 percent in March after a
9 percent drop in February. Usiminas is the biggest supplier of
steel to Brazilian carmakers.  Chief Executive Officer Julian Eguren, who took over from
Wilson Brumer on Jan. 17 after the Techint Group joined the
company’s controlling shareholders, is seeking to improve
operations as the steel profit margins slumped to 4 percent last
year from 16 percent in 2010. Techint, through its Ternium SA
and Tenaris SA units, on Nov. 27 agreed to pay 5.03 billion
reais for a 27.7 percent voting stake in Usiminas, teaming up
with Nippon Steel Corp. to control Usiminas. Eguren was
Ternium’s executive president in  Mexico  before the appointment.  Usiminas fell 2.5 percent to 11.36 reais in  Sao Paulo 
today. The stock dropped about 34 percent in the past 12 months.  Usiminas will host a conference call with investors
tomorrow at 10 a.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ]
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  