-- Hatch’s Senate Primary Hinges on Outside Groups’ Spending
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/utah-hatch-s-fate-in-primary-rests-on-spending-by-outside-groups.html
FreedomWorks , a national group that
supports the Tea Party movement, said it will keep working to
defeat  Utah  Senator Orrin Hatch after he survived a contest
three days ago to compete in the Republican primary. So far, it
looks like a lonely battle.  FreedomWorks will begin a statewide grassroots effort to
tap its 15,000 Utah members and other Tea Party activists to
help elect Hatch’s primary rival, state Senator Dan Liljenquist,
said Russ Walker, political director for FreedomWorks. At a
party nominating convention April 21, Hatch fell 32 votes short
of the majority required to avoid a June 26 primary. The group
had spent almost $707,000 against the six-term Senate incumbent.  “We’re not walking away from it,” Walker said yesterday.
“We want to win it.”  Hatch won 59.2 percent of the 3,902 delegate votes cast at
the state Republican convention, less than the 60 percent needed
to win the nomination outright. Liljenquist, who appealed to Tea
Party activists, won 40.8 percent of the convention vote.  Hatch said yesterday in  Washington  he was “elated” by the
results.  “A couple of months ago they didn’t think I’d make it
through, so as far as we’re concerned it was a very good
thing,” the senator told reporters. “You know, you wish you
had gotten that extra nine-tenths, but it was a big statement.”  Club for Growth  Other conservative groups said they don’t have plans to get
involved in the contest.  Barney Keller, a spokesman for the small-government group
Club for Growth, said his organization is “watching” the race
and hasn’t decided whether its super-PAC will spend money trying
to defeat Hatch. The Tea Party Express, which donates to
candidates who favor low taxes and less  government spending ,
won’t get involved, its top political official said today.  “He’s a solid guy, so we have no interest in spending any
energy or resources to defeat him,” said Sal Russo, political
director of the Tea Party Express.  Hatch’s bid for a seventh term probably will rest on
whether other groups with super-PACs play a role, said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor of the nonpartisan  Cook Political Report .  “Liljenquist on his own is unlikely to be able to really
compete,” Duffy said. “He doesn’t have the money; he doesn’t
have the name ID. If these outside groups don’t just pour a ton
of money in, you have to call Hatch the favorite. But until they
make that decision, it’s hard to say.”  Targeting Hatch  FreedomWorks was founded by former House Majority Leader
Richard Armey, a Republican. The group is targeting the 78-year-
old Hatch for defeat because he supported the 2008 bank bailout
and a pathway to citizenship for some children of illegal
immigrants. The group also opposes Hatch because of his work
with the late Democratic Senator  Ted Kennedy  of  Massachusetts  to
create a children’s health program that expanded Medicaid.  FreedomWorks has spent money on  television advertising ,
grassroots outreach and glossy brochures trying to defeat Hatch.
The group operates a super-PAC that can raise unlimited amounts
for federal elections, and has taken in $3.7 million for this
year’s election.  Spokeswomen for Hatch and Liljenquist said today their
campaigns are shifting from a strategy designed to win a super-
majority of 4,000 Republican convention delegates to a statewide
primary contest.  Small Contributions  Holly Richardson, a spokeswoman for Liljenquist’s campaign,
said the state senator saw a swell of support after the April 21
convention that may help him in the primary. Since the results
were announced, Liljenquist has raised more than $20,000 in
donations, most of them small contributions of about $25.  “ Orrin Hatch  will outspend us, quite clearly, but we’ll
raise enough money to be competitive,” Richardson said. “I
think it will surprise a lot of people when we win in June.”  Richardson said Liljenquist can draw on help from 1,000
volunteers statewide and will focus on a grassroots, get-out-
the-vote effort rather than an “air war” of TV and radio ads.  At Hatch campaign headquarters, aides were preparing to
unleash a long-planned strategy in the event he didn’t win the
primary outright at the convention, said Evelyn Call, his
campaign spokeswoman. That includes the efforts of 20 full-time
staffers who divided Utah into three regions and will oversee a
turnout effort using a voter database built over a year and a
half.  Structure in Place  “We’ve always planned accordingly,” Call said. “Most of
the structure is in place.”  Heading into the primary contest, Hatch has raised
considerably more than Liljenquist. By the end of March, Hatch
reported raising $9.1 million and had $3.25 million left to
spend. Liljenquist raised $469,276 and had $242,157 cash on
hand.  Hatch has support from groups including Freedom Path, a
non-profit issue-advocacy organization focused on shoring up his
candidacy. American Action Network, a nonprofit group aiding
Republican candidates, is airing pro-Hatch ads. That group was
co-founded by former Republican Senator  Norm Coleman  of
 Minnesota  and Fred Malek, a longtime Republican donor and
chairman of Thayer Lodging Group Inc., an Annapolis, Maryland,
real estate investing firm.  First elected in 1976, Hatch is in line to become chairman
of the Senate Finance Committee if the Republicans win control
of the chamber in November’s election.  Indiana Primary  Hatch’s fate may be tied to what happens in a May 8
Republican primary in  Indiana , Duffy said. There, another six-
term Republican senator,  Richard Lugar , faces attacks from
outside groups who support his opponent, Indiana state Treasurer
Richard Mourdock. FreedomWorks’ super-PAC has spent $141,000 to
defeat Lugar and $153,000 for Mourdock.  Club for Growth’s super-PAC has spent $317,000 to defeat
Lugar, 80, and an equal amount to aid Mourdock, according to
data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, which
tracks campaign spending.  If Lugar loses his primary, it may embolden Tea Party
activists and spark donations to groups that could seek to
defeat Hatch, Duffy said.  “If they start matching Hatch dollar for dollar, then this
is a race,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  