-- Utilities Bracing for Northeast Snow as Rain Falls in New York
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-04-23T00:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/utilities-bracing-for-northeast-snow-as-rain-falls-in-new-york.html
Utility companies are preparing for
a powerful storm that threatens flooding rains along the East
Coast and snow and gusting winds that may break trees and tear
down power lines in western  New York  and  Pennsylvania .  As much as 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 centimeters) of snow may
fall from Buffalo, New York, southward through Pittsburgh and
into West Virginia, said Carl Erickson, a senior meteorologist
with  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Areas above 2,500 feet (760 meters) in the Appalachian
Mountains may receive as much as 12 inches, Erickson said. Snow
may fall at a rate of 1 to 2 inches per hour later today.  “We had such a warm spring the trees are three to four
weeks ahead of where they usually are,” Erickson said. “What’s
going to complicate matters is this is going to be that real
heavy, wet snow. The winds are also going to pick up behind the
storm, so any tree branches that are weakened by the snow may
come down.”  Heavy snow and high winds, when trees are bearing their
leaves, often tear down  power lines , leaving thousands of homes
and businesses without electricity. Heavy rains may cause some
flooding for areas along the East Coast including  New York City ,
 Boston  and Philadelphia.  “Monday’s expected wet snow and high winds have the
potential to cause damage to the electrical system, especially
since many trees already have leaves due to an unseasonably warm
spring,”  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  said in a statement. “Heavily
weighted branches, limbs and entire trees may fall, taking down
power lines and snapping utility poles.”  Winter Storm Warnings  FirstEnergy owns 11 electric companies, five of which cover
areas of western Pennsylvania, Maryland and West Virginia where
the snow is expected to be heaviest, and serve about 2.2 million
customers, according to the statement and company website.
Winter storm warnings and weather advisories are in effect from
western New York to  West Virginia , according to the National
Weather Service.  The Northeast was struck by a pre-winter snow storm on Oct.
29 that left more than 3.8 million people without power and
dropped as much as 31 inches in some areas. This storm won’t be
as severe, although it does indicate that the season will end in
a similar fashion to the way it started, Erickson said.  “It’s a little like bookends with not too much in
between,” he said.  Drought Conditions  While the snow falls in the mountains, as much as 2 inches
of rain may fall in New York and 2.75 inches in Boston by the
time the storm tapers off later today, according to the weather
service. A flood watch is in effect until later today from Maine
to eastern Pennsylvania, according to the  National Weather
Service .  Moderate to severe drought conditions extend along the East
Coast from Maine to  Delaware , according to the  U.S. Drought
Monitor  at the University of  Nebraska  at Lincoln. Any flooding
will most likely be in low-lying areas with poor drainage,
Erickson said. Because of the drought, there won’t be much
chance for river flooding.  “It’s more of a beneficial rain given how dry it is,” he
said.  FE <EQUITY> DES  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  