-- Vietnam Funds Beat India, China in Attracting Investors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T00:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/vietnam-funds-beat-india-china-in-attracting-investors.html
Vietnam-focused stock funds became
the only emerging market equity assets in  Asia  to lure investors
every week this year as the nation’s benchmark index rose to an
11-month high, Emerging Portfolio Fund Research said.  Offshore equity funds focused on Vietnam received $91
million in the past 16 weeks, according to data from EPFR.
Investors put money into India and China funds in eight of the
past 16 weeks.  Thailand  got inflows for 15 weeks, while
investors added money in  Indonesia  for 13 weeks, seven in
 Singapore  and just two in Taiwan, said  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR.  Vietnam’s economy is benefiting as producers shift
factories to the Southeast Asian nation to take advantage of
wages that are about half of that in  China , according to Capital
Economics. The VN Index has increased 34 percent this year
making it the world’s best performing benchmark after  Venezuela .  “There’s some faith that Vietnam is getting its house in
order at a time when China’s economic policy is likely to give
the Vietnamese outsourcing story a significant boost,” Brandt
said in an interview on April 20. That in turn is driving
confidence that Vietnam is taking a larger role in global supply
chains, said Brandt.  China is focusing more on domestic consumption and recently
increased the float on its currency, Brandt said.  The Chinese move “is a signal they’re going to pull in
their  export sector  a bit,” Brandt said by telephone. “That
gives  Vietnam  an opening.”  Emerging-market equity funds tracked by EPFR recorded back-
to-back weeks of outflows in the week ending April 18 for the
first time since December, on concern Chinese and European
 growth  may slow, according to an April 20 report.  Regional Comparisons  “There has been a cooling of appetite for emerging market
assets for the last couple of weeks, mainly because people are
kicking the tires on their beginning-of-the-year assumptions for
 Europe  and the U.S. and not arriving at the same degree of rose-
colored conclusions,” said Brandt.  Vietnam is set to be the “main beneficiary” of the
migration of low-end manufacturing out of China, wrote Gareth
Leather, a London-based economist at  Capital Economics , in a
March 28 note.  “In terms of getting the first rung of the development
ladder, the importance of developing a competitive lower-end
manufacturing sector for a low-income country cannot be
overstated,” wrote Leather. “Although  economic growth  is
likely to slow this year, the bright prospects for its apparel
industry are one reason why Vietnam should continue to grow
strongly over the medium-term.”  Vietnam’s economy grew 4 percent in the first quarter of
this year, after gross domestic product expanded 5.89 percent
for all of 2011. The country’s  inflation rate  in March was 14.15
percent, the seventh straight month the figure has declined
since reaching 23.02 percent in August 2011.  The VN Index rose 1 percent, closing at 472.84 on April 17,
the highest since May 13.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  