-- Bharti, Idea Tumble on Regulator’s License Fee Proposal
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-04-24T06:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/vodafone-balks-as-india-regulator-proposes-11-fold-fee-increase.html
Indian mobile-phone operators
slumped after an 11-fold increase in license fees proposed
yesterday by the nation’s regulator raised concerns that such
pricing will stunt the industry’s growth.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the country’s biggest operator, fell as
much 7.5 percent in Mumbai, the lowest intraday level since July
2010.  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA)  declined as much as 15 percent, the
biggest intraday drop since February 2011.  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , the nation’s second-biggest carrier, fell
as much as 3.5 percent, its lowest intraday price since Jan. 10.  The  Telecom Regulatory Authority of India  yesterday set a
reserve price of 181 billion rupees ($3.4 billion) for a permit
spanning the entire country, compared with 16.6 billion rupees
for similar second-generation licenses sold in 2008.  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s biggest operator, said the non-binding
recommendations will do “irreparable harm,” while the domestic
lobby group  Cellular Operators Association of India  called it a
“disaster” that would discourage carriers.  “TRAI’s expensive recommendations are worse than what
market anticipated,” said Sachin Gupta, a Singapore-based
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “If these measures are
expected, they are likely to put a greater cash burden on the
telecom sector as a whole.”  Drawing Rules  India  is seeking to redefine rules for auction of spectrum
after the  Supreme Court  in February canceled 122 second-
generation permits following a report by the nation’s auditor
that said they were sold at “unbelievably low prices” and the
faulty sales may have cost the exchequer as much as $31 billion
four years ago. The government is also trying to raise money to
narrow the  budget deficit  after the shortfall exceeded its
target by a percentage point in the year ended March 31.  Bharti reported a 22 percent drop in net income in the
quarter ended Dec. 31 as subscribers curbed mobile use amid
rising tariffs. Reliance Communications said profit declined 61
percent in the same period on higher debt costs.  Bharti raised call rates 20 percent in most parts of India
last year, after a price war sparked by the entry of  Telenor ASA (TEL) 
and  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  into the world’s second-largest wireless
market drove rates to less than a penny a minute.  “The government promised that they won’t milk spectrum for
revenue, but this type of pricing will be the death knell for
the industry,” Rajan Mathews, director general of the New
Delhi-based Cellular Operators Association, said yesterday.
“The price points mentioned will prevent any new operators from
entering the market and kill any hopes incumbent players had of
reacquiring their spectrum.”  Bharti fell 3.1 percent to 302.75 rupees as of 11:41 a.m.
Idea declined 3.5 percent to 80.45 rupees and Reliance
Communications dropped 1.4 percent to 80.35 rupees.  Grown Accustomed  The regulator said the increase in price is part of the
industry’s liberalization which allows operators to use “any
band, any technology” on their awarded spectrum. The
recommendations will go to the government for approval.  “Indian operators have grown accustomed to certain prices,
so this may seem harsh, but I’m confident that the industry will
prevail,” TRAI Chairman J.S. Sarma told reporters yesterday in
 New Delhi . “Over a 20-year projection, these prices are more
than manageable and we will give companies enough time to pay
these prices.”  Norway’s Telenor and  Russia ’s AFK Sistema are among
companies that will lose their licenses following the court
order. They have sought legal remedies to get their permits
restored, failing which they risk losing a combined $5.8 billion
investment in the South Asian country.  Former Telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja  is in
jail in New Delhi, facing trial, for the 2008 spectrum sales.
Former bureaucrats, a lawmaker and a few company executives are
facing charges in the case. All deny any wrongdoing.  The government has filed a review petition, questioning the
court’s jurisdiction over policy matters. The top court will
hear arguments on May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  