-- Vodafone Agrees to Buy Cable & Wireless for $1.7 Billion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-23T09:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/vodafone-agrees-to-buy-cable-wireless-for-1-7-billion.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  agreed to
acquire  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  for 1.04 billion pounds
($1.7 billion) in cash, adding a U.K. fixed-line network to its
mobile-phone system and gaining business customers.  The world’s largest wireless operator will pay 38 pence a
share in an offer recommended by Cable & Wireless directors, the
companies said today. The stock surged 16 percent to 37.24
pence as of 9:54 a.m. in  London , for a gain of 88 percent since
Vodafone publicly expressed interest Feb. 13.  Vodafone became the sole bidder for London-based Cable &
Wireless after  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM)  last week failed to
agree on a price and decided against making an offer. Newbury,
England-based Vodafone is pursuing a European fixed-line
acquisition for the first time since 2010, when it ended talks
to buy  Germany ’s  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG. (KD8)   “While opportunistic in nature, this acquisition is in
line with group strategy,” Vodafone Chief Executive Officer
 Vittorio Colao  told investors on a conference call today. “This
was an attractive opportunity to buy assets in the U.K.
Unusually, we were able to perform a few weeks of due
diligence.”  Vodafone is paying 2.5 times reported earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, including debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an
average price of 3.5 times Ebitda for similar deals in Western
Europe in the last three years. Based on estimates for the 12
months through March 2012, Vodafone is paying a multiple of 3
times Ebitda.  Global Cable Systems  Cable & Wireless , tracing its roots to 1866 when the first
submarine cable across the Atlantic Ocean was laid, has holdings
in more than 60 global cable systems. It also owns the largest
U.K. fiber system for businesses, which Vodafone may use to
relieve the strain of surging data traffic on its own mobile-
phone network.  Vodafone rose 0.2 percent to 171.75 pence as of 10:03 a.m.
The stock is down 3.9 percent this year on the London exchange.  Vodafone said Cable & Wireless investors representing 18.6
percent of the shares have already agreed to the purchase. The
largest shareholder, Orbis Holdings Ltd., hasn’t yet made a
commitment.  Tim Ashton, an analyst with Orbis in London, told Colao on
the investor call that the bid was “very opportunistic.”  Vodafone predicts that the deal will be completed in the
third quarter, Colao said.  Winning Clients  By gaining its own fiber network, Vodafone will avoid
paying fees to access those of rivals including  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , to
whom it pays 200 million pounds a year, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein analysts. Vodafone will also gain British customers
including Tesco Plc. Vodafone said today it probably won’t be
able to use Cable & Wireless’ past losses to offset its own tax
obligations.  Vodafone was advised by UBS AG, while Barclays and
Rothschild advised Cable & Wireless.  Separated from its parent company in March 2010, Cable &
Wireless was once worth 2.4 billion pounds. The stock has lost
65 percent of its value in the past two years. In November, the
company suspended future  dividend payments  as sales fell in its
traditional voice network.  Gavin Darby, a former Vodafone executive who replaced  John Pluthero  as Cable & Wireless’s CEO in November, said Feb. 16
that he would be prepared to consider “significant, strategic
decisions” as part of plans to restructure the business.
Vodafone said today it will cut headcount at the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  