-- VW’s Bentley Prepares to Deliver $210,000 SUV, Chief Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T17:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/vw-s-bentley-prepares-to-deliver-210-000-suv-chief-says.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s super-luxury
Bentley unit, which introduced a concept sport-utility vehicle
in March, aims to sell 3,000 such cars annually when production
starts in 2015.  Bentley Motors, based in Crewe,  England , is confident of
getting Volkswagen’s approval to produce the SUV by year-end,
said Bentley Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Duerheimer, who
also gave the sales target in an interview at the Beijing Motor
Show yesterday.  Bentley, which was founded in October 1919 and competes
with  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Rolls-Royce, showcased the
silver-blue concept model in Beijing this week, after a global
introduction at the Geneva International Motor Show in March.
Bentley sold 37 percent more cars in 2011 as demand for the
automaker’s models doubled in  China , helping make the brand
profitable for the first time since 2008.  “At present, we are working out our internal Bentley
business case and it looks very optimistic,” said Duerheimer,
who expects to price the SUV from 160,000 euros ($210,000) to
200,000 euros, or higher than any other SUV available on the
market now.  The maker of the Continental luxury coupe said it is aiming
to sell the sports-utility vehicle in “developed SUV markets”
such as the U.S., the U.K. and China.  Shanghai Limousine  Chinese customer preferences were a consideration in the
design of the vehicle, said Robin Page, head of interior design
at the U.K. luxury automaker.  China overtook the U.S. to become the biggest sales market
for the brand in the first quarter, with 547 cars sold.  “The concept was a balance between what we called
‘Shanghai limousine luxury’ and ‘British utility’,” Page said
in Beijing, gesturing to the soft, white leather finishing,
silk-wool rugs and rear seats designed for a chauffeur-driven
customer in mind.  Bentley’s design team had come up with six different ideas
for the model, with one extreme a picture of a Chinese
businessman seated in the back of a limousine, and at the other
extreme, an Englishman with a picnic mat spread around his car,
he said.  Picnic sets of silver cutlery, glasses and square white
plates were included in the trunk to highlight the utilitarian
aspect of the car, Page said.  Bentley opened its 19th showroom in China, and largest
worldwide, in Beijing on April 21, and plans to open four more
by the end of the year, said Chong Got, executive director of
Bentley China.  The new dealers would be focused in cities outside
Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin, Durheimer said.  “We are looking inland,” he said. “We know what the
people do, we know how they earn their money and we know how
rich they are. It would be a mistake to neglect some major
cities which have a population of more than 1 million
inhabitants.”  --Liza Lin, Stephen Engle. Editors: Jeffrey Tannenbaum, Ben Livesey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 Sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  