-- Wal-Mart CEO Says All Staff ‘Accountable’ for Standards
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/wal-mart-probe-is-not-reflection-of-company-internal-memo-says.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Duke  said all of the company’s staff are
“accountable” for its standards and it has taken “a number of
concrete steps” over the last year to strengthen its compliance
programs.  The retailer is conducting an “aggressive investigation”
into alleged violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act and “will not tolerate violations anywhere or at any level
of the company,” Duke said in a memo to employees yesterday,
obtained by Bloomberg News.  “I want you to know we will continue to dedicate all the
resources necessary to make certain we have strong anti-
corruption programs everywhere we operate,” Duke said.  The company is the subject of a U.S. Justice Department
criminal investigation into allegations of bribery in its
Mexican subsidiary, according to a person familiar with the
probe. Wal-Mart is conducting its own review of allegations that
its representatives paid local officials in Mexico to get stores
opened faster in the early 2000s.  Duke ordered a “worldwide review” in March last year to
ensure it has “effective programs in every one of our
markets,” and has tightened controls and oversight at its
headquarters in Bentonville,  Arkansas , he also said in the memo.  Jeff Gearhart, the company’s general counsel and corporate
secretary, told employees in an April 21 memo that the alleged
violations “occurred more than six years ago” and are “not a
reflection of who we are or what we stand for.”  David Tovar , a company spokesman, confirmed the
authenticity of both memos yesterday.  ‘Anti-Corruption Programs’  “My firm expectation is that Walmart will always follow
the law, but my expectation also goes far beyond following the
law,” Duke said in the memo. “We will do what’s right -- not
just what is legal -- and our actions will show the utmost
integrity at all times.”  The memos were sent to staff after an April 21 New York
Times article said the bribes may have amounted to more than $24
million in payments. Gearhart’s memo said the company started a
review of its anti-corruption program in the spring of 2011,
which led to an internal investigation “late last year”
involving outside lawyers and forensic accountants.  The alleged violations “involved claims of illegal
payments in  Mexico  primarily to obtain permits for new stores,”
Gearhart said in his memo. “None of us likes to hear our
company talked about in this way. But I do not have to tell you
that the alleged activity is not a reflection of who we are or
what we stand for -- not now and not then.”  Compliance Review  Wal-Mart has hired auditing firm KPMG and law firm
Greenberg Traurig LLP for a compliance review of its global
operations and law firm Jones Day to investigate its Mexican
operations, said a person familiar with the matter.  Wal-Mart has said it has met voluntarily with the  U.S.
Department of Justice  and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to discuss the case. The company is also enhancing
its audit procedures and internal controls to escalate to
management possible violations of the bribery law.  “We are moving aggressively to determine the facts,” said
Gearhart, who is also an executive vice president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  