-- Walmex Slumps Most Since 1998 After Mexico Bribery Report
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-23T21:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/wal-mart-bribery-probe-may-exposes-retailer-to-u-s-fines.html
  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  fell the
most in more than 13 years after its parent company announced an
investigation into allegations that representatives in the
country bribed local officials to get stores opened faster.  Wal-Mart de Mexico, which is 69 percent owned by  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , fell 12 percent to 37.89 pesos in Mexico City, the
biggest decline since May 4, 1998. The parent company’s  shares 
slid 4.7 percent to $59.54 at the close in New York, the biggest
drop since Aug. 10.  The investigation of possible bribery, detailed in an April
21 New York Times story, may prompt executive departures and
U.S. government fines if it reveals senior managers didn’t take
strong enough action, governance experts said. The probe also
may slow Wal-Mart’s expansion in Mexico and other markets.  “Any subsequent fines would come out of Walmex, not so
much the other Wal-Mart corporate operations,” Charles Cerankosky, managing director at Northcoast Research Holdings
LLC in  Cleveland , said in an interview. “It could be material
in terms of cash out the door over a period of years.”  The federal government may require the investigation to
look into all of Wal-Mart’s foreign operations, Cerankosky said.  In a December 2011 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
filing, Wal-Mart said it was examining whether it was in
compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, without
saying what region or time period was in question.  Initial Probe  At the time Wal-Mart conducted an initial internal probe
and ended it in 2006, the U.S. Department of Justice was
starting to crack down on foreign bribery cases. Waiting for
years to disclose the case may mean tougher sanctions for the
retailer and for individuals, governance and legal experts said.  “Does the conduct at issue squarely fall into the type of
enforcement actions the DOJ and SEC have been bringing over the
last couple of years? That answer is clearly yes,” said  Michael Koehler , a law professor at  Butler University  in Indianapolis
who runs the FCPA Professor blog. “If there is enforcement
action, the DOJ and SEC are likely to be more harsh because of
how it handled this situation over the last six years.”  Two top Democrats on congressional panels today moved to
start a probe and request a meeting with Wal-Mart executives.  ‘Serious Questions’  The Times report “raises serious questions about potential
violations of United States law” and “about the actions of top
company officials in the United States who reportedly tried to
disregard substantial evidence of abuse,” Representatives
 Elijah Cummings  of Maryland and Henry Waxman of  California ,
wrote today in a letter to Wal-Mart CEO Michael T. Duke.  Cummings is the top Democrat on the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, and Waxman is the top Democrat on
the House Energy and Commerce Committee.  Wal-Mart, in its April 21 statement, said it takes
compliance with the corruption law seriously and is moving to
find out what happened. When asked yesterday whether the
retailer’s board was notified about the allegations in 2005 and
why the company didn’t move sooner, spokesman  David Tovar  said,
“That’s one of the things we are looking into.”  Wal-Mart has hired auditing firm KPMG and law firm
Greenberg Traurig LLP for a compliance review of its global
operations and law firm Jones Day to investigate its Mexican
operations, said a person familiar with the matter.  Tovar said the company isn’t making executives available
for comment.  Mexican Expansion  The expansion of Wal-Mart de  Mexico , mainly in the last
decade, left the world’s largest retailer with about 20 percent
of its stores in Mexico, out of more than 10,000 worldwide.
Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart’s sales  rose about 6
percent last year to $447 billion. Wal-Mart has more than
doubled the number of stores in Mexico to 2,088 since 2008.  Walmex today said first-quarter net income rose 4.5 percent
to 4.71 billion pesos ($357 million) from 4.5 billion a year
earlier, the company said in a statement. Sales climbed 14
percent to 96.9 billion pesos, missing the average estimate of
99.7 billion pesos of five analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Walmex CEO Scot Rank and Chief Financial Officer Rafael
Matute didn’t mention the corruption investigation today on a
seven-minute conference call to discuss first-quarter results.
As usual, the company didn’t take questions from analysts or
investors on the quarterly call.  The investigation may slow Wal-Mart’s growth in the country
if authorities there feel pressure to show more scrutiny of its
permits, Robert Carroll, an analyst at UBS AG in New York, said
today in a report.  Legal Settlements  Settlements involving the corrupt practices act are
typically 1 percent to 2 percent of sales, and that would be
about $4.5 billion per 1 percentage point of sales for Wal-Mart,
Carroll said. FCPA investigations take 2 years to 6 years to
settle, he said. The largest such settlement ever was $1.6
billion paid by  Siemens AG (SIE)  in 2008, he said.  Wal-Mart executives, including then-Chief Executive Officer
and current board member Lee Scott, were made aware of the
bribery allegations in 2005, the New York Times reported. So was
Duke, the current CEO, who at the end of that year was just
taking over international operations, the article said.  Scott didn’t return a phone call to his home.  Wal-Mart will face pressure from shareholders to take
action against any executives who didn’t act fully on the
bribery allegations sooner, said  Charles Elson , director of the
John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the
University of  Delaware .  ‘It’s Problematic’  “If this is all true, it’s problematic,” Elson said in a
telephone interview. “If any officer was significantly
involved, their position has to be reviewed. You have to do the
investigating and determine what did the CEO know and when.”  The Times article said the bribes may have amounted to more
than $24 million in payments.  The Times identified executive Eduardo Castro-Wright as a
central figure in the expansion of the alleged payments. Castro-
Wright ran Wal-Mart de Mexico as CEO from 2003 to 2005 and was
president and chief operating officer of the unit from 2001 to
2003. Some of the alleged bribery took place during that time,
the newspaper reported.  In a telephone interview, Tovar declined to discuss the
future of Castro-Wright, who is now a Wal-Mart vice chairman
scheduled to retire July 1.  Wal-Mart said it has met voluntarily with the  Justice
Department  and the SEC to discuss the case. The company is also
enhancing its audit procedures and internal controls to escalate
to management possible violations of the bribery law.  Anti-Corruption Program  “We take compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act very seriously and are committed to having a
strong and effective global anti-corruption program in every
country in which we operate,” Tovar said in the company’s
statement. “We will not tolerate noncompliance with FCPA
anywhere or at any level of the company.”  The Justice Department is conducting a criminal probe of
the allegations, the  Washington  Post reported today, citing two
people familiar with the matter without naming them.  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the Post story.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman,
declined to comment earlier today on whether the agency plans to
investigate the Wal-Mart allegations.  Wal-Mart started the latest investigation last fall through
the board’s auditing committee, and Tovar said in the statement
that the company hasn’t reached any conclusions yet. Wal-Mart
will conduct training for its employees and put in place more
robust policies and controls, according to the statement.  Hundreds of Documents  The newspaper detailed the company’s 2005 investigation by
examining hundreds of internal documents, as well as more than
15 hours of interviews with former Wal-Mart de Mexico executive
Sergio Cicero Zapata, who recounted years of payoffs to
government officials.  The Times said it looked at thousands of government
documents related to store permit requests throughout Mexico and
found many instances of permits being granted within weeks or
days of Wal-Mart de Mexico’s payments to two outside lawyers who
gave cash to the officials.  The Times report said that Wal-Mart decided in February
2006 to turn the investigation over to the then-general counsel
of the Mexican subsidiary, Jose Luis Rodriguezmacedo Rivera,
himself a target of the investigation. Rodriguezmacedo finished
the probe within weeks, concluding there was no evidence of
bribes paid to Mexican government officials, the Times said.  Rodriguezmacedo declined to comment to the newspaper, and
attempts by Bloomberg to reach him were unsuccessful.  Justice Department Informed  The Times reported that in December 2011, after learning of
the newspaper’s reporting in Mexico, Wal-Mart told the Justice
Department of its investigation into whether some of its actions
violated U.S. anti-corruption laws. The company is investigating
permitting, licensing and inspections, according to its form 10-
Q filed with the SEC on Dec. 8, 2011.  The company’s filing didn’t mention Mexico and stated that,
“We do not believe that these matters will have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.”  Wal-Mart also has hired outside advisers to help with the
investigation.  “In a large global enterprise such as Wal-Mart, sometimes
issues arise despite our best efforts and intentions,” Tovar
said in the statement. “When they do, we take them seriously
and act as quickly as possible to understand what happened. We
take action and work to implement changes so the issue doesn’t
happen again.”  Other 25 Markets  While Mexico may be an isolated case, “shareholders will
be wondering about Wal-Mart’s other 25 markets,” Natalie Berg,
an analyst at Planet Retail in  London , said today in an
interview. “International growth targets may need to be revised
downward, at least in the near-term,” she said.  The 1977 U.S. law bars companies or individuals regulated
or based in the U.S. from paying bribes to foreign officials to
win business. Foreign companies and nationals also can be
prosecuted if their corrupt acts were committed in the U.S.  In a crackdown on overseas bribery that started during the
Bush administration, the government settled 57 cases against
companies from 2005 through 2011 without trial, reaping $4.1
billion for the  U.S. Treasury , according to Justice Department
data. A push to prosecute more individual defendants during the
same period has produced mixed results, with some beating
charges outright and others getting less punishment than
prosecutors sought.  Corruption Reputation  The Wal-Mart allegations will do nothing to help Mexico
fight a reputation for government corruption. Latin America’s
second-biggest economy last year fell to No. 100 out of 183
countries for perceived levels of corruption, according to
Berlin-based Transparency International.  Mexican Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said his
government hasn’t decided whether to open a probe of its own.
The government is collecting more information on the
allegations, he said.  “I’ve seen the story and we’re looking into it,” Meade
said in an interview in Washington after participating in a
panel discussion at the  World Bank . He later told reporters in
the hallway that officials “don’t have enough elements” to
open an investigation and “when we have enough, we’ll decide
how to proceed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in  New York  at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  