-- Wal-Mart Said to Be Subject of U.S. Criminal Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-04-24T04:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/wal-mart-said-to-be-subject-of-u-s-criminal-probe.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is the subject
of a U.S. Justice Department criminal investigation into
allegations of bribery in its Mexican subsidiary, according to a
person familiar with the probe.  The Justice Department is investigating potential criminal
charges under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, according
to the person familiar with the probe who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly about it. Wal-Mart is conducting its own review
of allegations that its representatives paid local officials in
Mexico to get stores opened faster in the early 2000s.  The investigations by the government and the company may
prompt executive departures and U.S. penalties if it reveals
senior managers didn’t take strong enough action, governance
specialists said. The probes also may slow Wal-Mart’s expansion
in  Mexico  and other markets.  “The penalties paid by companies in settling these types
of FCPA investigations have grown significantly larger in recent
years,” said Jeffrey Lehtman, a Washington-based partner with
the law firm of Richards Kibbe & Orbe LLP. “Depending on the
facts uncovered, companies like Wal-Mart can expect the
penalties to be incredibly high.”  The bribery allegations were described in an April 21 New
York Times story. In a December 2011 U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filing, Wal-Mart said it was examining
whether it was in compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, without saying what region or time period was in question.  “It is an open question as to whether Wal-Mart’s prior
disclosure would have allowed investors to understand the
magnitude of potential exposure,” said Lehtman, whose firm
handles Foreign Corrupt Practices Act cases.  ‘Anti-Corruption Program’  Alisa Finelli, a  Justice Department  spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment
earlier yesterday on whether the agency plans to investigate the
Wal-Mart allegations.  The company said in an April 21 statement that it has met
voluntarily with the Justice Department and the SEC to discuss
the case. The company is also enhancing its audit procedures and
internal controls to escalate to management possible violations
of the bribery law.  Jeff Gearhart, the company’s general counsel and corporate
secretary, told employees in an April 21 memo that the alleged
violations “occurred more than six years ago” and are “not a
reflection of who we are or what we stand for.”  In a separate note sent to employees yesterday, Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Duke  said Wal-Mart is conducting an
“aggressive investigation” and “will not tolerate violations
anywhere or at any level of the company.”  David Tovar , a
company spokesman, confirmed the authenticity of both documents.  Mexican Expansion  The expansion of Wal-Mart de Mexico, mainly in the last
decade, left the world’s largest retailer with about 20 percent
of its stores in Mexico, out of more than 10,000 worldwide.
Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart’s sales  rose about 6
percent last year to $447 billion. Wal-Mart has more than
doubled the number of stores in Mexico to 2,088 since 2008.  The investigation may slow Wal-Mart’s growth in the country
if authorities there feel pressure to show more scrutiny of its
permits, Robert Carroll, an analyst at UBS AG in  New York , said
yesterday in a report.  Wal-Mart de Mexico, which is 69 percent owned by Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., fell 12 percent yesterday to 37.89 pesos in Mexico
City, the biggest decline since May 4, 1998. The parent
company’s  shares  slid 4.7 percent to $59.54 at the close in New
York, the biggest drop since Aug. 10.  Conference Call  Walmex’s first-quarter net income rose 4.5 percent to 4.71
billion pesos ($357 million) from 4.5 billion a year earlier,
the company said in a statement. Sales climbed 14 percent to
96.9 billion pesos, missing the average estimate of 99.7 billion
pesos of five analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Walmex CEO Scot Rank and Chief Financial Officer Rafael Matute didn’t mention the corruption investigation yesterday on
a seven-minute conference call to discuss first-quarter results.
As usual, the company didn’t take questions from analysts or
investors on the quarterly call.  Settlements involving the corrupt practices act are
typically 1 percent to 2 percent of sales, and that would be
about $4.5 billion per 1 percentage point of sales for Wal-Mart,
Carroll said. FCPA investigations take 2 years to 6 years to
settle, he said. The largest such settlement ever was $1.6
billion paid by  Siemens AG (SIE)  in 2008, he said.  Wal-Mart executives, including then-Chief Executive Officer
and current board member Lee Scott, were made aware of the
bribery allegations in 2005, the New York Times reported. So was
Duke, the current CEO, who at the end of that year was just
taking over international operations, the article said.  Scott didn’t return a phone call to his home.  Congressional Scrutiny  Two top Democrats on congressional panels yesterday moved
to start a probe and request a meeting with Wal-Mart executives.  The Times report “raises serious questions about potential
violations of  United States  law” and “about the actions of top
company officials in the United States who reportedly tried to
disregard substantial evidence of abuse,” Representatives
 Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland  and Henry Waxman of  California ,
wrote in a letter to Duke.  Cummings is the top Democrat on the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, and Waxman is the top Democrat on
the House Energy and Commerce Committee.  Wal-Mart will face pressure from shareholders to take
action against any executives who didn’t act fully on the
bribery allegations sooner, said  Charles Elson , director of the
John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the
 University of Delaware .  ‘It’s Problematic’  “If this is all true, it’s problematic,” Elson said in a
telephone interview. “If any officer was significantly
involved, their position has to be reviewed. You have to do the
investigating and determine what did the CEO know and when.”  The Times article said the bribes may have amounted to more
than $24 million in payments.  The Times identified executive Eduardo Castro-Wright as a
central figure in the expansion of the alleged payments. Castro-
Wright ran Wal-Mart de Mexico as CEO from 2003 to 2005 and was
president and chief operating officer of the unit from 2001 to
2003. Some of the alleged bribery took place during that time,
the newspaper reported.  In a telephone interview, Tovar declined to discuss the
future of Castro-Wright, who is now a Wal-Mart vice chairman
scheduled to retire July 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  