-- Castro-Wright’s Role on MetLife Board Seen as ‘Distraction’
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-04-23T19:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/wal-mart-executive-s-role-on-metlife-board-seen-as-distraction-.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  must probe whether
Eduardo Castro-Wright should remain on the insurer’s board after
the  New York  Times reported that the  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  unit
he ran in Mexico paid bribes to government officials, a Yale
University professor said.  “This requires an investigation immediately by the
MetLife board,” said Jeff Sonnenfeld, senior associate dean at
the Yale University School of Management, in an interview today.
“This certainly has put a question mark around his ability to
be a beacon of integrity. At a minimum, this is going to bring a
distraction to MetLife.”  Castro-Wright, 57, a member of MetLife’s Governance and
Corporate Responsibility Committee, was “the driving force
behind years of bribery” in  Mexico  before Wal-Mart named him
vice chairman in 2008, according to former executives, the Times
reported April 21. He joined MetLife’s board in March 2008,
about three years after Wal-Mart promoted him to chief operating
officer of its U.S. stores unit.  “MetLife became aware of this situation through recent
media reports,” said  John Calagna , a spokesman for the insurer.
“Wal-Mart has indicated in these reports that it is
investigating the matter. Therefore it would not be appropriate
for MetLife to comment at this time.”  Wal-Mart said the retailer is taking steps to ensure
compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and has
met with the  U.S. Department of Justice  and Securities and
Exchange Commission to discuss the case.  ‘A Mistake’  “Every second MetLife doesn’t give a public statement
that it is investigating these allegations is a mistake,”
Sonnenfeld said. “It’s not OK to wait for further
investigation. They don’t have to be the judge and jury, they
don’t have to come out with a judgment, but they have to at
least demonstrate they are looking into it.”  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, cited Castro-
Wright’s experiences outside the country when he was appointed
to the board.  “His leadership roles at several well-known brands in the
U.S., as well as in the  Latin America  and Asia-Pacific regions,
will undoubtedly benefit MetLife as we continue to grow our
businesses outside of the U.S.,” Robert Henrikson, MetLife’s
chief executive officer at the time, said in a statement
announcing Castro-Wright’s selection.  Castro-Wright’s term on MetLife’s board expires at the 2014
annual  shareholders’ meeting , according to the insurer’s proxy
statement. This year’s annual meeting is scheduled for tomorrow,
according to the filing.  ‘Mitigation of Risks’  MetLife’s governance committee “oversees the management
and mitigation of risks related to failure to comply with
required or appropriate corporate governance standards,” the
insurer said last month in the proxy. Castro-Wright, who also
serves on the compensation and investment committees, was paid
$259,124 for his work at the insurer last year, including
$145,000 in cash and $112,502 in stock awards, the filing shows.  Wal-Mart de Mexico, in a statement, said it’s committed to
complying with the laws in countries where it operates and the
story’s allegations, “if true, do not accurately reflect Wal-
Mart de Mexico y Centroamerica’s culture.”  In another statement after the Times story was published,
the retailer said, “We will not tolerate noncompliance with
FCPA anywhere or at any level of the company.” The firm said it
has taken steps to ensure stronger FCPA compliance, including
training and enhanced auditing procedures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in  Detroit  at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  