-- Weidmann Says ECB Firepower Is Limited, Governments Must Act
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-04-23T17:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/weidmann-says-ecb-firepower-not-unlimited-governments-must-act.html
European Central Bank council
member Jens Weidmann said calls for the central bank to do more
to fight the sovereign debt crisis overestimate its capacity.  “Monetary policy is not a panacea and central bank
firepower is not unlimited, especially not in a monetary
union,” Weidmann said in a speech in  New York  today. “We can
only win back confidence if we bring down excessive deficits and
boost competitiveness. And it is precisely because these things
are unpopular that makes it so tempting for politicians to rely
instead on monetary accommodation.”  ECB policy makers have brushed off demands from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the U.S. for more action to stem
the debt crisis, as markets push Spain’s borrowing costs toward
levels that prompted  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
international bailouts. The Frankfurt-based ECB has already cut
interest rates to a record low and pumped more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) into the euro area’s banking system in a
bid to avert a credit crunch.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yields rose to almost 6 percent today
as the government struggles to convince investors it can shore
up banks without overburdening public finances. Weidmann said
delays in implementing announced deficit cuts and reforms risk
damaging “confidence in policy makers’ ability to get to the
root of the crisis.”  Geithner’s Call  The Washington-based IMF last week lobbied the ECB to
consider lowering its benchmark  interest rate  and keep its
crisis-fighting measures in place, presaging comments from U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who said the central
bank needed to act more decisively and flexibly to contain the
turmoil.  “More of the same will not take us anywhere,” Weidmann
said. “The analgesic we administer comes with side effects. And
the longer we apply it, the greater these side effects will be,
and they will come back to haunt us in the future.”  The ECB will need to act if inflation pressures increase,
he said.  “Taking into account rising energy prices and robust  core
inflation , prices could rise faster than the IMF expects,”
Weidmann said. “Even if we are concerned about the impact on
the peripheral countries, monetary policy makers must do what is
necessary once upside risks for euro-area inflation increase.”  Weidmann said he doesn’t want to “deny the necessity of
containing the crisis. But all that can be gained is the time to
address the root problems.”  Spanish Yields  The ECB today said it refrained from making any government
bond purchases for a sixth straight week, even as Spanish
officials call on it to intervene. While markets may now be
“overshooting” in the case of Spain, Weidmann said, higher
borrowing costs could spur reforms.  “We should not forget that market interest rates are an
important signal for governments regarding the state of their
finances and that they are an important incentive for reforms.”  Answering a question on whether the ECB’s bond purchases
should be linked to countries implementing reforms, Weidmann
said he believes “they shouldn’t be linked at all.  “It’s not our job to reward or sanction policy makers for
their actions,” he said. “Our job is to do  monetary policy .
And if those purchases are needed to implement our monetary
policy, we should do them.”  Weidmann said there needs to be more clarity about the
direction that  Europe ’s monetary union is taking.  “We have to reduce public debt and we have to further
improve the institutional framework of monetary union,” he
said. “We therefore have to think about the future now -- and
we have to act accordingly as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in New York at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in New York at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  