-- When Underwood Strips in ‘Streetcar,’ Folks Gasp: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-23T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/when-underwood-strips-in-streetcar-folks-gasp-review.html
Grounded in powerhouse performances
by Blair Underwood as Stanley Kowalski and Nicole Ari Parker as
Blanche DuBois, the latest, mostly black, Broadway revival of
 “A Streetcar Named Desire”  is extraordinarily moving.  The director, Emily Mann, has said that long before
“color-blind casting” became a flashpoint in American play
staging,  Tennessee Williams  himself told her of his eagerness to
see such a production.  Mann, a gifted, imaginative director whose work always
betrays a moral underpinning, has done more than simply make
unusual casting choices. She’s conceived a jazz-drenched show
that couldn’t be more right for a drama set in New Orleans.  The music of this ultimate racial melting pot of a city is
captured in Terence Blanchard’s hushed underscoring; in Eugene
Lee’s shabby setting, Edward Pierce’s now garish, now honeyed
lighting and Paul Tazewell’s memorable costumes (especially
Blanche’s outlandish, tattered gowns).  But you want to know about Underwood, and why not? It’s not
as though Brando himself didn’t distinguish Stanley as an icon
of brute sexual charisma, and on that score Underwood certainly
delivers the goods. Just listen to the gasps and sighs emanating
from the audience when he strips to an undershirt or less.  Vulnerable, Explosive  More important, Underwood adds an unexpected vulnerability
that makes Stanley’s violence as explosive and, oddly, as
believable, as any I’ve seen.  Parker’s Blanche enters already a ghost of herself,
haunted-looking and ephemeral, her eyes vacant and every gesture
suggesting that her limbs just might float away.  Her voice is all insinuation, enveloped in Southern
musicality. When Blanche tells a wide-eyed newsboy, “You make
my mouth water,” the actress tosses off the line so casually
you nearly miss the sadness of it. All this makes Stanley’s rape
and its aftermath that much more shocking.  Wood Harris, as Blanche’s suitor Mitch, brings the right
combination of Mama’s boy and righteousness. Daphne Rubin-Vega’s
Stella seems less to-the-manner born than her sister. But she
adds a pragmatic chill I haven’t before heard when Stella
acknowledges that she has no choice but to disbelieve Blanche in
order to survive.  Mann opens the second act with a tableau vivant of a  New
Orleans  funeral, giving Blanchard a few moments to raise the
urgent instrumental voices. Yet for all its primal actions, this
fine “Streetcar” never needs to shout.  At the Broadhurst Theatre, 235 W. 44th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today's Muse highlights include  Greg Evans 's TV review and  John
Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 