-- Twitter Subpoena of N.Y. Protester Is Approved by Judge
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-23T22:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/twitter-subpoena-of-n-y-protester-is-approved-by-judge.html
Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. may subpoena Twitter Inc. for information about the
account of an Occupy Wall Street protester, a judge ruled.  Judge  Matthew Sciarrino  of New York Criminal Court on April
20 permitted Vance to subpoena Twitter, denying a request by the
protester’s lawyer to invalidate the subpoena. Vance wants
information about the “@destructuremal” account of Malcolm
Harris, who was arrested Oct. 1 with about 700 protesters on the
Brooklyn Bridge, according to a court filing.  “Twitter’s license to use the defendant’s Tweets means
that the Tweets the defendant posted were not his,” the judge
wrote in a 12-page ruling.  Prosecutors said in a court filing that the Tweets are
needed because Harris has advanced a defense to disorderly
conduct charges that contradicts his public statements.  “Defendant has made clear through various public
statements that he was well aware of the police instructions
that day, and acted with the intent of obstructing traffic on
the bridge,” prosecutors wrote.  Martin Stolar, an attorney with the National Lawyers Guild,
which is representing protesters, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment on the ruling.  “It’s our policy to notify users about  law enforcement  and
governmental requests for their information, unless we are
prevented by law from doing so,” Twitter spokesman Robert Weeks
said in an e-mailed statement, declining further comment.  Subpoena ‘Overbroad’  The Lawyers Guild is providing free defense for arrested
Occupy Wall Street protesters including Harris. The group has
provided attorneys for almost 2,200 people since protests began
Sept. 17, according to a statement.  In court papers, Stolar argued that the subpoena “is
overbroad, issued for an improper purpose, and constitutes an
abuse of court process.”  In January, a federal judge in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
allowed federal prosecutors to subpoena information from Twitter
accounts of three WikiLeaks backers as part of a U.S. probe of
the group’s publication of classified information.  The case is People of the State of  New York  v. Harris,
11-80152, New York Criminal Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at  mhytha@bloomberg. 