-- Xerox Earnings Beat Estimates on Technology-Services Gain
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-04-23T20:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/xerox-first-quarter-earnings-exceed-estimates-on-services-demand.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX) , the provider of
printers and business services, reported first-quarter earnings
that exceeded analysts’ estimates after companies and
governments farmed out more tasks to cut costs.  Earnings excluding some items were little changed at 23
cents a share, Norwalk, Connecticut-based Xerox said today in a
statement. Analysts predicted 22 cents, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income declined 4.3 percent to $269
million, or 19 cents a share, from $281 million, or 19 cents.  Xerox, helped by its 2010 acquisition of Affiliated
Computer Services Inc., is expanding in markets including
managing and automating electronic payments for governments and
processing claims for insurers. The company reiterated its full-
year  forecast  for earnings, excluding items, of $1.12 to $1.18 a
share, and said margins will improve each quarter as service
contracts ramp up from startup costs to delivering income.  “Services revenue growth was better than anticipated and
is an important sign-post for the stock,”  Ananda Baruah , an
analyst at Brean Murray, Carret & Co., who recommends buying the
shares, said in a note to clients. Technology and document
outsourcing sales are “off to a solid start.”  Xerox rose 0.1 percent to $7.88 at the close in New York.
The stock has declined 23 percent in the past 12 months.  Sales increased about 1 percent to $5.5 billion, exceeding
the $5.45 billion analysts projected. Services revenue climbed 9
percent, or 10 percent excluding changes in exchange rates, led
by business-process outsourcing.  Currency Effect  Currency fluctuations -- particularly the weaker euro --
will reduce sales growth to more than 1 percent this year, Chief Financial Officer Luca Maestri said today.  The euro averaged $1.31 in the first quarter, down 4.2
percent from the year-earlier period, as  Europe ’s financial woes
continued. The drop means revenue from Europe is worth less when
converted to dollars. Xerox’s business in Europe improved
slightly in the first quarter, from a “really bad” fourth
quarter, Maestri said in a phone interview.  “It’s starting to improve at a very moderate pace,” he
said. “There’s some potential for further small improvements in
Europe, within the context of a recessionary environment.”  North America  is showing “good demand” as Xerox expands
more aggressively in small- and medium-sized businesses, Maestri
said.  ‘Growth Engine’  “Services now represents more than half of our total
revenue and will continue to be the growth engine of our
company,” Chief Executive Officer  Ursula Burns  said in the
statement. “Our business mix continues to change as we
significantly scale our revenue in services and invest in growth
through new offerings and long-term contracts.”  Technology sales, which include printers and printing
supplies, fell 6 percent as more businesses outsourced printing
rather than bought machines. Sales were also affected by a
“weak macro environment,” Xerox said.  Xerox forecast second-quarter earnings excluding some items
of 25 cents to 28 cents a share. Analysts projected 26 cents on
average.  The company also said will buy back as much as $1.1 billion
in stock this year. The repurchases aren’t limiting any
opportunities to make acquisitions, Burns said today in response
to an analyst’s question on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  