-- YPF Seizure Risks EU Reprisal Against JBS, Marfrig Beef
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-04-23T16:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/ypf-seizure-risks-eu-reprisal-against-jbs-marfrig-beef-exports.html
Argentina’s seizure of  YPF SA (YPFD) , the
country’s largest oil company, is raising concern the European
Union may retaliate against beef imports from Sao Paulo-based
 JBS SA (JBSS3)  and  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  units operating in the country.  Argentina’s takeover of YPF, a unit of Spain’s  Repsol YPF
SA (REP) , is an “attack” on business and the EU should consider
withdrawing tariff benefits, the European Parliament said April
20 in Strasbourg, France. Potential reprisals include suspending
Argentine duty-free beef exports to the EU under the so-called
Hilton quota, said Caue Pinheiro, an analyst with SLW Corretora.  “It’s an important risk factor to watch,” Pinheiro, who
has a hold rating on both JBS and Marfrig, said by telephone
from  Sao Paulo  on April 20. “Depending on what comes out of it,
it may delay JBS’s plans to return to a profit in Argentina.”  The Hilton quota is one of Argentina’s largest agricultural
tariff exemptions by the EU, which also buys products including
soybean oil and biodiesel from the South American country. It
applies to shipments of premium quality beef cuts that are not
subject to export restrictions set by the Argentine government.  JBS agreed to pay about $200 million to buy Swift Armour SA
in Argentina in 2005 in its first move to expand
internationally. The company became the world’s biggest beef
producer through more than 10 acquisitions in the past five
years. Marfrig acquired  Quickfood SA (PATY) , maker of Patti hamburger
in Argentina, for $140.9 million in 2007.  JBS and Marfrig declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  Biggest Share  Argentina was awarded a 29,375 metric ton quota to export
beef to the EU in the year through June 30, according to a March
23 resolution published in the country’s official gazette. JBS
and Marfrig account for about 5,760 metric tons of the quota,
giving them the biggest share.  Argentina, the world’s fifth-largest beef producer,
received about half of the EU’s 58,000-ton quota. The system was
designed to help exporters from other nations compete after
European agricultural subsidies were introduced in 1979.  JBS is “losing money” in Argentina since the government
imposed beef export limits, Chief Executive Officer Wesley Batista said March 22. The meatpacker has closed four of its six
plants in the country since 2010 because of the restrictions, he
said. The company, which used to export about half of its output
in Argentina, aims to reduce shipments to about a third this
year, Artemio Listoni, head of JBS in the country, said January
10.  JBS fell 4.7 percent to 7.30 reais and Marfrig declined 4.3
percent to 10.54 reais at 1:20 p.m. in Sao Paulo. The benchmark
Bovespa stock index dropped 1.9 percent.  The U.S. is the world’s largest beef producer, followed by
 Brazil ,  China  and  India , accroding to U.S. Department of
Agriculture data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  