-- ZTE Will Transform Itself With Focus on Smartphones, He Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T09:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/zte-will-transform-itself-with-focus-on-smartphones-he-says-1-.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  China ’s second-biggest
maker of phone equipment, said it will “transform” itself from
a supplier of wireless network gear by increasing its focus on
mobile devices and cloud computing.  Sales of smartphones will more than double this year to
between 40 million and 50 million units, from 15 million in
2011, He Shiyou, executive director of ZTE, said at an annual
analyst event today in Shenzhen, southern China, where the
company is based. Sales of tablet computers also will more than
double this year, he said, without giving a target.  “Our development strategy is going to emphasize the
transformation from being a telecommunication-equipment provider
to a comprehensive solution provider,” He said. “The company
will emphasize the expansion of ‘smart’ devices and continue to
enhance our research-and-development funding for ‘smart’
devices.” ZTE will also improve the promotion of its global
brand to expand market share, He said.  ZTE Chairman Hou Weigui is diversifying the company’s  sales 
beyond its traditional focus on phone- network equipment  into
consumer devices such as smartphones, and also into selling
cloud-computing and related services to carriers and other
businesses. He’s following a path into markets pursued by larger
crosstown competitor Huawei Technologies Co., which hosts its
analyst day on April 25.  By 2015, mobile devices will account for 50 percent of
ZTE’s total sales, up from 40 percent this year, He said today.  Nokia, Samsung  ZTE became the world’s fourth-largest mobile-device seller
in the fourth quarter behind  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Samsung Electronics Co.
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  ZTE’s smartphone sales may double this year as it
gains market share in  Europe ,  North America ,  Brazil  and  Japan ,
the company said in January.  The Chinese phonemaker’s shares fell 0.7 percent to close
at HK$19.38 in  Hong Kong  trading.  ZTE is dedicating 10 percent of sales to research and
development to compete with devices from Apple and those running
Google Inc.’s Android system, He said.  “Apple and Google did not invent any new telecommunication
technology, and yet they led the biggest development change of
the whole industry,” He said.  ZTE increased its shipments of smartphones fivefold last
year, helping boost total  sales  23 percent to 86 billion yuan
($14 billion), the company said last month. Still, 2011 profit
fell 37 percent to 2.06 billion yuan, missing analysts’
 estimates , as research and marketing costs surged. That missed
the 2.78 billion-yuan average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Cloud Computing  The company introduced its first cloud-computing operating
system in Beijing in May. Cloud computing will account for one-
third of the company’s sales within three to five years, ZTE
forecast at that time.  In addition to selling computing services to existing
customers of network equipment such as  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., ZTE also projects it can win
sales in areas including transportation, energy, finance,
education and government, the company said in November.  “The company is very positive on the gigantic growth value
of the cloud-computing market,” He said today. “We have years
of technical experience in cloud computing.  “We are very familiar with the basic infrastructure and
devices of telecommunication, so can we boost our income and
share of cloud-computing service.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  