-- 
‘Shock Jock’ Hal Turner Not Guilty of Threatening Connecticut Officials

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   A l i x   B o y l e
-- 
2011-09-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/-shock-jock-hal-turner-not-guilty-of-threatening-connecticut-officials.html
Hal Turner , the Internet “shock
jock” radio host in prison for threatening federal judges, was
acquitted by a jury of inciting his blog readers to injure three
Connecticut government officials.  A state jury in Hartford, after a trial that started Sept.
15, found Turner not guilty yesterday of writing threatening
comments on the Turner Radio Network website because he was
upset at what he saw as anti-Catholic legislation. The three
government officials were never attacked.  “I never said go attack these men,” Turner, 49, who
represented himself at the trial, told the jury in his closing
argument yesterday. “I said put down this tyranny by force.
It’s an abstract concept. You can’t go to a supermarket and buy
a can of tyranny. I did not say go kill those men.”  Turner, of  North Bergen , New Jersey, was convicted last
year in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York, of threatening
three Chicago-based U.S. appeals judges because of their ruling
upholding a gun ban. Turner, who has appealed his federal
conviction, is serving a 33-month prison sentence.  His federal conviction came after two previous juries
couldn’t reach a verdict.  “I’m disappointed with the verdict,” Senior Assistant
State’s Attorney Thomas R. Garcia, who prosecuted Turner in
Connecticut, said in a phone interview. Turner was acquitted of
a felony count of inciting injury and a misdemeanor count of
threatening.  First Amendment  “He’s not charged with violating the First Amendment, as
much as he wants to wrap himself in it,” Garcia told the jury
in his closing argument yesterday. “Politicians deserve
protection under the law.”  Turner has advocated violence against blacks, Jews and
immigrants on his website and Internet radio show,  according  to
the Anti-Defamation League, created in 1913 to monitor anti-
Semitism.  In April 2009, the U.S. Treasury Department was forced to
deny Turner’s blog post that said most of the U.S.’s largest
banks were insolvent and that sent down financial-sector stocks
when it was cited by Theflyonthewall.com.  In his June 2, 2009, blog post, Turner exhorted readers to
injure state Senator Andrew J. McDonald, state Representative
Michael Lawlor and Thomas K. Jones,  Connecticut ’s ethics
enforcement officer, prosecutors said. He promised to announce
their home addresses on his next radio show, which he never did,
according to court papers. He was arrested June 11, 2009.  ‘Take Up Arms’  “TRN advocates Catholics in Connecticut take up arms and
put down this tyranny by force,” Turner wrote on his website,
according to court papers. “It is our intent to foment direct
action against these individuals personally.”  Turner was protesting a  bill  that would have replaced
priests and bishops with boards of lay people to oversee the
finances of Roman Catholic parishes, according to court papers.  “If any state’s attorney, police department or court
thinks they’re going to get uppity with us about this: I suspect
we have enough bullets to put them down too,” Turner wrote,
according to the government.  McDonald and Lawlor, Democrats who sponsored the
legislation, now work in Governor Dannel P. Malloy’s
administration. Jones had opened an investigation into the
Bridgeport Diocese because it hadn’t registered as a lobbyist to
oppose the bill, according to the government.  ‘Big Bad Government’  “This was not an abstract reference,” Garcia told the
jury. “He named them personally. This is not a battle between
big bad government and little Hal Turner.”  McDonald and Jones testified at the trial. Turner presented
no witnesses.  On Sept. 6, Connecticut Superior Court Judge Carl Schuman
ruled against Turner’s request to toss the case both on free-
speech grounds and because Connecticut had no jurisdiction over
him as a  New Jersey  resident.  “In the  United States of America , we are supposed to be
able to express our opinions,” Turner told the jury. “The
state is prosecuting me simply for uttering words.”  Last week, while the jury was being picked, Turner fired
his lawyer, John L. Stawicki, a public defender. He represented
himself with Stawicki advising him.  Turner was convicted of threatening federal judges  Frank Easterbrook ,  Richard Posner  and William Bauer because of their
ruling, also in June 2009, upholding handgun bans in  Chicago  and
Oak Park,  Illinois . A lower court previously dismissed the
 National Rifle Association ’s challenge to the ordinances. The
U.S. Supreme Court overturned the handgun bans last year.  The case is State of Connecticut v. Turner, CR09-63265-T,
Superior Court of Connecticut (Hartford). The federal case is
U.S. v. Turner, 09-cr-00650, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  New York  (Brooklyn). Turner’s appeal is U.S. v.
Turner, 11-196, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Alix Boyle in state court in Hartford, Connecticut, at
 alix_boyle@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 