-- 
Star Wars Gets Real as Planet With Two Suns Found By Astronomers

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/-star-wars-gets-real-as-astronomers-find-first-planet-circling-two-suns.html
The 1977 movie ‘ Star Wars ’ featured
a planet with two suns called Tatooine. Now scientists said
they’ve found the first real two-sun planet 200 light years away
from Earth.  “After 35 years, science fiction has finally become
reality,” said  Alan Boss , a theoretical astrophysicist at the
Carnegie Institution for Science in  Washington  and an author of
a study on the planet released yesterday by the journal Science.
“We have been waiting for a long time for one of these to be
found.”  The new planet, called  Kepler-16b , is about the size and
mass of Saturn, according to the study, and was found using
 NASA ’s Kepler space telescope. Kepler-16b moves in a circular
orbit 65 million miles from its suns. Unlike Tatooine, the hot,
desert planet portrayed in ‘Star Wars,’ Kepler-16b is far too
cold to support life, with temperatures about 100 degrees
centigrade lower than Earth, Boss said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Kepler
mission has found more than 1,200 planets so far, while another
600 have been discovered by ground-based efforts, Boss said.
Other planets orbiting two suns may soon be detected, he said.  Search for More  “I am going to guess there are 2 million more” such dual-
sun planets, said  Laurance Doyle , the lead researcher on the
Kepler-16b report and an astrophysicist at the Carl Sagan Center
for the Study of Life in the Universe at the SETI Institute, in
 Mountain View ,  California . “We have two or three candidates
right now we have to confirm.”  There is no theoretical reason, if it had brighter suns,
why such a planet couldn’t support life, Boss said. “It is just
a question of having one where the sun is a little brighter so
it will be hot enough to have liquid water,” he said.  The Kepler-16 planet’s  two suns  are different sizes, with
the larger one glowing orange and the smaller sun a more reddish
color, Boss said. Some days the two suns rise and set
simultaneously, while at other times they rise or set a couple
of hours apart, he said.  While the main purpose of the Kepler telescope is to search
for Earth-like planets, Doyle took the lead in using the
instrument to search for planets orbiting two suns. He said he
has been trying to find such a planet for 20 years.  The search involved first using the telescope to find so-
called “eclipsing binary” stars that are lined up and
occasionally cover each other in the plane of the instrument.  ‘Dips’ in Light  Then the researchers searched for other cases of binary
stars where there were additional periodic dips in light
intensity, indicating another object might be present.  By about a year ago, Doyle and a colleague had found
several such dips, he said yesterday in an interview. Detailed
calculations on the most promising example ruled out the
possibility of three stars, proving it was a planet in existence
with two suns, he said.  Star Wars, the first of creator  George Lucas ’s six films
that depict a galaxy “far, far away,” is the  fourth-biggest 
U.S. movie by box-office sales, according to the website
Hollywood.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 