-- 
Administration Says Patent Law Change Will Spur U.S. Economy

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-09-16T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/administration-says-patent-law-change-will-spur-u-s-economy.html
White House officials said the
overhaul of the U.S. patent system that President  Barack Obama 
will sign into law today amounts to the most significant jobs
bill passed by Congress this year.  The measure, which the president has repeatedly cited in
speeches promoting his economic policies, gives the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office more control over its funding and makes
fundamental changes in how patents are processed and reviewed.
It passed the House in June and won final approval Sept. 9 on an
89-9  vote in the Senate.  “By creating a faster process for the approval of patents
and reducing the amount of uncertainty, it will increase
investment in the economy today and start creating jobs today,”
 Jason Furman , deputy director of the National Economic Council
said yesterday in a conference call with reporters.  The patent office, which is funded entirely by user fees,
will be able to set its own fees, with any money in excess of
the budgeted amount going to a fund that can only be used by the
agency. The office plans to hire as many as 2,000 more examiners
in the coming fiscal year, revamp an outdated information
technology system that it has described as “beyond horrific,”
and open satellite offices across the country to tap into local
workforces.  The goal is to address a backlog of almost 700,000
 applications  awaiting first review and decrease the average 34
months it takes to issue a patent. Reducing the time it takes to
give inventions legal protection will speed new products to the
market, helping economic growth, according to the bill’s
supporters.  Research Promotion  The president also plans to announce new programs to
promote the commercial use of work done by scientists at
universities and government research labs. The  National
Institutes of Health  will help companies cut the time and cost
for developing new drugs and the  National Science Foundation 
will establish a prize to reward the university that makes the
most progress in accelerating job growth, Furman said.  Obama is scheduled to sign the legislation at Thomas
Jefferson High School in Alexandria, Virginia. The suburban
 Washington  town is home to the patent office headquarters and
the school is named for the third U.S. president who, as
secretary of state under  George Washington , signed the nation’s
first patent law in 1790.  Fast Track  The patent office already has been working to speed up the
application process, including giving green technology fast-
track reviews. DuPont Co., the Wilmington, Delaware-based
chemical company, used the program to obtain patents on
biofuels, said DuPont Chief Executive Ellen Kullman, who is a
member of the president’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness  “Pace is really critical here,” she said. “If you can
get the pace of the patents going, you can accelerate the pilot
launch; you can accelerate the production.”  The legislation is the culmination of more than a decade of
discussions and six years of negotiations and lobbying by every
industry. It covers each step of the patent process, setting new
procedures to review issued patents while curtailing some
litigation. It has the support of companies including  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and a group that
represents  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  3M Co. (MMM)  and
 General Electric Co. (GE)   Furman said that the breakthrough came during a December
meeting Obama held with business leaders, including Lilly Chief
Executive Officer John Lechleiter and Cisco Systems Inc. CEO
 John Chambers , who disagreed over how much the bill should deal
with changes in litigation. Then-Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke 
followed up to resolve the differences, Furman said.  Big Companies  Some small business have criticized the legislation as
giving big companies an unfair advantage in obtaining patents
and creating new hurdles to enforcing  patent rights  against
companies that copy inventions without compensation.  Supporters have expressed reservation on the funding issue,
saying it doesn’t go far enough to protect the patent office
from having funds siphoned off to other priorities. Congress has
diverted almost $1 billion from the agency since a 1990 law
required the patent office to pay for itself.  Under the bill, patents would be granted to the first
inventor to file an application, ending an often time-consuming
procedure to determine who came up with an idea first and
bringing the U.S. in line with patent laws in other countries.  All newly issued patents may be subject to a challenge from
third parties, a variation of a process used by the  European
Patent Office .  The bill also would limit patents on tax-avoidance
strategies, though companies including  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  and  H&R Block
Inc. (HRB)  have said they would retain protections for their tax-
preparation software.  The trade group for generic-drug companies, including Mylan
Inc. and Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc., opposed the bill because
there’s a provision that lets patent owners retroactively
correct errors that might otherwise lead a court to invalidate
the patents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  