-- 
AIG Restores Name in TV Ad, Fulfilling Benmosche’s Call on Brand Comeback

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-09-16T20:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/aig-restores-name-in-tv-ad-fulfilling-ceo-call-on-comeback.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
is advertising to consumers using the AIG name for the first
time in the U.S. since late 2008, the year it was bailed out.  Selling life insurance through the “AIG Direct” platform
is a shift for the New York-based company, which renamed its
global property-casualty unit and other businesses to avoid the
stigma of a federal rescue that swelled to $182.3 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, is seeking to
restore confidence in the insurer as he attracts investors to
replace government funds. He told employees in 2009 that the AIG
name may return if the company rebounded and started to repay
debt to the government. AIG Direct is a marketing name for the
insurer’s Matrix Direct business, an agent for selling  life
insurance  over the phone.  “Even Charlie Sheen got another shot,” said Al Ries,
chairman of market-strategy firm Ries & Ries, in a telephone
interview. “A known name with flaws is more powerful than an
unknown name that nobody’s ever heard about.”  AIG advanced 40 cents to $25.44 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4:02 p.m. The insurer has declined 47
percent this year, compared with the 3.3 percent drop in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  In a television advertisement running this week, the
insurer says it can help consumers get more for their money when
purchasing term life insurance through AIG Direct.  Pilot Program  The commercial “is part of a very small pilot that
involves the first time since the crisis that AIG is marketing a
product directly to consumers under the AIG brand” in the U.S.,
said Mark Herr, a spokesman for the insurer. “We haven’t made
any broad-reaching decisions about branding.”  The ad touts AIG Direct’s affiliation with the parent
company, saying it’s one of the world’s largest insurance
organizations.  “No wonder millions of people worldwide rely on AIG
companies,” a narrator says.  AIG may be using the ads to get feedback about the brand
before expanding it to other parts of the business, said Rohit
Deshpande, a professor of marketing at  Harvard Business School ,
in a phone interview.  “They’re sticking their toe in the water to test out one
small part of the business,” he said.  The advertisement fulfills, in part, a prediction Benmosche
made to AIG employees in 2009, the year he became CEO. “My
sense is, one day, if AIG does well, starts to pay back the
debt, AIG’s name may come back. Does that mean we want to go
back to the name on the building and all the other stuff? That
will be up to you to decide,” he said.  ‘Wounded and Disgraced’  Benmosche’s predecessor,  Edward Liddy , had sought to
distance subsidiaries from the AIG name as the insurer’s bailout
was extended at least four times. He told Congress in 2009 that
the name was “so thoroughly wounded and disgraced that we’re
probably going to have to change it.”  AIG’s global property-casualty business changed its name to
Chartis in 2009 from AIU Holdings LLC after 7,000 brokers,
clients and employees were surveyed about whether the unit
needed a brand more distinct from its parent. AIG’s fund-
management arm was renamed PineBridge Investments later that
year to ease a sale to Pacific Century Group. AIG Annuity became
Western National Life.  The insurer previously offered auto coverage under the AIG
Direct brand before renaming it 21st Century Insurance. The unit
was sold to Zurich Financial Services AG in 2009.  Sheen On Top  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, paid back the
remaining $21 billion on its Federal Reserve credit line in
January, and the U.S. Treasury Department converted its
preferred stake into 92 percent of AIG’s common shares. That was
cut to 77 percent in a May stock sale.  Sheen was fired from primetime comedy “Two and a Half
Men,” by Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. television studio in
March after the actor denounced the show’s creator. Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. said in July that it hired Sheen for a
sitcom called “Anger Management.”  “ Charlie Sheen  has never needed another ‘shot,’” Larry Solters, Sheen’s spokesman, said in an e-mail. “He has always
been on top.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  