-- 
Takeda Plans Purchases in India, Spend $300 Million in China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-16T07:13:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/takeda-actively-seeks-m-a-opportunities-in-india-hirate-says.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.,  Japan ’s
biggest drugmaker, is “actively” seeking acquisitions in India
and plans to invest $300 million in China over three years as it
reduces dependence on sales at home and in the U.S.  “We are looking for partnerships, either joint venture or
we acquire Indian companies,” Haruhiko Hirate, vice president,
said today on the sidelines of the  World Economic Forum  in
China’s northeastern Dalian city. “No specific agreements”
have been reached, he said.  Takeda is selling new products including Nesina for
diabetes and Vectibix for cancer in Japan and turning to
acquisitions overseas to compensate for the anticipated sales
decline when its best-selling diabetes treatment Actos faces
competition from cheaper generic drugs in August 2012. The
drugmaker, which had about $10 billion in cash and short-term
investments as of June, said in May it may seek mergers and
acquisitions to spur growth.  Cipla Ltd.,  India ’s third-biggest drugmaker by revenue,
denied a report on Aug. 24 in the Economic Times newspaper that
Takeda is in talks with the drugmaker and Lupin Ltd. to buy
their pharmaceutical businesses in the country.  Takeda was unchanged in  Tokyo  at the 3 p.m. close of
trading. The shares have dropped 8 percent this year, compared
with a 13 percent decline in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The Osaka-based drugmaker in May executed the largest ever
takeover by a Japanese pharmaceutical company with the $9.1
billion purchase of Swiss drugmaker Nycomed. It had in the same
month predicted profit will slide over the next few years,
falling to a 13-year low by 2014, as competition from generics
erode sales of its best-selling medicines.  The company’s sales in  China  may reach $1 billion in four
to five years, Hirate said. It plans to increase its research
and development efforts, he said.  “We need to expand, definitely, in a rapid manner in order
to support so many clinical studies,” said Hirate. It is
“still in the beginning stage” of preparing to enter China’s
market for over-the-counter drugs, he said.  Takeda said in March that by 2015, it plans to add 650
people to its 250-member sales force in China, where the world’s
largest number of diabetes sufferers may lead to greater use of
its Actos pill.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  