-- 
All Blacks Defeat Japan 83-7 to Move to Top of Group at Rugby’s World Cup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-16T15:19:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/all-blacks-gets-13-tries-to-beat-japan-83-7-tops-rugby-world-cup-group.html
New Zealand  scored 13 tries
yesterday in its 83-7 defeat of  Japan , which moves the All
Blacks clear atop their Rugby World Cup group with the maximum
points from their opening two matches.  Eleven different All Blacks touched down, with  Richard
Kahui  and Sonny Bill Williams getting two each in Hamilton.
Hirotoki Onozawa got Japan’s only try in the 58th minute.  New Zealand is rated the bookmakers’ favorite to win the
20-nation tournament it is hosting and snap a 24-year title
drought. It has 10 points atop Pool A ahead of France, which
plays Canada tomorrow. All Blacks coach  Graham Henry  criticized
his squad after the 41-10 opening win against Tonga.  “The big thing for us was we wanted to improve on last
week: we did that,” All Blacks captain  Keven Mealamu , who had a
try in the 30th minute, said in a televised interview. “We’ve
still got a few things we can keep working away at.”  Today, Argentina plays Romania, South Africa takes on Fiji
and Australia meets Ireland.  The All Blacks were forced to reshuffle the squad after
injuries to captain Richie McCaw and full-back Mils Muliaina at
training three days ago. Playmaker Dan Carter had been ruled out
earlier in the week before with a back injury sustained in the
win over Tonga.  50 Point Mark  New Zealand, which racked up a World Cup-record 145 points
in the teams’ only previous Test match in 1995, became the first
team to get past 50 points at this year’s edition as Kahui,
Mealamu, Conrad Smith,  Jerome Kaino , Andy Ellis and  Colin Slade 
scored first-half tries. Slade, Carter’s replacement, kicked 9
conversions at Waikato Stadium.  New Zealand ran away as the Japanese squad tired. Kahui
touched down again in the 45th minute, and Williams had his
first try in the 51st minute. Isaia Toeava, Andrew Hore, Ma’a
Nonu and Adam Thomson had tries. Williams touched down again in
the 79th minute to finish the scoring.  New Zealand next faces the French on Sept. 24 in a matchup
of the teams ranked  Nos. 1 and 5  by the International Rugby
Board. Should they finish atop the pool, the All Blacks would
play their quarterfinal at Auckland’s  Eden Park , where they last
lost in 1994. The stadium will also host both semifinals and the
Oct. 23 final.  France , which has five points, leads Canada by one point in
Pool A before they meet in Napier. Tonga has one point after
losing its first two matches. The top two teams from each of the
four groups advance to the quarterfinals.  Japan’s defeat extended its record winless run at the World
Cup to 16 matches. The Cherry Blossoms’ only victory in 22 games
was against Zimbabwe at the 1991 tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  