-- 
Allied, Transatlantic Cancel Merger Amid Investor Dissent

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-09-16T20:36:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/allied-world-ends-merger-pact-with-transatlantic-holdings.html
Allied World Assurance Co. Holdings
AG ended its $2.94 billion merger agreement with reinsurer
 Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH)  after the target company struggled
to win approval from shareholders as rivals made bids.  Transatlantic is willing to enter negotiations with  Validus
Holdings Ltd. (VR)  though it considers the Bermuda-based company’s
present offer inadequate, the company said in a statement.
Transatlantic also got an unsolicited offer from a unit of
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which said it’s
unwilling to increase its initial bid, and no further talks are
scheduled between the firms, the reinsurer said.  Transatlantic agreed in June to merge with Allied in a
stock transaction that was opposed by Transatlantic’s biggest
shareholder, Davis Selected Advisers LP. Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc. was among proxy firms that recommended
Transatlantic investors to reject the deal.  “We appreciate the dialogue we have had with our
stockholders over the past three months and want them to know
that their board is open to seriously considering any
transaction that will deliver the value they deserve,” New
York-based Transatlantic said.  Allied World will get a termination fee of $35 million plus
$13.3 million of merger-related expenses, the Zug, Switzerland-
based company said today in a separate statement. Transatlantic
also must pay Allied World another $66.7 million if within 12
months it agrees to another bid.  ‘Disappointed’  “Although disappointed we were unable to complete the
proposed merger with Transatlantic, Allied World’s core business
strategy remains intact,” Allied World Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Scott Carmilani said in the statement.  Ajit Jain, the Berkshire reinsurance executive who made the
offer to Transatlantic in a letter last month, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  “We are pleased to see the termination of Transatlantic’s
merger agreement with Allied World,” a spokesman for Validus
said in a phone interview. “We welcome the opportunity to enter
into discussions without any restrictive preconditions and
engage in mutual due diligence.”  Transatlantic slipped 78 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $48.77
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Allied advanced $1.14, or 2.1 percent, to $54.61. Validus
declined 55 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $25.32.  Validus’s hostile stock-and-cash offer valued Transatlantic
at about $48.26 a share, based on yesterday’s closing price. The
value slipped to about $3 billion from $3.5 billion, as equity
markets plunged. Allied had offered 0.88 share for each
Transatlantic share, valuing the reinsurer’s stock at about
$47.05, based on yesterday’s closing price. The $52-a-share
offer from Berkshire’s National Indemnity Co. is worth $3.25
billion.  ‘Substantial Discount’  “The Transatlantic Board of Directors has concluded that
selling Transatlantic for cash at such a substantial discount to
book value would not deliver fair value to stockholders,” the
reinsurer said in its statement. Transatlantic’s book value, a
measure of assets minus liabilities, is about $67.76 a share.  Transatlantic had previously said that its business mix
made Allied the best fit. Transatlantic provides medical-
malpractice protection and guards executives against lawsuits
through so-called directors-and-officers coverage. Allied offers
professional-liability coverage.  Validus focuses on property reinsurance, including coverage
against catastrophes. Berkshire is the largest U.S.-based seller
of reinsurance, which is coverage of policies written by primary
carriers. Buffett’s company provides catastrophe protection and
assumes risks being sold by rivals.  CEO Appointed  Michael Sapnar, Transatlantic’s chief operating officer,
was named president effective immediately and will become CEO on
Jan. 1, replacing Robert Orlich, the company said in the
statement. It also approved a $600 million share repurchase
program.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Moelis & Co. were financial
advisers to Transatlantic, and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP and
Richards, Layton & Finger P.A. were legal counsel.  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  acted as financial adviser to Allied, and Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP and  Baker & McKenzie  provided U.S. and Swiss legal
counsel.  Validus has said it got financial advice on its
Transatlantic offer from Greenhill & Co. and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and legal counsel from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 Dkraut2@bloomberg.net  