-- 
Amerigroup Falls After Saying Medical Costs Are Increasing

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-09-16T14:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/amerigroup-falls-in-early-trading-on-expected-medical-costs.html
Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  fell as much as
7.7 percent in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading after
the company said consumption of medical care by Medicaid
recipients was rising.  The higher demand in the national health program for low-
income Americans prompted an increase in the full-year forecast
for how much revenue from premiums will have to be spent on
health care, according to a regulatory filing by the  Virginia
Beach , Virginia-based company yesterday. Amerigroup declined
$2.10, or 4.7 percent, to $42.27 at 10:37 a.m. Earlier, the
shares dropped to $40.94.  Amerigroup, the second-largest provider of Medicaid
managed-care plans, in July said there were early signs that
medical cost trends were moving up from the below-normal levels
experienced in prior quarters. Until this week, when hospital
operator Tenet Healthcare Corp. said Medicaid use was rising,
investors were more concerned about the prospect of cuts in
government spending  “Lower reimbursement certainly doesn’t help, but most of
the rate cuts are offset by paying providers less,” Carl McDonald, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a
note today. “There is no offset for higher utilization.”  Amerigroup, which was meeting with investors today in New
York, said in the filing that the ratio of spending against
premium revenue will be 83.9 percent to 84.9 percent this year,
compared with a previous forecast of 83.1 percent to 84.1
percent. Medicaid is a joint state and federal program to
provide health insurance to the poor.  UnitedHealth Group Inc., the largest provider of Medicaid
managed-care plans, declined 67 cents to $49.87.  Molina
Healthcare Inc. (MOH) , based in  Long Beach ,  California , fell 39 cents,
or 2.3 percent, to $16.43.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  