-- 
American Public Education’s Boston to Testify in Senate Hearing

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-16T16:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/american-public-education-s-boston-to-testify-in-senate-hearing.html
Wallace Boston, chief executive
officer of  American Public Education Inc. (APEI) , will testify at a
Sept. 22 U.S. Senate hearing on the educational quality of
programs for active-duty military members and veterans.  Senator Thomas Carper, chairman of the subcommittee on
federal financial management, will hold the hearing, according
to a statement from his office. The for-profit college, which
operates American Military University, got 61 percent of its
revenue in the year ended September 2010 from U.S. military and
veterans’ programs, said Jarrel Price, an analyst at Height
Analytics in  Washington .  Congress and government attorneys are investigating the
recruitment practices and excessive student debt at for-profit
colleges. A March study this year by the U.S. Government
Accountability Office, Congress’s investigative arm, found that
programs that pay tuition for veterans and military members lack
systems for reviewing courses and tracking complaints.  “Reports have described troubling stories of how some
schools have exploited our student veterans and military
personnel,” Carper, a Democrat from  Delaware , said in the
statement. “We have a moral imperative and a financial
imperative to ensure that the  Department of Defense , the
Department of  Veterans Affairs  and the Department of Education
are doing everything they can to prevent these kinds of abuses.”  Senator  Jim Webb , a Virginia Democrat and Vietnam War
veteran who has probed military spending on education, will also
testify at the hearing, according to the statement. Others
scheduled to appear are Curtis Coy, deputy undersecretary for
economic opportunity at Veterans Affairs; Keith Wilson, director
of the department’s education service; Ted Daywalt, president of
VetJobs, an employment clearinghouse for veterans; and Ryan
Gallucci, deputy director of the U.S. Veterans of Foreign Wars’
National Legislative Service.  American Public Education, based in  Charles Town ,  West
Virginia , fell 46 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $38.92 at 12:16 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares had gained
5.7 percent this year before today.  A call to the company wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  