-- 
Tamimi Global to Pay $13 Million to Settle U.S. Charges of KBR Kickbacks

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-16T23:15:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/tamimi-global-to-pay-13-million-to-settle-u-s-charges-of-kbr-kickbacks.html
Tamimi Global Co. will pay $13
million to settle U.S. criminal and civil allegations it paid
kickbacks to a  KBR Inc. (KBR)  employee and improper gratuities to a
U.S. Army sergeant, the U.S. Justice Department said.  Tamimi Global, a Dhahran-based unit of the Saudi Arabian
construction and manufacturing Tamimi Group conglomerate, gave
kickbacks to get Army logistical support subcontracts from
Houston-based KBR for work in Iraq and  Afghanistan , according to
the U.S., and improperly gave the gratuities to Sergeant Ray
Chase in  Kuwait , the U.S. said.  The company, through its lawyers, entered a deferred
prosecution agreement with the U.S. in a hearing today at the
federal courthouse in Peoria, Illinois, according to the U.S.  “Kickbacks and collusion in military contracting corrode
the process of supplying our men and women in uniform with the
quality supplies they need and deserve,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney General  Tony West  said in an e-mailed statement.  Tamimi will pay $5.6 million as part of that pact and,
separately, agreed to pay $7.4 million to settle claims it paid
kickbacks to obtain favorable treatment in the awarding of a
Baghdad Palace dining facilities subcontract.  New Compliance Protocols  “The misconduct that is the subject of a settlement with
the United States Government took place more than five years
ago,” defense attorneys Ronald Safer and Matthew Crowl, said in
an e-mailed statement. The company has since cooperated in the
U.S. probe and adopted new compliance protocols, they said.  Tamimi has served more than 600 million meals to U.S.
servicemen since 1990, its attorneys said.  Chase, who allegedly received $1.4 million in improper
gratuities from various contractors, last year pleaded guilty
and was sentenced to a year and a day in prison. KBR subcontract
manager Steven Seamans in March 2006 pleaded guilty to receiving
more than $60,000 in kickbacks.  The case is U.S. v. Tamimi Global Co., 11cr40083, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  Illinois  (Peoria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 