-- 
Angolan Authorities Move to Keep Downtown Luanda Free of Demonstrations

-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 
2011-09-16T09:45:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/angolan-authorities-move-to-keep-downtown-luanda-free-of-demonstrations.html
Angola banned public protests in
the capital’s Independence Square and said they may only take
place on the outskirts of Luanda, Radio Nacional de Angola
reported, citing a provincial government statement.  Police in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest oil producer
arrested 41 protesters this month during demonstrations against
President Jose Eduardo dos Santos’s 32-year rule, corruption and
water shortages. A Luanda court sentenced 18 of the detainees to
from 45 days to three months in jail after they were found
guilty of injuring police officers and defying the authorities.  The statement listed several places around Luanda where
protests may be held legally, the state-run radio said today.
“Protests outside those places will be disobedience,” it said.  Bento Bento, a member of the political bureau of dos
Santos’s ruling  Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola ,
yesterday accused the largest opposition party, the National
Union for the Total Independence of  Angola , of planning an
“insurrection” in several cities to oust the government.  Unita, in a statement, dismissed the accusations as “an
attempt to divert attention from the grave social issues
Angolans are suffering and the government’s lack of capacity to
deal with them.”  Unita fought a civil war for almost three decades against
the MPLA. The conflict ended in 2002, following the death of the
group’s leader, Jonas Savimbi.  Spark Instability  Angolan Foreign Minister Georges Chicoty said the
government was concerned the protests may spark instability.  “We have a country with several ethnic groups, various
political sensibilities and what happens if everyone takes to
the street to protest?” Chicoty was cited as saying by the
Portuguese newspaper  Expresso  on Sept. 14. “It is true that we
will accept some protests, but we must be careful for this not
to get out of hand.”  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  urged the government to
drop what it called “politically motivated charges” against
the protesters.  “Unfair trials of demonstrators are not the answer to the
legitimate reform demands of citizens,”  Daniel Bekele , Human
Rights Watch’s africa director, said in a Sep. 14  statement .
“The authorities should respect the right to peacefully
demonstrate and impartially investigate violence against
demonstrators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  