-- 
Manchester United Said to Get Approval for $1 Billion Singapore Share Sale

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-09-16T09:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/manutd-said-to-get-singapore-ipo-approval.html
Singapore ’s stock exchange approved
Manchester United’s application to raise about $1 billion in an
initial public offering in the city-state, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  As much as two-thirds of Manchester United’s offering will
likely be in preferred shares, which may carry at least double
the dividend of ordinary stock while lacking voting rights, said
the people. They declined to be identified as the IPO process is
private.  United’s dual-share structure offers a way for the Glazer
family to retain control of the football club after the IPO, the
people said. Singapore’s bourse lured United in part by offering
a speedier approval process for the IPO, people with knowledge
of the matter said last month. United applied for the Singapore
listing on Aug. 18, they said.  “Football clubs around the world are mostly quite closely
held and not very transparent,” Pearlyn Wong, an investment
analyst in Singapore at Bank Julius Baer & Co., which manages
about $190 billion globally. “They don’t like to give up  voting
rights  so they can make faster decisions over things like
players and management.”  United, which was planning to list in the first half of
October, is reviewing the IPO timeline amid volatile markets,
the people said. Stock offerings have dwindled worldwide as
 Europe ’s escalating sovereign debt crisis and a faltering U.S.
economy dented demand for new equity.  Manchester United spokesman Philip Townsend and Singapore
Exchange spokeswoman Carolyn Lim declined to comment.  Bundled Offering  The preference shares will be bundled with ordinary shares
for the offering, though each security will be quoted separately
on the stock exchange, the people said.  “Usually preference shares come as a follow-up offering,
rather than at the IPO stage,” Julius Baer’s Wong said.
“Whether people will receive the share structure well depends
on how much dividends they can get and whether the company has
the cashflows to support it.”  The 19-time English soccer champion’s decision to sell
shares in  Asia  was also prompted by its growing fan base in the
region, people familiar with the matter said last month.  United first toured Asia four decades ago and plans to do
so again next year. When the club last made the trip, the
players were mobbed by supporters wearing replica shirts bearing
names of stars like  Wayne Rooney  and  Ryan Giggs .  United’s pretax profit in the year ended June 30 was 29.7
million pounds, compared with a loss of 15 million pounds last
year. It’s the second time in six years the club has been
profitable.  ’Sucked In’  The lack of sustained earnings may repel investors, said
Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based  fund manager  at Schroders Plc,
which oversaw $323 billion as of June 30.  “Institutional investors are unlikely to be interested,
while retail investors will be the ones sucked in by the
branding and marketing,” he said. “The lack of voting rights
is just a kick in the teeth.”  The company hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
as bookrunners for the IPO together with  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
three people with knowledge of the matter said last month.
United also picked BOC International Ltd., CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  as
co-lead arrangers for the offering, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  