-- 
Apple, Tivo, S.C. Johnson, Google: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-16T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/apple-tivo-s-c-johnson-google-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s preliminary victory in
one of the company’s two patent-infringement cases against  HTC
Corp. (2498)  will be reviewed, the U.S. International Trade Commission
said.  The commission in  Washington , which can block imports of
products that violate U.S. patents, said in a notice yesterday
there is a need to review a judge’s determination from July 15
that HTC’s Android-based smartphones infringed two Apple
patents, while no violation occurred for two others.  HTC,  Asia ’s second-biggest maker of smartphones, has said
there are “alternate solutions in place” to work around the
two patents said to be infringed. Cupertino, California-based
Apple, the world’s biggest smartphone maker, has accused HTC of
“stealing” its iPhone and iPad technology and using it in
devices including Droid phones and Flyer tablets that run  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  The two patents HTC was found to have infringed cover
transmission of multiple types of data and a system that can
identify phone numbers in an e-mail in a way that lets the user
dial or store that number. The two patents that the judge said
weren’t infringed relate to object-oriented programming, a way
of writing and executing software.  Apple argued in an agency filing that if the commission
opted to review the patents that were infringed, the agency also
should consider the two that were found to not be infringed.  Apple has another commission complaint pending, filed in
July, that also targets HTC’s phones and Flyer tablets. HTC has
retaliated with three patent-infringement cases against Apple,
one submitted last year, one last month and another last week.  HTC, in an Aug. 25 filing with the agency, said that even
if it did infringe the patents, the commission shouldn’t ban
U.S. imports of the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company’s phones. An
import ban wouldn’t be in the public interest partly because HTC
phones have special features for the hearing impaired, comply
with requirements for “enhanced 911” location services and
provide Emergency Alert Services.  About 36 percent of Android smartphones in use in the U.S.
were made by HTC, according to the filing.  “The exclusion of HTC accused devices from the U.S. market
would not only eliminate the most popular brand of smartphones
using Android, the fastest-growing mobile operating system, but
would also impact the public health, safety, and welfare
concerns of individual U.S. consumers,” HTC said.  Apple said in an Aug. 25 filing that there is no shortage
of smartphones on the market and HTC could replace lost Android
sales with phones the company makes using Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows Phone operating system.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which had been targeted in the same ITC
complaint, reached a settlement with Apple.  Mountain View ,
California-based Google wasn’t a party in the case.  The case  is In the Matter Of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  Imdex Says It’s Considering Next Step After Failed Appeal  Imdex Ltd. (IMD) , an Australian provider of drilling fluids and
instrumentation used in gas and oil exploration, said an
Australian court rejected its appeal in a patent case.  The company said the appeal was of a lower court holding
that Coretell Pty. Ltd and Mincrest Holdings Pty Ltd. hadn’t
infringed Australian patent 2006100113, held by Imdex’s
Australian Mud Co. unit.  The patent covered what is known as a core orientation
device, a machine used to determine the orientation of core
samples brought up during drilling operations.  In a Sept. 15 statement, Imdex said it is presently
considering options with respect to the unsuccessful appeal. Its
Australian Mud Co, unit has another application for covering the
device pending in both the Australian and international patent
offices, the company said in the statement.  Tivo Trial in Patent Case Against AT&T Put Off Until January  Tivo Inc.’s patent-infringement jury trial against  AT&T
Inc. (T)  has been postponed until January, according to an order
filed yesterday by a federal judge.  The Alviso, California-based pioneer in digital recording
services filed the suit in federal court in Marshall,  Texas , in
August 2009, claiming three patents used in its recording system
were infringed.  According to U.S. District Judge David Folsom’s order, he
hasn’t yet made a determination of the scope of the patent,
known as the patent’s “claim construction.” He said he was
“mindful” that the parties were waiting for this ruling and
said he would enter it as quickly as his schedule allows.  After that order is filed, he said he’ll order a scheduling
conference.  The case is  Tivo Inc. (TIVO)  v. AT&T, 2:09-cv-00259-DF, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Borders’ IP Assets Bring Almost $16 Million At Auction.  Hilco Trading LLC’s Hilco Streambank Unit said intellectual
property assets of Borders Group Inc. brought $15,765,000 at
auction.  The Northbrook, Illinois-based company, which has handled
sale of IP assets of a number of companies going through
bankruptcy proceedings, said the sale included the Borders,
Waldenbooks and Brentano’s trademarks, Internet domain names and
the Borders.com e-commerce website.  The sale is subject to approval by a bankruptcy court in
 Manhattan .  Streambank said in its Sept. 15 statement that two bidders
participated, with more than 50 rounds of bidding before the
winners emerged.  Brentano’s, once the world’s largest bookstore chain, was
founded in  New York  in 1853 by August Brentano, a Jewish
immigrant from  Austria . Waldenbooks was begun in Pittsburgh in
1962.  Waldenbooks acquired Brentano’s and was itself acquired by
Troy  Michigan ’s Kmart Co. in 1984. Borders was begun in Ann
Arbor, Michigan in 1971.  In 1992 Kmart acquired Borders and formed the Borders-
Walden Group, according to the company history page on the
Borders website.  In 1995, Kmart renamed the unit Borders Group Inc. and spun
it off in an initial public offering. The new public company,
with a market value of about $500 million, had more than 1,000
locations under the Borders, Waldenbooks and Planet Music brands
and generated $1.5 billion in revenue.  At one time the number two U.S. bookstore chain, Borders
filed for bankruptcy in New York in February after management
changes, job cuts and debt restructuring failed to make up for
sagging book sales in the face of competition from Amazon.com
Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  S.C. Johnson Sues Nutraceutical Over ‘Bug Off’ Trademark  S.C. Johnson & Co. sued a Utah maker of nutritional
supplements for trademark infringement.  The maker of Windex, Glad and Drano accused Nutraceutical
Corp. of Park City, Utah, of infringing trademarks related to
its Bug-Off insect repellent.  The closely held Racine, Wisconsin-based company objects to
Nutraceutical’s use of “Bug Off” with insect repellent
products acquired in 2011 when the Utah company bought the
assets of Sunfeather Natural Soap Co. At that time Sunfeather
had unsuccessfully tried to register “Bug Off” with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  “Bug Off!” insect repellent is still listed on the
Sunfeather.com website, Johnson said in the complaint it filed
Sept. 12 in federal court in  Milwaukee .  The two companies compete, offering “goods that are
closely related, if not identical,” according to court papers.
Johnson said the use of this term with the Sunfeather product
confuses consumers, causing them to believe falsely that an
affiliation exists between the two companies.  The Wisconsin company also accused Nutraceutical of trying
to ride on the reputation of the Johnson Bug Off insect
repellent.  Johnson asked the court to bar further infringement of its
marks, and the seizure and destruction of all unauthorized
products and promotional materials in the Utah company’s
possession.  The company also asked for awards of $2 million for each
item the court will find has deliberately been infringed through
a counterfeit product, and for all of Nutraceutical’s profits
attributable to the alleged infringement.  Additionally, Johnson requested that all damages or profits
be tripled to punish the Utah company for its actions, and for
awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Nutraceutical didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Johnson is represented by  Katherine W. Schill , and  Jonathan
H. Margolies  of Milwaukee’s Michael Best & Friedrich LLP, and
 Dianne M. Smith-Misemer  and  Cheryl L. Burbach  of Overland Park,
Kansas-based Hovey Williams LLP.  The case is S. C. Johnson & Sons Inc., v. Nutraceutical
Corp., 3:11-cv-00861-RTR, U. S. District Court, Eastern District
of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  German Beverage Maker Gets OK to Register ‘F Word’ as Trademark  EFAG Trademark CO.,  a German maker of alcoholic beverages,
has won approval from  Germany ’s Federal Patent Court to use the
German form of the vulgar English word euphemized as “the F
word” as a name for its schnapps, Spiegel Online International
 reported .  The German Patent and Trademark Office had refused to
register the name on the grounds that it was socially offensive,
according to Spiegel.  The court said that while the word is in poor taste, it is
used “in the widest range of social classes and age groups,”
Spiegel reported.  In addition to alcoholic beverages, EFAG has registered the
mark for use with clothing, mineral water, and fruit drinks,
according to Spiegel.  Vietnam  Behind in Registration of Agricultural Origin Trademarks  Vietnam lags in the use of trademarks related to geographic
origins of agricultural products, the head of that nation’s
National Office of  Intellectual Property  said at an IP
conference in Hanoi,  Vietnam News reported .  Only 23 of 993 products with specific geographic origins
have been registered, according to Vietnam News.  The registration of lychees from the Back Gian province has
helped increase their value from $21 million in 2007 to $38
million in 2011, according to Vietnam News.  To date, a lack of enforcement has lead to many farmers’
indifference to the registration process, Vietnam News reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Reports Progress in Digital Books Settlement Talks  Google Inc. reported progress in possible settlement of a
lawsuit over the search-engine company’s digital reproduction of
books, lawyers told the judge in the case.  Daralyn Durie, a lawyer for Google, told federal judge
Denny Chin that the company has made “substantial progress” in
negotiations with publishers. Talks with representatives of
authors are taking place among “principals” from both sides,
she said.  “The parties are still talking,” Chin said in a hearing
yesterday in Manhattan federal court. “I’m hopeful, still
hopeful.”  Chin set a schedule for the litigation which would result
in the case being resolved no sooner than July 2012, if the
parties don’t settle.  Google was sued in 2005 by authors and publishers who
claimed the company infringed their copyrights on a massive
scale by digitizing books and allowing snippets to be seen
online. Chin declined to approve an earlier $125 million
settlement, saying it would be unfair to authors.  Chin, who was elevated to the New York federal appeals
court in April 2010, is continuing as the trial judge in the
case.  The case is Authors Guild v. Google Inc., 05-CV-8136, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  