-- 
Argentina’s 9-Year GDP Growth Probably Slowed in Second Quarter

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-16T12:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/argentina-s-9-year-gdp-growth-probably-slowed-in-second-quarter.html
Argentina ’s nine-year economic
expansion probably slowed in the second quarter as sales of
manufactured goods to  Brazil  began to taper and domestic demand
moderated in  South America ’s second-biggest economy.  Gross domestic product rose 7.8 percent from the year
earlier, according to the median estimate of nine economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The national statistics institute will
publish its report at 3 p.m.  New York  time. The economy grew 9.2
percent in 2010.  “There was a slowdown in industrial output because of
lower demand from Brazil but also lower demand from domestic
consumers,” said Juan Pablo Fuentes, a Latin America economist
at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “It’s
difficult to maintain growth of almost 10 percent.”  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who polls show is
headed toward re-election next month, will probably trim
spending growth to tame inflation economists estimate is more
than 20 percent, said  Alberto Ramos , a senior Latin America
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York. The European
debt crisis and slower growth in Brazil, Argentina’s main trade
partner, will also moderate the expansion, Fuentes said.  “The government will probably have to take more measures
than it has done over the last 2 years to control inflation,”
said Ramos in a telephone interview. “It’s likely that wage
increases will be less generous than the last two years.”  Salary Increases  With Fernandez’s support, unions and business leaders last
month agreed to raise the minimum wage 25 percent to 2,300 pesos
($550) per month. The government says consumer prices rose at an
annual rate of 9.8 percent in August.  Government outlays leaped 39 percent in July from a year
earlier, helping Fernandez boost spending on social programs and
public works projects. This month she announced a 23 percent
increase in payments to poor families who keep their children in
school, a program that will cost the state about 11.8 billion
pesos this year.  Brazil, which buys about 20 percent of Argentina’s exports,
will cut its GDP growth forecast for this year to under 4
percent, said central bank President Alexandre Tombini in an
interview with GloboNews Television on Sept. 8. In the second
quarter,  Latin America ’s biggest economy expanded 3.1 percent
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in two years.  The  auto industry , which has led Argentina’s manufacturing
growth and sends most of its production to Brazil, boosted
output 18 percent in August from a year earlier. Output rose 53
percent in August last year.  Factory Output  Argentina’s industrial output climbed at an average annual
rate of 8.5 percent per month in the second quarter, down from
an average of 10.1 percent in the same period last year. Growth
of sales of goods including home appliances, toys and clothing
fell to an average 17.2 percent per month this year from an
average of 33.7 percent per month last year, according to the
national statistics agency.  The economy will grow 7.7 percent in 2011, it’s ninth
straight annual expansion since a financial crisis in 2001-2002,
according to the median estimate of five economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  While investment in the economy is nearing 24 percent of
GDP, that rate isn’t enough to sustain 7 percent or 8 percent
annual economic expansion, Ramos said.  Foreign direct investment in Argentina rose 54 percent last
year to $6.2 billion, according to the Santiago-based  United
Nations Economic Commission for Latin America . That compares
with investment of $48.5 billion in Brazil, $15.1 billion in
 Chile , $7.3 billion in  Peru  and $6.8 billion in  Colombia .  Investment has been hindered by Fernandez’s policies, Ramos
said. Since taking office in 2007, Fernandez has retained most
price caps on utility rates, moved to limit foreign ownership of
rural land and tried to raise taxes on agricultural exports.  “We need more investment to sustain a growth rate of 7 or
8 percent,” Ramos said. “For that you need policies that are
more friendly to the private sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  