-- 
Harvard Pledge Values ‘Kindness’ Over Learning: Virginia Postrel

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-09-16T00:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/harvard-pledge-values-kindness-over-learning-virginia-postrel.html
When the members of the class of
2015 arrived at  Harvard College  this fall, they encountered a
novel bit of moral education. Their dorm  proctors  -- the grad
students who live with freshmen to provide guidance and enforce
discipline -- invited each student to sign a pledge developed by
the Freshman Dean’s Office. It reads, in full:  “At Commencement, the Dean of Harvard College announces to
the President, Fellows, and Overseers that ‘each degree
candidate stands ready to advance knowledge, to promote
understanding, and to serve society.’ That message serves as a
kind of moral compass for the education Harvard College imparts.
In the classroom, in extracurricular endeavors, and in the Yard
and Houses, students are expected to act with integrity,
respect, and industry, and to sustain a community characterized
by inclusiveness and civility.  “As we begin at Harvard, we commit to upholding the values
of the College and to making the entryway and Yard a place where
all can thrive and where the exercise of kindness holds a place
on par with intellectual attainment.”  The original plan was to post the pledge in each dorm
entryway, along with the names and signatures of the students
living there. Although signing was supposed to be voluntary, any
dissent would have been obvious.  The posting constituted “an act of public shaming,” Harry R. Lewis, a computer science professor and former dean of
Harvard College, wrote in a  blog post  condemning the pledge.
Some students signed because they felt they had to -- a
completely predictable, yet somehow unforeseen, result that Tom
Dingman, the dean of freshmen, says is “against the spirit of
the pledge.” The signatures will no longer be posted.  Yet what the Harvard Crimson dubs the “freshman kindness
pledge” remains in place. The vast majority of freshmen, and the
college itself, have formally declared that “the exercise of
kindness” is “on par with intellectual attainment.” Both parts
of that equation are odd, and they are odd in ways that suggest
something has gone awry at Harvard.  No Kindness Deficit  That problem isn’t, as some might imagine, a kindness
deficit. Don’t confuse the real-world Harvard with the one in
the movies. “As best I can tell, it’s a perfectly civil, polite,
kind, cooperative student body,” says Steven Pinker, the Harvard
psychology professor and popular author. He says he found the
pledge “bizarre.”  Rajiv Tarigopula, a sophomore who supported the pledge in a
Crimson  op-ed article , wrote me in an e-mail that “the
overwhelming majority of interpersonal interactions I have had
with my classmates, peers, and friends here at Harvard have been
very friendly, kind, and genuine, and I’ve come away from them
with a positive feeling.” He added: “I don’t think there exists
a kindness deficit at all.”  Harvard surely has its jerks, but most students aren’t
especially unkind -- at least to each other.  There have, however, been what Dingman vaguely describes as
“instances where the janitorial staff and the staff in the
dining hall have been treated with disrespect.” Since at least a
few students don’t instinctively regard the staff as social
equals worthy of basic courtesy and professional respect,
everyone now gets a reminder not to abuse the help.  Meanwhile, to their peers, Harvard students may, if
anything, be a little too nice. Some veteran faculty members
tell me that the students’ drive to succeed manifests itself in
a surprising way. A social norm has emerged, they report, in
which students avoid saying anything that might make others look
bad in class, even if that restraint means stifling discussion.  “I note in the current generation of undergraduates a
tendency to hold back on disagreement or criticism of other
students in class,” says Jeffry Frieden, a political scientist.
“They’re much more respectful of each other -- much more than
when I was an undergraduate. If someone states an opinion, even
if absurd, they take it in stride.”  No Arguing Allowed  A humanities professor says, “You can’t get them to argue
easily. They’re wary of that. They know the game that you’re
playing with them, whereas 20 years ago they loved to play the
game.” Instead of lively byplay driven by engagement with ideas,
this professor says, the students have an unwritten code of: “If
you give me space to impress the teacher, I’ll give you space to
impress the teacher.”  There are exceptions, of course. N.  Gregory Mankiw , the
economics professor and former chairman of President  George W. Bush ’s  Council of Economic Advisers , reports lively discussions
in his freshman seminars, where students read popular works such
as  Milton Friedman ’s “Capitalism and Freedom,” and  Paul Krugman ’s “The Return of Depression Economics,” as well as
 Richard Thaler  and Cass Sunstein’s “Nudge.”  But Mankiw carefully selects his students for passionate
interest and political diversity -- about 200 freshmen apply for
 15 slots  -- and most of the books relate to current debates.
Disagreeing over political values is different from poking holes
in a classmate’s arguments purely for logic’s sake. The former
affirms your political identity and that of your opponent. The
latter could embarrass your classmate. Besides, Mankiw’s course
is pass-fail. Class discussions won’t hurt anyone’s transcript.  Pledge supporters hope that the kindness clause will foster
the type of civil discussion that happens in Mankiw’s classroom.
“Look at the discourse around the political arena,” says
Dingman, explaining the motivations behind the pledge. “It
certainly isn’t what we’d hope for.”  True, our public discussions could surely benefit from more
fair-minded Greg Mankiws (regardless of political persuasion)
and fewer vicious Paul Krugmans (ditto). But a kindness pledge
won’t get us there. And the anti-criticism norm that prevails in
other Harvard classrooms points to the problem of equating
kindness with civility or fairness.  Kindness isn’t a public or intellectual virtue, but a
personal one. It is a form of love. Kindness seeks, above all,
to avoid hurt. Criticism -- even objective, impersonal, well-
intended, constructive criticism  -- isn’t kind. Criticism hurts
people’s feelings, and it hurts most when the recipient realizes
it’s accurate. Treating “kindness” as the way to civil discourse
doesn’t show students how to argue with accuracy and respect. It
teaches them instead to neither give criticism nor tolerate it.  Attainment, Not Inquiry  And that brings us to the second half of the pledge
equation: intellectual attainment. Not inquiry or excellence,
but “attainment.” What a strange, and revealing, choice of
words.  Consider a common argument in favor of the pledge. It
starts with a  survey  last spring in which then-freshmen were
asked to indicate how they believed Harvard ranked various
values, and then to do the same ranking for themselves. Students
deemed “success” as Harvard’s highest value while ranking
“compassion” low for the university. By contrast, they put
compassion high on their personal lists, ranking it fourth
behind hard work, honesty and respect.  In an  editorial , the Crimson called the divergent ranking
of compassion “completely unacceptable” and declared the survey
“one more piece of evidence that the College needs to provide a
stronger moral education.” Despite commencement rhetoric about
promoting understanding and serving society, the editorial board
lamented, “The fact is that students receive more reminders to
turn in their study cards” for course registration “than they do
to be nice.”  Course registration versus niceness; success versus
compassion; “attainment” versus kindness. Something is missing
from all these dichotomies, and that something is the life of
the mind.  Where in the list of ranked values are curiosity,
discovery, reason, inquiry, skepticism or truth? (Were these
values even options?) Where is critical thinking? No wonder the
pledge talks about “attainment.” Attainment  equals study cards
and good grades -- a transcript to enable the student to move on
to the next stage. Attainment isn’t learning, questioning or
criticizing. It’s getting your ticket punched.  Harvard is the strongest brand in American higher
education, and its identity is clear. As its students recognize,
Harvard represents success. But, it seems, Harvard feels guilty
about that identity  and wishes it could instead (or also)
represent “compassion.” These two qualities have a lot in
common. They both depend on other people, either to validate
success or serve as objects of compassion. And neither is
intellectual.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 