-- 
Asian Currencies Fall This Week on Europe Debt Crisis, Global Growth Risk

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-16T08:16:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/asian-currencies-fall-this-week-on-europe-debt-crisis-global-growth-risk.html
Asian currencies fell this week,
with Indonesia’s rupiah sliding the most since June 2009, as
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen led investors to favor
safer bets than emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index touched a five-
month low yesterday as global funds pulled more than $2 billion
from equities in South Korea, Taiwan and Indonesia since the end
of last week. The Asian Development Bank this week cut its 2011
growth forecast for the region excluding  Japan  to 7.5 percent,
from an April estimate of 7.8 percent.  The Asia Dollar Index slumped 0.7 percent this week to
117.58 as of 3:54 p.m. in  Hong Kong , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The rupiah declined 2.5 percent to 8,803 and South
Korea’s won tumbled 3.1 percent to 1,112.10 per dollar, the
region’s worst performance.  India ’s rupee slid 1.9 percent to
47.48, Malaysia’s ringgit dropped 2.4 percent to 3.0825 and
Taiwan’s dollar fell 1.2 percent to NT$29.56. Losses for the won,
rupee, ringgit and Taiwan dollar were the worst since mid-2010.  “Asian currencies are under downward pressure as the
European debt crisis prevails in the market and deters risk-
taking,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a currency trader at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “There is growing concern
about the outlook for exports from Asia given conditions in the
U.S. and Europe.”  Economic Risks  India’s industrial production expanded in July at the
slowest pace since October 2009 and Philippine exports fell for
a third straight month, reports showed this week.  Taiwan ’s
export orders, an indication of shipments in the next one to
three months, increased 7.6 percent in August from a year
earlier, compared with growth of 11.1 percent in July, according
to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey
before official data due on Sept. 20.  South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said at a
meeting today that global economic risks are growing. His
ministry phoned media outlets including Bloomberg News yesterday
to signal possible intervention in the currency market, the
first time it’s done so since April 2010.  The won gained 0.4 percent today after the  European Central
Bank  said it will coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  and
international policy makers in lending dollars to euro-area
banks to ensure they have enough cash through year-end. U.S.
retail sales stagnated in August and manufacturing in the New
York region is contracting at the fastest pace since November,
data showed this week.  “The international policy makers’ pledge to lend dollars
to euro-zone banks helped calm investor sentiment,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul.
“Still, it’s not a fundamental solution, and will only support
markets for the short term.”  Intervention  Bank  Indonesia  intervened in the rupiah and bond markets,
Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said on Sept. 14, when the
currency declined as much as 2.6 percent and reached 8,939, the
weakest level since February.  “Talk of a possible Greek default and the country exiting
from the euro region” deterred risk-taking, said Wiwig Santoso,
head of treasury and markets at PT Bank DBS Indonesia in Jakarta.
“There are concerns of a global economic slowdown, and the
rupiah isn’t isolated from market developments.”  Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht fell 1 percent this week to
30.38 per dollar and the Philippine peso dropped 2.3 percent to
43.35.  China ’s yuan strengthened 0.09 percent to 6.3826.  -- Judy Chen . With assistance from Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  and
Khalid Qayum in Singapore. Editors: James Regan, Ven Ram  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  