-- 
Asia Stocks Pare Weekly Drop as Europe Crash Looks Less Likely

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-16T23:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/asian-stocks-rise-paring-a-weekly-loss-on-ecb-offer-of-dollars-to-banks.html
Asian stocks trimmed a weekly
decline as joint action by central banks to tackle Europe’s debt
problems boosted confidence the region will avoid a financial
crisis like the one that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest bank by market value,
pared losses after the  European Central Bank  led a coordinated
effort to lend dollars to euro-area banks.  Canon Inc. (7751) , which
depends on Europe for about a third of its sales, closed the
week down 2.3 percent in  Tokyo  after earlier falling 6.3 percent.
Esprit Holdings Ltd. tumbled the most since 1997 after profit
plunged at the clothier.  “What these authorities are trying to do is preempt any
panic over banks’ access to short-term funding,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1.1 billion at Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. in Sydney. “Anything that suggests they will
act proactively to avoid another Lehman-style crisis will help
equities, commodities and other risk assets because of how
oversold they are, and how bearishly everybody is positioned.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent to 120.26,
following a 2.7 percent drop the previous week. The gauge
tumbled 8.6 percent last month on concern Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis would hurt the region’s banks and after  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the U.S.’s credit rating.  Hang Seng , Kospi  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 2.1 percent this week,
while  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 1.1 percent.  Japan ’s
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average and South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  both
advanced 1.5 percent.  Stocks on the Asian benchmark gauge fell early in the week
on reports  Germany  was preparing its banks for a Greek default.
Shares also dropped after Premier Wen Jiabao said the region’s
most-indebted nations must “put their own houses in order”
rather than look to  China  for a bailout.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index pared declines on Sept. 15 and
Sept. 16 after French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said  Greece  would remain part of the
 euro zone  and the ECB coordinated with the  Federal Reserve  and
other central banks to extend dollar loans to the region’s
lenders to ensure they have enough cash for the rest of the year.  “There needs to be more coordinated action and I think
markets are taking this very positively,” Kirk Hartman, chief
investment officer of Wells Capital Management in  Los Angeles ,
told Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” on Sept. 15.
“I don’t think we’re going to have a banking crisis, but I
think we are going to have more turmoil.”  HSBC, Cnooc  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank by market value, rebounded from
a 5.5 percent plunge on Sept. 12 to close the week down 0.5
percent at HK$64.60. In Hong Kong, Chinese oil explorer  Cnooc
Ltd. (883)  finished the week 1 percent lower at HK$13.86, after
earlier dropping to the lowest in a year.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender
by market value, reversed declines to finish 3.9 percent higher
at 345 yen in Tokyo. Honda Motor Co. recovered from a 3.8
percent slump on Sept. 12 to close up 4.3 percent at 2,448 yen.
Samsung Electronics Co., which gets 20 percent of its sales in
Europe, rose 2.3 percent to 798,000 won in  Seoul .  Among other Asian stocks that fell this week, Canon dropped
3.3 percent 3,410 in Tokyo. Nintendo Co. sank 10 percent to
11,850 yen in Osaka after analysts said the gamemaker would miss
its sales target for handheld 3-D players.  Esprit, the Hong Kong-listed clothing retailer that gets
more than 80 percent of its revenue from  Europe , tumbled 38
percent to HK$12.22. Profit plunged 98 percent on costs
associated with store closures and the sale of its operations in
the U.S. and  Canada . At least seven brokerages cut the
clothier’s investment rating.  BYD Co., a Chinese carmaker part-owned by  Warren Buffett ,
plunged 11 percent to HK$13.98 following reports of faulty air
bags on some of its models. BYD said third-party tests of its
bags showed no flaws.  Cochlear Ltd. tumbled 29 percent to A$51.20 in Sydney after
the Australian maker of hearing implants announced a recall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  