-- 
MasterCard, Card Group Say German Plan Kills Prepaid Market

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-09-16T10:27:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/mastercard-card-group-say-german-plan-may-kill-prepaid-market.html
Proposed amendments to German anti-
money laundering rules could wipe out the market for prepaid
cash cards in the country, a lobbying group said.  The government plans legislation that would require prepaid
card sellers to identify each purchaser and retain that
information. The administrative burden would be too much for the
kiosks, gas stations and supermarkets that are the main sellers
of such cards, and kill the market, Prepaid Forum Deutschland
said in a statement. The group’s members include Paysafecard
Group, Lekkerland AG and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)   “We face the risk that a secure and practical payment
method will be pushed out of the German market by rules that
overshoot,” Thorsten Klein, a spokesman for MasterCard in
Germany, said in an interview. “This would hit a payment tool
that grants access to the e-commerce market to consumers,
including those who normally won’t get a  credit card .”  Prepaid card transactions are expected to reach more than
$840 billion by 2017, according to a Boston Consulting Group
study commissioned by MasterCard and released last year. The
German prepaid card market enables transactions of about 850
million euros ($1.2 billion) a year, according to Prepaid Forum.  Germany was criticized in a 2010 report by the  Financial
Action Task Force , an inter-governmental body dedicated to
combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The
government cited the report in the preamble to its draft bill
that includes the rules Prepaid Forum has criticized.  Bafin Cases  Germany’s financial regulator Bafin  and the Federal
Criminal Police Office’s Financial Intelligence Unit today said
in a joint statement the number of suspected money-laundering
cases rose 22 percent in 2011, a peak since 1993 when the rules
were first introduced. About half of the cases were found to be
actual crimes.  Cases involving the use of online-payment methods rose to
94 in 2011 from 63 in 2009, the agencies said. Bafin said the
proposed legislation would enhanced its stepped-up efforts to
stop money-laundering.  “Electronic money allows anonymous payments which don’t
leave paper trails, unless the strict compliance with customer
due diligence is guaranteed by the institutions,” Bafin said.  If the bill is passed by parliament, Prepaid Forum said
 Germany  would be the only country in  Europe  to follow such a
“radical” path. The requirements would apply to about 40,000
retailers which make about 20 million euros in profit a year
selling the cards, according to the group. Money laundering
could be combated by other less intrusive and more effective
methods, it said.  ‘A Deterrent’  “The proposed rules are a deterrent, also, from the
consumer’s point of view,” said Klein. “As a consumer, I
certainly wouldn’t want the gas station attendant to make a copy
of my identity card.”  German law already regulates the prepaid industry as
required by European Union rules, the  Finance Ministry  said in
an e-mailed statement. The proposed amendments will only close a
gap by including retail card sellers into that regime, it said.  MasterCard, based in  New York , said in December it will
acquire prepaid card-management assets from Travelex Holdings
Ltd. for 290 million pounds ($458 million) to expand in one of
the fastest growing segments of the charge-card market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 