-- 
AT&T, U.S. Disagree on Date for Antitrust Trial in Case Plan

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-16T21:53:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/at-t-u-s-disagree-on-date-for-antitrust-trial-in-plan-submitted-to-court.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and the U.S.  Justice
Department  disagreed on a date for a trial of the government’s
bid to block the company’s proposed acquisition of wireless
carrier T-Mobile USA Inc.  The company and the government made their differences known
in an otherwise agreed-upon proposal for managing the case filed
today in federal court in Washington. AT&T is pushing to start
the trial on Jan. 16 while the U.S. proposes March 19, according
to the filing.  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle has set a hearing
for Sept. 21 and told the parties to be prepared to discuss
settlement options.  The AT&T acquisition of T-Mobile is set to close by March
20, and AT&T has said it will ask Huvelle for an expedited
handling of the case.  The case management plan sets deadlines for submitting
witness lists, taking sworn statements and exchanging documents.
Depositions of witnesses will be limited to 30 per side,
according to the filing.  “As we have said, we are working on parallel paths
regarding the DOJ’s complaint,” Michael Balmoris, an AT&T
spokesman in  Washington , wrote in an e-mail. “We have been and
remain interested in a solution that addresses the DOJ’s issues.
At the same time, we are participating in the legal process,
which is reflected in today’s filing.”  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message left seeking comment on
the filing.  States Join  Also today, seven states agreed to join the U.S. lawsuit as
their attorneys general said the proposed $39 billion deal would
hurt competition and raise wireless telephone prices.  The states joining the Justice Department’s amended
complaint are  New York ,  California , Massachusetts, Washington,
Ohio,  Pennsylvania  and Illinois.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition.  AT&T, in a filing last week, said the T-Mobile deal is good
for mobile-phone customers because it would lead to better
service, fewer dropped calls and lower prices for consumers.  Today, Huvelle approved a joint proposal submitted
yesterday for handling confidential material in the case.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 