-- 
Federal AT&T-T-Mobile Suit Joined by New York, Six Other States

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/at-t-s-t-mobile-bid-draws-new-york-california-into-u-s-antitrust-lawsuit.html
The U.S. lawsuit seeking to block
AT&T Inc.’s acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc. was joined by seven
states as their  attorneys general  said the proposed $39 billion
deal would hurt competition and raise wireless telephone prices.  The states joining the amended complaint filed yesterday by
the U.S. Justice Department in federal court in  Washington  were
New York,  California ,  Massachusetts , Washington, Ohio,
Pennsylvania and  Illinois .  Participation by the states bolsters the Justice
Department’s position and means any negotiated settlement of the
case would have to win the states’ approval, said  Herbert Hovenkamp , a professor and antitrust expert at the University of
Iowa College of Law.  “If the federal government wants to go for a settlement
and the states don’t like it, they can hold out,” Hovenkamp
said in an interview. “The judge would have to listen to their
complaints.”  The government’s antitrust suit claims that the merger of
the two companies, which would make Dallas-based AT&T the
biggest wireless carrier in the U.S. and cut the number of
national competitors to three from four, is anticompetitive.  Michael Balmoris, a spokesman for AT&T, said 11 state
attorneys general support the deal.  ‘Expedited Hearing’  “We will continue to seek an expedited hearing on the
 Justice Department ’s complaint,” he said in an e-mail. “On a
parallel path, we have been, and remain, interested in a
solution that addresses the department’s issues with the T-
Mobile merger.”  AT&T Inc. and the U.S. Justice Department yesterday filed
an agreed-upon proposal for managing the case, with the
exception of a dispute over a trial date. AT&T is pushing to
start on Jan. 16 while the U.S. proposes March 19, according to
the filing.  The case management plan sets deadlines for submitting
witness lists, taking sworn statements and exchanging documents.
Depositions of witnesses will be limited to 30 per side,
according to the agreement.  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle has set a hearing
for Sept. 21 on the scheduling and told the parties to be
prepared to discuss settlement options.  The bipartisan group of state officials provided
“invaluable assistance” in the probe that led to the lawsuit’s
filing on Aug. 31, the department said in a statement.  Democrats, Republicans  The attorneys general of  New York , California,
Massachusetts and Illinois are Democrats while their
counterparts in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Washington are
Republicans.  “Blocking this acquisition protects consumers and
businesses against fewer choices, higher prices, less
innovation, and lower quality service,” Illinois Attorney
General Lisa Madigan said in an e-mailed statement.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , who helped
coordinate the states’ group, said the proposed merger would
also reduce access to “low-cost options.”  Tom Sugrue, T-Mobile senior vice president of government
affairs, said the Bellevue, Washington-based company remains
confident the acquisition will proceed because of the benefits
it offers consumers, businesses, and the  U.S. economy . The
merged company will spur “greater innovation, enhanced
competition and increased jobs,” he said in a statement.  Sprint Nextel  Sprint Nextel Corp., the industry’s third-largest player
and which filed its own suit opposing the deal, welcomed the
attorneys general’s move, Vonya McCann, Sprint’s senior vice
president for government affairs, said in an e-mailed statement.  Yesterday, Sprint filed court motions asking to be included
in coordinated proceedings with the Justice Department, as well
as motions about how confidential evidence should be handled in
the case and scheduling issues.  If the judge approves Sprint’s request, it will put all the
cases “on the same track so related matters can be dealt with
efficiently by the court and all concerned parties to the
suit,” said company spokesman  John Taylor .  Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said in a
statement he applauds the states joining the suit and stayed out
only to conserve his office’s resources for other matters.  The case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 