-- 
Azumi Says Corporate, Income Tax Increase Key for Rebuilding

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-09-16T09:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/azumi-says-corporate-income-tax-to-be-key-for-rebuilding-funds.html
Japan’s government plans to make
tax increases the main source of funding for earthquake
reconstruction, and may also sell shares it owns in  Japan
Tobacco Inc. (2914) , Finance Minister Jun Azumi said.  “A combination of income and corporate taxes will be the
pillar,” Azumi told reporters in Tokyo today. “I want to sell
government-owned stocks as much as possible” to secure funds
for reconstruction, he said. The government aims to submit its
plan on reconstruction taxes today, Azumi said.  Japan plans total spending of 19 trillion yen ($247
billion) over five years for reconstruction after the magnitude-
9 temblor and tsunami that devastated the northeast coast. Azumi
said he wants to increase non-tax revenue by “a few trillion
yen” including by reducing  government spending , to lower the
tax burden for citizens.  The finance minister said selling government-owned shares
in Japan Tobacco and  Tokyo  Metro Co., which operates a  subway
system  in the capital, is a “likely option” to raise funds.  Japan Tobacco shares rose 1.1 percent to 346,000 yen at
10:44 a.m. in Tokyo after the Yomiuri newspaper reported that
the government will reduce its 50 percent stake in the company
to bring in as much as 600 billion yen.  “As we are going to minimize the need for tax increases as
much as possible, I’m confident” households and companies will
accept the government’s plan, he said.  Third Package  Azumi said this week the size of a third extra budget the
government is planning for reconstruction will be more than 10
trillion yen. The two previous extra budgets totaled about 6
trillion yen.  A tax panel headed by Azumi proposed today to raise 5
trillion yen through measures including reducing the
government’s share in  Japan  Tobacco to one third from half. The
group also suggested securing 10.4 trillion yen in funding over
five to 10 years through a combination of raising corporate,
income or sales taxes. The recommendations will be deliberated
by ruling party members as well as opposition parties, who have
a majority in the upper house.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  