-- 
Jefferson County Bankruptcy Pits Urban Sewer Users Against Wealthy Suburbs

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k ,   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/bankruptcy-talk-divides-rich-and-poor-of-jefferson-county.html
For some residents of Mountain
Brook, Alabama’s richest city, declaring the biggest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history isn’t the way for Jefferson County to
confront its financial distress.  “I’m conservative, and I would never file bankruptcy,”
Lori Oswald, 54, said at a Starbucks in a Tudor-style strip mall
in the suburb of the county, home to Birmingham and more than
658,000 people.  County commissioners will meet today to decide how to
resolve the strain of a refinancing on $3.1 billion of sewer-
system bonds that collapsed more than three years ago. They can
choose bankruptcy or accept an offer from creditors led by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to reorganize the debt and impose a series
of 8 percent increases in sewer rates.  The rate increase is “not so egregious” that it should
block a deal, said Oswald.  Five miles (8 kilometers) away, past the Birmingham Country
Club and down the hill that gives Mountain Brook its name,  John
Jenkins , 61, a retiree on a fixed income, wants no settlement
that includes higher rates.  “If they can’t keep it like it is, then go with
bankruptcy,” he said in an interview near the county offices.  Opinions often depend on where citizens sit in the county’s
economic hierarchy, according to interviews this week. Low-
income residents, the biggest portion of sewer-system customers,
according to Commissioner George Bowman, want a bankruptcy so
the pain spreads throughout the county, not just on them.  Not at Fault  “It’s not our fault the county got into this jam,” Kewana
Simmons, 44, said while she sat with her 75-year-old mother at
Cooper Green Mercy Hospital, a county-owned facility that serves
the poor.  “I’m for any solution that doesn’t hurt us or just us,”
Simmons said. “If you’re going to do it, it should be for
everybody.”  Jefferson County’s  sewer system  serves about 150,000
customers, including about 10,000 of Mountain Brook’s 21,000
residents, according to City Manager Sam Gaston.  The 2009 median  household income  in Mountain Brook was
$129,034, according to U.S. Census Bureau data, more than twice
the $50,173 median in  New York . It’s also 13 times more than the
poorest community in Alabama and as much as 10 times the income
in Jefferson County’s poorest census tracts, which are served by
the sewer system.  Looming ‘Disaster’  Richard Simmons III, not related to Kewana Simmons, favors
a settlement. The retired insurance executive and non-profit
executive from Homewood, a Birmingham suburb, said a bankruptcy
“would be a disaster.”  “It impacts all future ability to borrow,” he said at the
Starbucks. Simmons is the trustee of his father’s estate, which
holds some of the sewer debt.  Jeff Seidman, a Homewood manager with a private equity
firm, said he backs bankruptcy because residents can’t afford
sewer-rate increases.  “They need to bite the bullet and get the debt off the
books,” he said.  A bankruptcy wouldn’t preclude higher sewer rates or
service cuts, only likely delay them, said James Johnston, a Los
Angeles  partner  of Dewey & LeBoeuf, one of the lead counsels in
the 1994 Orange County,  California , Chapter 9 filing, the
biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy so far.  The county’s financial strain -- including a $40 million
general-fund gap -- is falling on the poor in ways other than
sewer rates.  Changes in Jail  The sheriff’s department consolidated jails to help deal
with budget cuts. The office’s funding was $63 million three
years ago and will likely be $43 million next year, Sheriff Mike
Hale said in an interview.  The cuts have led to shortages of toilet paper, linens and
clothes, according to interviews with inmates and staff.  Ron Eddings, the captain in charge of the jail, said the
department was “begging” for basic needs.  “You have to dry off with your uniform,” said Takita
Watson, an inmate who said the jail no longer provides towels.  Care at  Cooper Green Mercy Hospital  is also in jeopardy,
said Sandral Hullet, its chief executive.  Jefferson County’s Republican state lawmakers want to end
an  Alabama  requirement that a half-percent of county sales taxes
goes to Cooper Green. They want part of the money redirected to
the county’s general fund.  The earmarked sales tax delivered more than $40 million of
the hospital’s $90 million in 2011 revenue, said  Hullett , 65. It
also helped serve “the uninsured, the underinsured,” she said.  Hullett said redirecting the money would cut care to the
100,000 outpatient and 35,000 emergency room patients the
hospital served in the last year, many referred from other
hospitals because of finances.  Mary Lee Jenkins, 64, has been coming to Cooper Green for
31 years from Bessemer, 20 minutes away.  “I wouldn’t know where else to go,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham, Alabama, at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net 
Simone Baribeau in Birmingham, Alabama, at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  