-- 
Batting .000 for the `00s, America’s Lost Decade: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-09-16T00:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/batting-000-in-00-s-u-s-sees-lost-decade-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
Have you ever seen “The Apotheosis
of  George Washington ”? It’s a fresco  painted  on the ceiling of
the Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol, at the very center of the
American republic.  It was painted by Constantino Brumidi in 1865, when the
Capitol was being completed at the end of the Civil War. I was
reminded of it during the debate at the Reagan Library on Sept.
7, when  Rick Perry , now the leading Republican presidential
candidate, rejected the overwhelming scientific consensus on
 climate change .  The fresco depicts toga-clad deities surrounding
Washington, but he’s the only president there: A full third of
the ceiling is devoted to scientists and inventors.  Benjamin Franklin , Robert Fulton and Samuel F.B. Morse are featured, with
Venus holding a transatlantic telegraph cable, the big
infrastructure project of the day. The Rotunda all but shouts
that to be anti-science is to be anti-American.  Most presidents have embraced that idea. And most have
sought to preside over a period when the U.S. advanced in
concrete and measurable ways on the home front.  Abraham Lincoln 
was determined that the 1860s be known for something other than
carnage. He insisted on pushing through a series of what were
then called “internal improvements” -- such as land-grant
colleges -- that were not directly tied to the war effort.  ‘The Oughts’  We tend to associate decades with presidents, even if they
served for only part of a decade and the association is a lazy-
minded convention (like “the Eisenhower ‘50s”). The anniversary
of the Sept. 11 attacks offered a chance to look back over the
past 10 years. It was an ugly sight. Even with the decade over,
there’s no consensus on what to call it. I favor “the oughts” --
as in, “It ought to have been different.”  Sept. 11, 2001, is often compared to Dec. 7, 1941. But
think of all this nation accomplished between 1941 and 1951 --
the crushing of fascism around the world, the desegregation of
the armed forces, the creation of the  United Nations , the GI
Bill to educate the middle class and build the basis for the
astonishing prosperity to follow.  The sad truth is that the past decade has been the worst
for this country in 100 years.  Century of Progress  In the 1910s, we expanded health and safety standards,
established the  Federal Reserve , and (unlike today) quickly
lifted the limitations on civil liberties enacted during World
War I.  In the ‘20s, we pioneered jazz, widespread radio use,
motion pictures and the managerial approaches still used by
modern business.  In the ‘30s, amid the Great Depression, we built much of
the infrastructure we still use -- including, most likely, the
roads you drove on today and the schools where you dropped off
your children.  In the ‘40s, we not only emerged as the preeminent power in
the world but also helped develop radar, antibiotics and nuclear
energy.  In the ‘50s, we built the interstate highway system, cured
polio and used the government to help people own their own
homes.  In the ‘60s, we went to the moon, made great strides toward
racial equality, directed federal money toward better education
and opened our borders to many more non-Europeans.  In the ‘70s, we moved toward  gender equality , began
dramatic advances in medical research and started cleaning up
the environment.  In the ‘80s, we strengthened Social Security, reformed the
 tax code  and fixed the immigration system (at least
temporarily), while peacefully winding down the  Cold War .  In the ‘90s, we balanced the budget, reformed welfare and
watched the Internet -- a government creation -- transform our
world.  The Lost Decade  And the past 10 years? Shoes off in the airport. Bruising
unemployment. Slipping from first to 12th in college
graduation. Even classic loser decades, like the 1930s and
1970s, were more productive than the oughts.  Census figures released this week show that for the first
time since the Great Depression median household income,
adjusted for inflation, hasn’t risen at all in over a decade.
More than 15 percent of Americans now live in poverty, and the
income of the bottom 10th has fallen alarmingly. Even the
suburban  poverty rate  is at its highest since the 1960s. The
economist Lawrence Katz of  Harvard University  is  now calling it 
the “Lost Decade.”  Beyond No Child Left Behind (now in the process of being
dismantled), President  George W. Bush  did nothing on the
fundamentals. No rebuilding the country, no  tax reform  (unless
you include monster tax cuts), no entitlement reform (unless you
include adding a new prescription-drug benefit without paying
for it), no energy independence, no immigration reform, no long-
term deficit reduction (to the contrary, moving the budget from
surplus to deep deficits).  Nothing New  In short, nothing to show for his time in office beyond
doing good work on AIDS internationally and the wholly defensive
claim that we were not attacked a second time on his watch.
Besides Apple products and social networking, what new and
exciting developments did the decade give us?  If Obama loses the next election, he won’t be associated
with a decade (like  George H.W. Bush ). If he wins, and serves
until 2017, the next 10 years will probably be seen as the Obama
decade. Only then will we know if history will view him as
something more than the first black U.S. president.  If Perry is elected, he has pledged to “make  Washington ,
D.C., as inconsequential in your life as I can.” He and his
supporters may have forgotten that it was Washington that helped
build everything from the interstate to the Internet.  Whoever wins, we’ll know within a few years where we stand
on redeeming the message of that fresco -- the one we can only
see inside the Capitol when we look up.  ( Jonathan Alter , a Bloomberg View columnist, is the author of
“The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 