-- 
Berkshire Venture to Buy Tavernier to Get $2 Billion in Servicing Rights

-- B y   M a r y e l l e n   T i g h e
-- 
2011-09-16T20:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/berkshire-mortgage-venture-to-acquire-tavernier-assets-2-.html
Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC,
the lender and servicer backed by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , agreed to buy banking assets from Tavernier
Capital Partners LLC to expand in Florida.  The deal will add about $2 billion in servicing rights,
mostly for commercial and industrial properties, and is expected
to be completed within 30 days, Horsham, Pennsylvania-based
Berkadia said today in a statement that didn’t disclose terms.  Berkadia, formed after Buffett’s firm and  Leucadia National
Corp. (LUK)  acquired assets from bankrupt Capmark Financial Group Inc.
in 2009, is adding business as rivals including  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  scale back. The venture backs projects with funds from
clients including life insurers.  “TCP’s strong position in the Southeast U.S. market and
their dedication to clients in the life insurance and pension
fund spaces made them an attractive addition to our originations
and servicing businesses,” Berkadia said in the statement. The
target company has offices in Jacksonville, Orlando, Tampa,
Miami and  Boca Raton , Florida.  “It’s an area of the country where we don’t have any
coverage,” said Karl Reinlein, head of production at Berkadia.
“We’re seeing a bottoming out of commercial property values” in
the state.  U.S prices dropped 49 percent from the peak in October 2007
through April of this year, according to the Moody’s/REAL
Commercial Property Price Index.  Most of the approximately 20 employees joining in the deal
previously worked with Berkadia predecessor firms, according to
the statement. They formed TCP in 2007 after leaving Capmark due
to differences with management, Berkadia said.  The deal excludes TCP subsidiaries Tavernier Capital
Funding or Tavernier Capital Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maryellen Tighe in New York at 
 Mtighe6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  