-- 
Bernanke Lacks Tools to Prevent Double Dip, Stiglitz Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-09-16T11:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/bernanke-did-very-bad-job-qe2-1-2-won-t-work-stiglitz-says.html
Monetary policy changes aren’t
enough to save the U.S. from a “ double dip ” recession, as the
 Federal Reserve  has only limited ability to boost the economy,
Nobel-prize winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said.  “So just like QE1 didn’t work, QE2, QE2-and-a-half is not
going to work,” Stiglitz said in an interview with Bloomberg HT
television in Istanbul yesterday. “If we’re going to get out of
the current mess it will take fiscal policy.”  Federal Reserve ChairmanBen Bernanke and his predecessor
 Alan Greenspan  “obviously did a very bad job managing monetary
policy in the run up to the crisis and letting the bubble grow,
not putting in place adequate regulation,” Stiglitz said.  “Now the Fed is going to try and seem relevant so it will
try to do something,” he said. “ Monetary policy  is much better
at restraining the economy than pushing it when you’re in a
severe downturn such as the current time.”  Fixing problems created by Fed chairmen is much more
difficult than creating them, he said.  Stiglitz, who won the Nobel prize in 2001 and is now a
professor at Columbia University, said there’s “a serious risk
at least for a double-dip for the United States and  Europe ” and
growth will “almost surely” be “too anemic” to create jobs.  “The jobs deficit is going to be growing and the sense of
the American economy not working is going to be worse,” he
said.  Avoiding Default  The European debt crisis can be handled and it’s possible
for  Greece  to avoid default, Stiglitz said.  The cost for European banks to fund in dollars rose today,
signaling that investors view a global policy makers’ decision
yesterday to offer loans in the currency as only a short-term
measure. The cost of converting euro payments into dollars,
measured by the three-month cross-currency basis swap, was 85
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate as of midday
in  London , from 81.9 basis points yesterday.  “The problem in Europe is that the political process is
often slow relative to economic events and financial markets, so
the question is not whether economically it would be possible to
solve the problem, but whether politics is moving at a pace
that’s commensurate with the economy,” Stilgitz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  