-- 
Nestle, Glaxo Lobby UN Over Biggest ‘Epidemic’ Battle Since AIDS

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-09-16T04:24:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/biggest-un-epidemic-battle-since-aids-pits-nestle-glaxo-vs-health-lobby.html
Nestle SA (NESN) ,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and
SAB Miller SA face health lobbyists next week in New York as the
first  United Nations  General Assembly on disease since the 2001
AIDS summit tries to combat the world’s biggest killers.  Company officials join political leaders and health groups
to produce a plan to reverse the rising tide of non-communicable 
diseases like cancer, diabetes, and heart and lung disease that 
the  World Health Organization  says a study found will cost the 
global economy more than  $30 trillion  over the next 20 years.  On the table  are proposals to fight obesity, cut tobacco
and alcohol use and expand access to lifesaving drugs in an
effort to tackle unhealthy diets and lifestyles that drive three
of every five deaths worldwide. At stake for the makers of
snacks, drinks, cigarettes and drugs is a market with combined
sales of more than $2 trillion worldwide last year.  “It’s kind of like letting Dracula advise on blood bank
security,” said Jorge Alday, associate director of policy with
 World Lung Foundation , which lobbies for tobacco control.
“There’s important expertise there, but you have to question
the motive.”  The two-day summit starting Monday aims to produce a
resolution for government action against physical inactivity and
use of harmful food ingredients, tobacco and alcohol. The only
other time the General Assembly met solely on a health topic was
the  AIDS  meeting that led to a  global fund  and a  10-fold
increase  in financial backing for HIV, tuberculosis and malaria
programs.  Channeling AIDS  The International Diabetes Federation wants similar support
from governments to stop a disease it estimates costs $465
billion annually to treat. In two years, the global estimate of
people with diabetes -- a disease mostly associated with obesity
-- jumped 28 percent to 366 million, researchers said this week.  “Left unchecked, these costly diseases have the power to
devour the benefits of economic gains, sending millions of
people below the poverty line,” WHO Director-General Margaret Chan  told health officials  in Baku, Azerbaijan, on Sept. 13.
“When a problem like obesity is so widespread throughout a
population, the cause is not a failure of individual willpower,
but a failure of political will at the highest level.”  The issue has divided political leaders, according to
earlier versions of the 12-page declaration drafted Sept. 7 for
debate in  New York  that were obtained by Bloomberg News. On one
side stands the U.S. and Western  Europe , home to many of the
companies that make the food, alcohol and cigarettes. On the
other are emerging economies such as India and  Brazil  that have
surging rates of diabetes and heart disease attributed to the
consumption and marketing of some of these companies’ products.  Kill or Change  “Companies are going to have to either kill this or change
what they’re doing,” said Shiriki Kumanyika, a researcher at
the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine who will
represent the International Association for the Study of Obesity
at the summit. “It’s a direct affront to the current way of
doing business.”  Health advocacy groups spearheaded by the  NCD Alliance , an
umbrella group of about 900 organizations, said the U.S. and
other wealthy nations watered down the resolution language and
guidelines pertaining to alcohol and tobacco use, salt intake
and access to medicines. The countries also stymied efforts to
describe the disease burden as an “epidemic” in case it gave
nations more leverage in circumventing drug patents.  Less Salt  “We believe it was because of lobbying from the food,
beverage and alcohol industry in particular,” said Ann Keeling,
the  International Diabetes Federation ’s chief executive officer
and NCD Alliance chair. “We were looking for some time-bound
measures on food content -- salt in particular. At one point
they were in the document and now they’re not.”  Keeling’s NCD Alliance and Kumanyika’s obesity research
group are among about 270 members of organizations, academia,
companies and industry groups -- which the UN refers to
collectively as “ civil society ” -- invited to participate in
next week’s meeting, while being excluded from decision making.  Included on that  list  are representatives from distiller
 Diageo Plc (DGE)  and drugmakers Sanofi,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and
Novo Nordisk A/S.  “I am not averse to them lobbying,” said Robert Beaglehole, chairman of New Zealand’s Smokefree Coalition and a
former director of chronic disease and health promotion at the
WHO in Geneva. “I am averse to governments taking them
seriously.”  Europe’s Debt  The talks have been hampered by concern from donor
governments they would be asked for more aid money amid Europe’s
debt crisis and a faltering U.S. economic recovery, Keeling said.
Those governments favor spending on treatments for chronic
diseases over policies that tackle their causes, said Boyd
Swinburn, director of the WHO Collaborating Centre for Obesity
Prevention at Melbourne’s Deakin University.  “They promote consumption -- that’s how we get economic
growth,” Swinburn said. “They have been very slow to act,
abdicating the responsibility largely to individuals.”  Companies have acted faster, proposing self-regulation
through “powerful lobbying activities that have been a major
part of blocking good prevention policies,” Swinburn said.  The  International Food & Beverage Alliance , formed in May
2008 by  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , Coca-Cola Co.,  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  and
five other multinational companies with combined 2010 revenue of
more than $350 billion, said that isn’t true. The group has made
 commitments  to WHO’s Chan to improve diets, promote good
nutrition and healthy lifestyles, and advertise products to
children responsibly.  ‘Collaborative Approach’  “What I’m looking for is a collaborative approach which
has been pioneered in other parts of the United Nations and
needs to be applied here,” said Janet Voute, co-chair of the
producers’ alliance. Voute, vice president of public affairs at
Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle, is a former WHO staffer and
onetime chief executive officer of the  World Heart Foundation .  “An adversarial, finger-pointing, they’re-evil-we’re-good
approach is outdated,” she said. “We have to tap the know-how,
the core capabilities of each stakeholder.”  The NCD Alliance supported a goal  proposed  by a WHO panel
this year to reduce deaths from cardiovascular disease, cancer,
diabetes and chronic respiratory disease by 25 percent by 2025
from last year’s levels. Those targets weren’t included in a
final draft of the resolution completed last week. Nor was a
proposal by Norway to agree on a limit for a person’s daily  salt
consumption  after opposition from the EU, U.S. and  Canada .  ‘Just Words’  “If there are no goals and targets with a date on it,
there’s not going to be any accountability,” said Peter Piot,
director of the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and
former executive director of the Joint United Nations Programme
on HIV/AIDS. “It will be just words in a UN resolution.”  Targets won’t bring about change unless they are
achievable, said Jean-Luc Butel, executive vice president and
group president for the international business at  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ,
the world’s biggest maker of heart-rhythm devices.  “If it’s not realistic then nothing will be done,” Butel
said. “I am also very realistic about how hard it is to have an
agreement when you have so many people around the table.”  Unilever, the world’s second-biggest maker of consumer
goods, supports “collaborative initiatives that encourage
industry to reduce levels of salt in their products,” said Anne Heughan, external affairs director at the London- and Rotterdam-
based company. “Unilever has been at the forefront of salt
reduction from an industry perspective, and we continue to
encourage others stakeholders to work with us in reducing salt
intake.”  British Reception  The British Consul General will host a reception in New
York on Sept. 19 for the  International Federation of
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations , a Geneva-based
lobby representing research-based drugmakers. Its president,
 David Brennan , who also is chief executive officer at
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , will explain to guests where he believes the
focus should lie in improving access to NCD medicines.  PepsiCo Inc. and the International Food & Beverage Alliance
are also holding  events  in New York.  “By the time you’ve got the tobacco, food and
pharmaceutical industries swimming around this meeting, you have
a recipe for major influence because those boys come with
serious checkbooks, power, organizational ability and
persuasion,” Deakin University’s Swinburn said.  Alday’s New York-based World Lung Foundation is one of 135
organizations that petitioned the President of the General
Assembly and the summit’s coordinators for a code of conduct on
how the UN should engage with companies. The Bloomberg Family
Foundation is the main donor to World Lung Foundation and supports 
health programs around the world. The Bloomberg foundation was set 
up by New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority 
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Forced Licenses  One of the chief issues in the talks is a proposal backed
by G77 countries about allowing drugs still under patent to be
made by other suppliers to reduce costs for treatment of
epidemics. The U.S. and EU argued for the references to be
deleted because it would establish a new interpretation of a
2001 World Trade Organization declaration on Trade-Related
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights.  The EU and U.S. pushed to remove references to “epidemic”
to avoid making an implicit link between the declaration and
non-communicable diseases. Instead, the revised draft document
describes the diseases as “a challenge of epidemic
proportions.”  Asked what concern the U.S. has with the word “epidemic,”
Andy Laine, a spokesman for the State Department in  Washington ,
said he couldn’t “go into specifics” about ongoing talks.  U.S. Engagement  “The  United States  remains closely engaged in the
negotiations and we look forward to concluding a political
declaration that reflects the strong commitment of the
international community to pursue the range of actions that will
reduce the impact of non-communicable diseases in countries
around the world,” Laine said in an e-mail.  The U.S. and EU are trying to put pressure on other
governments not to issue compulsory drug licenses, said
Frederick M. Abbott, a professor of international law at Florida
State University College of Law in Tallahassee.  U.S. and EU drugmakers face slower revenue growth in their
home markets as patents expire, allowing competitors to make
cheaper versions of their best-selling medicines. They’re
looking to emerging markets to expand sales, Abbott said.  “Any compromise on the issue of patents would from their
standpoint begin an erosion of their earnings potential,” said
Abbott, who advised  South Africa  when it was sued by 39
drugmakers for making cheaper AIDS medicines available for its
people. Compulsory licenses pose a “significant threat to their
prospects for long-term profitability on a significant scale,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at   bokeson@bloomberg.net  