-- 
Biofuel Producer Mascoma Seeks to Raise $100 Million in IPO

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-09-16T22:02:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/biofuel-producer-mascoma-seeks-to-raise-100-million-in-ipo.html
Mascoma Corp., a closely held
producer of cellulosic ethanol, is seeking to raise $100 million
through an initial public offering.  The company has not applied to list its shares on any
exchange under any symbol, Lebanon, New Hampshire-based Mascoma
said today in a filing.  Mascoma produces genetically modified yeast and bacteria
that produce enzymes to break down plant sugars and ferment them
into ethanol. The process combines enzymatic digestion and
fermentation into a single step and eliminates the need for
purchasing enzymes. This is less expensive than other
manufacturing methods, according to the filing.  Mascoma plans to use the proceeds to develop its production
process and expand its marketing in the corn-ethanol industry.
It is also planning to build two manufacturing plants to convert
wood into ethanol.  Oil refiner Valero Energy Corp. in January agreed to invest
as much as $50 million in the company’s first $350 million plant
and will buy all of the fuel produced at the Kinross, Michigan,
facility. It is expected to begin production in 2013 and will
produce 40 million gallons (151.5 million liters) a year. It is
also planning a second facility in Drayton Valley,  Alberta .  The Canadian organic food supplier SunOpta Inc. is
Mascoma’s largest shareholder, with a 20.6 percent stake.
Mascoma paid $51 million in September for SunOpta’s BioProcess
unit, which developed a system to break down organic material
into components that can be converted into biofuels.  Other Biofuel IPOs  Khosla Ventures, the venture capital company of billionaire
 Vinod Khosla , owns 17.5 percent of Mascoma. Khosla backed three
other biofuel companies that completed IPOs in the last year,
 Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , Gevo Inc. and Kior Inc.  Other Mascoma shareholders include Flagship Ventures,
General Catalyst Group, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and
VantagePoint Capital Partners, according to the filing.  Morgan Stanley & Co ., UBS Securities, Credit Suisse
Securities LLC, Robert W. Baird & Co. and Cannacord Gennuity
Inc. are the underwriters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  