-- 
Blackstone Said to Buy Mint Hotels Chain for $949 Million to Expand Hilton

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-09-16T12:43:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/blackstone-said-to-purchase-mint-hotels-chain-for-949-million.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest buyout company, will pay about 600 million pounds ($947
million) for the Mint Hotels brand, three people familiar with
the transaction said.  Blackstone agreed to buy City Inn Ltd., the owner and
operator of the  eight-hotel chain , from the group’s founders and
Lloyds’s property investment unit Uberior Ventures, Mint Hotels
said in a statement today. The people with knowledge of the
price declined to be identified because the information is
private.  City Inn owns seven Mint hotels in the U.K. and opened its
eighth in Amsterdam in May, racking up net debt that totaled 417
million pounds at the end of March, it said in a filing. The
company, which had a 24.5 million-pound loss for the 12 months
through March, said it breached the terms of its debt with
Lloyds in July 2010.  Blackstone’s Hilton International chain will reposition the
Mint hotels within its Double Tree by Hilton and Hilton Garden
Inn brands. Hilton is seeking to add 100 more hotels to its
network through 2014.  The acquisition is being financed with a 300 million-pound
senior loan from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and 80 million pounds of
junior debt provided by Duet Real Estate Finance, according to
two people familiar with the transaction.  Mint Hotels is the brand name since November for City Inn,
the chain father and son Sandy and David Orr founded with Donald
McDonald and Bill Crerar in 1995. The company became the first
venture with Bank of  Scotland ’s property investment arm three
years later, which was subsequently absorbed by Lloyds in its
takeover of HBOS Plc in January 2009.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  advised City Inn on the sale.  The value of the transaction was reported earlier by the
London-based Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 