-- 
BNP Paribas Fund Sees Renewable Finance Costs Rise on Debt Woes

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-16T11:43:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/bnp-paribas-fund-sees-renewable-finance-costs-rise-on-debt-woes.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  Clean Energy Partners
said the cost of borrowing for renewable energy projects rose in
recent weeks after the eurozone debt crisis hit lenders,
according to the U.K. investment fund’s chief executive.  “We do see long-term debt pricing getting a little bit
more expensive post-summer,” said Joost Bergsma, whose fund is
a partner of the asset management unit of BNP Paribas,  France ’s
largest bank. “Because banks are having more difficulty finding
funds, the cost of liquidity is likely to go up and these may be
passed on to borrowers,” Bergsma said by phone.  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday that it will lend
dollars to euro-area banks in a series of three-month loans
after dollar-funding dried up for European banks and for French
lenders in particular on concerns  Greece  is headed for a
default.  Though the margins at which banks lend crept higher, the
euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, remains little changed,
keeping the overall cost of financing stable, Bergsma said. The
cost of finance in “solid” markets such as France is about 5.5
percent to 6.5 percent at tenors of 15 to 18 years and is
available for good quality renewables projects, he said.  “It’s very different from the crisis from two or three
years ago, when it was hard to obtain financing,” Bergsma said
in an interview yesterday. “There’s probably a little bit more
confidence in the market than there was then.”  French lenders top the list of Greek creditors with $56.7
billion of holdings of private and public debt, a June report by
the Basel-based  Bank for International Settlements  said. Paris-
based BNP Paribas said in a Sept. 14  presentation  on its website
that its “exposures” to the sovereign debt of Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal  were “manageable.”  Funds Exceed Target  Bergsma’s fund raised 437 million euros ($603 million) from
insurers and pension funds in December, exceeding the target it
set for investing in renewables such as wind, biomass and solar.
Bergsma expects to have invested half the fund by the end of the
year, declining to give the figure spent so far.  The fund is targeting as much as 150 megawatts of late-
stage or built onshore wind projects in France,  Europe ’s fourth-
largest wind energy market by installed capacity. It could also
double its solar projects in  Italy  from the 50 megawatts it now
owns, Bergsma said. The fund owns about 130 megawatts total in
the U.K., Ireland, France and Italy, he said.  The fund will seek debt from banks for its projects,
Bergsma said from  London . At the same time, clean energy stocks
are slumping while governments such as Spain and Italy cut
support for the industry. The WilderHill New Energy Global
Innovation Index has lost 26 percent this year.  ‘Pain’ Absorbed?  “Most of the pain of lower feed-in tariffs has been
absorbed by the manufacturers rather than asset owners and most
of the manufacturers have been able to adjust to these lower
levels and reduce their cost structure,” Bergsma said.  Some manufacturers suffered because feed-in tariffs, the
premium rates paid to clean energy producers, were curbed as
governments tackle deficits while striving to reach European
Union clean energy goals. Asset owners including the fund may
benefit from the lower cost of equipment, he said.  “It’s not immune to the crisis,” Bergsma said. “But on
the whole it’s been a pretty stable part of the market.” The
fund is also selectively looking at  Spain , which pared back a
law granting feed-in tariffs for clean energy, he said.  Bergsma also said he may seek to set up another fund in the
second half of next year similar to this one as investors are
eager for the long-term, stable cash flows that renewable energy
projects generate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  