-- 
BofA Said to Keep Countrywide Bankruptcy as ‘Nuclear Option’ to End Losses

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-09-16T21:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/bofa-said-to-keep-bankruptcy-as-option-for-countrywide-unit.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the lender
burdened by its Countrywide Financial Corp. takeover, would
consider putting the unit into bankruptcy if litigation losses
threaten to cripple the parent, said four people with knowledge
of the firm’s strategy.  The option of seeking court protection exists because the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank maintained a separate legal
identity for the subprime lender after the 2008 acquisition,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the plans
are private. A filing isn’t imminent and executives recognize
the danger that it could backfire by casting doubt on the
financial strength of the largest  U.S. bank , the people said.  The threat of a Countrywide bankruptcy is a “nuclear”
option that Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  could use
as leverage against plaintiffs seeking refunds on bad mortgages,
said analyst Mike Mayo of Credit Agricole Securities USA.
Moynihan has booked at least $30 billion of costs for faulty
home loans, most sold by Countrywide during the housing boom,
and analysts estimate the total could double in coming years.  “If the losses become so great, how can Bank of America at
least not discuss internally the relative tradeoff of a
Countrywide bankruptcy?” Mayo, who has an “underperform”
rating on the bank, said in an interview. “And if you pull out
the bazooka, you’d better be prepared to use it.”  Countrywide Practices  Just before former CEO  Kenneth D. Lewis  bought Calabasas,
California-based Countrywide, the firm was the biggest mortgage
lender in the U.S. with 17 percent of the market and $408
billion of loans originated in 2007, according to industry
newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. Regulators later found its
growth was fueled by lax lending standards, with loans marred by
false or missing data about borrowers and properties.  Bankruptcy for Countrywide has gained credence with some
investors and analysts after Bank of America lost almost half
its market value this year. The shares have been whipsawed as
the caseload of lawsuits by mortgage bond investors expanded,
along with doubts about whether the bank has enough reserves to
handle claims. The lender fell 1.4 percent to $7.23 at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  A Countrywide bankruptcy could halt legal proceedings and
consolidate litigation into one court that would split up the
subsidiary’s remaining assets for creditors, said Jay Westbrook,
a law professor at the  University of Texas  at Austin. In effect,
this would trade one type of litigation for another, one of the
people said. The decision would turn on whether the potential
savings of a filing outweigh the risks involved in disavowing
some of the firm’s obligations, the person said.  What Could Go Wrong  Pitfalls include the possibility that a bankruptcy filing
would cast doubt on the entire company’s willingness to support
its other subsidiaries and damage Bank of America’s standing in
the credit markets or with rating firms, hurting its ability to
borrow, according to analysts.  “It’s not some sort of magic elixir that makes it all just
go away,” Westbrook said. “I suspect that’s one reason they
haven’t done it yet.”  Moynihan, 51, has been asked publicly about a potential
Countrywide bankruptcy at least three times in the past year,
most recently this week at a conference in New York. The bank’s
mortgage division is his only unprofitable business, reporting a
$25.3 billion pretax loss in the first half of this year.  Larry DiRita , a Bank of America spokesman, said he couldn’t
comment on whether the company planned to file a Countrywide
bankruptcy. The bank “took great pains to preserve the separate
identity of Countrywide,” DiRita said.  Separate Accounting  Those steps include using separate accounting systems and
profit-and-loss statements for Countrywide units, according to a
report prepared for  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee
for a group of investors who agreed to an $8.5 billion
settlement in June with Bank of America over faulty loans.  Bankruptcy “makes absolute good sense if they can do
that,” said David Felt, a Washington-based consultant and
former deputy general counsel at the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency . The FHFA sued Bank of America and 16 other banks this
month to recover losses on about $200 billion in mortgage-backed
securities sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mae, the government-
backed mortgage firms. Bank of America and its subsidiaries
created more than a quarter of those bonds.  “Given the size of these lawsuits, the potential liability
could exceed the net worth of the subsidiary,” Felt said.
“They could say the claims far exceed the amount that we have
and therefore we need a  bankruptcy court  to pick and choose
between those creditors.”  Assets Available  Countrywide has $11 billion in assets that could be
depleted through demands to repurchase defective mortgages,
Jonathan Glionna of Barclays Plc said in an Aug. 31 note. After
that, Bank of America may not have any obligation to pay claims
from Countrywide’s creditors, he said.  Typically, a corporation that acquires another firm’s
assets isn’t liable for the seller’s debts, unless the
transaction is considered a de facto merger or there was fraud
in the takeover, Robert M. Daines, a Stanford Law School
professor, wrote in a  legal opinion  prepared for BNY Mellon,
trustee for the Countrywide mortgage bonds. Daines analyzed
whether Bank of America would have to pay bond investors if
Countrywide couldn’t.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer that sued
Bank of America last month to recoup more than $10 billion in
losses on Countrywide mortgage bonds, argued that the bank is a
legal successor to the unit. New York-based AIG cited a series
of transactions by Bank of America in 2008 that “were
structured in such a way as to leave Countrywide unable to
satisfy its massive contingent liabilities.”  Just in Case  Firms in the $8.5 billion settlement handled by BNY Mellon
didn’t take any chances. Their agreement specified that Bank of
America was responsible for making good on the payment because
they were concerned that Countrywide might be thrown into
bankruptcy, said Bob Madden, a Gibbs & Bruns LLP partner
representing institutional investors that sued the bank.  “Bank of America didn’t do this stuff, it was Countrywide,
which they had the misfortune of acquiring,” Madden said in an
interview. “Anybody who tells you they have a solid handle on
whether Bank of America can be forced to pay Countrywide
liabilities hasn’t looked very closely at the issue.”  The chances of a bankruptcy filing rise “every time
another suit gets put on the pile,” Madden said. Mark Herr, a
spokesman for New York-based AIG and Stefanie Johnson of the
FHFA declined to comment.  Bankruptcy’s Backlash  Bankruptcy would be a “last-ditch option,” and possibly a
costly one, because counterparties might become hesitant to buy
the parent company’s debt or open trading lines with its Merrill
Lynch unit,  David Hendler , a CreditSights Inc. analyst, said in
a Sept. 8 note. Credit-rating firms could downgrade Bank of
America subsidiaries, which benefit from the implicit support of
their corporate parent, he said. That would drive up the bank’s
cost of borrowing.  “Most counterparties I speak to think this would be a very
difficult option for Bank of America and unlikely to be
sanctioned by regulators,” said Manal Mehta, a partner at
Branch Hill Capital, a San Francisco-based hedge fund that has
bet against the lender’s stock in the past. “The whole reason
they would pursue the nuclear option of a Countrywide bankruptcy
would be to put this behind them, but all you would be doing is
opening up a Pandora’s box.”  Outstanding Debt  Countrywide has $6.53 billion of debt outstanding,
including $2.81 billion of senior unsecured notes, $2.2 billion
of preferred securities and $529 million of mortgage-backed
bonds, Bloomberg data and Bank of America figures show. The
unit’s $1 billion in 6.25 percent notes have plunged 9.2 cents
since Aug. 1 to 97.1 cents on the dollar as of Sept. 13,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The lender assumed about $16.6 billion in Countrywide debt
in the November 2008 asset transaction, meaning that Bank of
America must stand by those bonds as it does its other
securities, according to an Aug. 12 note by  Adam Cohen , founder
of Covenant Review. His New York-based publication analyzes
safeguards for bond investors.  Claimants without such a guarantee typically would have to
persuade a judge that the parent should be liable for other
obligations that it didn’t explicitly assume.  What Moynihan Said  Management’s public stance on a potential Countrywide
bankruptcy has evolved. In November, responding to a question
from Mayo -- who had written a report that month entitled “Is a
Countrywide Bankruptcy Possible?” -- Moynihan said he didn’t
“see any liability that would make us think differently about
working through it in the way we’re working.”  Since then, damage from Countrywide has widened as U.S.-
owned  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  stepped up demands that the
bank repurchase soured loans and new suits emerge, including
from AIG and the FHFA. Further, New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  is seeking to scuttle the $8.5 billion deal, which
may result in greater mortgage costs, Bank of America has said.  Last month, when Moynihan was asked during a conference
call held by  fund manager  and bank shareholder  Bruce Berkowitz 
if a Chapter 11 restructuring would be a “viable solution” for
Countrywide, the CEO declined to say what he’d do.  “When you face liabilities like this, we thought of every
possible thing we could,” Moynihan said, “but I don’t think
I’d comment on any outcome.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 