-- 
BOJ’s Shirai Leaves All Options Open as Overseas Economies Slow

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 
2011-09-16T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/boj-s-shirai-leaves-all-options-open-as-overseas-economies-slow.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  board member Sayuri Shirai said she hasn’t ruled out any monetary stimulus tools as
European and American economies slow and an appreciating yen
threatens  Japan ’s post-disaster recovery.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty about the outlook,” Shirai,
48, the newest member of the central bank’s board, said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday. “There are many ways to ease
policy. In regards to these options, there isn’t anything I’ve
excluded,” she said, declining to comment on the merits of
specific policy options.  Since the March 11 earthquake, the central bank has done
everything from bolstering asset-programs to increasing
liquidity provisions to prevent the world’s third-largest
economy from sinking into a recession. Policy makers have also
had to contend with a yen near a postwar high, an appreciation
BOJ board member Ryuzo Miyao said this week is “taking root”
as he reiterated that the central bank was ready to take
“appropriate” action if needed.  “We added 10 trillion yen ($130 billion) in August and
we’ll implement that through the end of next year,” said
Shirai, a former Keio University economics professor who joined
the board in April, referring to expansions to the bank’s asset-
buying fund and credit program taken on Aug. 4, the day the
government sold the yen to stem its advance. “That means we’re
still in the middle of rolling out our monetary stimulus. We
expect to continue to see the effect of that easing.”  Postwar High  The yen has since reached a postwar high of 75.95 against
the dollar on Aug. 19. Economists including Hiroaki Muto at
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. say further tools for the
central bank include more expansions of the asset fund, which
has become its main policy tool since it cut the benchmark
 interest rate  close to zero last year.  Persistent gains in the yen may prompt more manufacturers
to shift production and research bases abroad, Katsunori Nagayasu, head of the Japanese Bankers Association, said at a
news conference in Tokyo yesterday. Finance Minister Jun Azumi
last week pledged to take “bold actions” to stem yen gains
when he met his Group of Seven counterparts in  France , an
indication the government is prepared to conduct fresh
intervention.  Monetary stimulus comes with its risks, warranting careful
consideration of the potential negative side-effects of each
option, Shirai said.  Price Distortions  “You can’t deny the possibility of those purchases ending
in a loss,” she said, referring to assets such as Japanese
 government bonds  and exchange-traded funds that the central bank
buys. “Too much intervention” in financial markets “has the
possibility of leading to distortions in the price-setting
mechanisms in the long run,” she said.  The European debt crisis has affected Japan through the
foreign-exchange and stock markets, she said. The yen has gained
5 percent against the dollar in the past three months and the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has fallen 6 percent.  The economy has continued to recover from the production
disruptions caused by the disaster, said Shirai. The Bank of
Japan kept policy unchanged Sept. 7, and its next meeting is
scheduled to end Oct. 7.  “Going forward, with supply chains almost repaired, a
gradual recovery will take hold as long as overseas demand stays
relatively strong and reconstruction demand picks up,” Shirai
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  