-- 
Singapore Stocks: Ezra Holdings, Golden-Agri Resources, PEC Ltd.

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-09-16T09:37:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/boustead-ezra-golden-agri-noble-singapore-equity-preview.html
Singapore ’s Straits Times Index
gained 0.8 percent to 2,789.04 at the close, sliding 1.3 percent
for the week. Twice as many stocks rose as declined in the index
of 30 companies.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company name.  Ezra Holdings Ltd. (EZRA)  , an offshore support and
marine services company, increased 0.5 percent to 93 Singapore
cents. The company said no decision has been made on a proposed
bond sale. Ezra was responding to a media report that the
company had “canned its proposed issue of perpetual bonds.”  Hongkong Land Holdings Ltd. (HKL)  , a commercial
properties developer that receives almost 70 percent of its
revenue from  Hong Kong , jumped 4.1 percent to HK$5.10, the
largest increase since Aug. 31. Hong Kong’s Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd., the world’s biggest developer by market value,
said yesterday full-year underlying profit rose 55 percent. The
results should help to rebut the market’s overly bearish
property outlook, Paul Louie, an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc., wrote in a note dated today.  Golden-Agri Resources Ltd. (GGR SP), a  palm-oil  producer,
advanced 3 percent to 68.5 Singapore cents, the highest level
since Aug. 4. A unit of the company said Nestle SA will resume
buying its palm oil.  Separately, palm oil may rally next year as demand for
biofuels cuts soybean oil supply and a potential reversal in
monetary policy in China and India boosts demand, said Dorab
Mistry, director of Godrej International Ltd.  PEC Ltd. (PEC)  , an engineering services provider to oil
and gas industries, gained 1.3 percent to 79.5 Singapore cents.
The company said it has won a five-year maintenance and repair
services contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 