-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Advances as Weaker Real Boosts Exporters’ Outlook

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-09-16T20:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/bovespa-futures-fall-on-concern-new-import-tax-to-fuel-inflation.html
The Bovespa stock index rose for a
third day as the real’s biggest weekly slide in 16 months
bolstered the outlook for companies that depend on exports.  Pulp producer  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , whose exports accounted
for 84 percent of its second-quarter sales, posted its biggest
weekly advance since July 2010. Car-parts maker Autometal SA
rose to a six-week high after the government raised a tax on
vehicles with a high content of imported components to protect
jobs.  Voting shares of  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) 
posted the worst performance on the gauge after rival Gerdau SA
said in a regulatory filing it hasn’t made any offer to buy a
stake.  The Bovespa rose 1.5 percent to 57,210.11 at the close of
trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. Fifty-nine stocks gained on
the index, while seven fell. The measure climbed 2.6 percent
this week. The real weakened 1.6 percent to 1.7346 per  U.S.
dollar .  “A weaker currency may boost revenues of companies that
depend more heavily on exports,”  Pedro Galdi , head strategist
at SLW Corretora brokerage, said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “Steelmakers, pulp producers and Vale are stocks
that gain with the real’s decline.”  The Brazilian currency fell for a fourth week as European
finance ministers ruled out efforts to prop up the region’s
faltering economy and gave no indication of providing aid for
lenders to go along with yesterday’s liquidity lifeline from the
 European Central Bank .  No Room for Cuts  Clashing with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner ,
finance chiefs from the euro region said the 18-month debt
crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or extra spending to spur an
economy on the brink of stagnation.  “We have slightly different views from time to time with
our U.S. colleagues when it comes to fiscal stimulus packages,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters
after chairing today’s trans-Atlantic finance meeting in
Wroclaw, Poland. “We don’t see any room for maneuver in the
euro area which could allow us to launch new fiscal stimulus
packages. That will not be possible.”  Attending a euro crisis meeting for the first time,
Geithner said  Europe  projects an image of “ongoing conflict”
between national governments and the central bank, hampering
efforts to put the economy on a sounder footing.  Fibria, Usiminas  Fibria rose 2.8 percent to 17.40 reais. The stock rose 13
percent this week.  Voting shares of Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is known,
fell 1 percent to 23.85 reais.  Autometal, the Brazilian unit of Spanish auto-parts maker
 Cie Automotive SA (CIE) , increased 5.1 percent to 13.65 reais after
earlier jumping as much as 11 percent, the most intraday since
the company’s initial public offering in February.  Finance Minister Guido Mantega increased by 30 percentage
points the so-called industrial products tax on carmakers that
don’t source 65 percent of their parts from the Mercosur trade
bloc or Mexico. The measure will raise the cost of imported cars
by as much as 28 percent, and force foreign automakers to build
key components in  Brazil , he told reporters yesterday.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on July 27 after plunging
20 percent from its bull-market peak in November. The measure
has since extended that drop to 22 percent and trades at 9.5
times analysts’ earnings estimates, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 11.5 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 5.7 for Russia’s Micex and 14.2 for
India’s Sensex.  Traders moved 5.25 billion reais ($3.03 billion) in stocks
in  Sao Paulo  today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares to a daily average this year of 6.55 billion reais
through Sept. 6, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  