-- 
BP to Pay $20.5M to Settle Royalties Case

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-16T22:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/bp-amoco-to-pay-20-5-mln-for-false-claims-u-s-says.html
Six  BP Plc (BP/)  units will pay $20.5
million to resolve claims they knowingly underpaid royalties on
natural gas drawn from leased federal and Indian lands, the U.S.
 Justice Department  said.  The companies, including U.S.-based BP Corp. North America
Inc., Amoco Production Co. and Atlantic Richfield Co., allegedly
reported processed gas as unprocessed, improperly deducted some
production costs to reduce the amount of money owed and departed
from required accounting practices.  “Natural gas royalties provide an important source of
income for the United States, Native Americans and various
states and help support critical programs from which we all
benefit,” Assistant U.S. Attorney General Tony West said in a
statement today announcing the accord.  The agreement resolves a 2003 whistleblower lawsuit filed
in federal court in Texarkana,  Texas , by Harrold Wright, who has
since died, according to the U.S. The U.S. moved to intervene as
against BP for settlement purposes yesterday.  The settlement doesn’t resolve any claims over last year’s
Gulf of Mexico oil spill, caused by an explosion aboard the
Deepwater Horizon platform being used by BP.  “BP is pleased that the parties were able to work
cooperatively to resolve this longstanding and complex dispute
involving the method for determining natural gas royalties,”
 Daren Beaudo , a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The oil producer denied any wrongdoing, Beaudo said.  Wright’s heirs will receive $5.3 million in compensation,
according to the Justice Department. His first claims were filed
in 1998.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Wright v. Chevron USA Inc.,
03cv264, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Texarkana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 