-- 
BP’s Weekly Gain Most Since July 2010 on U.S. Legal Advances

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-09-16T16:09:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/bp-set-for-best-week-since-july-2010-on-u-s-legal-advances.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the owner of the oil well
that caused the record spill in the  Gulf of Mexico , had its best
weekly performance in more than a year after a U.S.
investigation spread the blame for the accident.  BP gained 9.4 percent in the past five days, the most since
the week ending July 16, 2010. The shares closed at 413.6 pence
as of 4:30 p.m. in London.  In addition to the investigation report, a Houston judge
sided with BP yesterday in ruling that lawsuits by individual
investors in BP should be filed in the U.K., and BP increased
its estimate for oil reserves in the Mad Dog field in the Gulf
of Mexico Sept. 7. Shares had slipped to a year-low earlier this
month after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  replaced BP in an Arctic
exploration deal and Russian bailiffs raided BP’s Moscow office.  “The stock’s been dead meat for months,” said Iain Armstrong, an analyst at broker Brewin Dolphin Ltd. in London.
“Now there’s finally some good news. The devaluation is
probably past the worst.”  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the owner of the rig drilling the well,
and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cement, violated offshore
safety rules in connection with the Deepwater Horizon rig blast
that led to the worst spill in U.S. history, according to a
report by the U.S. Coast Guard and the Interior Department’s
offshore regulator published Sept. 14.  That may weaken the case that BP was grossly negligent in
the accident and lower the level of fines it would pay for the
almost 5 million barrels of crude that spewed into the Gulf over
three months.  BP shares are still 37 percent lower than before the spill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  