-- 
Brazil’s 1,000-Day Countdown to 2014 World Cup Marred By Building Delays

-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-16T15:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/brazil-s-1-000-day-countdown-to-2014-world-cup-marred-by-building-delays.html
Brazil’s celebration of the 1,000-
day countdown to the 2014  World Cup  is being marred by
construction delays as striking workers and government foot-
dragging hurt preparations for the soccer tournament.  To commemorate the milestone, President Dilma Rousseff and
Brazilian soccer legend Pele toured today the renovation work at
Minerao stadium in  Belo Horizonte , one of 12 cities that will
host matches during the soccer tournament.  While construction is under way at all stadiums hosting
matches, arenas in  Sao Paulo , Natal and Manaus are unlikely to
be ready in time for the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup, a dry run
for the World Cup. Dozens of road and public transportation
projects that the government has touted as the biggest legacy of
the tournament are still on the drawing boards four years after
 Brazil  was awarded the tournament by Zurich-based FIFA.  Among the  delayed projects , ground has yet to be broken on
5 of 13 airports that are slated for 6.5 billion reais ($3.8
billion) in expansions to handle an expected surge in foreign
visitors, Sports Minister Orlando Silva said this week.
Contracts for more than two dozen transportation projects have
yet to awarded.  In  Rio de Janeiro , which will also host the 2016 Summer
Olympics, the renovation of Maracana stadium has been suspended
for more than two weeks as workers strike to demand higher
wages. Work stoppages have also taken place in Belo Horizonte
and Salvador, as construction workers throughout Brazil seek to
keep pace with the fastest inflation in six years.  The government’s plan to speed up progress has also run
into legal problems. Prosecutor General Roberto Gurgel said this
month he’ll challenge before the  Supreme Court  a FIFA-backed law
that streamlines the bidding process for projects related to the
World Cup and Olympics. The law, passed by Brazil’s Congress in
July, lacks sufficient guarantees that government funds won’t be
misspent, according to Gurgel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  