-- 
Brazil Tax Breaks to Help Domestic Automakers Fight Off China Competition

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o ,   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 
2011-09-16T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/brazil-tax-breaks-to-help-domestic-automakers-fight-off-china-competition.html
Brazil yesterday raised a tax on
cars with a high content of imported components to protect jobs
following a surge in shipments from  China  and elsewhere that has
been fueled by a rally in the currency.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  lifted the so-called
industrial products tax on carmakers by 30 percentage points,
except for those who source 65 percent of their parts from the
Mercosur trade bloc or  Mexico . The measure will raise the cost
of imported cars by as much as 28 percent, and force foreign
automakers to build key components in Brazil, he said.  “These measures are going to stimulate national production
and guarantee investment,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia
late yesterday. “If we don’t do anything, we are going to lose
space to imports, and we are not going to permit that.”  Carmakers based in Brazil have been hit by a rally in the
real, which has sucked in cheap imports from China and
elsewhere. Brazil’s motor industry, the world’s fifth-biggest,
is dominated by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Fiat SpA (F)  and General Motors Co.
who between them have about two thirds of the market.  Chinese automakers’ market share expanded to 3.29 percent
in August from virtually zero in April 2010, according to the
national car dealers’ association Fenabrave. The increase has
come at the expense of Fiat, General Motors and  Ford Motor Co. (F)   Mantega said the government is worried by the rise in car
inventories, and the spare capacity in the industry.  The real hit a 12-year high against the dollar in July, and
is up 36 percent since the start of 2009, as near-zero  interest
rates  in the U.S. and  Europe  led investors to seek higher
returns elsewhere.  Requirements  Carmakers must meet six of 11 requirements ranging from
building of transmissions to the assembly of cars in Brazil in
order to avoid the higher tax, Mantega said. The new rules take
effect tomorrow and will apply until December 2012, he said.  JAC Motors,  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  and Chery Automobile Co.
could reconsider their decision to invest in Brazil due to the
rise in the tax, the president of the Brazilian Association of
Vehicle Importers José Luis Gandini told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday evening.  Research firm J.D. Power and Associates in July cut its
growth forecast for 2011 light vehicle sales in Brazil to 3.4
percent, from 9.8 percent at the start of the year, as
inventories rose and the economy showed signs of cooling.  Credit Curbs  Brazil’s car industry has also been hit by central bank
measures to curb credit growth. Auto loans fell to 8.4 billion
reais ($4.9 billion) in July, down 24 percent from December when
the central bank set capital requirements encouraging higher
down payments and fewer installments on car purchases.  Since last year, Chinese carmakers Chery, Chongqing Lifan
Auto Co. and Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co.’s JAC Motors have
all announced plans to build plants in  Brazil .  Cledorvino Belini, president of the National Association of
Carmakers and head of Fiat in Brazil, welcomed the measure,
saying it would benefit the entire automobile sector. The
measure will not raise prices for consumers, since Brazil’s car
market is very competitive, Belini told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 