-- 
Brazil’s Protectionist Tax Increase Spurs Rally in Car-Parts Manufacturers

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-09-16T20:20:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/brazil-car-parts-makers-autometal-plascar-advance-on-move-to-raise-tax.html
Brazilian car-parts makers
Autometal SA and  Plascar Participacoes Industriais SA (PLAS3)  gained in
 Sao Paulo  after the government raised a tax on vehicles with a
high content of imported components to protect jobs.  Autometal, the Brazilian unit of Spanish auto-parts maker
Cie Automotive SA, jumped 5.1 percent to 13.65 reais at 4:15
p.m. New York time, completing a record 11 percent two-day
surge. Plascar climbed 3.7 percent to 2.27 reais, the steepest
increase since Sept. 6.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  increased by 30 percentage
points the so-called industrial products tax on carmakers that
don’t source 65 percent of their parts from the Mercosur trade
bloc or  Mexico . The measure will raise the cost of imported cars
by as much as 28 percent, and force foreign automakers to build
key components in Brazil, he said. Carmakers in the country have
been hit by a rally in the real, which has drawn cheap imports
from  China  and elsewhere.  “This measure should favor local vehicle production and
reduce the threat of imported auto parts,” analysts at Banco
Santander SA, including Daniel Gewehr, wrote in a note to
clients today. “Autometal should benefit the most.”  Carmakers must meet six of 11 requirements ranging from
building of transmissions to the assembly of cars in Brazil in
order to avoid the higher tax, Mantega said. The new rules will
apply until December 2012, he said. The real hit a 12-year high
against the dollar in July and is up 34 percent since the end of
2008, the most among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The move may still face resistance from  Brazil ’s vehicle
importers or invite sanctions from international trade
organizations, according to the Santander analysts.  In a regulatory filing, Plascar separately disclosed that a
subsidiary agreed to sell four properties for 125.6 million
reais ($73.4 million) to reduce debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  