-- 
Brazil Sugar Shipments Falls as Adverse Weather Erodes Output, Cosan Says

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-09-16T19:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/brazil-sugar-shipments-falls-as-adverse-weather-erodes-output-cosan-says.html
Ships waiting to load sugar at
 Brazil ’s main ports declined by more than half from a year
earlier as the nation harvests the smallest crop in four years,
Cosan SA Industria & Comercio’s logistics arm said.  The number of vessels waiting to load at six sugar ports,
including the Port of Santos, Brazil’s largest, fell to 36
yesterday from 98 a year earlier, research firm SA Commodities
said. Vessels were waiting to load 1.12 million metric tons of
the sweetener, down from 2.81 million tons a year ago.  Cane growers in Brazil’s Center South, the world’s largest
producing region, will reap the smallest crop in four years
after plants were hurt by dryness and frost, Pedro Mizutani,
executive vice president of the milling business for a venture
between Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Cosan, said Sept. 5. Last
year, shipments from Brazil were disrupted by excessive rain.  “The situation is much, much calmer this year,” said
Julio Fontana Neto, chief executive officer for Cosan’s Rumo
Logistica SA unit, owner of the world’s largest sugar port
terminal. “It’s a relief after last year’s nightmare,” he said
yesterday in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Brazil is the world’s largest producer and exporter of the
sweetener.  Latin America ’s largest economy accounts for about 54
percent of global exports. The country had a record 135 ships
waiting to load sugar in August 2010.  Sugar Price Rise  Raw sugar for March delivery fell 1.87 cent, or 6.6
percent, to close at 26.31 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York . Prices gained 12 percent in the past year.  “The lineup has fallen because sugar is at such high
levels, that is has caused demand to diminish,” Jeff Bauml, a
senior vice president at R.J. O’Brien & Associates, a broker in
New York, said in a telephone interview.  Rumo is controlled by Cosan, which has a 75 percent stake.
Private equity fund TPG Capital, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , and
Gavea Investimentos Ltda, the private equity firm founded by
former Brazilian Central Bank President  Arminio Fraga , each own
12.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  