-- 
Brazil Real Drops as European Officials Meet to Contain Crisis

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-09-16T15:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/brazil-real-drops-as-european-officials-meet-to-contain-crisis.html
Brazil ’s real fell, headed to a
fourth weekly decline, as European policy makers struggle to
find solutions to contain the region’s debt crisis that is
slowing global economic growth.  The real dropped 0.2 percent to 1.7098 per dollar at 10:42
a.m. New York time, from 1.7069 yesterday. It’s down 2.1 percent
this week, the second-worst performer among six major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg after Chile’s peso.  European finance ministers began meeting in Wroclaw,
Poland, to discuss ways of shoring up  Europe ’s most-indebted
nations, with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in
attendance.  “On days like this, the market gets nervous,” Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Liquidez
DTVM Ltda., said in a telephone interview. “The euro is falling
and this would be sufficient to weaken the real.”  Yields on most interest-rate futures contracts rose after
Brazil raised a tax on cars with a high content of imported
components to protect jobs following a surge in shipments from
 China . Investors are concerned the measure will add to pressure
on inflation, said Zeina Latif, senior economist at RBS
Securities in  Sao Paulo .  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2014 rose two basis points to 11.04 percent.  Industrial Tax  Finance Minister Guido Mantega lifted the so-called
industrial products tax on carmakers by 30 percentage points,
except for those who source 65 percent of their parts from the
Mercosur trade bloc or Mexico. The measure will raise the cost
of imported cars by as much as 28 percent, and force foreign
automakers to build key components in Brazil, he said.  “Instead of adopting a positive agenda, the government
penalized the consumer,” said  Zeina Latif , senior economist at
RBS Securities in Sao Paulo. “This diminishes growth potential
and increases the rate needed for equilibrium in the economy,”
Latif said, referring to the level of  interest rates  needed to
combat inflation.  Brazil also tweaked regulations on a new tax on some
currency derivative contracts so financial agents start
collection in December, two months later than initially planned,
Mantega said today.  “It barely changes anything,” Mantega told reporters
today in Brasilia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net 
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  