-- 
BRIC Outlier India May Raise Rates Further as Prices Trump Europe Threat

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-09-16T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/bric-outlier-india-may-raise-rates-further-as-prices-trump-europe-threat.html
India ’s central bank may extend its
record interest-rate increases, economists predicted after
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said a “premature” change in the
monetary policy stance may fan inflationary expectations.  The  Reserve Bank of India  may increase its repurchase rate
to 8.5 percent from 8.25 percent by the end of December,
according to 11 of 16 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
after the monetary authority raised the benchmark by a quarter
of a percentage point yesterday. The rest expect no change.  India stands apart among BRIC nations including  Brazil 
 Russia  and China, which have either eased borrowing costs or
kept them on hold, to protect their economies from faltering
recoveries in  Europe  and the U.S. Higher fuel prices and  Asia ’s
worst-performing currency this quarter may fan inflation, that
has exceeded 9 percent in each of the past nine months.  “The RBI’s guidance was very explicit, that it rightly
intends to pursue its anti-inflationary stance till inflation
begins to moderate toward a more acceptable level,” said Sajjid Chinoy, a Mumbai-based economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “With
input price pressures still strong and inflation unlikely to
come off substantially in the coming months, we expect another
rate hike.”  Chinoy expects the central bank to boost rates by a quarter
point in the Oct. 25 policy meeting.  The yield on the 7.8 percent bond due April 2021 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.36 percent, a six-
week high, at the close of trading in  Mumbai  yesterday. The
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index gained 0.3 percent and the
rupee advanced 0.6 percent to 47.265 per dollar.  Weaker Rupee  The  Indian rupee  has declined 5.4 percent this quarter as
investors shunned emerging markets on concern the world economy
is weakening.  Inflation in India is the highest among the BRICS nations,
quickening to a 13-month high of 9.78 percent in August.  Consumer prices rose 7.2 percent in Brazil, 8.2 percent in
Russia and 6.2 percent in China last month from a year earlier.
In  South Africa , they climbed 5.3 percent in July.  “Inflation remains high, generalised and much above the
comfort zone of the Reserve Bank,” the central bank said in the
statement. “A premature change in the policy stance could
harden inflationary expectations, thereby diluting the impact of
past policy actions. It is therefore imperative to persist with
the current anti-inflationary stance.”  Subbarao has raised borrowing costs by a total of 350 basis
points since mid-March 2010, the fastest round of increases
since the  Reserve Bank  was established in 1935, Bloomberg data
show.  ‘More Comfortable’  “The measures taken would get us back to a more
comfortable inflation situation earlier rather than later, while
leaving scope for growth to pick-up in the second half of the
year,” Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  India needs to control inflation to protect purchasing
power and sustain growth, the Reserve Bank has said.  The $1.7 trillion economy expanded 7.7 percent in the three
months ended June 30 from a year earlier, the slowest pace since
the last quarter of 2009. Gross domestic product rose 7.8
percent in the previous three months.  India’s central bank said that even as many indicators
point to moderating growth, “in the current scenario, with the
likelihood of inflation remaining high for the next few months,
rising inflationary expectations remain a key risk.”  Gasoline Cost  Inflation may accelerate after Indian Oil Corp., the
country’s biggest refiner, raised gasoline prices yesterday for
the second time in four months. Losses from selling fuels below
cost are increasing following the rupee’s decline against the
dollar, Indian Oil Finance Director P.K. Goyal said Sept. 15.  The increase in gasoline prices will have a “direct impact
of 7 basis points” on inflation, in addition to an “indirect
impact with a lag,” according to yesterday’s statement.  “Input price pressures are not going away, particularly
given the weaker rupee,” said Devika Mehndiratta, a Singapore-
based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “This along with
food prices that are going up at a decent clip may keep
inflation elevated at more than 9 percent in the next few
months.”  Officials from  China  to  South Korea  have refrained from
raising rates in recent weeks to gauge whether slowing economic
growth will dissipate price pressures. In Brazil, the central
bank opted to cut its target Selic rate on Aug. 31 for the first
time since 2009 to protect expansion.  Russia’s Stance  Policy makers in Russia, which doesn’t target one rate,
reduced the rate charged on repurchase loans and raised the
deposit rate on Sept. 14 to bolster the amount of cash in the
market and spur growth.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  last month said curbing
inflation is his government’s priority. The opposition has
criticized him for failing to control price gains in a country
where the  World Bank  estimates more than three-quarters of the
population live on less than $2 a day.  “As monetary policy operates with a lag, the cumulative
impact of policy actions should now be increasingly felt in
further moderation in demand and reversal of the inflation
trajectory towards the later part of 2011-12,” the central bank
statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  