-- 
BTA Says Ablyazov May Have Broken Court Order to Back Strike

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-09-16T16:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/bta-says-ablyazov-may-have-broken-court-order-to-back-strike.html
BTA Bank,  Kazakhstan ’s biggest
lender before it defaulted in 2009, is seeking a prison sentence
for its former chairman, Mukhtar Ablyazov, as it probes charges
he broke a U.K. court freezing order by funding a strike.  The bank is investigating a statement made in a Twitter
posting under Ablyazov’s name that he provided $250,000 to oil
workers striking in western Kazakhstan, which would violate the
2010 order placing about $5 billion of assets in receivership,
the lender said in a statement. Ablyazov denies assisting the
workers or making the comments on Twitter, his London-based
spokesman, Locksley Ryan, said by phone. The account under the
name “mukhtarablyazov” was fake and has since been removed, he
said.  “BTA has said numerous times that it’s actively seeking to
retrieve assets and hold the bank’s former management liable,”
the lender said in an e-mailed reply to comments today.  Almaty-based BTA, which defaulted on $12 billion of debt
before restructuring last year, has filed a series of civil
cases against Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko in the U.K. courts over claims they siphoned money
from the bank using fake loans. Ablyazov and Solodchenko say the
cases were filed because Ablyazov attempted to mount a political
challenge to Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has
governed the former  Soviet Union ’s second-biggest energy
producer for two decades.  Ablyazov, who fled from Kazakhstan to  London  to escape
prosecution, has faced a possible prison sentence after BTA said
he violated a freezing order by hiding some of his assets,
including a stake in a Moscow skyscraper development and about
600 shell companies.  KazMunaiGas Strike  KazMunaiGas Exploration Production, a London-listed Kazakh
state-controlled oil producer, has since May been hit by strikes
at its two units Uzenmunaigaz and Karazhanbasmunai.  About 900 of Uzenmunaigaz’s 9,000 employees were fired
because of their “illegal” action, Mikhail Dorofeyev, an
Astana-based KazMunaiGas EP spokesman, said last month. The
company has also fired about 400 protesting workers, out of the
4,500-strong workforce, at its Karazhanbasmunai venture with
 China ’s Citic Group in western Kazakhstan, he said.  Natalya Sokolova, a lawyer who led a strike at
Karazhanbasmunai, was sentenced to six years in prison in
August, the Vremya newspaper reported on Aug. 9.  Yermukhambet Yertysbayev, an adviser of President
Nazarbayev, said Ablyazov has used the money embezzled from BTA
to sponsor an opposition party, calling for large-scale protest
actions, according to an  interview  published in Liter newspaper
on Aug. 3.  Ablyazov isn’t funding the opposition as his assets were
placed into receivership, his spokesman, Ryan, said. The
government is using the embezzlement charges to clear its
reputation with the bank’s creditors after its default and
restructuring, according to Ryan.  Kazakhstan injected 883 billion tenge ($6 billion) to raise
BTA’s equity capital in 2009 and 2010, the equivalent of about 4
percent of gross domestic product, to bail out the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 