-- 
Bundesbank Says Higher Risk Standards Needed to Bolster Basel

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-09-16T10:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/bundesbank-says-higher-risk-standards-needed-to-bolster-basel.html
European regulators should push
lenders to improve risk management in addition to imposing
tougher  capital requirements  as they try to make their financial
systems safer, according to the Bundesbank.  Plans by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  to
impose capital surcharges of as much as 2.5 percentage points on
the biggest lenders shouldn’t be viewed as a panacea for shoring
up banks, Sabine Lautenschlaeger, vice president of  Germany ’s
central bank, said in an interview late yesterday in Wroclaw,
 Poland .  “I’m not a fully committed supporter of more capital and
more capital,” said Lautenschlaeger, who is a member of the
Basel committee. “What I don’t like is saying there is a
certain kind of security; that nothing else needs to be done
anymore, because we have an extra 2.5 percent,” she said.
“Tougher supervision and higher standards of risk management”
are just as important.  Lenders including HSBC Holdings Plc, BNP Paribas SA and
Citigroup Inc. have called for changes to the Basel committee’s
surcharge plans. BNP,  France ’s largest bank, has called for the
measures to be delayed because of the “very fragile” state of
the European economy. The committee agreed on the extra rules in
June in an effort to prevent so-called systemically important
banks from collapsing and roiling global markets.  Regulators “shouldn’t just stay there and say ‘that’s ok,
we have 10 percent capital now, that’s it,’” Lautenschlaeger
said. “Having high standards with respect to risk management, I
think that is what’s most important.”  ‘Concentration Risk’  Specific areas requiring scrutiny from supervisors include
the concentration of too much of a banks’ business with a single
client or trading partner, Lautenschlaeger said.  “I do want to work on concentration risk,” she said.
“There are some that do not want to look at large exposure
rules as a risk tool. That has to be looked at.”  Separate plans being discussed by global regulators to make
failed banks’ bondholders share the costs of closing them down
require further study before being put into effect, she said.  “You can’t just look at the regulatory situation, you also
need to look at the economic environment,” Lautenschlaeger
said. “If there is no market” for these so-called bail-in
instruments, or if their price “is so high that you can raise
capital for the same price, then capital is better,” she said.
Bail-in is “potentially a good idea but I think it requires
more thought, more analysis, more studies.”  Minimum liquidity rules and an indebtedness limit for banks
that have been agreed by the Basel committee need to be studied
and potentially amended in case they have unforeseen
consequences, Lautenschlaeger said. The European Union should
make use of an observation period agreed by Basel regulators for
assessing the measures.  “I’m very happy that the European Commission does focus on
the observation period until 2015 for the LCR and 2018 for the
NSFR and  leverage ratio , so we have time for adjustments, if
needed,” Lautenschlaeger said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Wroclaw, Poland at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Wroclaw, Poland at  cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  