-- 
Canada July International Securities Transactions (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-16T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/canada-july-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international transactions report for July
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-resident investors resumed the pattern of
significant acquisitions of Canadian securities in July as
they added $11.8 billion to their holdings, mainly in the
form of federal Treasury bills. Canadian holdings of
foreign securities edged up $1.3 billion, led by further
acquisitions of foreign corporate shares.  Foreign investors focus on Canadian short-term debt
instruments  Non-residents acquired $7.3 billion of Canadian money
market instruments in July, led by federal Treasury bills.
Foreign investment in the Canadian money market has picked
up in recent months, with non-residents purchasing $12.7
billion worth of these instruments since April. This
activity occurred against the backdrop of an increase in
the supply of Treasury bills, a narrowing of the spread
between long and short-term rates, and a weakening of
stock prices in most major world markets.  Foreign investors resumed acquisition of Canadian bonds
in July, adding $2.0 billion to their portfolios following
large government bond retirements in June. Activity in
July was focused on Canadian private corporate bonds,
split between new issues and secondary market
acquisitions. However, non-residents divested Canadian
 government bonds  for a second straight month, this time
led by secondary market sales.  Foreign investment in Canadian equities largely related to
mergers and acquisitions  Non-resident investors added a further $2.5 billion of
Canadian corporate shares to their holdings in July.
However, the increase in July was mostly a result of
Canadian direct investment acquisitions of foreign firms,
and the resulting new issues of Canadian shares to foreign
shareholders of the acquired firms. Foreign sales of
Canadian stocks on the secondary market moderated the
overall inflows in the month, as Canadian stock prices
declined a further 2.7% in July.  Canadians acquire foreign equities for a seventh straight
month  Canadian investors continued to acquire foreign
equities in July, although this was the lowest level of
investment in three months. The $2.8 billion investment
primarily targeted US corporate shares, as US stock prices
fell 2.1% with losses mostly occurring in the last days of
the month.  Residents further reduce their holdings of foreign bonds  Canadian divestment of foreign bonds continued in July
but at a slower pace. This activity was again concentrated
in US government bonds and targeted mid to long-term
instruments. The $1.7 billion decline in holdings of
foreign bonds in July marked the fifth month of divestment
of these instruments totalling $12.1 billion. US long-term
 interest rates  have fallen by nearly half a percentage
point since March.  Canadian investment of $191 million in foreign money
market instruments reflected acquisitions of sovereign
debt and non-financial corporate paper. These outflows
were moderated by a reduction in holdings of paper issued
by foreign banks.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  