-- 
Canada’s Dollar Reaches Two-Week High as Foreign Securities Purchases Rise

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-16T21:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/canadian-currency-poised-for-weekly-advance-against-major-peers-as-refuge.html
Canada ’s dollar gained to the
strongest level in two weeks as a government report showing
greater-than-forecast purchases of Canadian securities by
foreign investors bolstered the currency’s attractiveness.  The Canadian dollar advanced for a second day as global
stocks rose. It posted a weekly gain versus all of its 16 most-
traded peers on bets the nation’s economic condition will
attract investors during market turmoil. While Canada exports
raw materials and benefits from growth, it also has a smaller
budget-deficit ratio, lower jobless rate and faster growth than
most of its Group of Seven peers.  “International securities transactions were well above
expectations,” Michael Leavitt, a institutional-derivatives
broker at MF Global Canada Co. in  Montreal , said by e-mail.
“Also higher equities have moved the Canadian dollar through
recent highs, contributing to gains.”  The Canadian dollar rose 0.6 percent to 97.81 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 98.36 cents
yesterday. It was the strongest since Sept. 2. One Canadian
dollar purchases $1.0224.  The MSCI World Index of stocks rose for a fourth straight
day, gaining 0.6 percent.  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 1.9 percent for
the week versus the greenback, the most since July. It rallied
against currencies including the Brazilian real and South
African rand.  International Purchases  Foreign investors bought a net C$11.8 billion ($12 billion)
of Canadian securities in July, the nation’s statistics agency
said today in Ottawa, compared with a Bloomberg News survey
forecast of C$2 billion. Bond buying rose by a net C$1.98
billion.  International purchases of Canadian bonds have set records
in the past two years as Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has
focused on keeping Canada’s deficit and debt smaller than other
G-7 nations.  “The Canadian dollar is one of those which now, more than
before, actually benefits from an uncertain risk environment,”
said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG,
by phone from  London . “If you look at fundamentals, they’re
reasonably strong. There’s not the same uncertainty surrounding
the Canadian system as we’ve seen in the euro zone.”  Investors are drawn to Canada by an economy that boasts the
lowest  unemployment rate  in the G-7 nations after  Japan  and
 Germany  and a lower debt-to-output ratio than France, Japan, the
U.K. and the U.S. A week after Moody’s Investors Service
reconfirmed Canada’s Aaa credit rating,  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the U.S. ranking on Aug. 5, citing concern that the
government couldn’t tame its spending.  Bonds Tumble  Canada’s 10- and two-year  government bonds  tumbled this
week, pushing yields up from record lows. Two-year yields
climbed 25 basis points, the most since July 2010, to 1.04
percent after touching 0.76 percent on Sept. 12. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year yields rose 18 basis points, the most in more than
two months, to 2.29 percent after dropping on Sept. 12 to 2.089
percent, the least in Bloomberg records dating to 1989.  Both securities were little changed today.  The Canadian currency touched C$1.0027 per greenback on
Sept. 12, the weakest level since January, amid speculation the
nation’s shipments of commodities would slump as the global
economy flirts with another recession.  Raw materials  account for
about half of Canada’s export revenue.  The loonie appreciated on July 26 to 94.07 cents per
greenback, the strongest level since November 2007.  “The Canadian dollar in general is an outperformer,” said
Steve Butler, managing director of foreign-exchange trading at
Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit in Toronto, by e-mail
today. “But it’s rangy now. There’s just too much risk out
there at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  