-- 
Chile’s Bachelet Sets Out to Improve Lot of Women From Her UN Position

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/chile-s-bachelet-sets-out-to-improve-women-s-lot-from-un-post.html
Michelle Bachelet  first met  Hillary Clinton  at a photo opportunity, when the Chilean was on the cusp
of becoming her country’s first female presidential candidate.
The two women wound up talking for almost an hour, on women,
politics and health policy.  “There was immediate chemistry,” recalls Heraldo Munoz, a
former Chilean Ambassador to the United Nations who was there.
“From that moment on, they developed a close friendship that
grew out of similarities in background, commitment to gender
equality and their capacity to reach out.”  Bachelet went on to win the 2006 presidential election and
left office four years later with a 78 percent approval rating,
as her country’s most popular politician. She then stepped into
what might be the former pediatrician’s toughest challenge yet:
making life better for half the world’s population on a very
tight budget.  As the first head of the United Nation’s agency for women,
created barely a year ago, Bachelet’s resourcefulness will be
tested. She will need to tap all the contacts from her previous
job to raise money and convert lofty goals, such as ending
domestic and sexual violence against women, into reality.  “My experience and my story allows me to have meetings
with the presidents,” Bachelet, 59, said in a Sept. 8 interview
with Bloomberg News in  New York . “This has opened a lot of
doors that maybe would have been more difficult, because I have
met some of them.”  ‘Not Always Successful’  She acknowledges she isn’t always successful in convincing
people to give her money or in persuading national leaders, of
which only 20 in the world are women, to pass and implement
legislation addressing gender inequality. Her official powers
are limited to advocacy, with little in the way of enforcement.  Established with a proposed budget of $500 million for
2011, a year later Bachelet’s agency, a merger of four smaller
less-visible groups, has only gotten about half of those funds
as Bachelet spends half her time traveling the world to see
donors and the other half visiting women on the ground in the
developing world.  Bachelet has beaten adversity. As a 23-year-old medical
student, she was detained and tortured by officers of  Augusto Pinochet ’s dictatorship in 1975. The year before, Bachelet’s
father,  Air Force  General Alberto Bachelet, died in jail of a
heart attack after being tortured on suspicion he opposed the
coup that toppled Socialist President Salvador Allende.  Sept. 11, 1973  To this day, like many Chileans, she recalls with visible
emotion the date Sept. 11. It isn’t just the 10-year anniversary
of the terrorist attacks on the U.S. In Chile, it’s the day
“her country lost its democracy” with the 1973 military coup
that brought Pinochet to power.  Munoz, author of “The Dictator’s Shadow: Life under
Augusto Pinochet,” also reveals her tough side. The book
describes how Bachelet used to see one of her torturers in the
elevators of the building where she lived. One day she said to
him: “I know who you are: I have not forgotten.” From then on,
every time she saw him the man averted her gaze and looked down
at her shoes.  Born into a military family, Bachelet completed her studies
in East Germany after being exiled to  Australia . An agnostic and
divorced mother of three in a Catholic country, she defied
social norms on her return to Chile and rise to power. Her first
cabinet post was as health minister. She then became defense
minister at a time her U.S. counterpart was  Donald Rumsfeld .  Role Models  Bachelet cites her parents as role models for  gender
equality  from when she was young.  “My mother, an archaeologist, worked all her life,”
Bachelet said. “Only when we were very little she stopped
working to take care of us. I grew up in a family where women
were active. They were strong. My father was a member of the air
force but he understood the capacity of my mother.”  Still, Bachelet encountered double standards over the
course of her career. Munoz recalls her saying once that if she
cries, she would be seen as too weak, while if a man cries, he
is in touch with his feelings. If she shows anger, she has lost
her cool. An angry man is seen as exercising his authority, she
said, according to Munoz.  Those life experiences helped mold what Bachelet lists as
some of her priorities during her tenure at UN Women, such as
having more female peacekeepers and ensuring mediators carve out
better deals for women in post-conflict peace pacts.  Accountability  Another Bachelet priority is to hold governments
accountable. For example, while 117 governments have equal pay
laws, in practice women are paid as much as 30 percent less than
men. To strengthen her case, Bachelet produced in July a 165-
page report packed with statistics to back her argument that
empowering women makes economic sense.  “My approach is not only to be an advocate but it is bring
a strong economic case because I believe from my personal
experience that as a president you have make so many contrasting
choices,” Bachelet said. “ So we need to demonstrate, and it’s
terrible that we have to, that investing in women is not just
the right thing to do but it’s the smart thing to do.”  At home, her enduring popularity has political observers
betting on a second presidential bid after her four-year stint
at the UN. In  Chile , the president cannot serve consecutive
terms.  Still Popular at Home  Bachelet is the most popular politician in Chile with a 79
percent general approval rating compared with President
Sebastian Pinera’s 34 percent, Santiago-based research group
National Center for Public Studies said in an  Aug. 4 report . The
June 24 to July 24 poll of 1,554 people has a margin of error of
3 percentage points.  “Unfortunately for this administration and President
Pinera, people compare the two governments, which strengthens
Bachelet’s image,” Senator Ricardo Lagos Weber, son of former
President Ricardo Lagos and spokesman for Bachelet’s government
from March 2006 to December 2007, said in a Sept. 6 phone
interview.  In Chile, Bachelet appointed more female cabinet members
than her predecessors and increased the number of state-funded
nurseries.  “Her personal story was much more accessible for
Chileans,” Robert Funk, political science professor at the
University of Chile, said in a Sept. 2 phone interview. “Her
father was military. She was exiled. She was a single mother who
had to raise kids on her own and work. She is not ostentatious
in any way.”  In New York, she hasn’t lost that trait. While as former
president she’s entitled to a police escort, she prefers to walk
or, in a pinch, hail a cab.  Munoz describes going to a concert of Colombian pop star
Shakira with Bachelet at Madison Square Garden. In line with
others going in, people began to recognize her and asked her to
have their picture taken with her.  “She did not once refuse and did it with a smile on her
face,” he said. “I have seen others presidents or former
presidents that shun that. She doesn’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  