-- 
Chile Keeps Rate at 5.25% Third Month on Evidence of Slowing Global Growth

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-16T12:48:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/chile-keeps-rate-at-5-25-on-evidence-of-slowing-global-growth.html
Chile’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged yesterday for the third
straight month and indicated that a tight labor market may
prevent it from following  Brazil  and cutting rates next month.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose  De Gregorio , held the overnight rate at 5.25 percent, matching the
forecast of all 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Brazil’s
central bank last month unexpectedly cut rates by a half point
after five straight increases, citing a deterioration of the
global economy.  Yesterday’s decision leaves Chile with the third-highest
interest rate among  Latin America ’s major economies after Brazil
and  Argentina . Policy makers probably will keep rates on hold
until they have greater clarity on the trajectory of the global
economy and consumer prices in  Chile , said Jorge Selaive, chief
economist at Banco de Credito e Inversiones.  “The central bank recognizes there are local inflationary
pressures, which is important because it extinguishes
expectations there will be an imminent rate cut,” he said by
phone from Santiago. “Unless there’s a surprise abroad, the
central bank will keep the rate on hold in October.”  Three-month interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’
views of borrowing costs, fell 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 5.20 percent at 7:48 a.m. New York time.  The peso, which has weakened 1.5 percent in the past month,
fell 0.2 percent to 479.17 per  U.S. dollar  at 8:34 a.m. New York
time.  Labor Market  Policy makers indicated in the statement that they are
concerned the labor market will create inflationary pressures,
Selaive said.  “Labor market conditions are still tight and faster growth
in nominal wages is observed,” the central bank said in the
statement accompanying its decision.  The comment on wages stood out in a statement that
otherwise was without surprises, Matias  Madrid , an economist at
Banco Penta, said by phone today from Santiago.  “This was totally in line with the market,” he said about
the decision. “The most curious thing was saying that salaries
are growing a bit stronger and that the labor market is tight.
They’re right, but I don’t think those will determine their next
decision. They’ll definitely be more concerned about activity.”  Rising Wages  Chile’s unemployment rate fell to 7.5 percent in the three
months through July from 8.3 percent in the same period last
year, while salaries grew 5.9 percent in July from last year,
according to the National Statistics Institute.  The bank will keep rates unchanged through December before
cutting at least twice next year, according to the median
estimate of 49 traders and investors in a central bank survey
published on Sept. 15.  Policy makers in the statement accompanying yesterday’s
decision omitted language in communiques published before August
about the possibility for “additional increases” in borrowing
costs, saying instead that “future changes in the monetary
policy rate will depend on the implications of domestic and
external macroeconomic conditions.”  The central bank on Sept. 7 in its Monetary Policy Report
cut its global growth forecast to 3.9 percent for 2011 and 4
percent for next year from 4.1 percent and 4.5 percent,
respectively, in estimates published in June.  “Activity indicators confirm a slower pace of growth in
the  United States  and  Europe ,” the central bank said in
yesterday’s statement.  Growth Forecast  Policy makers also on Sept. 7 reduced the upper end of
their 2011 growth forecast for Chile to 6.75 percent from 7
percent and forecast expansion of between 4.25 percent and 5.25
percent in 2012.  “The biggest impact of the change in the external scenario
will be seen in 2012 growth,” De Gregorio told Senators on
Sept. 7 after publishing the new forecasts. “The external
scenario also has brought about major modifications in the
inflationary outlook, especially in the short term.”  Policy makers cut 2011 inflation estimates to 3.3 percent
this month from 4 percent in their June report. Consumer prices
rose 3.2 percent in August and 2.9 percent in July, according to
government data. The central bank targets 3 percent inflation
with a 1 percentage point margin of error over two years.  One-year breakeven inflation, which reflects traders’ views
of average price increases and is derived from the gap between
nominal and inflation-linked yields, rose 1 basis point to 2.59
percent at 8:26 a.m. New York time.  “Inflation expectations are close to the target,” the
bank said in yesterday’s statement.  Slowing Down  Chile’s economy grew 4 percent in July from the previous
year, the slowest pace of expansion since the aftermath of the
8.8-magnitude February 2010 earthquake, after climbing 8.4
percent in the first half of the year.  “Domestically, output and demand figures show signs of
moderation, in line with projections in the Monetary Policy
Report,” policy makers said.  Growth will decelerate in the second half, with GDP
expanding less than 5 percent from the previous year as the
global economy slows and possibly falls into recession, Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain said in a Sept. 13 speech in Santiago.  “We are not bullet-proof or immune from what is happening
in the rest of the world,” he said. “I can’t make guarantees
about what will happen abroad, because that doesn’t depend on
us, but I do want to say we are doing all we can to have a
contingency plan ready if conditions are worse than expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 