-- 
China’s Stocks Rise as European Debt Concerns Ease, Trimming Weekly Drop

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-16T07:34:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/china-stocks-rise-as-foreign-investment-jumps-ecb-coordinates-bank-loans.html
China’s benchmark stock index rose,
trimming a weekly loss, after foreign direct investment climbed
and the  European Central Bank  and international policy makers
coordinated to lend dollars to banks to tame the credit crisis.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. rose 0.9 percent after
Shanghai Securities News reported the regulator may allow
lenders to conduct asset securitization to ease liquidity.
Southwest Securities Co. advanced 1.4 percent after saying it
will buy a stake in a fund management firm. Poly Real Estate
Group Co., China’s second-largest developer by market value,
fell for the first time in five days on a newspaper report
Shanghai’s new-home inventories reached a record.  “The risk of a short-term default in the euro region looks
low after cash injections from global central banks,” said Dai Ming,  fund manager  at Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management &
Consulting Co. “The magnitude of the rebound may be limited as
you see no signs of policy loosening in China.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 3.29 points, or 0.1 percent, to
2,482.34 at the 3 p.m. close. It retreated 0.6 percent this
week, capping a third weekly loss. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  climbed 0.2
percent to 2,733.99 today.  The Shanghai gauge has slumped 12 percent this year,
extending last year’s 14 percent plunge, as the government took
steps to cool inflation that’s at an almost three-year high. The
stock gauge is valued at 11.4 times estimated profit, the lowest
on record, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg dating
back to January 2006.  Foreign Investment  Foreign direct investment in China climbed 11.1 percent
from a year earlier to $8.45 billion in August, the Ministry of
Commerce said in a statement on its  website  yesterday.  Investment from overseas totaled $8.45 billion last month,
after expanding 19.8 percent in July, the Ministry of Commerce
said in a statement on its website yesterday. For the first
eight months, investment rose 17.7 percent to $77.63 billion.  “China remains the only bright spot amid the global
financial turmoil,”  Li Huiyong , a Shanghai-based economist with
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., said yesterday. “Investment
returns in China remain high and local authorities are keen to
attract funds for new businesses,” he said.  The European Central Bank said it coordinated with the
 Federal Reserve , the  Bank of England , the Bank of  Japan  and the
 Swiss National Bank  to extend three-month loans to euro-area
banks in an effort to ensure they have enough cash for the rest
of the year. The announcement added to optimism that policy
makers were containing the European sovereign-debt crisis after
the leaders of France and  Germany  confirmed they will support
 Greece ’s continued participation in the shared euro currency.  Banks Gain  Minsheng Banking, the nation’s first privately owned bank,
gained 0.9 percent to 5.82 yuan.  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001) 
climbed 2.7 percent to 17 yuan. China Everbright Bank Co. added
1 percent to 3.07 yuan.  The asset securitization may help banks reduce liquidity
pressure, Shanghai Securities News said, citing Yan Qingmin,
assistant chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission.  Chinese stocks in Shanghai and  Hong Kong  may rally 15
percent over the next 12 months as equity prices track profit
growth, said Patrick Ho, the head of Greater China equities at
BNP Paribas Investment Partners.  Ho, whose company oversees about $740 billion, is buying
shares of companies that will help manage China’s growing
wealth, such as brokerages and financial services. BNP is also
bullish on companies that will profit from increased consumption
in  China  including mobile telephone providers.  Southwest Securities gained 1.4 percent to 11.30 yuan. The
brokerage said it will pay 1.18 billion yuan ($185 million) to
buy a 20 percent stake in Yinhua Fund Management Co.  Developers Drop  China needs to keep monetary policy tight as the risk of
inflation still exists, International Monetary Fund Deputy
Managing Director Zhu Min said at the  World Economic Forum  in
the northeastern Chinese city of Dalian yesterday. Inflation
will be a long-term phenomenon, he said.  Poly Real Estate lost 1.2 percent to 10.84 yuan. China
Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest listed property developer,
retreated 0.4 percent to 8.06 yuan. China Merchants Property
Development Co. fell 1.7 percent to 18.82 yuan.  Shanghai ’s new-home inventories are at a record 8.16
million square meters, taking developers more than 15 months to
dispose of the entire stock at the current sales pace, the
Shanghai Daily said, citing the city’s official real estate
website and real estate agents.  China’s Subprime Crisis  China has expanded its property control measures this year,
raising down-payment requirements and  mortgage rates  to slow
gains in  home prices . The government said in July it will rein
in prices in smaller cities after limiting home purchases in
markets such as Beijing and Shanghai.  Borrowing by thousands of companies set up by China’s local
governments to fund construction is the nation’s equivalent of
the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis, said Cheng Siwei, a former
deputy head of the country’s top legislative body.  “Our version of the U.S. subprime crisis is the lending to
local governments, which is causing defaults,” Cheng said at
the World Economic Forum in the Chinese city of Dalian today. He
served as vice chairman of the standing committee of the
National People’s Congress from 1998 to 2003.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  