-- 
China Boosted Holdings of Treasuries to Highest Since October

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-09-16T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/china-boosted-holdings-of-treasuries-to-highest-since-october.html
China , the largest foreign lender
to the U.S., boosted its holdings of  U.S. Treasuries  in July to
the highest level in nine months. Total foreign ownership
dropped for a second month.  The world’s second-largest economy increased its U.S. debt
securities to $1.17 trillion as China’s trade surplus surged to
the highest level in more than two years. China added Treasuries
even as President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in Congress
clashed over the U.S. debt ceiling.  “They continue to buy notes and bonds every month because
they’ve got so much money,” said  David Ader , head of government
bond strategy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at CRT Capital Group
LLC. “If they stopped buying, they wouldn’t have much else to
do with the cash, so they buy.”  Exports for China rose 20.4 percent in July from a year
earlier and imports climbed 22.9 percent, leaving a trade
surplus of $31.5 billion, the highest since January 2009.  Chinese investors’ U.S. notes and bonds rose to a record
$1.16 trillion, according to the Treasury Department statistics
released yesterday. China’s U.S. bills more than doubled to
$10.1 billion from $4.5 billion in the previous month.  Total overseas holdings fell to $4.48 trillion after
reaching a record $4.51 trillion in May. Foreigners cut holdings
of Treasuries in June for the first time since April 2009.  “Foreign purchases were still a little less than expected
in July, which is a shame for foreigners because the value of
Treasuries rose tremendously,” said Guy LeBas, chief
fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia.  Bond Returns  Treasuries returned 1.8 percent in July and gained 2.8
percent last month, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. Bonds gained partly on demand for a refuge from the
impasse over the federal debt limit. Obama signed a bill raising
the ceiling Aug. 2.  U.S. debt securities have returned 7.8 percent this year,
the most since the depths of the financial crisis in 2008, while
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has fallen 3.6 percent.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$9.5 billion in July, compared with net buying of $3.4 billion
in June, according to Treasury Department statistics. Including
short-term securities such as stock swaps, foreigners sold a net
$51.8 billion, compared with net selling of $29.4 billion in the
previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  