-- 
BNP Says China Stocks May Gain 15% Over Year

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-09-16T01:53:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/china-stocks-may-gain-15-in-next-year-as-profits-rise-bnp-says.html
Chinese stocks in Hong Kong and
 Shanghai  may rally 15 percent over the next 12 months as equity
prices track profit growth, said Patrick Ho, the head of Greater
 China  equities at BNP Paribas Investment Partners.  Ho, whose company oversees about $740 billion, is buying
shares of companies that will help manage China’s growing
wealth, such as brokerages and financial services. BNP is also
bullish on companies that will profit from increased consumption
in China including mobile telephone providers.  “It doesn’t sound too exciting, but people have to adjust
their mindset that we are entering a low-growth environment,”
Ho said in an interview from BNP’s office in Hong Kong.
“Assuming that there is no quick fix to the developments in the
U.S. and  Europe  and there’s slow growth ahead with no P/E
expansion, then the market should follow the earnings growth.”  Chinese shares have tumbled this year amid concern the
government will maintain policies to curb inflation even as
global economic growth slows. The  MSCI China (MXCN)  Index has dropped
2.5 percent this week amid speculation Greece may default.
French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  said in a Sept. 14 statement that they are “convinced”
Greece will stay in the euro area.  European Central Bank  and
international policy makers yesterday coordinated to lend euro-
area banks U.S. dollars.  The MSCI China has fallen 16 percent in 2011, pushing its
valuation to 9.5 times reported profit, near the lowest level
since 2008. Companies in the gauge of Chinese shares available
to foreign investors are forecast to grow earnings by 12 percent
in the next 12 months, according to analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. The Shanghai Composite Index has lost 11 percent
in 2011.  China’s gross domestic product may rise 9.3 percent in 2011
and 8.7 percent in 2012, based on the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The nation’s retail sales
climbed 17 percent in August from a year earlier, after
increasing 17.2 percent the previous month, the statistics
bureau said on Sept. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  