-- 
Citigroup Said to Seek to Unwind Prudential, Blackstone CLOs

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-09-16T20:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/citigroup-said-to-seek-unwinding-of-clos-managed-by-blackrock-prudential.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is seeking to unwind
more than $2.2 billion of collateralized loan obligations it set
up for firms including a unit of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , according
to people with knowledge of the deals.  The third-biggest  U.S. bank  tendered for the riskiest
portion of three CLOs managed by Blackstone’s GSO Capital
Partners LP, Prudential Investment Management Inc. and
Silvermine Capital Management LLC, and is trying to do the same
with another in order to gain voting control of the funds, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the deals are
private. That would allow Citigroup to liquidate the CLOs and
unwind related trades it has with the funds, the people said.  The move is part of a plan by New York-based Citigroup to
dispose of assets held in Citi Holdings, its “bad bank”
 created  by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  in January 2009
to hold about $600 billion in troubled assets. Citigroup, whose
shares have fallen 40 percent this year, was stuck holding $43
billion of leveraged-loans after credit markets froze in 2007.  “They’re trying to get rid of as much uncertainty as they
possibly can off of their balance sheet,” said  Michael Yoshikami , founder of YCMNet Advisors, which manages $1 billion
including Citigroup shares. “These derivative deals are
examples of deals where they really can’t quantify as much as
they would like what the downside is.”  Pro-Rata CLOs  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk or leveraged loans and slice them into
securities of varying risk and return.  Unlike typical CLOs, which primarily buy term loans, the
ones Citigroup created allowed funds to purchase revolving lines
of credit, which are usually less liquid, are often not used,
don’t pay a consistent  interest rate  and are mostly held by
banks. Citigroup set up nine of these so-called pro-rata CLOs
for about $5.1 billion between 2003 and 2005, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  The deals were attractive to investors at the time because
revolvers were typically trading at a discount to term loans. In
a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again once
it’s repaid; in a  term loan , it can’t. Revolvers usually pay a
fee when they aren’t drawn and a larger margin over the London
interbank offered rate when they are.  ‘Reduce Assets’  Also unlike regular CLOs, pro-rata ones don’t actually buy
the loans. Instead, the bank creating the fund typically buys
the loans and then passes any returns to the CLO through a swap
agreement. Some of these underlying loans for the CLOs Citigroup
created sit at Citi Holdings.  “Our goal is to reduce assets in Citi Holdings as quickly
as economically possible,”  Shannon Bell , a Citigroup
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. While Bell declined
to comment on the tenders, she confirmed that Citi Holdings owns
loans tied to the pro-rata CLOs it created.  Citigroup, which took a $45 billion bailout in 2008 from
U.S. taxpayers, has sold private-equity stakes, auto loans and
unwanted finance firms, as well as mortgage portfolios and
corporate bonds since setting up Citi Holdings. The bad bank’s
assets fell to $308 billion at the end of June, from $465
billion a year earlier, according to regulatory filings.  “From the first day of creation, the goal was to reduce
the assets to zero,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets  in  Portland ,  Maine , said in a telephone
interview. “Unwinding the CLOs inside of Citi Holdings is part
of the strategy to take high-risk assets out of Citigroup.”  Citigroup shares rose 40 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $28.99
at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Citigroup Tender Offer  Citigroup said on July 11 that it would tender for the
lowest, or riskiest, slice of the GSO Capital CLO, called Bryant
Park CDO Ltd. Two weeks later it announced a tender offer for
pieces of Prudential’s Dryden VI-Leveraged Loan CDO 2004. The
bank said Aug. 9 it was doing the same with Silvermine’s
Endeavor Funding Ltd.  Heather Lucania, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, and Theresa Miller, a Prudential spokeswoman,
declined to comment, as did Richard Kurth, a managing director
at  Stamford , Connecticut-based Silvermine.  A tender for the equity portion of Pro Rata Funding Ltd., a
CLO initially managed by TCW Group Inc., was extended till 11:59
p.m. today in  New York . The fund is now managed by Crescent
Capital Group, which TCW spun off earlier this year. Bill Mendel, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Crescent, declined to
comment. The bank also announced today a tender offer for the
equity portion of Skytop CLO Ltd. The fund is managed by Invesco
Ltd., Bloomberg data show.  CLO Rebound  CLOs rebounded along with the rest of the credit markets in
the past two years. In January 2010, only 53 percent of the
funds were making payments to equity holders. That rose to 84
percent as of Aug. 18, according to data provider Intex and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “In terms of performance, making interest payments, paying
back tranches and not losing capital, CLOs have performed
extremely well through the credit crunch,”  Chris Taggert , a
senior analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. CLOs “in many ways have been unduly
tainted by the broad brush of structured finance in some of the
ensuing regulations,” he said.  More than $7.3 billion of CLOs backed by widely syndicated
loans have been issued in the U.S. this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. At the peak in 2007, $91.1 billion of
CLOs were arranged, according to Morgan Stanley data.  Loan Rankings  Citigroup is the fifth-largest underwriter of leveraged
loans this year, with a 5.9 percent share of the market,
Bloomberg data show. Bank of America Corp. is the largest
arranger, with a 17.1 percent share. In 2007, when a record $888
billion of leveraged loans were made, Citigroup arranged $97.7
billion.  After credit markets froze, Citigroup was unable to find
investors for financings it committed to provide, leaving it on
the hook for $43 billion as of Dec. 31, 2007, according to a
Feb. 22, 2008 regulatory filing. That shrank to $5 billion at
Dec. 31, 2009, the bank said in a 2010 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “The goal is to take these assets to zero and as we
approach that amount, it will suggest to investors that
Citigroup is 100 percent returned to health,” RBC’s Cassidy
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 