-- 
Hillary Clinton Calls Women Key to Fueling Asian, U.S. Economic Growth

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-16T16:31:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/clinton-calls-women-key-to-fueling-asian-u-s-economic-growth.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
announced today a commitment from 21 members of the Asia Pacific
Economic Cooperation to boost economic growth and productivity
by removing barriers to women.  Clinton, in a speech, laid out an economic case for APEC
members to end such discriminatory practices as taxing women,
limiting their ability to own property or to get access to
capital, markets, jobs, training and positions of leadership.  A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  report, cited by Clinton, found
that increasing women’s participation in the economy could lead
to a 14 percent rise in per capita income by 2020 in APEC
countries including  China ,  Russia ,  Indonesia , the  Philippines ,
Vietnam, and  Korea .  “When everyone has a chance to participate in the economic
life of nations, we can all be richer, because more of us would
be contributing to the global GDP,” Clinton told an audience at
an APEC meeting on women and the economy in San Francisco.  The San Francisco Declaration adopted today commits APEC’s
members to pursue a “generation-long journey,” Clinton said.
In doing so, they’ll create a fundamental economic shift that
leaves member countries more competitive and prosperous, she
said.  Clinton’s announcement married two of her strongest
interests. She has focused on women and children since early in
her professional life, she has sought to leverage the State
Department’s power to boost economic growth.  Women’s Impact  Clinton cited today a study by consultants McKinsey & Co.
that found that approximately one-quarter of U.S. gross domestic
product is attributable to productivity gains tied to the rise
of women in the U.S. workplace over the last 40 years, from
holding 37 percent of all jobs, to 48 percent.  “That works out to more than $3.5 trillion,” Clinton
said. “More than the GDP of  Germany , and more than half the
GDPs of China and  Japan ,” she said.  And she highlighted a  World Bank  finding that by
eliminating discrimination against female workers and managers,
companies “could significantly increase productivity per worker
by 25 to 40 percent.”  Getting more women into the economic life of a country has
ripple effects that benefit everyone, Clinton said.  Women Save  Her list included greater political stability, fewer
military conflicts, more food, more educational opportunity for
children and financial stability for more families in the world.  Studies have shown that women spend more of their earned
income on food, health care, home improvement and schooling --
reinvesting in ways that lead to more job growth and ensure
better educated, healthier citizens, Clinton said.  Women also save more than men, according to research
Clinton cited, with the higher savings rate translating into a
higher tax base.  APEC has discussed the issue of women’s economic
participation before and has made uneven progress toward change,
Clinton said. In the U.S. and every APEC economy, women are
“still sidelined.”  Only 11 of the CEOs of Fortune Global 500 companies are
women, Clinton said.  Clinton has already launched women’s economic projects in
 Africa . The African Growth Opportunity Act created an initiative
to help African women entrepreneurs build export capacity and
take advantage of trade opportunities.  And she has launched TechWomen, a technology program in
which women from around the world have been mentored by women in
the Silicon Valley. At the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development, Clinton has also advanced an effort to collect
data on women’s education, entrepreneurship, and employment.  Speaking to the audience of government officials and
private companies from APEC countries, Clinton urged data
collection that’s disaggregated by gender so the group has hard
statistics to ensure countries are making progress and to detail
the impact of women’s participation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  San Francisco  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at  msilva34@bloomberg.net  