-- 
Cooperation Could Limit Damage After UN Palestinian Vote: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-16T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/cooperation-could-limit-damage-after-united-nations-palestinian-vote-view.html
The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is
like a boat sailing at full speed toward a waterfall, with the
whole world watching from the shore and afraid to intervene.
Western governments must act now to minimize the damage.  Palestinians seem determined to push for a resolution in
the  United Nations  General Assembly that recognizes an
independent Palestinian state. In our view, this is a tragic
mistake that could end up hurting Palestinian and Israeli
interests, set back efforts to restart negotiations and endanger
an already unstable region.  The irony is that we agree with Palestinian Prime Minister
Salam Fayyad. He has distanced himself from the resolution,
sensibly arguing that a UN vote won’t change the reality of
Israeli occupation. Instead, Fayyad has focused on building the
institutions needed for statehood and cooperating with  Israel 
against terrorist groups whose murder of innocent Israelis only
undermines the Palestinians’ cause.  The day after the resolution passes -- and it will pass --
many Palestinians will surely realize that Fayyad is right, that
nothing has changed, and that they are further away than ever
from achieving their legitimate goal of an independent state. In
their frustration and anger, there is a substantial risk they
will lash out against Israel, the U.S.,  Europe  and President
Mahmoud Abbas’s government. If that anger gives terrorist groups
new reason for violent attacks on Israeli settlements or within
the recognized borders of Israel, the prospects for peace will
be set back and more people on both sides will suffer.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  rightly fears the UN
vote will unleash a “diplomatic tsunami” against Israel that
will deepen its international isolation. Yet Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has done little to prevent this
mess, telling his U.S. allies time after time that their
suggestions could upset his center-right coalition government.
In conjunction with new hostility from Egypt and  Turkey , the UN
vote promises Israel the most comprehensive diplomatic isolation
it has faced in many years.  The U.S. and its European allies should be most concerned
about the effect that an outbreak of violence in the  West Bank 
would have on the region. They have lived with conflict between
Israelis and Palestinians for more than 60 years. But the
popular demonstrations that are sweeping the  Middle East  have
created a new dynamic. The Sept. 9 attack on the Israeli Embassy
in Cairo by an Egyptian mob might be the harbinger of things to
come. Nightly television images of Israeli troops armed with
American weapons and shooting Palestinian demonstrators could
well spark new waves of anti-Western violence. The popular
uprisings in the Arab world this past year have been a reason
for hope. Left alone, the Israeli-Palestinian issue could change
that into something dark and dangerous.  The Quartet of the U.S., the European Union,  Russia  and the
UN should be working to contain the damage caused by the
Palestinian resolution. Security cooperation between Israeli and
Palestinian defense and police forces is the best way to avoid
anti-Israeli violence and demonstrate to both sides the value of
working together. That is why members of the  U.S. Congress  who
are friendly to Israel are misguided in their threats to cut off
assistance to Abbas’s government, including its security forces.
On the contrary, those Palestinian police who have won the trust
of the Israeli defense establishment should be given additional
riot-control training and equipment.  On the diplomatic front, outside powers should press now
for a commitment from the Palestinian leadership that Abbas will
issue an unequivocal statement -- immediately after the General
Assembly approves the resolution -- supporting negotiations with
Israel as the only way to create a Palestinian state.  Furthermore, the Palestinians will gain nothing from
forcing the U.S. to veto a resolution. That’s why diplomatic
efforts should urge the Palestinians to avoid the UN Security
Council. A resolution in the UN General Assembly is bad enough.  At the same time, the Quartet should urge Netanyahu to
resist pressure to respond to events at the UN by increasing
settlement construction or by refusing to transfer Palestinian
 tax revenue , collected by Israel, to pay Palestinian civil
servants. Making life harder for the average Palestinian will
only increase the likelihood of a violent reaction.  There is much blame to go around. Israel, the Palestinians
and the Quartet are all partially responsible for the current
predicament. But finger-pointing will achieve nothing. The best
that can be achieved is to limit the damage and set the stage
for a new effort at peace once this diplomatic disaster has
played out.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 