-- 
Correlation Bets Climbing as Europe Overwhelms Earnings: Options

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-09-16T15:46:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/correlation-bets-climbing-to-record-as-europe-overwhelms-earnings-options.html
U.S. options traders see almost no
chance that earnings, dividends or buybacks will influence stock
prices through the end of 2011, instead placing record bets that
equities move in lockstep in reaction to Europe’s debt crisis.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  S&P 500  Implied
 Correlation Index  has jumped 35 percent since the end of July to
80.15 at 11:42 a.m. New York time, and reached 81.52 on Sept.
14, the highest level ever. The gauge uses options to measure
expectations for how much Standard & Poor’s 500 Index shares
will move together.  Traders are speculating correlation among equities, already
the highest since the crash of 1987, will increase as the threat
of a banking crisis in Europe drowns out news about individual
companies. Equity prices moving in unison have hurt returns for
money managers who seek relative value among stocks and
industries, leaving hedge fund managers with fewer ways to beat
their benchmark measures.  “ Europe  is a big macro issue and it’s so pervasive that at
the top of investors’ minds, there’s nothing to do with
individual companies,” Scott Billeadeau, who helps oversee
about $17 billion at Fifth Third Asset Management in
 Minneapolis , said in a telephone interview. “There’s been no
individual stock selection going on,” he said. “I’m just
buying stocks or I’m selling stocks, versus buying IBM and
selling Hewlett-Packard.”  20% Plunge  Stock prices for S&P 500 companies are moving in lockstep
more than any time since 1987, when the index posted a record 20
percent slump on Oct. 19, according to data compiled by New
York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Hedge Fund Research Equity
Hedge Index posted a 5.64 percent loss in August, beating the
benchmark measure for U.S. stocks by 0.04 percentage point.
That’s the smallest difference in returns since January 1998.  The VIX rose 0.3 percent to 32.06 today, versus an average
level of 20.42 in its 21-year history. It reached a 29-month
high of 48 on Aug. 8, when it jumped by 50 percent, the most
since February 2007. The gauge posts its biggest two-month
swings in September and October, moving an average of 26
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of options
protecting against losses on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, climbed to
53.55 on Sept. 12, its highest level since January 2009. It
increased 1.6 percent to 42.96 today.  Speculation about Europe’s debt crisis and the prospects
for the global economy is sending stocks up and down in unison.
There have been 39 days in which 400 or more stocks in the S&P
500 moved in the same direction this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Should the rate persist, it will happen 55 times
in 2011, beating the record 52 in 2008.  Default Odds  Investors saw an almost 100 percent chance this week that
 Greece  will fail to pay its debt within the next five years,
according to credit-default swap prices compiled by CMA.
Officials in German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government are
debating how to protect the nation’s banks if Greece defaults,
three coalition members said Sept. 9. The same day,  Juergen Stark  resigned from the European Central Bank board, spurring
concern leaders disagreed on how to contain the crisis.  “Fear drives correlations,” Christian Wagner, who
oversees $200 million in assets including options as chief
investment officer of Longview Capital Management LLC in
Wilmington,  Delaware , said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“There are so many different macro events that could trigger a
major selloff, so we are teetering on the next news item, and
that’s been the greatest driver. It makes it harder to invest
with conviction.”  Ackman Buys Options  The lockstep moves have sent some investors to new areas as
they seek market-beating returns. Pershing Square Capital
Management LP’s  William Ackman , known for investing in companies
he believes are undervalued, said this week that he bought
options on  Hong Kong ’s currency, betting the government will let
it appreciate against the  U.S. dollar .  “It’s frustrating to investors because it used to be you
could sell  growth stocks  to buy Johnson & Johnson, Coca-Cola,
McDonald’s or other defensive names to make money in a
recession,” Randall Warren, who oversees $75 million including
options as chief investment officer of Warren Financial Service
in Exton,  Pennsylvania , said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“With everything highly correlated, you can’t because they’re
all moving in the same direction as the market.”  Investors will turn their attention back to dividends,
buybacks and speculation about takeovers, said  Malcolm Polley ,
who oversees $1 billion as chief investment officer at Stewart
Capital in  Indiana , Pennsylvania.  Profit Forecasts  S&P 500 companies have beat analysts’ profit projections
for 10 straight quarters, and per-share income is seen rising 12
percent in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. About 62
percent of dividend-paying corporations raised their payouts
this year, Bloomberg data show. Companies authorized $43 billion
in repurchase plans last month, putting 2011 on track to be the
third-biggest year, according to data compiled by Westport,
Connecticut-based Birinyi Associates Inc.  “M&A activity is going to drive performance for a while,
and dividends will, too, because if you’ve got a 2, 3 or 4
percent dividend, that’s that much less return you have to get
from  capital gains ,” Polley said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Those are going to be the differentiating
characteristics of stocks that’ll do better.”  CBOE’s Implied Correlation Index shows expectations for how
much stocks will move in tandem by comparing implied volatility,
a gauge of prices, for S&P 500 options versus the levels for the
50 largest companies in the index. The correlation index,
calculated from December S&P 500 options and January options on
corporations, is 22 percent above its average for the past year.  “The risks we see in the marketplace are driven by broad
macroeconomic stories as opposed to fundamental valuation
issues,” Michael Schmanske, head of U.S. equity index
volatility trading at Barclays Plc in  New York , said in a Sept.
14 telephone interview. “The main macro consideration is
definitely still Europe and sovereign credit risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  