-- 
Costco Workers’ Group Case Blocked After Wal-Mart Ruling

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-09-16T22:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/costco-wins-ruling-voiding-women-s-gender-bias-class-after-wal-mart-case.html
Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  won a ruling
voiding a judge’s decision to expand a sex-bias suit filed by
three women to include hundreds of female workers.  A federal appeals court in  San Francisco  today said U.S.
District Judge Marilyn H. Patel applied the wrong legal standard
and sent the case back to the lower court with instructions to
apply the standards set by the U.S. Supreme Court in its June
ruling throwing out a group gender-bias lawsuit against  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)   “The district court failed to conduct the required
‘rigorous analysis’ to determine whether there were common
questions of law or fact among the class members,” U.S. Circuit
Judge N. Randy Smith wrote for the appellate panel. “At best,
it was unclear what standard the district court used.”  Costco, the biggest U.S. warehouse-club chain, was sued in
2004 for allegedly limiting promotions of female employees to
assistant general manager and general manager by failing to post
job openings. The original plaintiffs won class, or group,
status for the case in 2007. Costco’s appeal of that order was
put on hold while the  Supreme Court  considered Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart’s appeal of a similar ruling.  ‘Delighted’ With Ruling  Jocelyn Larkin, an attorney for the workers, said she was
delighted with the ruling because employees had argued that the
case should go back to the lower court for further consideration
while Costco claimed that no national class of company employees
could be certified on the evidence in the case.  “The panel rejected Costco’s position and remanded as we
proposed,” said Larkin in an e-mail.  Jeff Elliott, a spokesman for Issaquah, Washington-based
Costco, declined to comment on the ruling.  Costco challenged the decision to allow female workers to
pursue a class action, arguing that the plaintiffs hadn’t shown
there were questions of law and fact that were common to the
group. Commonality is a requirement for certification of a class
action.  “The district court was required to resolve any factual
dispute necessary to determine whether there was a common
pattern and practice that could affect the class as a whole,”
the appellate judges said today. “If there is no evidence that
the entire class was subject to the same allegedly
discriminatory practice, there is no question common to the
class.”  Proper Analysis  The trial judge “failed to engage” in a proper analysis
on this point, the appeals court said. The panel sent the issue
back to the trial court “for application of the appropriate
legal standard.”  The appeals court also struck down class certification
because it said that the lower-court judge needed to consider
how Costco’s constitutional rights to due process could be
preserved when the workers were asking for both an order barring
Costco from discriminatory conduct and back pay and other
monetary compensation.  The judge erred when she failed to consider whether money
damages could be awarded without an individualized determination
of whether each worker in the class was entitled to back pay or
punitive damages.  The case is Ellis v. Costco, 07-15838,  U.S. Court of
Appeals , San Francisco.  To contact the reporter about this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  