-- 
Crude Oil Futures Decline Most in a Week in New York on European Concern

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-16T19:44:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/crude-oil-heads-for-fifth-weekly-advance-in-london-on-european-debt-plan.html
Crude oil dropped the most in a
week in  New York , trimming a fourth consecutive weekly gain, on
concern that European leaders meeting today haven’t taken
sufficient steps to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Futures fell 1.6 percent as the euro halted a two-day
advance against the dollar on signs that an agreement to bail
out Greece may be hindered by demand from Finland for
collateral. Technical resistance at about $90 a barrel also
caused prices to retreat after yesterday’s rally.  “Everyone has their eye on  Europe  at the moment,” said
 Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company Cameron
Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan , Connecticut. “We want to see if
there is serious progress in solving the debt crisis. If there
isn’t, we could see prices move a lot lower next week.”  Crude for October delivery fell $1.44 to settle at $87.96 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures gained 0.8
percent this week and have fallen 3.7 percent this year.  Brent crude oil for November settlement dropped 8 cents to
$112.22 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
Exchange. Brent rose 1.2 percent this week.  European finance ministers ruled out efforts to prop up the
faltering economy and gave no indication of providing aid for
lenders to go along with yesterday’s liquidity lifeline from the
 European Central Bank . Clashing with U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner , finance chiefs from the euro region said
the 18-month debt crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or extra
spending to spur an economy near stagnation.  The ECB said yesterday it would lend euro-area banks
dollars to help tame the debt crisis and coordinate the action
with the Federal Reserve, the  Bank of England , the  Bank of Japan 
and the  Swiss National Bank .  Euro Falls  The euro fell 0.6 percent against the dollar, reducing the
appeal of commodities priced in the U.S. currency, after  Finland 
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said an agreement on
collateral is unlikely to be reached at today’s trans-Atlantic
finance meeting in Wroclaw, Poland.  The European single currency traded at $1.3790 at 3:01 p.m.
in New York, compared with $1.3877 yesterday. Earlier, it
dropped as much as 0.9 percent.  The 17 euro nations accounted for about 12 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  “Persistent concerns about the euro-zone’s problems
continue to dominate the markets,” said Myrto Sokou, an analyst
at Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London . “The current economic and
political conditions look fairly tentative at the moment.”  $90 Resistance Level  Oil has tested $90 a barrel in intraday trading the past
two days before settling lower. It settled at $90.21 on Sept.
13, the highest level since Aug. 3.  “The market continues to run into resistance at $90 and
doesn’t seem to have enough to hold above it,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford,  Connecticut . “The uncertain economic picture is
likely to strengthen the resistance for the market up there.”  Brent oil settled at a premium of $24.04 to West Texas
Intermediate November futures, compared with a record $26.87 on
Sept. 6 based on front-month closing prices. Brent may be headed
for $150 a barrel, according to chart analysis by Citigroup Inc.  “Crude oil looks to be a coiled spring,”  Tom Fitzpatrick ,
the bank’s New York-based chief technical analyst, said in a
research note dated yesterday. A weekly close above $117.60 a
barrel “would suggest a breakout and the possibility of a move
toward at least $150.”  Price Volatility  Price fluctuations throughout the financial markets were
expected to be bigger than usual today because of so-called
quadruple witching, or the quarterly expiration of stock index
futures, options on index futures, stock options and stock
futures, McGillian said. Quadruple witching occurs once every
three months.  Prices are also volatile before next week’s meeting of
 Federal Reserve  policy makers, said Jason Schenker, the
president of Prestige Economics, an energy advisory company in
Austin, Texas.  “There should be a great deal of volatility going into
next week as we wait for the Fed meeting,” he said. “What they
say will be absolutely critical for the stock market and
commodities, especially oil.”  Oil may decline next week on concern that Europe’s debt
crisis will hurt global economic growth and the demand for fuel,
a Bloomberg News survey showed. Eighteen of 40 analysts, or 45
percent, forecast oil will decline through Sept. 23, while 13
respondents, or 33 percent, predicted prices will increase. Nine
estimated there will be little change. Last week, 50 percent of
the surveyed analysts projected a drop.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 563,804
contracts as of 3:01 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 669,730
contracts yesterday, 0.1 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.45 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  