-- 
CSN Cancels $748 Million Deal to Buy Alfonso Gallardo Assets

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-09-16T16:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/csn-cancels-acquisition-accord-with-spain-s-alfonso-gallardo-1-.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA,
 Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker, canceled an agreement to buy
cement and steel assets from Grupo Alfonso Gallardo because the
Spanish company didn’t meet some terms of the contract.  The accord included Alfonso Gallardo’s Cementos Balboa SA,
Corrugados Azpeitia SL and Corrugados Lasao SLU units, the Sao
Paulo-based steelmaker said today in a regulatory filing. CSN,
as the company is known, said in May it agreed to buy assets
from Gallardo for 543 million euros ($748 million), in addition
to assuming 403 million euros of debt and other obligations.  “The mentioned cancellation is based on the terms and
conditions foreseen in the contract,” CSN said, without
specifying the terms. The accord would have also included
Stahlwerk Thüringen GmbH and Gallardo Sections SLU, CSN said.  The cancellation comes as the European economy will barely
grow in the second half of 2011 amid a debt buildup that 256
billion euros in aid for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  has failed
to alleviate.  Spain ’s recovery slowed in last quarter as exports
fell from the previous three months and public-spending shrank
amid the deepest austerity measures in three decades.  ‘A Bit Hasty’  CSN’s offer “may have been a bit hasty” considering the
economic outlook for  Europe  and lack of recovery signs in the
region, Rafael Weber, an equity analyst at brokerage Geracao
Futuro Corretora, said today by telephone from Porto Alegre,
Brazil. “You have a worse scenario and this may have
contributed.”  CSN gained 20 centavos, or 1.3 percent, to 15.95 reais in
Sao Paulo trading at 12:46 p.m. New York time, paring its loss
in 2011 to 40 percent.  CSN has been buying shares in Brazilian rival Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA since at least January, raising
its stake to 15.15 percent of Usiminas’s preferred shares and
11.29 percent of the common stock. The company said Jan. 27 that
it may boost investments in Usiminas to a level that could alter
management or the control structure.  CSN Chief Executive Officer Benjamin Steinbruch has been in
talks with Camargo Correa SA and Grupo Votorantim and offered to
buy their voting stock in Belo Horizonte-based Usiminas for 40
reais each, valuing the 26 percent stake at 5 billion reais
($2.9 billion), two people familiar with the negotiations told
Bloomberg News. The people also said that Nippon Steel Corp.,
 Japan ’s largest steelmaker, and Gerdau SA are in talks to stave
off that CSN bid for the Usiminas stake.  CSN said Sept. 8 in a regulatory filing that news reports
that it offered to buy a stake in Usiminas are “groundless.”
 Porto Alegre , Brazil-based Gerdau,  Latin America ’s largest
steelmaker, said today in a regulatory filing that it hasn’t
made any offer to buy shares of Usiminas from Camargo Correa or
Votorantim, either alone or jointly with Nippon Steel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  