-- 
Cutting Jeffrey Gundlach ‘Cancer’ at TCW Was Followed a Decade of Tensions

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/tcw-cut-gundlach-cancer-at-566-million-cost-following-decade-of-tension.html
TCW Group Inc. decided to oust
 Jeffrey Gundlach  despite being warned that firing the fund
manager could trigger redemptions of as much as 70 percent,
according to testimony during the six-week trial of the bond-
fund manager and his former employer.  Gundlach, who started his own firm within weeks of being
ousted and has since attracted $16 billion in assets, yesterday
won a $66.7 million jury award against his former employer for
unpaid wages, which he has to share with three of his
colleagues. He was also found to have breached his fiduciary
duty to TCW and misappropriated its  trade secrets . The Los
Angeles jury awarded the company no damages on the breach claim.
A judge will determine damages on the trade-secret claim.  “This trial brought home all of the ugliness and the dirty
laundry in the business,”  Geoff Bobroff , an independent fund
consultant in  East Greenwich ,  Rhode Island , said in an
interview. “This would be the most bitter case I’ve seen
brought to trial.”  The trial shed light on a decade of tensions between TCW
and Gundlach, a former trader who became the company’s star
performer over an almost 25-year career there, eventually
managing two-thirds of the company’s money. TCW painted him as
an arrogant man interested in enriching himself, and a former
executive at the firm described him as a “cancer.” Gundlach
and his attorneys claimed TCW cheated him out of hundreds of
millions of dollars and reneged on a promise not to dilute his
stake in the company.  Founder  Robert Day  at one point contemplated getting rid of
Gundlach, 51, then selling the firm to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , according
to evidence presented during the trial. His ouster in December
2009 cost the firm $566 million in damages, TCW said in court
documents.  Seeking Damages  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of Societe Generale SA,
sued Gundlach in January 2010 after more than 40 of its fixed-
income professionals joined DoubleLine Capital LP, the asset-
management firm Gundlach started after TCW fired him.  The jury found that Gundlach, who countersued, and
DoubleLine didn’t act willfully and maliciously in
misappropriating trade secrets. Susan Estrich, a lawyer for TCW,
said the company will ask the judge to award it $89 million on
the trade-secret claim.  “We are very pleased and gratified with the verdict,”
Estrich said outside the courtroom. “This was about liability,
about standing up for what is right.”  Gundlach said the verdict was “a major win” for
DoubleLine.  ‘Governed by Lies’  “In a society governed by lies, truth is considered a
cancer,” Gundlach said in a telephone interview.  Gundlach joined TCW in 1985 on a 90-day probation, for
about $30,000 a year. TCW needed someone with a “quant”
background, which Gundlach had as a Ph.D. candidate in
mathematics at  Yale University . He didn’t complete his doctoral
thesis on the “non-existence of infinity,” which was then
considered an unpopular line of thinking among mathematicians,
Gundlach said in a 2009 interview.  Gundlach started the TCW Total Return Fund in 1993 and the
fund grew as Gundlach’s acumen in picking mortgage-backed
securities helped the fund beat peers. By 2001, when Societe
Generale acquired TCW, Gundlach had become a substantial
shareholder in TCW, with a 4 percent stake.  A consultant who was hired by TCW to advise on options told
chief executive officer  Marc Stern  that Gundlach’s departure
would trigger client redemptions of 60 percent to 70 percent
over three years, while keeping 40 percent of clients assets
would be a “huge success,” according to court records. The
consultant, Woody Bradford, testified that he advised Stern in
October 2009 that the best option would be to work out an
“arrangement” with Gundlach.  Rare Spat  “The case demonstrates the difficulty of running a
business when one individual or a group of individuals rise to
prominence,” said Bobroff. “That’s a reason why most firms are
moving to team management rather than have one or two star
managers.”  Public spats are rare in the asset-management industry,
where companies typically resolve disputes behind closed doors.
In one example that shocked fund managers nearly four decades
ago,  John Bogle  was fired by Boston-based Wellington Management
Co. after clashing with the company’s board of directors. He
went on to form Vanguard Group Inc. in 1975, which has since
become the biggest U.S. mutual fund company.  The relationship between Gundlach and TCW started to sour
in 2001, when  Societe Generale (GLE)  acquired the firm. Gundlach said
his stake in TCW fell from 4 percent to the “high 2s,” despite
an earlier promise made by Stern that he would “never have the
stock taken away” from him, according to court transcripts.  ‘I Was Happy’  Tensions abated in 2005 after Stern stepped down from
active management and the firm created a new leadership team,
with Robert Beyer as chief executive officer, William Sonneborn
as president and Gundlach as chief investment officer.  “I was really happy” after the change, Gundlach said in
his testimony. “I thought it was the greatest thing.”  The new leadership team didn’t last long. A month after
unauthorized transactions by trader  Jerome Kerviel  spurred
losses at the Paris-based Societe Generale in early 2008, Beyer
and Sonneborn tried to engineer a management buyout of TCW from
the parent, Gundlach testified. The move angered the French bank
because of its “timing,” according to Gundlach.  Sonneborn, who described Gundlach as a “cancer” to the
company in conversations with Stern, according to court
transcripts, left TCW for private-equity firm KKR & Co. in 2008.
Beyer retired in 2009, and Stern returned to lead TCW in June
2009 after Beyer’s departure.  ‘Dumb and Dumber’  DoubleLine’s attorneys said executives at TCW and its
parent had already decided at that time to fire Gundlach. He and
other senior managers at TCW had opposed Stern’s return out of
retirement and wanted the firm to be run by a management
committee instead. TCW said Gundlach’s demands to restructure
the leadership and compensation intensified in 2009.  TCW, which said that Gundlach made the equivalent of
$20,000 an hour, at one point in the trial compared him to
Gordon Gekko, the fictional character who gave the “Greed is
Good” speech in Oliver Stone’s 1987 film “ Wall Street .” TCW
also said Gundlach openly disparaged TCW executives, referring
to Day and Stern as “Dumb and Dumber.”  Stern testified that he became suspicious of Gundlach after
a series of meetings in September 2009 and instructed TCW’s in-
house lawyer to start monitoring the e-mail of Gundlach and
others in his group. The investigation showed Gundlach’s people
were downloading TCW’s proprietary information and looking for
 office space , Stern said.  Courting BlackRock  While Gundlach was in talks to join rivals such as Western
Asset Management Co. and Pacific Investment Management Co., Day
contemplated forcing Gundlach out and selling the firm to
BlackRock, according to evidence shown at the trial. Executives
at Societe Generale thought the idea of selling TCW to BlackRock
“is not really feasible at a good price,” according to an e-
mail that was made public.  When those plans fizzled, TCW dismissed Gundlach and
acquired MetWest, court documents show.  Gundlach went on to form DoubleLine in December 2009. More
than 40 people, including Gundlach’s co-manager on the TCW Total
Return fund, Philip Barach, joined him at DoubleLine.  Gundlach’s DoubleLine Total Return Bond fund has surged to
$11 billion in assets since it was started in April 2010, a
record for the fastest growth among startup mutual funds. TCW’s
Total Return Fund has dropped to $5.3 billion from a peak of
almost $12 billion before Gundlach was ousted. The DoubleLine
fund is up 12 percent in the past year, twice the return of the
TCW fund and beating 99 percent of rivals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Copying Data  Brad Brian, DoubleLine’s lawyer, said in his closing
statements that handwritten notes from an August 2009 meeting of
TCW’s senior executives show they had already decided to fire
Gundlach before there was evidence of his people copying TCW
data or registering a company in  Delaware .  It was “telling,” Brian told the jurors, that none of the
executives, including Stern, could recall during their trial
testimony what was said during that meeting. Brian said TCW
executives don’t want to admit they had made up their minds
about firing Gundlach months before they did because it would
undermine their damage claims in the case.  Gundlach had negotiated for him and his group to receive 60
percent of the performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
he set up in 2007 and 2008. The funds invested in mortgage-
backed securities that were downgraded and dropped in value with
the collapse of the U.S. housing market. When the funds
performed better than expected, Societe Generale and TCW wanted
to replace Gundlach with a less expensive asset manager,
DoubleLine’s lawyers said.  TCW argued that Gundlach wasn’t entitled to management and
performance fees from the funds after his firing.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  