-- 
TCW, DoubleLine Jury Verdict to Be Read Today in Los Angeles Courtroom

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/tcw-doubleline-jury-reaches-verdict-to-be-read-tomorrow-in-los-angeles.html
A jury verdict is scheduled to be
announced today in TCW Group Inc.’s trial against its former
chief investment officer,  Jeffrey Gundlach , over conflicting
claims of the events that led to Gundlach’s firing in 2009.  The verdict will be read at 8:30 local time in California
state court in Los Angeles, according to DoubleLine Capital LP
spokesman Lew Phelps. The jury of seven men and five women
deliberated for two days after hearing six weeks of testimony
about whether Gundlach plotted to steal TCW trade secrets to
start DoubleLine or TCW wanted to fire him to save money.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined DoubleLine, the firm Gundlach
started within weeks of being fired by TCW. TCW seeks as much as
$566 million in damages on claims Gundlach violated his
fiduciary duty and interfered with TCW contracts.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
sought about $500 million in his countersuit.  If the jury finds Gundlach liable for stealing TCW’s trade
secrets, Superior Court Judge Carl West will decide on any
damages TCW is entitled to.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  