-- 
Tea Party Name Affixed to Canadian Rockers

-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/tea-party-name-affixed-to-canadian-rockers.html
There’s no hotter name in politics
right now than the  Tea Party .  But anyone seized with a desire for smaller government who
visits teaparty.com won’t find angry activists in tricorn hats
spouting  Thomas Jefferson . Instead, they’ll land on the website
of a Canadian rock band of the same name that pioneered a style
of Middle Eastern fusion known as Moroccan Roll and broke up six
years ago.  This causes endless confusion for the millions of people
who Google Tea Party each month, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its Sept. 19 issue. It’s no picnic for the band members,
either.  “So much damage has been done to our name by the political
movement that we’re considering selling,” says Stuart Chatwood,
the Tea Party’s bassist.  He and his band mates may feel a little better about the
rise of the right wing if they put the domain name up for
auction. With so many presidential candidates, political
operatives and interest groups vying to capitalize on the Tea
Party brand, there could be a bidding war.  “Last cycle,  Barack Obama  raised $500 million online,” says
Warren Adelman, president of GoDaddy.com, the domain registrar
and Web hosting company. “If you look at the money being talked
about this time around --- campaigns raising $1 billion --- it’s
easy to expect teaparty.com to go for well over $1 million.”  That would be a handsome reward for a name chosen largely
on a whim when the group got together in 1990. “Tea Party was a
euphemism the Beat poets used for getting high and writing
poetry and vibing with each other,” Chatwood says.  Dormant Site  The band registered the site in 1993 and kept it through
eight albums and several world tours. In 2005 the lead singer
split (“creative differences”), and the site has mostly been
dormant since.  Then last year the band started to receive an increasing
number of offers to buy the domain, mostly from obscure
political groups and investors. The site has a lot to offer: It
appears high in Google’s rankings even though it is rarely
updated.  It’s the obvious destination for direct-navigation traffic-
-typing a URL directly into a browser’s address field ---
believed to constitute as much as 15 percent of all Net traffic.
The site has what those in the industry call great “mindshare.”  A sum of $1 million would put the musicians in elite
company. Only a few dozen domain names have sold for that much
or more, including sex.com for $13 million, vodka.com for
$3 million, and poker.com for $1 million.  Big Payday  The key to a big payday is marketing and timing.  “Domain names are Internet real estate,” says Marc Ostrofsky, author of Get Rich Click! and an entrepreneur who
bought Business.com for $150,000 in 1995 and sold it four years
later for $7.5 million.  “A good way to think about them is like tenants in a
shopping mall,” Ostrofsky said. “You’ve got your anchor tenants
like Business.com and mutualfunds.com, and then you’ve got
seasonal guys who come and go like teaparty.com.”  Ostrofsky cites the cautionary tale of birdflu.com, worth a
fortune when fears of contagion peaked several years ago. The
owner didn’t sell, and the value plummeted when public attention
moved on.  Teaparty.com is probably approaching its maximum value. The
good news for the band is that there is no shortage of potential
suitors: the Republican Presidential candidates; conservative
political action committees; a wealthy Tea Party backer (the
Koch brothers, perhaps?); a mischievous Democratic group.  Good Timing  “The timing of this sale couldn’t be more brilliant,” says
Stephen K. Bannon, the former Goldman Sachs investment banker
who directed a trilogy of films about the Tea Party, including
this summer’s Sarah Palin biopic, and is considering acquiring
teaparty.com. “It could cause a lot of trouble if it fell into
the wrong hands.”  And that’s just in the world of politics.  “If you had guts and worked in the marketing department at
Lipton Tea,” Adelman suggests, “you could take advantage of the
interest to drive a huge marketing campaign.”  Aware that opportunity is fleeting, the band is mulling
whether to sell, rent or partner with someone to develop
teaparty.com. One factor complicating the decision: The Tea
Party temporarily reunited for a successful 11-city tour this
past summer.  In February they will kick off another run in  Australia .
“These musicians have a great opportunity to cash out,” Adelman
says. “And if they ever decide to reunite for good, they can
always just mildly alter their domain name and enjoy their
profits in the meantime.”  Factoring in Politics  The band members also are trying to figure out how much
their own politics should factor into the decision.  “We’ve considered lending the name to  Stephen Colbert  or
 Jon Stewart  to have them dispel some of the stuff that the Tea
Party says,” says Chatwood. “As Canadians we’re somewhat
sensitive to all the criticism of socialized medicine.”  An ideal outcome, he suggests, would be for  George Soros  or
 Arianna Huffington  to swoop in with a strong offer. But it seems
likelier that the top bidders will be looking to develop an
invaluable fund-raising portal for a Republican candidate or
political group.  Nothing has been ruled out. “We’ve got families,” Chatwood
says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 Jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel in New York at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  