-- 
ECB’s Dollar Loans Fail to Soothe Concern About Lenders: Chart of the Day

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-09-16T14:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/ecb-s-dollar-loans-program-fails-to-soothe-investors-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. and European central bank
efforts to bolster euro-zone financial firms’ access to dollars
haven’t soothed investor concern that the region’s lenders are
risky trading partners.  The ECB, in coordination with the  Federal Reserve  and other
central banks yesterday, said it will lend dollars to euro-area
banks in a series of three-month loans to help them meet demand
for dollar lending. The supply of loans in dollars has fallen as
U.S. money-market mutual funds cut lending due to policy makers’
inability to contain the debt crisis.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the difference between the
three-month dollar London interbank offered rate and the
overnight index swap rate, known as Libor-OIS, and the amount of
U.S. commercial paper outstanding. The Libor-OIS spread, an
indirect measure of the availability of funds in the money
market and of banks’ willingness to lend, rose today. Three-
month Libor reached 0.35133 percent from 0.35022 percent
yesterday, according to the British Bankers’ Association.  “The swap lines are intended to provide liquidity to the
market over year end,” said Jerome Schneider, head of the
short-term strategies and money markets desk at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co. “This can
help improve liquidity conditions enough for short-term
commercial paper investors to consider dipping their toe back
in. Investors should be aware that such measures only address
levels of liquidity in the market, and do not necessarily alter
the  credit quality  within the market.”  European financial firms need dollar loans to finance
holdings of dollar-denominated assets. Banks from the euro area,
 United Kingdom , and  Switzerland  had total “dollar exposures”
on their balance sheet in excess of $8 trillion in 2008, of
which $1.1 trillion to $1.3 trillion was funded through short-
term sources, Federal Reserve Bank of New York economists Linda
Goldberg, Craig Kennedy and Jason Miu wrote in a  May 2011 paper .  Companies use commercial paper to fund everyday activities
such as payrolls and rent. Foreign financial commercial paper
fell by $600 million to $207.2 billion in the week ended Sept.
14, according to Fed data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net 
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  