-- 
ECB Must Cut Benchmark Rate to Miss Recession, MKM’s Darda Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-16T19:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/ecb-must-cut-benchmark-rate-to-miss-recession-mkm-s-darda-says-tom-keene.html
The  European Central Bank  must be
“very aggressive” and reverse two increases in its target
lending rate this year to avoid tipping back into recession,
according to MKM Partners LLC’s Michael Darda.  “There’s a real risk that the euro zone in its entirety is
headed into recession,” said Darda, chief economist in
Stamford, Connecticut, at the research and trading firm, in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and
Ken Prewitt. “This really does fall on the European Central
Bank’s shoulders. They need to act, and they need to act in a
very aggressive way.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Sept. 8 that
“downside risks” to the region’s economy have intensified. The
central bank left its benchmark rate at 1.5 percent and cut its
2011 and 2012 growth forecasts at the policy meeting in
 Frankfurt  after boosting borrowing costs in April and July.  Europe ’s economy will barely grow in the second half of
2011, a casualty of the debt buildup that 256 billion euros
($353 billion) in aid for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  has
failed to erase.  Finance chiefs from the euro region meeting today in
Wroclaw, Poland, said the 18-month debt crisis leaves no room
for tax cuts or extra spending to spur an economy on the brink
of stagnation.  “That currency union has countries with asynchronous
business cycles,” said Darda, 37. “Some of them are in
depressionary slumps, and even the core countries now,  France 
and  Germany  in particular, are weakening economically.”  Growth Outlook  The European Commission has cut its growth forecast to 0.2
percent for the third quarter and 0.1 percent for the fourth
quarter, down from a projection for both periods of 0.4 percent.  The euro depreciated 0.6 percent to $1.3791 today in New
York trading, paring a weekly advance to 1 percent.  The ECB said yesterday in its monthly bulletin that threats
to euro-area growth have intensified and inflation risks have
eased, signaling policy makers may take further action if the
debt crisis worsens. They raised the target lending rate by a
quarter-percentage point in July.  The interest rate increases this year “will go down in
history as quite possibly the biggest central bank blunder since
the Fed doubled reserve-requirement ratios in 1936, ‘37,
ushering in the second leg of the Great Depression,” Darda
said. If the ECB’s efforts are a “belated, half hearted, tepid
effort, which is what is likely, unfortunately, then ultimately
I think we’re probably still looking at least at a partial
breakup of the EMU,” referring to Economic and Monetary Union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  