-- 
EDF, BASF Join Gazprom’s South Stream Gas Link to Europe

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-09-16T12:05:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/edf-basf-join-gazprom-s-south-stream-gas-pipeline-project-to-eu.html
Electricite de France SA and  BASF
SE (BAS)  joined OAO Gazprom’s planned South Stream natural-gas export
pipeline to raise the project’s appeal as the European Union
promotes a rival project to cut dependence on Russian fuel.  EDF and BASF’s Wintershall unit each gained 15 percent
stakes in the pipeline, to be built across the  Black Sea , under
an agreement signed today in Sochi,  Russia .  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s share will
drop to 20 percent, and Gazprom will retain 50 percent.  “The arrangement again confirms the pan-European nature of
this major energy infrastructure project,” the South Stream
venture said today in a statement.  Russia seeks to deliver as much as 63 billion cubic meters
of gas a year via South Stream, the country’s second direct link
to the EU, bypassing Ukraine and other transit nations. The EU,
which relies on Gazprom for about a quarter of its gas, backs
the Nabucco project from the  Caspian region .  South Stream will run 900 kilometers (560 miles) under the
sea to the Balkans and may cost 15.5 billion euros ($21.4
billion), including the onshore section in southern and central
 Europe . Gazprom aims to start supplies by the end of 2015.  ‘External Interference’  “We will know the exact cost only when the total project
will be finished,” Eni Chief Executive Officer Paolo Scaroni
told reporters in Sochi, on Russia’s Black Sea coast. He
estimated that the subsea section of the pipeline may cost
around 10 billion euros. The final investment estimate will be
ready “toward the second half of 2012,” he said.  While not opposing South Stream, the EU prioritized the so-
called southern corridor, which includes the 7.9 billion-euro
Nabucco pipeline due to send Caspian gas via  Turkey  to Austria.
This month, the bloc started negotiations for a legally binding
treaty with Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan to build the Trans
Caspian Pipeline System.  The Russian Foreign Ministry called the EU’s backing of the
Caspian link “external interference” and said it violates an
agreement to discuss such projects among the Caspian Sea
littoral states. Iran has also objected, RIA Novosti reported.  South Stream is designed to bypass Ukraine, which moves
about 80 percent of Russian gas to the EU. Pricing disputes
between Russia and Ukraine have led to supply disruptions in
Europe at least twice since 2006. Ukraine is seeking to review
the existing supply contract as fuel prices rise.  Eni Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said last year
that combining South Stream and Nabucco would save time and
money. Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko rejected the idea,
saying South Stream is “more competitive” because it has
guaranteed gas resources and agreements with the EU transit
states for the onshore link.  Eni and Gazprom also reconfirmed a Feb. 16 agreement on the
future handover to Gazprom of half its 33.3 percent stake in a
group developing the Elephant oilfield in  Libya . The deal had
been put on hold due to the conflict in the North African
country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  