-- 
Lehman Trader Goes Mad, Greeks Wallow in Our Top Business Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-09-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/lehman-trader-goes-mad-greeks-wallow-in-odious-debt-top-business-books.html
A trader at  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  attempts suicide and Greeks pile up “odious”
debts in two of our favorite business books so far this year.
Here’s a list of recommended titles.  “Adapt” by Tim Harford (Farrar, Straus & Giroux/Little,
Brown). The Undercover Economist explains why “success always
starts with failure.”  “Beyond the Invisible Hand” by Kaushik Basu (Princeton).
India’s chief economic adviser explores the dark side of Adam Smith’s invisible hand.  “Beyond Mechanical Markets” by Roman Frydman and Michael D. Goldberg (Princeton). A groundbreaking look at how to tame
asset booms and busts.  “Civilization” by Niall Ferguson (Allen Lane). The
prolific Harvard historian explains how the West came to
dominate the globe.  “Exorbitant Privilege” by  Barry Eichengreen  (Oxford). A
brisk primer on the dollar’s role as the dominant international
currency.  “Fatal Risk” by Roddy Boyd (Wiley). An engaging
reconstruction of how AIG came unstuck.  “The Futures” by Emily Lambert (Basic). A bouncy jaunt
through the history of Chicago’s trading pits.  “Greece’s ‘Odious’ Debt” by Jason Manolopoulos (Anthem
Press). A hedge-fund manager explains how his Greek compatriots
gambled away their future -- and how German and French bankers
egged them on. Who’s bailing out whom?  “Guaranteed to Fail” by Viral V. Acharya,  Matthew
Richardson , Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh and Lawrence J. White
(Princeton). Four professors at New York University’s Stern
School of Business explain how  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  got so
big and why we must fix them.  “The Hare With Amber Eyes” by Edmund de Waal (Chatto &
Windus/Farrar, Straus & Giroux): This meditative history of the
once mighty Ephrussi trading and banking family defies literary
pigeonholes. Though not a business book per se, it holds deep
lessons about the creation and destruction of wealth.  “The Haves and the Have-Nots” by Branko Milanovic
(Basic). The World Bank economist presents “a brief and
idiosyncratic history” of inequality, from ancient Rome to
contemporary  London .  “How the West Was Lost” by Dambisa Moyo ( Allen Lane /
Farrar, Straus & Giroux). A reasoned look at how the world’s
most-advanced nations are squandering their economic lead.  “Idea Man” by Paul Allen (Portfolio/Penguin). This memoir
by Microsoft’s co-founder offers a fascinating look at what it
took to build the software behemoth.  “Money and Power” by William D. Cohan (Doubleday). The
sometimes “schizophrenic” behavior of Goldman Sachs comes into
focus in this history by the author of “House of Cards” and
“The Last Tycoons.”  “The New Lombard Street” by Perry Mehrling (Princeton). A
cogent analysis of how the financial crisis turned the  Federal
Reserve  into America’s “dealer of last resort.”  “Oil’s Endless Bid” by Dan Dicker (Wiley). Petroleum
prices have gone crazy, and a large share of the blame belongs
to Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other banks, argues this
Nymex trader.  “The Price of Everything” by Eduardo Porter (Portfolio/
Heinemann). An energetic tour of how prices work, from cheap
sperm to $4,731 printer ink.  “Punching Out” by  Paul Clemens  (Doubleday). A blackly
comic journal of what happens after a U.S. factory shuts down.  “Reckless Endangerment” by Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner (Times Books). A thoughtful contribution to the debate on
whether Fannie Mae really was “ground zero” in the subprime-
mortgage explosion, as some critics argue.  “Red Capitalism” by Carl E. Walter and Fraser J.T. Howie
(Wiley). An eye-opening look at how Communist Party bosses
control  China’s economy .  “Spousonomics” by Paula Szuchman and Jenny Anderson
(Random House/Bantam). A geeky guide to finding marital bliss
through economics.  “Street Freak” by Jared Dillian (Touchstone). A former
Lehman trader describes his battle to survive and thrive in a
business that drove him over the edge.  “Ugly Beauty” by Ruth Brandon (Harper). An incisive
history of cosmetics tycoon  Helena Rubinstein  and  Eugene Schueller , the founder of  L’Oreal SA. (OR)   (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 