-- 
Emerging-Market Stock Funds Post Seventh Week of Outflows, Citigroup Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-09-16T03:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/emerging-market-stock-funds-post-seventh-week-of-outflows-citigroup-says.html
Emerging-market equity funds
reported a seventh week of withdrawals amid concerns the
European debt crisis will curb exports to the region, according
to Citigroup Inc.  Funds investing in developing-nation stocks reported $1.3
billion of outflows in the week ended Sept. 14, Citigroup
analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report dated today,
citing figures compiled by EPFR Global.  “The lingering unsolved problems of the European debt
crisis probably made investors worry again about the fundamental
drag on the global economy and equity markets,” Rosgen said in
the report.  Larger markets such as China,  South Korea ,  India  and Taiwan
were the “key sources” of outflows, according to the report.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.4 percent to 977.57
at 10:50 a.m. in Singapore, paring its weekly loss to 1.5
percent. The gauge has dropped 15 percent this year as the  U.S.
economy  faltered and the European sovereign-debt crisis
worsened, and amid efforts by central banks from  China  to India
to curb inflation.  Eighteen months of crisis-fighting and 256 billion euros
($355 billion) in aid for Greece, Ireland and Portugal have
failed to stabilize markets. The turmoil has spread to Italy and
Spain, sending tremors through Europe’s banking system and
leading to speculation the currency might break up.  Debt Overhang  The debt overhang is taking its toll on the wider economy,
the  European Commission  said yesterday. It cut its growth
forecasts yesterday for the second half to reflect a worsening
outlook on the debt crisis and warned the euro-area economy may
come “close to standstill at year-end.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  repeated warnings in prepared remarks for a speech in
Washington yesterday that the world economy is in a “dangerous
new phase” as policy makers fail to take the necessary measures
to boost confidence.  Emerging market stocks gained today after the  European
Central Bank  said yesterday it coordinated with other central
banks to extend three-month loans to euro-area banks, boosting
speculation the region’s debt crisis may be contained.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said on Sept. 14 that developed
countries “must first put their own houses in order” and not
rely on bailouts from his nation amid increasing speculation
 Greece  will default. Losses were capped after Caijing reported
that China is willing to buy bonds of crisis-hit nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  