-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Europe Debt Concerns Ease

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-16T21:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/emerging-market-stocks-advance-as-europe-concerns-ease.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
paring the benchmark index’s second weekly decline, amid
speculation European policy makers may contain their region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.4 percent to 976.84
as of 4:30 p.m. in New York. The gauge has lost 1.6 percent this
week.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  climbed 3.7 percent. India’s
Sensex Index trimmed gains to 0.3 percent after the central bank
raised its repurchase rate. The Russian Micex Index fell 0.9
percent as oil weakened.  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it coordinated
with the U.S. Federal Reserve to extend three-month loans to
euro-area banks, raising confidence the region’s debt crisis may
be contained. German and French leaders this week expressed
support for  Greece  to remain in the euro monetary union.  “Risk-taking is coming back cautiously with the three-
month dollar tenders offered by the Fed, the ECB, the  Bank of
England , Swiss National Bank and the Bank of  Japan ,” analysts
at BNP Paribas SA including Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in
an e-mailed report.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis point, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.84 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global Index.  Debt Crisis  European finance ministers met in Wroclaw,  Poland , today to
discuss the euro-area crisis.  Jean-Claude Trichet , president of
the region’s central bank, said policy makers need to show the
same “unity of purpose” as central banks did yesterday in
providing extra dollars to European lenders.  The Brazilain Bovespa index advanced for the third day,
rising 1.5 percent. Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A., Latin
America’s largest publicly traded utility, soared 8.4 percent,
the most among gainers on the gauge.  Brazil ’s real fell 1.5 percent to 1.7331 per dollar, the
weakest level since November. Brazil will continue to adjust
monetary policy to take into account the impact that the global
economic crisis is having on its economy, central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said in  Sao Paulo  today.  Currencies Fall  The South African rand and Mexican peso also declined
against the greenback. The ruble depreciated 0.5 percent versus
the dollar as oil fell 1.6 percent in  New York .  European finance ministers ruled out efforts to prop up the
faltering economy and gave no indication of fresh aid for
lenders to go along with yesterday’s liquidity lifeline from the
European Central Bank. Meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner , finance chiefs from the euro region said the
18-month debt crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or extra
spending to spur an economy on the brink of stagnation.  PKO Bank Polski SA, Poland’s biggest lender, increased 1.6
percent in Warsaw as the WIG20 Index added 0.6 percent. In
 Turkey ,  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  jumped 2.4 percent in
Istanbul as the  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 1.4 percent. The
BUX Index fell 0.1 percent in Budapest.  Exporters gained in Seoul. Samsung Electronics Co., which
depends on  Europe  for 20 percent of its sales, rallied 3.5
percent.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s largest automaker,
added 4.8 percent. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s
biggest shipbuilder, rose 5.7 percent.  Fund Withdrawals  Emerging-market equity funds reported a seventh week of
withdrawals amid concerns the European debt crisis will curb
exports to the region, according to Citigroup Inc. Funds
investing in developing-nation stocks reported $1.3 billion of
outflows in the week ended Sept. 14, Citigroup analysts led by
 Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report dated today, citing figures
compiled by EPFR Global.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. advanced 2.9
percent. The world’s largest contract chip maker signed a
contract with Apple Inc. to manufacture a new generation of
processors, the Taipei-based DigiTimes reported, citing
unidentified people in the chip industry.  India ’s central bank raised its repurchase rate to 8.25
percent from 8 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of India said in a
statement today. Fourteen of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey predicted the decision and three expected no change.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  