-- 
Endemol Lenders Said to Waive Loan Terms Amid Debt Talks

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-09-16T14:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/endemol-lenders-said-to-waive-some-loan-terms-amid-debt-restructuring.html
Endemol NV, the Dutch producer of
the “Big Brother” TV shows, obtained approval from lenders to
waive loan terms as it seeks to restructure 2.8 billion euros
($3.9 billion) of debt, three people familiar with knowledge of
the matter said.  The waiver will allow Amsterdam-based Endemol to delay
notifying creditors whether it has met debt conditions for the
second quarter of this year to the end of October, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. The initial deadline ended this week, the people said.
Endemol declined to comment.  The Dutch producer said this year it’s exploring options to
restructure debt because widening losses may cause it to breach
covenants on its loans. In June, Endemol said Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Ynon Kreiz resigned because of a difference of
opinion about the company’s future direction.  Shareholders such as Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s  Mediaset SpA (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are in
negotiations with lenders. Concerns that  Greece  will default on
its debt and the slowing economic recovery have pushed up
funding costs as investors shun risky assets.  Wider Loss  John de Mol, founder and former president and CEO of
Endemol, said the TV producer may reunite with his Talpa Media
Holding NV, once the “acute” financial problems have been
resolved, Kress Report said today, citing an interview with the
entrepreneur. De Mol ruled out returning to Endemol as CEO and
said he could imagine being involved with the company in a
creative function, according to Kress. A Talpa spokesman
confirmed the statements.  Mediaset, Mediaset Espana Comunicacion SA, Goldman Sachs
and Cyrte Fund II BV, an  investment company  founded by De Mol,
bought Endemol in 2007 using 2.8 billion euros ($3.87 billion)
of leveraged loans, including 325 million euros of mezzanine
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Endemol’s enterprise value has fallen to between 800
million euros and 1.2 billion euros from 3.1 billion euros four
years ago, two people with knowledge of the situation said in
July.  The company’s net loss widened to 1.29 billion euros last
year from 345 million euros in 2009, while earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 53 percent
to 393.8 million euros, according to its annual report.  The loss jumped after Endemol decided to write down the
value of its units “to reflect a slower recovery from the
economic downturn,” it said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  