-- 
England Picks Moody, U.S. Captain Cited for Foul Play: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-16T03:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/england-picks-moody-u-s-captain-cited-for-foul-play-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011 Rugby World Cup in  New Zealand .  Moody Returns  Lewis Moody  will captain England against Georgia in their
Sept. 18 Pool B match after recovering from a knee ligament
injury. The inclusion of Moody at openside flanker in place of
 James Haskell  is one of nine changes to the starting lineup from
England’s tournament opener against Argentina.  Tom Wood will make his World Cup debut on the blind side as
 Tom Croft  drops to the bench. No. 8 Nick Easter and tighthead
prop Dan Cole are the only forwards to keep their spots.  Ben Youngs and  Toby Flood  will start as the half-back
pairing, while Shontayne Hape takes over from Mike Tindall at
inside center. The back three of Ben Foden, Delon Armitage and
Chris Ashton is unchanged.  ENGLAND : Ben Foden, Chris Ashton, Manu Tuilagi, Shontayne
Hape, Delon Armitage, Toby Flood, Ben Youngs, Nick Easter, Lewis
Moody (captain), Tom Wood, Tom Palmer, Simon Shaw, Dan Cole,
Dylan Hartley, Matt Stevens  Replacements: Steve Thompson, Alex Corbisiero, Tom Croft,
James Haskell, Joe Simpson,  Jonny Wilkinson ,  Matt Banahan .  Not So Clever  U.S. captain Todd Clever was cited for foul play following
his team’s 13-6 victory over Russia yesterday, tournament
organizers said.  Clever, 28, was cited for a dangerous tackle/charge in the
Pool C match in New Plymouth and now faces a judicial hearing in
Auckland. The hearing, not yet scheduled, will be conducted by
independent judicial officer Jeff Blackett of England.  Wales Unchanged  Wales became the first nation to pick an  unchanged team  at
the tournament for its Pool D game against Samoa in two days.
Coach Warren Gatland retained the 15 players who began the 17-16
loss to defending champion South Africa on Sept. 11.  In the only change to the 22-man squad, prop Gethin Jenkins
replaces Ryan Bevington on the reserves’ bench. It’s the first
time in  World Cup  history that Wales hasn’t changed its starting
lineup, tournament organizers said.  “It’s a message of confidence in terms of the way we
performed last week,” Gatland said at a news conference.  Samoa’s Single Change  Samoa made one change to the team that opened with a 49-12
win over Namibia for the match against the Welsh in Wellington.
Ofisa Treviranus comes in at blindside flanker to replace
Taiasina Tuifua, who drops to the bench.  Locks’ Bad Luck  South Africa’s second-row options were further depleted
when replacement lock Johann Muller was ruled out of tomorrow’s
Pool D match against Fiji because of a hamstring injury.  Francois Louw takes Muller’s place on the bench, while
back-rower Willem Alberts will now provide cover should starting
locks Danie Rossouw or  Bakkies Botha  get injured, the South
African Rugby Union said. Vice-captain Victor Matfield had
already been ruled out because of a hamstring strain.  “I don’t know whether there’s something in the water or
what’s happening,” Muller said in comments distributed by
tournament organizers. “I think it’s just some bad luck we’re
having at this stage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  