-- 
Former Acer CEO Gianfranco Lanci Will Join Lenovo as Consultant

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a d i   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-09-16T21:13:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/lenovo-says-former-acer-ceo-lanci-to-join-as-consultant.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
third-biggest maker of personal computers, hired Gianfranco Lanci, the former chief executive officer of rival  Acer Inc. (2353) , as
a consultant.  Lanci will be based in Italy and focus on Lenovo’s global
consumer business as well as the integration of Germany’s  Medion
AG (MDN) , of which Lenovo recently acquired control, the Chinese
company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Lanci left Taipei-based Acer in March after clashing with
board members over strategy. He had been president of Acer since
2005 and was in charge when it overtook Dell as the world’s
second-largest maker of PCs in 2009. Acer lost that position
this year and is now the fourth-largest by shipments.  Lenovo’s former Chief Operating Officer Rory Read recently
left to become CEO of  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)   Lenovo, the maker of Thinkpad laptops, expects to become
the second-biggest PC vendor this year, Chief Executive Officer
Yuanqing Yang said Sept. 9. It accounted for 12 percent of
global shipments in the second quarter, increasing from 9.7
percent in the previous three months, according to research
company Gartner Inc.  Hewlett-Packard, the industry leader, fell to 17.5 percent
from 17.6 percent, as second-ranked  Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s share rose to
12.5 percent from 11.9 percent.  Lanci earned a civil engineering degree from the
Politecnico of Turin, where he was born. He joined  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN) ’s Italian unit in 1981 and became manager of
the portable computer and printer business in Italy, the Middle
East and Africa by age 37, according to a profile that was on
Acer’s website earlier this year.  Lenovo gained market share from rivals by winning orders
for replacement computers from companies in the U.S., and
boosting sales in emerging markets such as Brazil and India. The
Chinese company took control of the PC operations of Japan’s  NEC
Corp. (6701)  this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hadi in  Hong Kong  at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  