-- 
Apollo’s Leon Black Sees $2.1 Trillion in Sales of European Bank Assets

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-16T20:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/leon-black-europe-banks-to-shrink-dramatically.html
European banks need to sell 1.5
trillion euros ($2.1 trillion) in assets because of the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis, said  Leon Black , head of private-equity
firm Apollo Global Management LLC.  “There are going to be great sales and they have already
started,” Black said today at an investment forum in Sochi, a
resort town in southern Russia. He said the sales will happen
during the next several years.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner made his first-
ever appearance at a regular meeting of European Union finance
ministers and central bankers today to urge them to find a
solution to their sovereign-debt crisis. Government debt,
together with high unemployment and a weak housing market are
pushing the region into a recession, Black said.  Concern over sovereign debt levels in Greece,  Portugal ,
Spain and possibly Italy will drive banks to unload whole
companies, real-estate loans and non-performing debt, according
to Black. Those assets would give investors “extraordinary
opportunities” to diversify away from sovereign debt, he said,
adding that Apollo would be interested in having Russia as a co-
investor on some of the assets.  Lone Star Funds, the Fort Worth, Texas-based private-equity
fund, last month collaborated with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Wells Fargo & Co. to buy Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s $9.65 billion
portfolio of U.S. real estate loans. Blackstone Group LP was a
final bidder for at least a portion of the loans.  Banco Espirito  Still,  hedge funds  and private-equity firms that raised
funds to buy assets from European sellers crushed by the
sovereign debt crisis may have to wait to reap a profit. Banks
have been reticent to offload bad loans because selling them at
a discount would trigger losses. Meanwhile, low  interest rates 
imposed by the  European Central Bank  have helped indebted
companies meet their debt payments.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , Portugal’s biggest publicly traded
bank, had only sold about half of a 2.5 billion euro ($3.5
billion) group of loans by Aug. 1 after putting them on sale in
January.  The bank tried to elicit bids from hedge funds including
Davidson Kempner Capital Management LLC and GLG Partners Inc.
for the loans, which funded the construction of roads, airports
and athletic-stadiums. Chief Financial Officer Amilcar Morais
Pires said last month he was disappointed by the progress.  Money managers who balked at those assets say they were
offered for only 5 percent less than face value, making it
difficult for hedge funds to make a profit from them.  $5 Billion Raised  Private-equity firms raised $5 billion in 2010 for funds
targeting European distressed assets and corporate turnarounds,
compared with about $400 million during the 2002 recession,
according to London-based researcher Preqin Ltd. With leverage,
the firms have a record $5.8 billion to deploy, Preqin said.  Apollo was seeking to raise $2.8 billion for a fund that
would aim to buy European loans in, or near, default, two people
with knowledge of the matter said Aug. 12. Oaktree Capital
Management LP, the Los Angeles-based private-equity firm led by
 Howard Marks , was seeking as much as $3 billion for a fund to
buy assets in  Europe , according to people with knowledge of the
plans. Officials at the two firms declined to comment.  Colony Financial Inc. and Starwood Property Trust Inc., two
U.S. mortgage investors, have said they are looking at Europe.
Colony, based in  Santa Monica ,  California , in July invested $30
million for a stake in non-performing loans backed by German
buildings.  Starwood, run by  Barry Sternlicht , has made deals including
a $71.5 million loan on a group of 45 properties leased by a
unit of Metro AG, Germany’s largest retailer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Sochi,  Russia , at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  