-- 
Merkel Says Germany Has to Make Its Contribution to Ensure Future of Euro

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-16T12:41:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/merkel-says-germany-has-to-make-its-contribution-to-ensure-future-of-euro.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  expanded
her defense of the euro, saying Germany has a “duty” to
preserve the joint currency because it helps exports, makes the
country richer and underpins  Europe .  “The euro has proven itself, it’s good for us as an export
nation” and has increased growth and prosperity in Europe’s
biggest economy, Merkel said in a speech in Berlin today. “That
is why it is our duty, very much in our own interest, to make
our contribution to secure the euro’s future. Everything that
serves the goal of securing the euro’s future must be done.”  Overcoming the region’s debt crisis is the “central task”
and will keep policy makers busy “in the years ahead” in a
“controlled process of sequential steps,” she said. There
isn’t any one “thunderclap” that offers a solution.  Merkel is sharpening her arguments for the 17-nation
currency as she struggles to maintain public support for euro-
area bailouts. With a state election in Berlin on Sept. 18 after
setbacks in six ballots this year, the chancellor is shifting
tack to stress the euro’s importance and its benefits to  Germany 
as voters question her crisis-fighting strategy.  Sixty-five percent of Germans said Merkel’s government has
made “wrong decisions” in tackling the crisis and 27 percent
said it has done the right thing, an Infratest poll for ARD
television showed today.  Greek Debate  Merkel spoke after her Free Democratic Party coalition ally
stoked debate in Germany this week about a possible Greek
sovereign default or exit from the euro area, earning a rebuke
from members of her Christian Democrats and the headline
“coalition crisis” in the best-selling Bild newspaper today.  FDP party chief Philipp Roesler, the economy minister and
vice chancellor, is trying to heighten his party’s profile at
the risk of breaking up Merkel’s coalition, Gerd Langguth, a
University of Bonn political scientist and Merkel biographer,
was quoted as saying by Handelsblatt newspaper. Even so, Merkel
is “rather unlikely” to switch coalition partners, Langguth
told the newspaper’s online edition.  The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.3763 at 2:26 p.m. Berlin
time. European stocks rose for a fourth day and 10-year German
bund yields declined 3 basis points to 1.89 percent after
falling to an all-time low of 1.679 percent on Sept. 13.  ‘Win Back Confidence’  In her speech to the ZDH trade group, Merkel said that euro
countries must pursue budget consolidation to help the region
move away from a “debt union.” Debt-reduction steps taken by
countries such as  Spain  are encouraging and suggest “we have a
good chance to win back confidence” in the euro area.  She reiterated her opposition to joint euro-area debt
issuance, saying it would undermine budget discipline. “There
won’t be any euro bonds,” Merkel said to applause.  In the latest attempt to stem the crisis, euro-region
ministers are meeting in  Poland  today over collateral to
backstop  Greece ’s rescue loans as the country’s next 109
billion-euro ($151 billion) financial aid package hangs in the
balance.  “The euro is a pillar of our joint economic success,”
Merkel said. “It is a symbol of European unity. That is why
it’s worth making every effort to overcome the current debt
crisis in the euro area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  