-- 
Hermes Tumbles After Saying Defense Win Locks Independence

-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-09-16T08:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/hermes-tumbles-after-saying-defense-win-locks-independence-1-.html
Hermes International (RMS)  SCA fell the
most in nine months in Paris trading as the luxury-goods maker’s
deputy managing director said a court ruling represents “a
decisive step” in the fight to defend against a takeover.  A Paris court yesterday rejected an appeal by minority
investors who opposed a decision by the French market authority
waiving rules to allow the company’s founding family to set up a
holding company. The family sought the structure to protect the
Birkin-bag maker after  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  began
building what is now a 21.4 percent stake.  “When the holding company is in place, it will become
completely obvious that the claims of unity that have taken
place for months and have been questioned will be impossible to
challenge anymore,” Deputy Managing Director Patrick Albaladejo
said in a phone interview. “This is a decisive step.”  Hermes fell as much as 20.25 euros, or 7.6 percent, to
248.05 euros in Paris, the steepest drop since Dec. 3. The stock
traded down 7.2 percent as of 10 a.m.  The Autorite des Marches Financiers was right to grant the
family permission to pool a 50.2 percent Hermes stake into a
holding company without bidding for the rest of the business, as
the regulator would normally require for a group with that large
a stake joining together, the Paris appeals court said.  The court rejected the objections of minority investors
represented by a shareholder advocacy group, which had sought to
have AMF force the family to make an offer for all the shares.  Takeover Talk  While LVMH has said it isn’t seeking control or a board
seat, its stake has prompted takeover talk. LVMH won’t be a
passive shareholder in Hermes and can provide its Paris-based
rival with strategic and operational help, LVMH Chairman  Bernard Arnault  has said.  “All the statements from the family have been very precise
and decisive on this, that they don’t want to engage in
discussions,” Albaladejo said, adding that he isn’t aware of
any contact with Arnault.  Hermes wants LVMH to reduce its stake by more than half to
free shares on the open market, according to Bertrand Puech, who
heads the bag maker’s founding family. Even if LVMH doesn’t
reduce the holding, Hermes will run the company as it sees fit,
Puech has said.  “The creation of this company, which will take place in
the coming weeks, will reinforce durably the independence of the
Hermes group,” the family said in an e-mailed statement.  Bid Defense  The holding company, formed by 52 of the 53 members of the
founding family with direct ownership, controls more than half
the shares of Hermes and at least as many  voting rights . The
family sought permission for the takeover defense on the
condition it wouldn’t have to bid for the rest of the company.
The family won approval from the AMF by arguing that the action
didn’t change the company’s controlling structure.  The regulator agreed, saying in January that the stability
with which the family had managed its stake, its involvement in
the running of Hermes and willingness to entrust shares to a
holding company showed it was acting as a family group seeking
to bring shares under one roof.  The AMF is reviewing whether LVMH violated disclosure rules
by using derivatives to build its stake. LVMH won’t have to cut
the Hermes stake regardless of the decision, the regulator has
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  