-- 
Erste May Need to Boost Romania Unit Capital ‘Soon’ on Bad Debt

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-09-16T08:40:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/erste-sees-part-of-bcr-buyout-complete-this-year-wimmer-says.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  may soon have
to boost the capital of its Romanian unit, Banca Comerciala
Romana SA, as the Black Sea country’s banks are squeezed by bad
debts and the economic situation is “severe.”  “The overall economic situation is still pretty severe,”
Erste’s Chief Financial Officer Manfred Wimmer said today in
Bucharest. “There is very little new business. Risk costs in
BCR and other banks will remain elevated for quite some time and
there is substantial probability that a capital increase will be
needed pretty soon.”  Erste, eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender after  Italy ’s
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , agreed this week to raise its stake in BCR by
buying out shares held by four Romanian funds, a deal it expects
to complete at least partly this year, Wimmer said. A fifth fund
is invited to enter the transaction. The funds, known as SIFs,
cannot support a “significant” capital increase for BCR, he
said.  Erste, like regional rivals including UniCredit and
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , is betting that lending will
return to growth and drive profits again as risk costs continue
to decline. Romania, along with  Hungary , is holding back the
earnings recovery, while profit is expanding in the  Czech
Republic ,  Slovakia  and  Austria .  Romania has the third-highest share of bad debt in the
European Union after Latvia and Lithuania, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , after its economy contracted again
last year. Hungary ranks next on that scale. At Erste,
delinquent loans grew to 19 percent of total outstanding credit
in Romania by the end of June, it said on July 29.  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale (BRD)  SA, and Raiffeisen’s and
UniCredit’s units are other major foreign-owned banks in
Romania.  Banca Transilvania (TLV)  SA and state-owned CEC are major
domestic banks.  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  kept its
Romanian unit when it agreed to sell most of its eastern
European business to OAO Sberbank this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  