-- 
Esprit Slumps as Analysts Downgrade Clothing Retailer That ‘Lost Its Soul’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-16T09:21:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/esprit-plummets-for-second-day-in-hong-kong-after-posting-98-profit-drop.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  plunged the
most in more than 13 years as at least seven brokerages
downgraded the stock after the clothing retailer said its brand
had “lost its soul.”  Esprit plummeted 19 percent, the most since January 1998,
and has slumped about 33 percent since Hong Kong’s biggest
listed clothing chain yesterday reported a 98 percent drop in
annual profit. The stock’s rating was cut by brokerages
including UBS AG,  Barclays Capital  and Credit Suisse Group AG.  “We’re paying the price now” for having focused on short-
term gains, Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis said in
an interview late yesterday. “We had lost sight of the
customer. We started to neglect the brand.”  The casual clothing maker’s revenue fell for the third year
in a row in  Europe , where it made 79 percent of sales. Esprit
will accelerate expansion in China, revive earnings growth in
other main markets including Germany and  France , where it’s
shutting stores, and sell its unprofitable North American
operations, Van der Vis said.  “Esprit’s products are no longer trendy and fashionable,”
Gabriel Chan, an analyst at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong, who cut
Esprit from “neutral” to “underperform,” said in an
interview today. “What Esprit really needs to do is to improve
products and adjust its price points.”  Europe’s Economy  Net income dropped to HK$79 million ($10 million) in the
year through June from HK$4.23 billion in the previous period,
the third consecutive annual decline. Profit excluding
exceptional items fell 30 percent to HK$2.35 billion.  Esprit declined HK$2.86 to HK$12.22 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in  Hong Kong , extending its retreat this year to 67
percent.  The euro-area economy may come “close to standstill at
year-end,” the European Union said yesterday, cutting its
growth forecasts for the second half to reflect a worsening
outlook on the sovereign-debt crisis.  “The recovery pace was slower than expected, especially in
Europe, as  consumer spending  and sentiment was negatively
impacted by rising inflation and austerity measures,” the Hong
Kong-based company said in its earnings statement yesterday.  Zara, H&M  Esprit yesterday said it plans to close 80 outlets,
including 24 in Germany and 12 in France.  “The brand has gradually lost its soul over the past few
years,” Esprit said in its filing yesterday. “The heritage of
the brand has been neglected and the company lost its  customer
focus .”  Esprit is facing increased competition from  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s
Zara and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ’s H&M. Inditex’s fiscal first-
quarter net income rose 10 percent to 332 million euros ($458
million), beating analysts’ estimates, as it added new stores.
Hennes & Mauritz yesterday said August sales were better than
analysts anticipated.  “The market is worried about Esprit’s profitability in the
next two years,” Hayman Chiu, an analyst with Cinda
International Holding Ltd. in Hong Kong said in a phone
interview today. “The divestment of North American business may
not help much.”  China Expansion  The clothing chain forecast an operating profit margin of 1
percent to 2 percent for the year ending June 2012. That
“implies close to zero net profit for 2012 and greatly reduces
the potential for a reasonable dividend yield,” said Aaron
Fischer and Mariana Kou, analysts for CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
who recommend selling the stock.  Esprit is hiring a manager for  China  as it plans to more
than double sales in the world’s most-populous nation in four
years, Van der Vis said. The new executive’s goal is to meet
Esprit’s stated targets of HK$6 billion sales in China, with
1,900 sales outlets, in the fiscal year that ends June 2015.  Sales in China for Esprit more than tripled to HK$2.68
billion in the fiscal year through June, accounting for 7.9
percent of total revenue, which was little changed at HK$33.8
billion.  Esprit, which hired the brand director and creative
director of Hennes & Mauritz AB’s H&M to rejuvenate its
fashions, plans to spend HK$6.8 billion on branding over the
next four years. It will focus its efforts in  Germany , France,
 Belgium , the Netherlands and China, according to a company
presentation.  Designers in Paris  Van der Vis is setting up a team of designers in Paris to
be “closer to the pulse of fashion” and said he also wants a
design team in China.  “We became too safe and boring,” Van der Vis said in an
interview yesterday, referring to Esprit’s designs.  Esprit plans to spend HK$6.8 billion on branding over the
next four years, focusing its efforts in Germany, France,
Belgium, the Netherlands and China, according to a company
presentation.  “This plan is going to take considerable time and
significant investment to execute,” Erica Poon Werkun, an
analyst with UBS said in a note to clients. “Considerable
patience and faith are needed to support Esprit share price in
the near term, which we believe can be rather much to ask for,
amid volatile macro conditions.”  The retailer that started in California more than 40 years
ago is in talks to sell its operations in U.S. and  Canada , which
had a full-year operating loss of HK$410 million. Esprit may buy
the business back in five to seven years, Van der Vis said,
declining to identify who the company is in talks with.  “China is our future, not  North America ,” he said.  Esprit had annual sales growth in its 15 fiscal years
through June 2008, with revenue growing 48-fold in the period.
The stock’s record closing price of HK$127.744 was 66 times its
offer price in 1993.  “My journey now is to do things right in the long term,”
Van der Vis said. “I’m not prepared to do anything to please
anybody short term. We did that for too long.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  