-- 
Ethiopian Government Rejects Human Rights-Group’s Criticism Over Arrests

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-09-16T13:14:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/ethiopian-government-rejects-human-rights-group-s-criticism-over-arrests.html
Ethiopia ’s government rejected
accusations by a human-rights group that it’s suppressing
dissent, following the arrests of a reporter and four opposition
politicians this week.  The detentions came after three other journalists and two
opponents of the ruling party were charged by the authorities in
the Horn of Africa nation on Sept. 6. Those being held were
“leading a plan to throw the country into serious political
chaos through a series of terrorist acts,”  Shimeles Kemal ,
minister of state at the Communications Ministry, said in an
interview today in Addis Ababa, the capital.  Amnesty International , the London-based advocacy group,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday the arrests signified
the Ethiopian government is “intent on destroying the last
vestiges of free expression in Ethiopia” and were “a chilling
warning to other opposition politicians and journalists.”  Ethiopia,  Africa ’s second-most populous nation and the
continent’s biggest coffee grower, adopted anti-terrorism laws
in 2009 that groups including  Human Rights Watch  have described
as “restrictive and vague.” Last year, the country jailed the
second-highest number of journalists on the continent, after
neighboring Eritrea, according to the Committee to  Protect
Journalists , the New York-based advocacy group.  The group of people arrested planned to carry out attacks
in the Ethiopian year that began on Sept. 12, Shimeles said. The
plot was “sponsored and contrived” by the banned Ginbot 7
organization, Shimeles said. Ginbot 7 is led by the exiled
former elected mayor of Addis Ababa, Berhanu Nega.  Arrests  The deputy chairman of the opposition Unity for Democracy
and Justice party, Andualem Arage, and reporter Eskinder Nega
were arrested on Sept. 14 along with three other politicians,
Shimeles said.  “Ethiopia does not espouse a policy to criminalize
dissent,” he said. “The right to dissent is a constitutionally-
entrenched right.” As many as 100 politicians and five
journalists have been arrested since March, according to
Amnesty.  “UDJ has never been and never will be a den for people who
promote acts of terrorism,” the party said in a statement handed
to reporters today at a press conference in  Addis Ababa . “The
ruling regime must know that it cannot stop the forward march of
the struggle for freedom and democracy by trying to engulf the
people in fear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 