-- 
EU Needs Powers to Ban Financial Products, ESMA’s Maijoor Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-16T06:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/eu-needs-powers-to-ban-financial-products-esma-s-maijoor-says.html
European financial regulators need
the power to ban products that would harm individual investors,
said Steven Maijoor, chairman of the European Securities and
Markets Authority.  Banning products is an “exceptional” step that shouldn’t
be taken lightly, Maijoor said in an interview late yesterday at
the Eurofi conference in Wroclaw,  Poland . At the same time, he
said, regulators need better ways to coordinate actions such as
the short-selling bans imposed in August by  France ,  Spain ,  Italy 
and  Belgium .  “There have been examples of products in the past where
both it would have been much better for retail investors if that
product wouldn’t have been on the markets, and probably also
better for the industry,” Maijoor said. In the past, he said
financial firms have had to compensate clients and cope with
reputational damage.  The EU has agreed in principle that ESMA should have the
power to ban products and to coordinate with national
regulators, Maijoor said. European legislators now will need to
determine how those powers will work and what national
regulators should be able to do.  In some cases, national regulators can effectively ban
products already by granting or withdrawing licenses to
financial firms, Maijoor said. As an example he cited
Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable
Securities, or UCITS, which have gained popularity as a way to
invest in  hedge funds  that are regulated and thus easier to
trade.  With UCITS providers, “if you don’t give a license, to
some extent that is banning a certain product,” Maijoor said.
He said the EU also needs better oversight of product
development at financial firms to make sure that financial
innovations “meet certain standards” and retail investors
aren’t offered inappropriate products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Wroclaw at  Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  