-- 
EU Sets July 2012 Deadline for Bank-Capital, Rating Overhaul

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-16T12:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/eu-sets-july-2012-deadline-for-bank-capital-rating-overhaul.html
The European Union’s executive arm
set a July 2012 deadline for the bloc’s 27 member states to sign
off on an overhaul of bank capital rules and tougher regulation
of credit-rating companies to avoid a legislative logjam.  “The urgency of completing the reform of the European
financial sector has been underlined by the market disturbances
of the summer,” the European Commission said in a document to
be circulated to EU finance ministers at a meeting in Wroclaw,
Poland, today. “We therefore cannot allow the current and
forthcoming negotiations to drag on indefinitely,” according to
the document, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  An agreement among member states on capital rules is needed
by next July, leaving sufficient time to secure the approval of
the European Parliament, if they are to come into force as
planned on Jan. 1, 2013, the commission said.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
proposed in July to apply bank capital rules set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  to more than 8,300 lenders,
inciting complaints from some financial companies that the
changes would hamper the euro area’s economic recovery. Lenders
must raise an additional 423 billion euros ($582 billion) by
2019 to comply, according to an EU study.  “Together with determined action to address the debt
crisis, financial sector reforms are indispensable to help
restore confidence in the functioning of the European financial
system,” the commission said.  The commission is also seeking commitments from governments
to reach a deal on pushing trading of over-the-counter
derivatives through clearing houses by “October at the
latest.” Nations and lawmakers in the European Parliament
should broker a compromise on curbs on naked short-selling by
the end of this month,” according to the document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Wroclaw,  Poland , at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  