-- 
Euro Weakens on Concern Ministers’ Actions Won’t Contain Crisis

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-16T21:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/euro-weakens-amid-divisions-among-european-leaders-on-greek-aid-collateral.html
The euro fell, halting a two-day
gain versus the dollar, after European finance ministers meeting
in  Poland  ruled out efforts to prop up the region’s economy and
gave no indication of providing added support for lenders.  The 17-nation currency pared its first weekly advance this
month versus the greenback as European finance ministers meeting
in Wroclaw, Poland ruled out efforts to prop up the faltering
economy and raised issues of collateral demanded to take part in
another Greek bailout at a meeting today. The Dollar Index rose
for the first time in four days after a report showed  consumer
confidence  rose more than forecast this month. Sweden’s krona
and Norway’s krone fell as volatility deterred investors.  “Nothing encouraging will come out of the finance
ministers’ meeting,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research with online trading firm GFT Forex in New York. “A lot
of the initiatives that we have seen from the European leaders,
including the solidarity that they’re trying to show for  Greece ,
don’t really hit at the problem. The market is pretty realistic
in pricing in a Greek default.”  The euro weakened 0.6 percent to $1.3796 at 5 p.m. in New
York, paring its weekly advance to 1 percent. The shared
currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 105.95 yen. The dollar added
0.1 percent to 76.80 yen.  Month’s View  The greenback has appreciated 3.1 percent in the past
month, the best performance after the Canadian dollar’s 3.6
percent gain among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has fallen 1.7
percent.  Futures traders increased bets that the euro will fall
against the dollar to the most in more than a year.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- the so-called net shorts -- was 54,459 on
Sept. 13, the most since July 2010, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  The yen extended declines against the dollar after the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment climbed to 57.8 this month from 55.7 in
August, which was the lowest level since November 2008. The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a reading of 57.  Dollar Path  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, trimmed a weekly
decline as concern the world’s largest economies are slowing
fuels demand for the safest assets. The Dollar Index gained 0.4
percent to 76.554, paring this week’s loss to 0.8 percent.  The Swedish krona weakened against most of its major
counterparts, and  Norway ’s krone dropped, on speculation rising
volatility in financial markets is deterring investors from
taking positions in the currencies. Implied volatility among
currencies of the Group of Seven nations traded at 13 today,
above its average of 11.5 this year, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Index.  “The liquidity issue with respect to the krone and the
krona always means that buying those currencies is a dangerous
thing,” said Jane Foley, a senior foreign-exchange strategist
at Rabobank International in  London . “You can see very violent
moves because of the lack of liquidity.”  The krona fell 0.5 percent to 6.6152 per dollar, and the
krone slid 0.1 percent to 5.5738.  Kiwi Rises  New Zealand ’s dollar rose the most among the major
currencies, strengthening 0.6 percent to 82.91 U.S. cents.  South Africa ’s rand was one of the worst-performing
currencies. Its central bank meets next week as unemployment and
inflation remain high. The rand fell 1.3 percent to 7.4915 per
dollar.  European finance ministers gave no indication today of
fresh aid for lenders to go along with yesterday’s liquidity
lifeline from the  European Central Bank . The finance chiefs from
the euro region said the 18-month debt crisis leaves no room for
tax cuts or extra spending to spur an economy on the brink of
stagnation.  Before today’s meeting, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
pressed euro-area governments to take decisive action at today’s
meeting to halt the crisis and show “unity of purpose.”
 Finland ’s Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said it was unlikely
an agreement on collateral would be reached at the gathering
Poland.  Loan Backing  “We’re going to negotiate about it, but unfortunately I
don’t see that we can find a solution” today, Finland’s
Urpilainen told reporters before the meeting, which is also
being attended by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  “ Risk aversion  and the euro is reacting to the continuing
disagreements among the euro area on what needs to be done and
these appear to be quite large,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a
currency strategist in  New York  at Barclays Plc. “The
collateral demands that have been raised by certain countries is
a sticking point for the release of additional funds to Greece.
If these demands are withdrawn, that would be a positive.”  The euro jumped the most in a month yesterday after the ECB
said it will coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  and other
central banks to conduct three separate dollar liquidity
operations to ensure lenders have enough of the currency through
the end of the year.  Loan Costs  The cost for European banks to fund in dollars rose today
after dropping yesterday, signaling that investors view policy
makers’ offer of unlimited loans in the currency as a short-term
fix that doesn’t address the euro region’s underlying problems.  The cost of converting euro payments into dollars, measured
by the three-month cross-currency basis swap, was 85.4 basis
points below the euro interbank offered rate, from 81.9 basis
points yesterday.  Canada ’s dollar is poised to outperform every major
currency this week, rising along with the yen and franc, as
investors sought haven assets to protect from euro zone
problems. Canada has a smaller budget-deficit ratio, lower
jobless rate and faster growth than most of its Group of Seven
peers.  The loonie, as the currency is known, rose 0.6 percent to
97.81 cents per  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net 
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  