-- 
Crisis Worse Than 2008 in Europe as Rescue Options Dim, Gordon Brown Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-16T08:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/european-banks-grossly-under-capitalized-amid-debt-crisis-brown-says.html
European banks are “grossly under-
capitalized” and the debt crisis is more serious for the region
than the 2008 meltdown as governments are constrained by fiscal
pressures, former U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  said.  “In 2008, governments could intervene to sort out the
problems of banks,” Brown said at the  World Economic Forum  in
the Chinese port city of Dalian today. “In 2011, banks have
problems, but so too do governments.”  Investor skittishness over  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
raised lenders’ funding costs and caused a rout in the region’s
banking stocks this month. European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet pressed euro-area governments late yesterday to
take decisive action to restore confidence after the ECB
extended an emergency lifeline to lenders.  Brown said that while the ECB is part of the short-term
solution, it needs additional assistance.  The European Financial Stabilization Mechanism, which is
run by the European Union’s 27-nation executive arm, is “not
enough,” Brown said. “Substantially more resources” are
required, including from the  International Monetary Fund  and
lenders including  China , he said.  ‘Hour to Midnight’  “The euro area problem is now moving to the center,”
Brown said. “The euro cannot survive in its present form, it’s
going to have to be reformed dramatically. We are I think at an
hour to midnight in the way that we look at this issue.”  Regulators should stick to their commitments to implement
bank capital rules agreed by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision irrespective of opposition from lenders, Trichet
said yesterday at a forum in Wroclaw,  Poland , including plans to
require the biggest banks to hold up to 2.5 percentage points in
extra reserves.  “In a crisis period where confidence is of the essence, it
would be extremely damaging if the authorities were to hesitate,
demonstrate an absence of resolve and of the fortitude that is
required by the circumstances,” Trichet said. “For me, it is
crystal clear: what has been decided is decided.”  Britain’s government this week said it will force lenders
to insulate their consumer banking units by 2019 as Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  seeks to shield customers and
taxpayers from another financial crisis.  “European banks as a whole are grossly under-
capitalized,” Brown said. “We’ve now got the interplay between
banks that are not properly capitalized and sovereign debt
problems that have arisen partly because we’ve socialized or
accepted responsibility for the banks’ liabilities.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  