-- 
Europe Rules Out Stimulus, Shuns Geithner Plea

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-16T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/europe-rules-out-stimulus-offers-no-bank-aid-at-geithner-parley.html
European finance ministers ruled
out efforts to spur the faltering economy and showed no signs of
taking up a proposal by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
to increase the firepower of the debt crisis rescue fund.  Inviting Geithner to a euro meeting for the first time, the
European finance chiefs said the 18-month debt crisis leaves no
room for tax cuts or extra spending to spur an economy on the
brink of stagnation.  “We have slightly different views from time to time with
our U.S. colleagues when it comes to fiscal-stimulus packages,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters
after chairing the meeting yesterday in Wroclaw, Poland. “We
don’t see any room for maneuver in the euro area which could
allow us to launch new fiscal stimulus packages. That will not
be possible.”  Europe’s economy will barely grow in the second half of
2011, a casualty of the debt buildup that 256 billion euros
($353 billion) in aid for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  has
failed to extinguish.  Geithner made little headway with a call for Europe to
boost the capacity of the 440 billion-euro rescue fund, known as
the European Financial Stability Facility, by enabling it to tap
the  European Central Bank .  ‘Non-Member’  Juncker said there was no discussion of expanding the fund
today -- at least not while the American guest was in the room.  “We are not discussing the increase or the expansion of
the EFSF with a non-member of the euro area,” he said. German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  spoke of a “very intensive
but friendly discussion” and Austrian Finance Minister Maria
Fekter found it “peculiar” to be lectured by the U.S., a
country with higher aggregate debt than the euro area.  Instead, the ministers recommitted to a July 21 decision to
empower the fund to buy bonds in the primary and secondary
market, offer precautionary credit lines and create a bank-
recapitalization facility. The target for completing national
approvals of the new powers slipped to mid-October.  Geithner preached the lessons of the emergency banking
support provided by the Treasury and  Federal Reserve  in reaction
to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., mixing it with
criticism of Europe’s crisis-management coordination.  ‘Permanent Message’  Europe projects an image of “ongoing conflict” between
national governments and the central bank, hampering efforts to
put the economy on a sounder footing, Geithner said at a banking
conference in between euro meetings.  “Your financial challenges in Europe are eminently in your
capacity to manage financially, you just have to choose to do
it,” he said.  Echoes of that appeal came from ECB President  Jean-Claude
Trichet , six weeks from the end of an eight-year term as the
overseer of euro  interest rates .  “Our permanent message is of course to be ahead of the
curve,” Trichet told reporters. “All that I heard goes in this
direction. But the problems are not words, the problems are
deeds.”  The ECB was in the forefront again this week, joining other
major central banks in offering dollar loans to ease a liquidity
crunch that had confronted European banks with the highest costs
for obtaining the U.S. currency in almost three years.  Finance chiefs stuck by the view that commercial banks have
enough capital to ride out the turbulence that has driven the
bonds of  Greece , the epicenter of the crisis, to less than half
their nominal value.  ‘Substantial Improvement’  Trichet hailed an accord between governments and the
European Parliament that will tighten the euro area’s economic
management and make it easier to impose sanctions on countries
that overstep the budget-deficit limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product.  The new rules, to take effect by Jan. 1, mark a
“substantial improvement,” Trichet said.  The debt overhang is taking its toll on the wider economy,
the  European Commission  says. It cut its growth forecast this
week to 0.2 percent for the third quarter and 0.1 percent in the
fourth, down from projections of 0.4 percent for both periods.  “Recovery is stalling in the second half of the year, but
we do not forecast a return to recession,” European Union
Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said. “Uncertainty
and stress in financial markets is now having negative
ramifications in the real economy and is hampering our growth
prospects.”  Greek Aid  Greece is now looking to the ministers’ next meeting, on
Oct. 3, for a decision on the release of an 8 billion-euro aid
installment. The loan would be disbursed by mid-October,
enabling the government to pay its bills through the end of the
year.  The fate of future Greek loans remains tied up by a demand
by  Finland , one of  Europe ’s six AAA rated countries, that it
receive collateral, potentially in the form of real estate or
shares in nationalized Greek banks.  While a final agreement eluded them, the ministers agreed
on the principle that collateral must carry a cost, with the
goal of limiting its use to Finland.  “There is unity that collateral, first of all, must be
open to all and, second, must cost something,” Austria’s Fekter
said.  On personnel matters, the officials set a Sept. 27 deadline
for nominations to replace  Germany ’s Juergen Stark on the ECB’s
Executive Board. Stark, an opponent of the bank’s bond-purchase
program, said last week he will quit before his term ends in May
2014.  The only candidate so far is German Deputy Finance Minister
 Joerg Asmussen .  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Wroclaw,  Poland  at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Wroclaw, Poland at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  