-- 
Euro-Area Exports Rise, Led by France, Austria, Netherlands

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-09-16T09:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/euro-area-exports-rise-on-gains-in-france-austria-netherlands.html
European exports rose in July, led
by gains in  France ,  Austria  and the Netherlands.  Exports from the euro-area economy advanced a seasonally
adjusted 2 percent from June, when they fell 5 percent, the
European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
Imports increased 1.9 percent, and the trade deficit remained at
2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion). Labor costs rose 3.6 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, the biggest jump
since 2008, separate data showed.  Faltering export demand was among the reasons why the euro
region’s recovery slowed in the second quarter, suggesting the
economy may struggle to gather strength as governments cut
spending. The  European Central Bank  last week kept its key
interest rate at 1.5 percent and lowered its economic forecasts
for this year and next. In the U.S., growth is also cooling.  “The ECB is now markedly more worried about the marked
slowdown in  euro-zone  growth and weakened growth outlook,” said
 Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London . Still, “we suspect that the bank will be reluctant to
cut  interest rates , in the near term at least, unless the euro
zone actually goes back into recession.”  The euro rose off its lows against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.3801 at 10:02 a.m. in London, down 0.5
percent on the day, after trading as low as $1.3777 earlier.  Netherlands, France  Exports from the Netherlands jumped 17 percent in July,
today’s report showed, while shipments from France increased 7
percent and those from Austria rose 7.1 percent. Exports from
Germany, the  Europe ’s biggest economy, were flat in July.  The euro-area economy may expand 1.6 percent this year and
1.3 percent in 2012, the Frankfurt-based ECB said on Sept. 8. It
had previously forecast economic growth of 1.9 percent and 1.7
percent for this year and next, respectively.  The economy of the 17 nations using the euro probably
continued to weaken after expanding 0.2 percent in the second
quarter as governments toughened austerity measures to plug
budget gaps. Growth could come to a “virtual standstill” by
year end, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday as the European Commission cut its forecasts
for the second half.  “Over the summer, signs of a more extensive weakening of
global demand and world trade emerged,” the commission said.
“The recovery lost steam in the U.S., and indicators for world
trade suggest a further weakening into the third quarter.” The
commission reduced its third-quarter growth forecast by half to
0.2 percent and lowered its projection for the fourth quarter to
0.1 percent from 0.4 percent.  Economic Confidence  European economic confidence slumped in August and
manufacturing contracted. In  Germany , investor sentiment dropped
to the lowest in 2 1/2 years in August.  With economies around the globe showing signs of slowdown,
European companies may struggle to maintain their export growth.
U.S. retail sales unexpectedly stagnated in August, adding to
risks of stalling growth in the world’s largest economy. U.K.
manufacturing industries also failed to expand last month.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
on Sept. 8 lowered its growth forecasts for the U.S. and Japan
for the third and fourth quarters and said central banks around
the world should be ready to ease lower borrowing costs if
needed. The ECB has raised its benchmark interest rate twice
this year to ward off price pressures.  Exports to the U.S. rose 13 percent in the six months
through June from a year earlier, while shipments to the U.K.,
the euro area’s largest market, increased 12 percent, today’s
report showed. Exports to  China  surged 24 percent and  Japan 
shipments climbed 13 percent in the period. Detailed trade data
are published with a one-month lag.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at  cstirling1@bloomberg 