-- 
European Stocks Advance for Fourth Straight Day; ING, Lonza Gain

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-16T16:38:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/european-stock-futures-rise-stoxx-600-heads-for-weekly-gain.html
European stocks rose for a fourth
day as finance ministers met in  Poland  to discuss how they can
implement expansion of the region’s bailout fund.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  led insurers higher.  Lonza Group AG (LONN) , the
world’s biggest maker of chemicals for drug companies, rallied
4.9 percent after saying it plans a secondary listing in
 Singapore .  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA sank 4.8 percent as the
luxury-goods maker’s founding family won a court ruling allowing
it to set up a holding company to defend against takeovers.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 0.6 percent to 230.16 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge advanced 2.5 percent
this week as the  European Central Bank  yesterday announced
coordinated measures with the  Federal Reserve  to ensure banks
have enough dollars and  Germany  and  France  assured investors
that  Greece  will remain a member of the euro.  “No liquidity dry out is good news,” said  Robert Halver ,
head of research at Baader Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “It was also a
relief for the market to hear that Greece will remain a member
of the euro area, at least for now, though we’re far away from a
sustainable solution for banks.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  advanced 0.6 percent
and Germany’s DAX jumped 1.2 percent. France’s CAC 40 slid 0.5
percent as  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  dropped more
than 7 percent.  Poland Meeting  European finance ministers met in Wroclaw, Poland, today to
discuss the euro-area crisis.  Jean-Claude Trichet , president of
the region’s central bank, said yesterday that the policy makers
need to show the same “unity of purpose” as central banks did
yesterday in providing extra dollars to European lenders.  “The European situation seems for now to have been pulled
back from the brink,” said  Jim Reid , global head of fundamental
strategy at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  “Markets clearly loved the
coordinated policy response as it perhaps shows no immediate
willingness to cleanse the system of its excesses, however large
they are.”  The Stoxx 600 has still fallen 21 percent from this year’s
peak on Feb. 17 as European and U.S. economic reports trailed
forecasts, adding to concern that the global economic recovery
is at risk. The retreat has left the gauge trading at about 9.7
percent the estimated earnings of its companies, near the
cheapest since March 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Liquidity Lifeline  European finance ministers ruled out efforts to prop up the
faltering economy and gave no indication of fresh aid for
lenders to go along with yesterday’s liquidity lifeline from the
European Central Bank. Meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner , finance chiefs from the euro region said the
18-month debt crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or extra
spending to spur an economy on the brink of stagnation.  ING, the largest Dutch financial services company, climbed
4.4 percent to 5.32 euros, extending this week’s gain to 8.2
percent. Insurance companies were among the best performers
across Europe today, rising 1 percent as a group. Automakers
posted the largest gain in the Stoxx 600, rising 2 percent.  Banking shares also climbed.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s
second-biggest bank by assets, jumped 3.4 percent to 163.4
pence, while  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-largest Swiss
lender, rose 4.8 percent to 22.72 Swiss francs. Italy’s  Banca
Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna Scrl (BPE)  and Banca Popolare di Sondrio
Scrl rallied 11 percent to 8.43 euros and 8.8 percent to 5.77
euros, respectively.  BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, bucked the trend,
losing 7.6 percent to 28.20 euros.  Credit Agricole  declined 11
percent to 4.92 euros.  Lonza, Hermes  Lonza advanced 4.9 percent to 56.55 francs, the highest
price in more than a month, as the company said it submitted an
application for a secondary listing on the Singapore stock
exchange.  Hermes sank 4.8 percent to 255.55 euros, the largest
retreat in a month. The company’s founding family can set up a
holding company to defend against a takeover after a Paris court
yesterday rejected an appeal by minority investors. The family
sought the structure to protect the Birkin-bag maker after LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA began building what is now a 21.4
percent stake.  EON AG gained 3.5 percent to 15.62 euros as Germany’s
biggest utility was upgraded to “overweight” from “neutral”
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. The brokerage said the “German
political risk is peaking” and the “energy policy is now more
consensual.”  Ansaldo STS SpA (STS)  surged 2.8 percent to 6.89 euros and
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  rose 8.3 percent to 5.68 euros. Alstom SA is
interested in Finmeccanica’s AnsaldoBreda train-making unit,
seeking an acquisition or partnership,  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported,
without saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  