-- 
European Stocks Climb for Third Week in Four as Greek Default Risk Reduces

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/european-stocks-post-weekly-gain-as-ecb-extends-dollar-funding.html
European stocks rose for the third
week in four as  Germany  and France said Greece will remain a
euro member and the  European Central Bank  announced measures
with the  Federal Reserve  to ensure banks have enough dollars.  British banks rallied, leading a gauge of European lenders
higher as central banks said they will offer three-month loans
to provide liquidity.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  surged 21 percent on
reports that General Electric Co. or Alstom SA may be interested
in its AnsaldoBreda SpA train-making unit. Hermes International
SCA sank 3.6 percent as a court ruling allowed setting up a
holding company to defend against takeovers.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 2.5 percent to 230.16
this week, paring the previous week’s 3.7 decline, as 16 of the
19 industry groups in the benchmark measure climbed. The gauge
has still plunged 21 percent from this year’s peak on Feb. 17 as
economic reports from the U.S. and  Europe  trailed forecasts and
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded America’s sovereign-debt rating,
citing politicians’ failure to reduce record deficits.  “This week, we’ve had nothing but good news and positive
comments from the political leaders in Europe, from Merkel
starting the week saying she will not allow a ‘disorderly
default’ in Greece to the central banks’ intervention yesterday,
reducing the risk of a liquidity crisis,” said Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen,
speaking on Sept. 16. “Markets are still very volatile and
things could look very different soon.”  The Stoxx 600 traded at 9.7 times the estimated earnings of
its constituent companies, near the lowest valuation since March
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Merkel, Sarkozy Assurances  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy said on Sept. 14 that they are “convinced”
 Greece  will stay in the euro area after a phone conversation
with Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou.  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of  China ’s National
Development and Reform Commission, said on Sept. 15 that China
remains willing to buy the bonds of the most indebted European
nations, according to a report by Caijing magazine.  European stocks extended their rebound on Sept. 15 as the
ECB said that it will conduct three U.S. dollar liquidity-
providing operations with a maturity of approximately three
months. The ECB will coordinate the auctions with the Fed, the
 Bank of England , the Bank of  Japan  and the  Swiss National Bank .
The loans are in addition to the bank’s regular seven-day dollar
offerings. The ECB will conduct them as fixed-rate tenders with
full allotment, it said in a statement.  Liquidity Operations  “It’s encouraging to note that markets rose strongly on
the news, which shows that the current upside potential is at
least as large as the down,” said Lothar Mentel, chief
investment officer at Octopus Investment Ltd. in  London . “Given
the limitation of the initiative towards solving the crisis of
the European Monetary Union, we are cautious to see these latest
moves as the beginning of a lasting improvement.”  Deutsche Bank AG said U.K. recommendations that lenders
should build firewalls between their consumer units and
investment banks and increase capital may be less costly than
some investors and analysts had estimated.  Lloyds Banking Plc surged 15 percent, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc jumped 13 percent and Barclays Plc soared 13
percent. A measure of U.K. banks rallied 6.2 percent, its
biggest weekly gain in more than two months.  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of protecting
against a decline in shares on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, tumbled
14 percent this week after reaching its highest level since
January 2009 on Sept. 12.  Finmeccanica, EON, RWE  Finmeccanica SpA soared 21 percent, its largest weekly
advance since 1998, as General Electric and Alstom were said to
be interested in AnsaldoBreda, the train-making unit of Italy’s
biggest arms company.  EON AG surged 17 percent, the largest-ever weekly gain for
Germany’s biggest power utility, as investors speculated that
the industry faces a turnaround. RWE AG rallied 13 percent for
its largest weekly jump since 2008.  Hermes dropped 3.6 percent as a Paris court ruled that the
luxury-goods maker’s founding family may set up a holding
company. The family had sought the structure to protect Hermes
after LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA built a 21.4 percent
stake in the maker of Birkin bags.  UBS AG (UBSN)  lost 2.8 percent as Switzerland’s largest lender
announced that it had discovered unauthorized trades that caused
a $2 billion trading loss. City of London Police charged Kweku Adoboli, a 31-year-old who worked on the bank’s Delta One desk,
with fraud and false accounting.  National benchmark indexes rose in every western-European
market except Greece and Iceland. France’s CAC 40 Index added
1.9 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index gained 2.9 percent and
Germany’s DAX Index rallied 7.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  