-- 
Ministers Spar on Greek Collateral, German Objections to Changing Treaties

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-09-16T07:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/euro-ministers-spar-on-collateral-from-greece-as-geithner-calls-for-action.html
Europe ’s challenges in stemming the
debt crisis were underscored by snags over collateral to
underpin Greece’s rescue loans and German objections to altering
European treaties.  European finance officials are unlikely to reach a
collateral deal today in their monthly meeting to clear the way
for Greece’s next 109 billion-euro ($151 billion) package,
Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said.  “We’re going to negotiate about it, but unfortunately I
don’t see that we can find a solution” today, Urpilainen told
reporters before the meeting in Wroclaw, Poland.  After a call to action last night by European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , the 17 euro finance ministers
were braced for a dressing-down from U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner , invited to the gathering by the host Polish
government.  The stewards of the 9.5 trillion-euro economy must “do
more to earn the confidence of the world, that they have the
political will to do this,” Geithner said on Sept. 14.  A press conference is scheduled for 12 p.m. after a
breakfast meeting of euro-area ministers. Meetings of all 27
European Union finance ministers and central bankers follow in
the afternoon and tomorrow morning.  Eighteen months of crisis-fighting and 256 billion euros in
aid for Greece, Ireland and Portugal have failed to stabilize
markets. The turmoil has spread to Italy and  Spain , sending
tremors through Europe’s banking system and leading to
speculation that a currency meant to be permanent might break
up.  Finland’s Demand  Finland’s insistence on collateral -- potentially in the
form of shares in nationalized Greek banks or real estate --
looms as an example of the national quibbles that have frayed
the crisis response.  Crisis management has to be guided by Europe’s current
rulebook, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said,
playing down the prospect of bolder steps such as the issuance
of common bonds or creation of a European finance ministry.  “We have to solve the problems on the basis of existing
treaties,” Schaeuble said on his way in to the meeting.
“Treaty changes take time and until then we’ll solve problems
as we have agreed to do.”  The debt overhang is taking its toll on the wider economy,
the  European Commission  said yesterday. It cut its growth
forecast to 0.2 percent for the third quarter and 0.1 percent in
the fourth, down from projections of 0.4 percent for both
periods.  ‘Clear Roadmap’  “What the markets want is a clear roadmap for the future
of the  euro zone ,”  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  London , told Bloomberg Television’s  Tom Keene . “That is precisely what they are not getting at the
moment. They need to see Berlin and Paris lead the way and say
by 2015, we aim at a fiscal union for the euro area.”  Trichet said yesterday the ministers need to show the same
“unity of purpose” as central banks did yesterday in providing
extra dollars to European lenders bruised by the crisis that has
seeped from Europe’s edges to its core.  The ECB joined other major central banks in offering a
series of three-month dollar loans to ease a liquidity crunch
that had confronted European banks with the highest costs for
obtaining the U.S. currency in almost three years.  The ECB’s move and a Sept. 14 pledge by German Chancellor
Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy to keep
 Greece  in the euro and prevent a default gave a lift to markets.
European stocks extended a rally into a fourth day today. The
euro slipped to $1.3817 from $1.3877, while remaining on track
for a weekly gain.  ‘Decisive Battle’  Fresh from a conference call with Merkel and Sarkozy, Greek
Prime Minister George Papandreou yesterday promised a “decisive
battle” for budget cuts to persuade European governments and
the  International Monetary Fund  to release an 8 billion-euro
loan installment later this month.  While Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said she is
“very confident” that Greece will get the previously promised
installment, the IMF refused to commit.  “Implement and you get the next payment,” IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said on CNBC yesterday. “Time is
running short and the Greek authorities have to deliver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Wroclaw,  Poland  at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Wroclaw, Poland at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  