-- 
Japan Evacuees Angered by Tepco Red Tape

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-09-16T08:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/evacuees-angered-by-tepco-compensation-forms.html
Evacuees from around  Tokyo  Electric
Power Co.’s wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant said the company’s
200-page package for compensation claims is “outrageous” and
needs to be simplified.  The utility known as Tepco started sending out 60,000
application forms this week to those forced to evacuate after
the plant started belching radiation in March. The package
includes three forms that need to be filled in, one of which has
56 pages. A 156-page explanatory booklet completes the bundle of
documents, while claimants are required to submit receipts and
other records to support claims.  “It’s outrageous. Who would think of getting receipts when
living in an evacuation shelter?” said Reiko Hachisuka, 59, who
owns a flower shop and house about 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) from
the plant and is living in a temporary dwelling. “Tepco must
make the forms much simpler.”  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, about 220 kilometers north
of Tokyo, had three reactor meltdowns after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and cooling. Radiation
leaks displaced 160,000 people and Tepco may face as much as 11
trillion yen ($143 billion) in compensation claims, Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said in March.  The utility may receive as many as 500,000 claims from
individuals and companies seeking payments through August, Tepco
Managing Director Naomi Hirose said on Aug. 30. For damage
caused after August, claims by those affected can be made on a
three-month basis, Hirose said.  ‘Case-by-Case’  “If someone affected by the accident doesn’t have
receipts, we will deal with it on a case-by-case basis,”
Naoyuki Matsumoto, a spokesman for the utility, said.  Evacuees are also asked to send certificates from doctors
and employers to validate medical conditions and claims for lost
income.  The utility has paid out 112 billion yen in provisional
compensation, Hirose said. These payments will be deducted from
the next payout, which covers the period from the disaster to
the end of August. Tepco plans to start making the payments in
early October.  “It’s possible we won’t get any more money. My wife and I
have received 1.6 million yen in temporary payments,” Jinichi
Kato, 57, who has been living in an apartment near Tokyo after
evacuating his home about 5 kilometers from the plant. “We’re
cutting down on food. There isn’t much left from the temporary
payment from Tepco and we won’t be able to survive.”  Insurance Claims  In contrast to Tepco’s package, insurers in  Japan  require
premium holders to fill in a one or two page claim form for
damages from natural disasters like the quake and tsunami, which
left almost 20,000 people dead or missing.  Because of the scale of the disaster the claims process was
simplified, according to the General Insurance Association of
Japan.  Insurance companies paid 1.15 trillion yen in claims for
the March disaster by Sept. 14, the association  said . The number
of claims payments totaled 685,000, it said.  Tepco said it will also pay for losses caused by
evacuation, shipment bans and harmful rumors to agricultural,
forestry and fishery companies as well as small business owners,
according to Tepco. Details of compensation for companies and
small business owners will be announced on Oct. 21, Matsumoto
said.  Deluged With Enquiries  Tepco’s call center for compensation payments received
2,200 inquiries on Sept. 13, almost twice the daily average
since starting the office, after evacuees were sent the
applications, Matsumoto said.  The calls include complaints about the compensation process
and questions about how to fill in the application forms,
Matsumoto said. The utility made every effort to simplify the
claim’s process, he said.  Tepco plans to increase the number of personnel dealing
with claims to 6,500 by October, with 300 of them working at the
call center, it  said  in August. Matsumoto declined to comment
costs for producing the compensation applications and setting up
the call center.  Evacuees will be reimbursed 5,000 yen per trip within the
same prefecture and 8,000 yen a night for staying at a hotel.
The company will also pay medical expenses, including payments
for mental suffering.  Tepco hasn’t laid out criteria for claiming losses on
property value because “it’s impractical to assess,” the
company  said .  Asking people to put a price tag on their emotional or
mental suffering is unrealistic, Kato said.  “What they are doing doesn’t reflect reality. There is a
gap between how we evacuees think and how Tepco and the
government think,” Kato said. “Your mental pain is something
that increases over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  