-- 
Flight 93 Memorial Donations Fall Short Even After Family Pleas

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-09-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/flight-93-memorial-donations-fall-short-even-after-family-pleas.html
Calvin Wilson goes from one
corporate boardroom to another, pleading for donations to finish
a memorial to his brother-in-law, LeRoy W. Homer Jr., and 39
others who died on Sept. 11, 2001, when their hijacked flight
crashed into a  Pennsylvania  field. Tears often roll down
Wilson’s cheeks as he makes the pitch.  Even after years of fundraising efforts by Wilson and
family members of others who died on  United Airlines  Flight 93,
co-piloted by Homer, donations have fallen $10 million short of
organizers’ $62 million goal, leaving the memorial incomplete.  Businesses cite various reasons for not contributing -- the
weak economy, their focus on disasters in which victims need
urgent help, or corporate guidelines that allow donations only
for certain causes, he said. Sometimes, he tries to extract
funds from executives who don’t know the story of Flight 93.  “I’m always somewhat surprised someone didn’t give
anything,” said Wilson, 55, whose full-time job is managing
projects for a construction company in Arlington, Virginia.
“You learn to live with it and move on.”  Now former President  Bill Clinton  is involved in finishing
the fundraising. At last weekend’s ceremonies marking the 10th
anniversary of the attacks, where organizers unveiled the
partially finished memorial, Clinton said he was “aghast” that
not enough money had been raised. He promised to work with House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, to get it done.  ‘Tower of Voices’  The memorial includes 40 white-marble slabs inscribed with
victims’ names, along with a 17-ton boulder marking where the
plane went down. Organizers say they need more money to build a
visitors’ center and a 93-foot “Tower of Voices” that will
house 40 aluminum wind chimes, a reminder of phone calls those
on the plane made to family and friends in the minutes before
the crash.  In contrast to the Flight 93 site in Shanksville,
Pennsylvania, 82 miles southeast of Pittsburgh, memorials to the
attacks at the World Trade Center and Pentagon are fully funded.  The crash site didn’t produce an iconic image such as the
smoking skeletons of the Twin Towers that could be used to rally
potential donors. The site also isn’t surrounded by big
companies, adding to the difficulty of fundraising, said King
Laughlin, vice president of the Flight 93 National Memorial
Campaign.  Bigger Checks Needed  While organizers have attracted 72,000 donors, the
contributors haven’t written large enough checks to finish the
memorial. Every Fortune 500 company was asked to give, and only
several of the companies or their foundations responded with
donations of $50,000 or more, said Laughlin.  These donors include:  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , Pfizer Inc., Verizon
Communications Inc., Oracle Corp. and Gannett Co.’s USA Today.  Organizers are also raising money from individuals and U.S.
foundations and created a website, www.honorflight93.org.  The memorial campaign is part of the National Park
Foundation, which accepts donations for the park system and is
arranging for Wilson and other victims’ family members to
accompany professional fundraisers as they solicit donations.
President  George W. Bush  in 2002 signed a law making the crash
site a national park.  Wilson wears an American flag lapel pin commemorating
Flight 93 when he meets with businesses. He’s been to so many --
including companies that make satellites, security systems and
cars -- that he said he can’t remember their names. Laughlin
declined to say which businesses had been solicited and which
ones declined to contribute.  Remembering Homer  The visits spur Wilson’s memories of Homer, who was 36 and
is survived by his wife, Melodie, and a daughter, Laurel, born
less than a year before the crash.  Growing up, Homer assembled model airplanes and worked
part-time after school to pay for flight lessons.  When he solicits donations, Wilson describes how Homer, in
his youth, went with his father to the observation decks of
Kennedy and LaGuardia airports in  New York  to watch flights take
off and land. He describes how the fascination with flying
stayed with Homer, who completed his first solo flight at 16.
Homer went on to graduate from the U.S. Air Force Academy and
later went to work for United Airlines, now part of  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)   Wilson describes one of the last things  Homer  told him: He
joked that the most stressful thing he ever went through -- even
more so than his service in the military in the Persian Gulf and
Somalia -- was planning a celebration for Laurel’s first
birthday.  Filling in Blanks  During the meetings, Wilson said he encounters people who
don’t know the story of Flight 93. So he helps fill in the
blanks. The Boeing 757 took off from Newark International
Airport en route to  San Francisco . Four al-Qaeda hijackers broke
into the cockpit and overpowered the crew 46 minutes after
takeoff. They turned the flight back toward the East Coast.  Passengers and crew tried to stop the hijackers by forcing
their way into the cockpit. The plane crashed, upside down, in
the field.  Wilson describes the 40 passengers and crew as “heroes”
for helping bring down the plane in an unpopulated area. He said
he keeps their pictures in his office and looks at them to find
inspiration. He tries to get donors to view them in the same
way.  “Just trying to get people to identify with the heroes has
always been a major challenge,” Wilson said.  One problem in getting companies’ attention is that Flight
93 is a story of “what didn’t happen,” Laughlin said. “It
didn’t reach the Capitol,” a likely target, he said.  Doesn’t Fit Rules  While companies have said the memorial is a worthy cause,
many have decided not to give because the project doesn’t fit
within corporate rules that require donations to go toward
initiatives traditionally favored by the firm or have some
marketing benefit, Laughlin said.  Wilson is hopeful about the efforts by Clinton and Boehner
to help close the fundraising gap. When Clinton announced the
effort, Wilson was in the audience at the memorial. He said he
put his head down and wept.  “We could really use some heavy hitters to encourage
people to help out,” Wilson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  