-- 
Folli Follie Group Plans 25% Chinese Growth to Offset Greek ‘Disaster’

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-09-16T13:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/folli-follie-group-plans-25-chinese-growth-to-offset-greek-disaster-.html
Folli Follie Group, the Greek
operator of Hellenic Duty Free Shops and maker of jewelry and
handbags, aims to expand 25 percent in  China  in coming months as
business abroad helps offset the decline of its local market.  Folli Follie plans a chain of at least 125 boutiques in
China by the end of 2011 compared with the 100 shops it
currently operates in 34 cities, Chief Executive Officer George Koutsolioutsos said in a phone interview from Folli Follie’s
Athens headquarters. The company expects further growth in
greater China and smaller cities, he said.  “We’ll continue to speed up growth in China as it’s a
booming market,” while “domestic sales are suffering as the
Greek market is a disaster,” he said. “Our international sales
are doing well, but  Greece  is still a big question mark.”  China’s economic growth, which Citigroup estimates will
amount to 9 percent this year, offers luxury-goods makers an
expanding market to make up for declining demand in the U.S. and
 Europe . Greece, where gross domestic product may shrink by more
than 5 percent in 2011, needs to fully implement an austerity
plan agreed to with the European Union,  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said today.  Folli Follie fell as much as 6.1 percent to 7.04 euros, the
lowest intraday price in a month, and was down 5.7 percent as of
3:59 p.m. in Athens trading in the worst performance on Greece’s
benchmark FTASE 20 Index.  ‘Weak’ Home Market  “The company is very well diversified geographically,
especially in China, but still about half of the group sales
come from Greece,” said Dimitris Birbos, an analyst at Athens-
based Marfin Analysis who has a “buy” recommendation on the
stock. “The economic situation in Greece remains very weak and
that’s having a negative impact on cash flows, which the company
needs to reduce and refinance debt.”  Folli entered  Asia  a little more than a decade ago, and
Koutsolioutsos said it counts  Japan , China,  Hong Kong ,  Malaysia ,
 Singapore  and  Indonesia  among key markets in the region. Asia
accounted for 37 percent of the group’s 989.6 million euros
($1.37 billion) in sales last year. Greece generated 49 percent
of revenue. That compares with 34 percent from Asia and 51
percent from Greece in 2009.  In Greece, “we haven’t yet reached bottom,”
Koutsolioutsos said in the interview yesterday. At the same
time, “during these difficult times, we find it less costly to
open shops and we can maximize advertising.”  Debt-Reduction Target  The company plans to reduce debt to about 2.6 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
by the end of 2011 from 3.4 times Ebitda a year earlier, said
Koutsolioutsos, who turned 43 today. To achieve that, the
company will use capital provided by Shanghai-based  Fosun
International Ltd. (656)  and cash flow, he said. Net debt stood at
652.2 million euros at the end of last year.  Fosun, with businesses that include health care and mining,
agreed in May to pay 84.6 million euros for a 9.5 percent stake
in Folli Follie. Fosun, which has since  increased  the holding to
10.02 percent, is targeting companies showing fast growth in
China that are based in the U.S., Europe and Japan to accelerate
expansion, billionaire  Guo Guangchang , its co-founder and
chairman, said Sept. 15.  “I don’t know if Fosun wants to invest more or not,”
Koutsolioutsos said. “The synergies we’ve got will help us
speed up China’s expansion.” The company is “very comfortable
with Fosun as a shareholder as we have good chemistry and are on
good terms with them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ; 