-- 
Formula 1 Gives BBC First Choice for Broadcasts, BSkyB’s Dacey Says

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-09-16T12:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/formula-1-gives-bbc-first-choice-for-broadcasts-bskyb-s-dacey-says.html
The British Broadcasting Corp. will
get first pick of Formula 1 motor races to be broadcast next
year in the U.K. after relinquishing exclusive rights for the
series, rival  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  said.  The BBC, which will broadcast half of the races and
qualifying sessions, will choose the first three it would like
to broadcast and BSkyB will choose the next three, BSkyB Chief
Operating Officer Mike Darcey said in an interview at the Royal
Television Society conference in Cambridge today.  Beginning in March, Sky Sports will show all the races,
with at least half being exclusively on Sky. The BBC, funded
from license fees paid by owners of TV sets, gave up its
exclusive rights to the races, which ran through 2013, to save
money. Channel 4 may have also expressed interest in the racing
series, with money from the “Big Brother” reality TV series
“burning a hole in their pocket,” Darcey said.  “I’m not sure that the  BBC  fades away,” Darcey said. “I
think they know as they try to please everyone, sport is part of
that. They’re going to continue to be there.”  Chris Patten, the chairman of the BBC Trust, said yesterday
that the company will sacrifice some entertainment programs,
like sports, in favor of maintaining news shows.  Darcey said the discussions went on for about nine months.
The two may share infrastructure for the broadcasts as the BBC
looks for ways to save money, though that hasn’t been decided,
Darcey said. BSkyB has had similar arrangements with rugby and
other sports in the past, though no similar deals are in the
works at the moment, he said.  Race Schedule  Sky Sports  will get rights to the races beginning in March
2012, Isleworth, England-based BSkyB said. The race schedule
that’s been published by Formula 1 is nearly finalized, Darcey
said.  Sports broadcasts and movies are important for BSkyB’s
sales strategy, selling “Sports Pack” add-on channels to video
customers for about 20 pounds.  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  owns
39 percent of the pay-TV company.  BSkyB had 10.2 million customers for its TV product and 3.8
million for its Sky HD high-definition video service at the end
of June. The company’s revenue increased 16 percent to 6.6
billion pounds in the 12 months through June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  