-- 
Grasberg Copper Output May Slump on Strike as Union Says Site ‘Paralyzed’

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-09-16T09:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/freeport-indonesia-strike-may-cut-output-by-230-000-tons-per-day.html
A strike at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper
& Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Grasberg copper and gold mine in Indonesia may cut
output by 230,000 tons of ore per day, according to an estimate
from the government, which is trying to broker a resolution.  The government will facilitate talks between  PT Freeport
Indonesia  and the union to resolve the strike, which may hurt
the investment climate in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy,
Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Darwin Saleh said today. A
union official said there’s no mining, production and deliveries
at the site, while the company declined comment on output losses.  The strike at Grasberg -- which has the world’s largest
recoverable reserves of copper, according to Freeport’s website
-- may widen a global deficit of the metal used in pipes and
wires, boosting prices. Freeport miners are also striking in
 Peru  at the company’s  Sociedad Minera Cerro Verde SAA (CVERDEC1)  unit.  “Our biggest concern is how to avoid wider potential loss
to production, state revenue and mining facilities,” Saleh said
at a briefing in Jakarta, speaking a day after the Grasberg
stoppage began. The ministry has sent a team “to Freeport to
assess the latest condition and its impact,” he said.  Three-month copper, which reached a record $10,190 per ton
on Feb. 15, rose as much as 0.8 percent to $8,779 on the London
Metal Exchange, gaining for a second day. Demand will likely
exceed supply by 495,000 tons in 2011, the biggest deficit since
2004, according to an estimate from Pan Pacific Copper Co.  Stock in Phoenix-based Freeport-McMoRan, the world’s
largest publicly traded copper producer, has gained 4.1 percent
over the past year. The shares closed yesterday at $42.54 after
gaining 2 percent.  Lost Production  The strike at Grasberg “is potentially a quite important,
additional factor in a market where we had over 500,000 tons of
production lost already this year,” said  Peter Richardson , chief
metals economist at Morgan Stanley Australia Ltd.  About 8,000 employees, or 70 percent of total Freeport
workers at Grasberg, have joined the stoppage to demand wage
increases. The mine is located in Papua province, 1,940 miles
(3,120 kilometers) east of Jakarta.  Workers in Peru,  Chile ,  Bolivia  and Indonesia have gone on
strike at copper, gold and zinc mines this year, seeking
improved conditions and a bigger slice of record profits after
metal prices more than doubled since the end of 2008.  The strike at Grasberg may result in a loss in daily sales
revenue of $19 million, said Thamrin Sihite, director general of
minerals and coal at the energy ministry. Freeport contributed
$1.9 billion in taxes and royalty last year, he said.  Three-Party Meeting  A meeting between the Manpower and Transmigration Ministry,
Freeport and the labor union started yesterday and may last as
long as 30 days, Ramdani Sirait, a Jakarta-based spokesman at
Freeport, said in an interview today. He declined to comment on
potential losses to production.  “About 95 percent of Grasberg is paralyzed, there’s no
mining, production and deliveries,” Virgo Solossa, head of
organizational affairs at PT Freeport  Indonesia ’s labor union,
said by phone today from Timika, Papua, the town closest to
Grasberg. “Only non mining-related and public services, such as
the airport and hospital, are still running.”  Concentrate shipments from Amamapare port have been halted
since yesterday morning, Solossa said yesterday, raising concern
of sales defaults to Freeport’s buyers. Concentrate is semi-
processed ore that typically contains about one-third copper.  “It’s too early to comment on force majeure,” Minister
Saleh said today, referring to a clause that allows companies to
miss contracted shipments due to circumstances outside their
control. “We won’t enter a business-to-business matter.”  Failed Talks  The company and union at Grasberg ended 38 days of talks
over 2011-2013 contract terms on Aug. 26 after failing to agree
on wages. Negotiations started after the workers walked off
their jobs for eight days in July. Cerro Verde miners held a 48-
hour work stoppage last week.  Grasberg workers expect wages to increase to between $17.50
and $43 an hour from $1.50 to $3.50, said Solossa Sept. 14. The
union cut their expectations from $35 to $200 an hour initially,
he said Aug. 26. Freeport offered a compensation package that
includes an increase in basic wages for non-staff employees of
22 percent over a two-year period, Sirait said on Sept. 5.  Copper production at the mine fell to 1.22 billion pounds
(553.4 million kilograms) last year from 1.41 billion pounds in
2009, according to the website. Gold output declined to 1.79
million ounces from 2.57 million ounces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  