-- 
Fukushima Evacuees to Return to Exclusion Zone to Check Property

-- B y   M a k o t o   M i y a z a k i
-- 
2011-09-16T09:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/fukushima-evacuees-to-return-to-exclusion-zone-to-check-property.html
About 20,000 families from the
exclusion zone around  Japan ’s wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant
will be allowed to return to their homes from Sept. 19 to
collect belongings and check their properties.  They will be permitted to return in their own cars for the
first time, said Masato Kino, spokesman at the Emergency
Response Headquarters in Fukushima prefecture. In previous
visits residents were taken on buses under tight restrictions.  “A majority of evacuees have said they want to return by
their own means,” Kino said.  They will be returning to the 20-kilometer (12-mile)
exclusion band around the Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s crippled
nuclear power plant, parts of which are highly contaminated. The
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant has been spewing radiation since the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami caused three reactor meltdowns.  Returnees will be required to go in pairs for a four-hour
visit, said Hiroyuki Wada, a national government official
involved in the response to the crisis. Tokyo Electric will
provide equipment including dosimeters and protective garments
at two checkpoints that will be opened for the trips.  Cars will have transceivers attached before they enter so
their movements can be monitored.  In the first week, 700 cars will be allowed to enter the
zone, Kino said. They will be decontaminated at the boundary of
the zone.  About 78,000 people in 26,600 households lived in the 20-
kilometer exclusion area before the disaster, said Satoshi
Ohsumi, an official in the Emergency Response Center of Japan’s
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency. Residents who lived within
three kilometers of the plant won’t be allowed to return, Ohsumi
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makoto Miyazaki in Tokyo at 
 mmiyazaki8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  