-- 
Further Defense Cuts May Raise Unemployment, Pentagon Aide Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/further-defense-cuts-may-raise-u-s-unemployment-pentagon-says.html
The Pentagon is warning that U.S.
defense cuts that would be triggered by a failure of Congress’s
supercommittee to agree on deficit reductions may add one
percentage point to the national  unemployment rate .  “We’re not talking about just military jobs,” Defense
Department Press Secretary George Little told reporters
traveling with Defense Secretary Leon Panetta back to Washington
from  San Francisco  yesterday. “We’re also talking about jobs in
the private sector that support the innovation and capabilities
that we need to keep America strong.”  The nation’s unemployment rate stands at 9.1 percent.
President  Barack Obama  has proposed a $447 billion jobs plan to
boost hiring. The congressional supercommittee is proceeding on
a separate course to reduce the deficit over the next decade.  The Pentagon is stepping up its expressions of concern over
the possibility of automatic cuts triggered by a supercommittee
deadlock. The Defense Department warned that such a stalemate
could mean as much as $1 trillion slashed from its spending
plans over the coming decade, including the $330 billion in cuts
the Pentagon already has been ordered to make.  Impact of Cuts  Panetta has said the automatic reductions would be
“devastating,” and the Pentagon issued a statement on its
website this week warning of “devastating job losses, national
security threats” and harm to the nation’s infrastructure.  The Pentagon warning may add pressure to find agreement on
 Capitol Hill . Little said the Pentagon has been in close contact
with Congress on the risks.  “We would be looking at, in all likelihood, the smallest
Army and Marine Corps in decades, the smallest tactical  Air
Force  since the Air Force, as its own service, was established,
and the smallest Navy in nearly 100 years,” Little said. “We
would break faith with those in uniform who are serving. At a
time of war, that’s unacceptable.”  Jim Albaugh , president and chief executive officer of
Boeing Commercial Airplanes, also warned that cuts could trigger
a one percentage point rise in unemployment, following a meeting
of aerospace executives with Panetta on Sept. 14.  The Pentagon estimates the defense industry accounts for
about 3.8 million related jobs in addition to the 3 million
personnel in the Defense Department.  Earlier yesterday, the Senate Appropriations Committee
approved a $513 billion defense spending bill for next year,
about the same level as the current fiscal year and about $26
billion below the original White House request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  