-- 
Future Capital’s Panda Says India Rate Increase ‘Priced In’

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-16T07:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/future-capital-s-panda-says-india-rate-increase-priced-in-.html
Jitendra Panda, head of broking at
Future Capital Holdings Ltd., comments on the outlook for Indian
stocks after the nation’s central bank raised interest rates for
the 12th time since the start of March 2010.  The  Reserve Bank  of India increased the repurchase rate to
8.25 percent from 8 percent, it said in a statement today.  Panda spoke in a phone interview in Mumbai.  “The rate hike is more on the positive side overall,
because it’s come as per expectations. The 25 basis points
increase was already priced in, so markets will see a
consolidation and not much correction right now.”  “The stocks which are sensitive to the rate hike, like
real estate and auto will see more of a positive than a negative
turn, because they had expected this rate increase.”  On foreign institutional investment flows:  “The flows will continue, but we still need to wait for
more indications going forward. We need to see whether the
petrol rate hike will trigger further inflation.”  On derivatives:  “You see a lot of open interest on the short side,
expecting markets to go down. We see some short-covering
happening which will take markets up.”  On economic growth:  “The RBI is looking to curtail inflation and is ready to
sacrifice growth. With the increase in petrol and  interest
rates , we could see further cooling off of the economy on the
growth side. So foreign institutional investors may want to re-
look and consider what the impact will be on the economy. If
inflation cannot be controlled with the interest rate hike, then
maybe RBI will look to review rates again in the next meet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  