-- 
Geithner Says Financial Rule Changes Need to Support Growth

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-16T15:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/geithner-says-financial-rule-changes-need-to-support-growth.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the Group of 20 nations must avoid creating new
regulatory loopholes that allow some investors to profit from
national differences and weaken the global economy.  The U.S. wants new bank capital requirements and
other rule changes to be “put in place globally, on sensible
terms, that make the system more resilient in the future,”
Geithner told a financial forum today in Wroclaw, Poland, after
talks with euro-area finance ministers.  The regulatory changes shouldn’t “add to doubt, add to
headwinds of growth in the near term” or “create a huge new
wave for options of arbitrage across the major financial
centers,” Geithner said. He reiterated U.S. opposition to a
global financial-transactions tax, a European Union goal.  Global regulators are tussling over the timetable and final
shape of financial-rule changes agreed to by the G-20 to prevent
a repeat of the crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers’ Holdings Inc. three years ago this month. The U.S. has
expressed concern that planned EU reforms to the over-the-
counter derivatives market could leave regulatory loopholes.  The EU says it’s ahead of the U.S. in implementing an
overhaul of bank capital rules agreed to last year by the Basel
Committee on Bank Supervision. The European Commission proposed
writing the rules into EU law in July, making it the first
region to do so. National governments and lawmakers in the
European Parliament must approve the measures.  Unforeseen Consequences  Europe  has hesitated over some aspects of the Basel
reforms.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has
said that further study is needed before the bloc commits to a
binding limit on banks’ indebtedness, a version of which already
applies in the U.S.  Both the indebtedness ratio and the liquidity rules agreed
by Basel need to be studied and potentially amended in case they
have unforeseen consequences, Sabine Lautenschlaeger, vice
president of  Germany ’s central bank, said in an interview. The
Basel committee agreed to observation periods for the rules to
assess the need for amendments.  French president Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  have called for the EU to introduce its own
transactions tax irrespective of whether other regions follow
suit. The European Commission has said that it will make a
proposal for such a tax in October.  “Now there are proponents of introducing other frictions,
in transactions, but I don’t think their history is very good in
containing the risks of large swings in asset prices,” Geithner
said.  “I don’t think they’re the most effective way to contain
leverage, or limit leverage, and I think most evidence suggests
that they probably damage liquidity, that they undermine depth
in markets, which is valuable in a crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Wroclaw,  Poland , at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  