-- 
Geithner Said to Ignore Obama Wind Down Order on Citi

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-09-16T17:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/geithner-ignored-obama-s-2009-order-on-citigroup-wind-down-plan-book-says.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  ignored an order in 2009 from President  Barack Obama  to
prepare a plan to “wind down”  Citigroup Inc. (C) , once the biggest
bank in the world, according to a book to be released next week.  Geithner didn’t proceed with Obama’s order to develop a
plan to dissolve New York-based Citigroup in March 2009, several
months after the bank had received a $45 billion taxpayer
bailout, according to “Confidence Men:  Wall Street ,  Washington 
and the Education of a President” by Ron Suskind, a former Wall
Street Journal reporter. Bloomberg News obtained a copy of the
book’s manuscript. The book, published by New York-based
HarperCollins, is to be released Sept. 20.  Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ,
posted $29.3 billion in combined losses for 2008 and 2009, much
of them tied to subprime mortgages. U.S. taxpayers also
guaranteed more than $300 billion of the lender’s riskiest
assets to prop up the company as it neared collapse. Obama
wanted to consider restructuring the bank while Geithner would
also proceed with stress tests of the country’s lenders,
according to the book.  Geithner didn’t recall Obama getting angry at him for not
implementing the order and said that he didn’t “slow walk the
president on anything,” according to the book.  In the book, Obama doesn’t deny Suskind’s account and
doesn’t reveal what he told Geithner when he found out that
Geithner hadn’t followed his order, according to a report today
by the  Associated Press , which said it purchased a copy of the
book.  ‘Systematically Undermined’  “The Citibank incident, and others like it, reflected a
more pernicious and personal dilemma emerging from inside the
administration: that the young president’s authority was being
systematically undermined or hedged by his seasoned advisers,”
AP quotes Suskind as writing in the book.  “This account is simply untrue,” the Treasury said in an
e-mailed statement. “The directive given by the President in
March 2009 was to develop a contingency plan for tough
restructurings if the government ended up owning large shares of
institutions at the conclusion of the stress tests that
Secretary Geithner worked aggressively to put in place as part
of the Administration’s Financial Stability Plan. While Treasury
began work on those contingency plans, there was fortunately
never a need to put them in place.”  The White House didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
requesting comment. Jon Diat, a Citigroup spokesman, declined to
comment.  The Treasury Department largely exited its bailout of
Citigroup last year and returned a profit of about $12 billion
to taxpayers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net  