-- 
Geithner Says Europe Must Solve Crisis, Avoid Leaving Its Fate With Others

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-16T11:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/geithner-says-europe-must-avoid-leaving-its-fate-with-others.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Europe must “choose” to solve its debt crisis so
its fate doesn’t rest with financial markets or the nations that
back the  International Monetary Fund .  “One of the starkest ways to emphasize the importance of
Europe getting on top of this is that you don’t want the fate of
Europe to rest in the hands of those who provide financing to
the IMF, or who provide financing outside of the IMF,” Geithner
said at the Eurofi conference in Wroclaw,  Poland .  The Treasury chief said European leaders need to work
together to avoid setting off contagion and a “protracted”
downturn. He flew over from  Washington  for the day to meet with
European Union finance ministers and central bankers, his first-
ever appearance at one of their scheduled meetings.  Investors have fled from the euro and EU sovereign debt
this week as expectations rise that  Greece  will default. EU
ministers have been unable to decide how to implement a second
Greek rescue plan that was agreed on in July.  ‘Very Damaging’  Geithner said “ongoing conflict” between national
governments and the  European Central Bank  is “very damaging
from the outside,” since cooperation will be required to solve
the crisis. ``You have to, governments and the central banks 
have to, take out the catastrophic risk from markets,'' he said.  The U.S. wants to do whatever it can to help Europe
manage “more adroitly” and avoid recession, Geithner said.  “Your financial challenges in Europe are eminently in your
capacity to manage financially, you just have to choose to do
it,” Geithner said.  Geithner said  Europe  needs to act to rule out the threat of
cascading default and “loose talk” that the euro and other EU
institutions might be dismantled. Such speculation encourages
market contagion and creates “run dynamics” as investors rush
to sell their European holdings.  If governments can’t “definitely remove” those threats,
“then you are going to leave markets having to hedge against
the low probability event that those things will unfold, and
that will  completely undermine the strength of the things you
have been building,” Geithner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  