-- 
German Taxpayers Want Equity in Bank Bailouts: Karl Heinz Daeke

-- B y   K a r l   H e i n z   D a e k e
-- 
2011-09-16T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/german-taxpayers-want-equity-from-bailouts-commentary-by-karl-heinz-daeke.html
When will politicians finally
accept that their ideology of cheap money has failed?  A low-interest-rate policy after the dot-com frenzy
encouraged the housing bubble. The government-sponsored housing
boom led to a banking meltdown. And the fight against the
banking crisis resulted in the sovereign-debt mess. Now, because
it is forced to invest in toxic debt, the  European Central Bank 
is set to lose its independence. A currency crisis is imminent.
Already, former Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  and the ECB’s
chief economist, Juergen Stark, have resigned in protest.  Where does that leave German taxpayers? First, the culture
of monetary stability is in peril. Second, the German share of
the so-called assistance packages for the euro area amounts to
almost 300 billion euros ($416 billion), which means a liability
risk of about 3,600 euros per capita. Third, when euro bonds
inevitably come along, they will increase the interest expenses
of  Germany  by as much as 40 billion euros a year. And fourth,
tax increases loom to cover the assumed liability risks.  Those scenarios are simply unacceptable for German
taxpayers. The measures taken by European governments are
neither fair nor effective. We should finally stop trying to
fight old debt by issuing new bonds. Politicians must find the
strength to admit that they have gone the wrong way. Increasing
the lending capacity of the European Financial Stability
Facility and the plan to establish a permanent European
Stability Mechanism will only take us further in the wrong
direction. Instead, governments need to turn around.  No More Bailouts  To this end, the European Union should grant no further
bailout loans to Greece, which must start negotiations with its
creditors as soon as possible to finally restructure its public
debt. Sovereign defaults are nothing new. From 1998 to 2008, we
witnessed  13 of them , according to Moody’s Investors Service.
Creditors lost on average 50 percent of their claims. The
 International Monetary Fund , the London Club and the  Paris Club 
are certainly institutions that can moderate and assist in
negotiations to restructure debts. In addition, banks and
insurance companies have been aware of the current Greek
problems for years. And according to a recent report by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., most banks could cope with a “haircut”
better than is commonly assumed.  Taxpayers as Shareholders  That isn’t to belittle the consequences of a writedown.
Restructuring Greek debts would certainly melt the equity of
many banks. To let shareholders, rather than taxpayers, bear the
losses from banks’ investments in sovereign bonds is just fair.
If those losses make it necessary to recapitalize certain
lenders, this might be done by taxpayers. In such cases,
taxpayers would become transitional shareholders, which would be
cheaper in the short term and more promising in the long term
than just protecting existing shareholders from losses.  Greece  has shown how devastating a policy of cheap money
can be. With the euro in reach before Greece joined the currency
bloc in 2001, the nation’s savings rates plunged from the late
1990s, while its current-account deficits were consistently
large. From 2000 to 2010, Greek unit-labor costs increased by
more than a third. About 17 percent of the workforce is employed
in the public sector, which puts Greece well above the average
of industrialized countries.  Money for Nothing  According to figures from the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development , Greek civil servants earn as much
as 40 percent more than workers in the private sector, while
their working hours are fewer. Making matters worse, public
statistics are rather unreliable and there are no efficient tax-
collection procedures. The government can’t even give detailed
information about its scattered real-estate holdings. The Greek
railway company has kept prices stable for more than 10 years,
while its debts have risen to about 10 billion euros.  With Greece caught in such an unsustainable way of life, it
would be reckless for  Europe  to cover it all up by granting new
bailout loans. If there is no restructuring of Greek debts and
if foreign taxpayers are made fully liable in the end, then
Greece will lose, for decades, any incentive for fiscally
responsible behavior.  It’s not too late. Debt-restructuring negotiations would
give a clear signal that the patience of Europe’s taxpayers is
limited. In addition, the implementation of a “debt brake” in
the constitutions of all  EU member states  would provide new
confidence for creditors in the long run. Germany has already
enshrined this in law.  The restructuring of Greek debt shouldn’t be postponed by
expensive rescue packages. It is a welcome sign that the German
coalition of  Christian Democrats  and Free Democrats is now
seriously considering a Greek default scenario. Only binding
budget rules can prevent the euro area’s taxpayers from becoming
the lenders of last resort for governments.  (Karl Heinz Daeke is president of the German Taxpayers
Association in Berlin. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Karl Heinz Daeke at  presse@steuerzahler.de   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
David Henry at   dhenry2@bloomberg.net  