-- 
German Bunds Headed for Weekly Decline as Italian, Spanish Bonds Advance

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-09-16T10:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/german-bunds-head-for-weekly-decline-italy-spain-bonds-advance.html
German 10-year bunds headed for the
biggest weekly loss in more than two months after the  European
Central Bank  said it would lend unlimited dollars to the euro-
region’s banks, sapping demand for the safest assets.  Two-year notes snapped a four-day decline. Euro-area
finance ministers meeting in Wroclaw,  Poland , today need to show
a “unity of purpose” to halt the region’s debt crisis, ECB
President Jean-Claude Trichet said yesterday. German 10-year
yields fell to an all-time low on Sept. 13, as investors sought
the region’s safest securities amid concern 18 months of crisis-
fighting had failed to stabilize markets. European stocks rose
for a fourth day today and Italian and Spanish bonds advanced.  “Equity markets are in positive territory so this weighs
on bunds,” said Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Helaba
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt . Even though 10-year
yields have risen 16 basis points since the end of last week,
they “should stay low, around 2 percent” because of the
negative economic outlook, he said.  Ten-year German bund yields were little changed at 1.93
percent at 11:39 a.m. in London, bound for the steepest weekly
gain since the period ending July 1. They climbed above 2
percent yesterday for the first time since Sept. 5. The 2.25
percent bond due in September 2021 traded at 102.845. Two-year
rates were less than two basis points lower at 0.59 percent.  Stocks Gain  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares gained 0.8 percent
while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 2.1 percent.  German 10-year yields have declined by about 100 basis
points in the past three months, touching an all-time low on
Sept. 13.  Bunds rose earlier as differences over a Greek bailout plan
damped optimism euro-region ministers meeting today will find a
debt-crisis solution and spurred demand for the safest assets.  Finland  has demanded that  Greece  puts up collateral in
return for contributing to a second rescue package. Prime
Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said on Sept. 7 his country may not
contribute to a second Greek bailout if demands for collateral
in exchange for new loans aren’t met.  Bunds fell and stocks rallied yesterday after the ECB said
it will coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  and other central
banks to conduct three dollar liquidity-providing operations
with a maturity of approximately three months. The loans are in
addition to the ECB’s regular seven-day dollar offerings and
will be conducted as fixed-rate tenders with full allotment.  Italian, Spanish Yields  The yield on the  Italy ’s 10-year debt fell 17 basis points
to 5.43 percent, and  Spain ’s 10-year rate dropped 10 basis
points to 5.30 percent.  The ECB began purchasing Spanish and Italian securities on
Aug. 8 to curb a surge in yields, according to people with
knowledge of the transactions, who declined to be identified
because the deals are confidential.  Greek 10-year bonds advanced for a second day, pushing the
yield down 2.1 percentage points to 20.77 percent. The rate
surged to a euro-era record 26.70 percent yesterday.  German  government bonds  have returned 7 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Spanish debt
returned 3.4 percent, Italian bonds lost 3.2 percent and Greek
securities slumped 37 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  