-- 
Italian, Spanish Bonds Advance on ECB Purchases Them; German Bunds Gain

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-09-16T16:06:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/german-bunds-rise-on-safety-demand-before-eu-ministers-meeting.html
Italian and Spanish bonds rose,
paring a fourth weekly decline, as people familiar with the
transactions said the  European Central Bank  purchased the
nations’ debt.  The securities also gained as a rally in European stocks
gave investors more confidence to buy higher-yielding assets.
German bonds rose as euro-area finance ministers ruled out
efforts to prop up the region’s faltering economy, fueling
concern the sovereign-debt crisis will linger. Greek bonds
surged for a second day.  “It looks as if there’s been some buying by the ECB,”
said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in London. “Italy has outperformed, and  Spain 
has also done well. The price action suggests it’s been
supported by the ECB.”  Italian 10-year yields fell nine basis points to 5.51
percent at 5 p.m. in London. That’s still an 10 basis point
increase since Sept. 9. The 4.75 percent security due September
2021 rose 0.615, or 6.15 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,381) face
amount, to 94.760. Ten-year Spanish yields declined 12 basis
points to 5.29 percent.  Finance chiefs from the euro region, meeting with U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , said the 18-month debt
crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or extra spending to spur an
economy on the brink of stagnation. There is “a serious risk”
of a double-dip recession in the U.S. and  Europe , Nobel-prize
winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said.  Contagion Concern  The ECB bought Italian and Spanish debt today, according to
two people with knowledge of the transactions who asked not to
be identified because the deals are confidential. A spokesman
for the Frankfurt-based ECB declined to comment.  The ECB began purchasing bonds from the two countries on
Aug. 8 to curb a surge in yields as contagion from the debt
crisis that engulfed  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  spread to the
two larger economies. The central bank said Sept. 12 it settled
14 billion euros of debt purchases last week, up from 13.3
billion euros the previous week.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed for a fourth day, rising
1.4 percent.  Germany ’s 10-year bunds snapped a three-day loss, with the
yield falling seven basis points to 1.86 percent. The two-year
note yield dropped nine basis points to 0.51 percent.  German 10-year yields have declined by about 100 basis
points in the past three months, touching an all-time low on
Sept. 13, as investors sought the region’s safest securities
amid concern the sovereign debt crisis was deepening.  ECB Dollar Funding  Bunds fell and stocks rallied yesterday after the ECB said
it will coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  and other central
banks to conduct three dollar liquidity-providing operations
with a maturity of approximately three months. The loans are in
addition to the ECB’s regular seven-day dollar offerings and
will be conducted as fixed-rate tenders with full allotment.  Greek 10-year bonds advanced for a second day, pushing the
yield down 1.68 percentage points to 21.91 percent. The rate
surged to a euro-era record 26.70 percent yesterday.  The difference in yield, or spread, between Greek two-year
notes and 10-year bonds shrank for a third day from a record.
The spread narrowed 471 basis points, or 4.71 percentage points,
to 33.94 percent. That’s down from a euro-era record 52.26
percent on Sept. 13, and compares with the 12-month average of
6.93 percent.  German  government bonds  have returned 7 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Spanish debt
returned 3.4 percent and Italian bonds lost 3.2 percent and
Greek securities slumped 37 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  