-- 
Global Banks ‘Quietly’ Ask BRICs to Subsidize Greek Aid With $27.6 Billion

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-09-16T21:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/global-banks-quietly-ask-brics-to-subsidize-greek-aid-with-27-6-billion.html
A group that represents the world’s
biggest banks is trying to persuade  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China 
and others to lend 20 billion euros ($27.6 billion) to
supplement a debt refinancing package for Greece.  The Institute of International Finance Inc.  has been
“quietly exploring” whether the so-called BRIC countries and
others would be willing to participate, IIF Deputy Managing
Director Hung Tran said today in a telephone interview. The plan
would add to a July 21 agreement that included debt buybacks and
bond exchanges, he said.  “If you have the extra 20 billion which we are seeking
from other countries, that of course would increase the amount
of debt retirement that Greece can have,” Tran said. “We have
been in preliminary discussions with some countries and the
reaction we received is an open mind and request for more
information and discussion.”  The IIF, which represents more than 400 of the world’s
banks, insurers and investment companies, has also shared its
proposal with the  International Monetary Fund , Tran said. Conny Lotze, a spokeswoman for the IMF in Washington, declined to
comment. Dow Jones Newswires reported on the proposal earlier.  About half of the IIF’s members are European-based
financial institutions and the Washington-based organization’s
chairman is Josef Ackermann, chief executive officer of  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest bank. European banks are some of the
biggest holders of Greek debt and the July 21 package includes a
bond exchange that would lead to writedowns on the banks’ Greek
debt.  Government Debt  Concerns about lenders’ potential losses on their holdings
of government debt from Greece and other so-called peripheral
European countries such as Portugal, Ireland, Italy and Spain
have weighed on their stock prices. The 46-company Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index has dropped 32 percent
this year, led by banks in Portugal,  Germany , Italy, France and
Spain.  Finance ministers from Brazil, Russia, India, China and
 South Africa  will meet in Washington on Sept. 22 to discuss
whether they will assist Europe. Tran said the meeting is a
positive sign that the countries, which have some of the
fastest-growing economies in the world, understand that the
crisis in Europe could also affect them.  “It shows awareness among countries in the global economy
that the sovereign debt crisis in Greece and other peripheral
countries of Europe do have an impact on the well being of the
global economy and therefore should be resolved as quickly as
possible,” he said.  Tran said an IMF aid package to Latin American countries in
the late 1980s also included co-financing from Japan’s Export-
Import Bank. “So we want to use that as a template to try to
explore if other countries are willing to do the same vis-a-vis
Greece this time,” Tran said.  The IIF will hold an annual membership meeting in
 Washington  from Sept. 23 to Sept. 25 that will coincide with the
IMF and World Bank Group’s annual meetings there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 