-- 
UAW ‘Close to a Framework’ for GM Agreement, Official Says

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-09-16T20:05:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/gm-ends-uaw-negotiations-for-the-night-without-agreement-1-.html
The United Auto Workers union,
having extended its contract with  General Motors Co. (GM)  by two
days, said it is “very close” to completing negotiations with
the automaker on a new accord.  “We are getting very close to a framework for an agreement
that will bring our negotiations to a successful conclusion,”
Joe Ashton, vice president of the union’s GM department, said
today in a memo to members. “I am very optimistic that the
negotiations process is entering its final stage.”  GM and Chrysler Group LLC each failed to reach a new labor
agreement before their UAW contracts were set to expire at 11:59
p.m. Sept. 14. The UAW, which began formal talks with the U.S.
automakers in July, extended contracts at GM and Chrysler and
continued negotiations yesterday. The union on Sept. 13 extended
its contract with  Ford Motor Co. (F)   “We’re making good progress,” Jordana Strosberg, a GM
spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  The UAW may use a settlement with GM to set the pattern for
wages and benefits with Chrysler and Ford. Typically, the
Detroit-based union selects a lead company and uses an accord
there as the template for the other two automakers.  “They’ll wind up at Chrysler next because trying to apply
a GM-Ford pattern on Chrysler makes no sense,” said Arthur
Schwartz, president of Labor & Economics Associates, a
consulting firm in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. “Chrysler is the weaker
company financially. They don’t have the cash.”  Binding Arbitration  The UAW represents 113,000 production employees at Detroit-
based GM, Ford and Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler. The U.S.
Treasury Department bailed out GM and Chrysler in 2009. As part
of the bailouts, the union agreed not to strike either company
in this year’s talks. Unresolved differences are subject to
binding arbitration.  Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , is not planning to
bargain over the weekend and has sent some union negotiators
home until Sept. 20, said two people familiar with the schedule.
Ford and the union will conduct some meetings Sept. 19 without
the full bargaining teams, said one of the people, who asked not
to be identified because the plans are private.  Ford didn’t receive a bailout. UAW members there rejected a
strike ban and arbitration.  GM and the UAW haven’t set a new deadline for an agreement
or turning to binding arbitration since their previous contract
expired. Chrysler Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne 
offered in a Sept. 14 letter to UAW President  Bob King  to let
teams negotiate for one more week.  Can’t ‘Drag Out’  “There’s a certain point in which they can’t let it
continue to drag out as one side might get sufficiently
frustrated as to call for arbitration,” Joel Cutcher-
Gershenfeld, dean of the School of Labor and Employment
Relations at the  University of Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “It’s quite a few more
days of bargaining before anything like that might happen.”  GM fell 9 cents to $22.61 at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 39 percent
this year.  Key issues in the talks include signing bonuses, increasing
wages for new hires and investments to secure future work at
U.S. plants. GM executives have said that they want to tie
compensation to company performance targets, which the union has
traditionally opposed.  Signing Bonuses  The UAW proposed signing bonuses of $8,000 to $10,000 for
each member, four people familiar with the discussions said last
week.  Michele Martin , a spokeswoman for the UAW, has denied that
the union is seeking bonuses of that size.  GM may pay workers a signing bonus of as much as $7,500,
Schwartz estimated. At Ford, workers may require at least $1,000
more than that in a signing bonus in order to get them to vote
in favor of the contract, he said today in a phone interview.  “King needs to figure out how to get this ratified at Ford
because they’re expecting more,” Schwartz, a former labor
negotiator for GM, said of the UAW president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  