-- 
Greece Should Stay in Euro Even in Default, Montenegro Says

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-09-16T13:25:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/greece-should-stay-in-euro-even-in-default-montenegro-says.html
Greece  should fight to stay in the
euro region even if it defaults, said Montenegro’s Igor Luksic,
prime minister of the former Yugoslav nation that unilaterally
adopted the single currency almost a decade ago.  “It’s even better to go through a sort of a default or
whatever that will be a managed one rather than going back to
the drachma,” Luksic, 35, said in a telephone interview today
from the capital, Podgorica. “The true long-term response is to
keep the euro rather than leave the euro.”  Montenegro, with a population of about 662,000, became
independent in 2006. It shifted to the euro when the currency
was introduced in 2002, having previously used the Deutsche
mark. Along with Kosovo and Andorra, it uses the currency
without a formal agreement, according to the  European Central
Bank . Montenegro is not a member of the 27-nation European
Union.  “It’s always better to keep yourself linked to a strong
currency” because it forces a country to “confront all the
problems” including the black economy, selling state assets and
structural changes, he said.  Luksic said that if Greece were to default and continued to
use the euro, it should be possible for the country to rejoin
the single currency as a full member after revamping its
economy. “I believe so. I don’t see any reason why they
can’t,” he said.  EU leaders won’t let the sovereign-debt crisis damage the
euro, Luksic said.  ‘Optimistic’ on Euro  “I’m quite optimistic about the euro’s survival,” he
said. “I don’t think there is a doom-day about the euro itself.
The disadvantages of such a decision would be so enormous
compared to the advantages the euro has.”  Montenegro hopes to begin EU membership talks next year and
join the bloc by “the end of this decade,” Luksic said.  Montenegro was officially named a  candidate  for EU
membership in December. The country is aiming to follow former
Yugoslav partners  Slovenia , which joined the bloc in 2004 and
adopted the euro in 2007, and  Croatia , which has ended entry
talks and targets becoming an EU member in 2013.  Montenegro’s banking industry is still recovering from the
global recession, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a May
report. The “euroization” of the banking sector “limits the
ability of the central bank to provide liquidity support to
lenders, said the IMF, which called for the application of
“conservative” capital and liquidity requirements.  The country’s biggest lender is Crnogorska komercijalna
banka AD, owned by  Hungary ’s OTP Bank, followed by NLB
Montenegro banka AD, a unit of Slovenia’s biggest bank Nova
Ljubljanska banka d.d. and Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank International of
 Austria , according to data from Montenegro’s central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  