-- 
Greek Crisis ‘No Threat’ to the Euro, ECB’s Paramo Says on TV

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-09-16T18:21:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/greek-crisis-no-threat-to-the-euro-ecb-s-paramo-says-on-tv.html
Greece ’s debt crisis doesn’t pose
a threat to the euro and it “doesn’t make sense” for a country
to leave the monetary union, European Central Bank Executive
Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said in an interview on
Bulgarian National Television in Sofia today.  “There is no threat to the euro, there are tensions in the
 euro zone  associated with the need to preserve a stronger
euro,” Paramo said. “The euro cannot be in crisis. What you
see is tensions associated to very specific situations that are
being addressed at the moment with programs, with very strong
adjustment at the level of these economies.”  Eighteen months of crisis-fighting and 256 billion euros
($355 billion) in aid for Greece, Ireland and Portugal have
failed to stabilize financial markets. The turmoil has spread to
Italy and  Spain , sending tremors through Europe’s banking system
and leading to speculation that a common European currency meant
to be permanent may break up.  “I think that the euro is our future in common and this is
accepted by all parties,” he said. “To think of a euro zone
where countries drop out doesn’t make any sense for the
countries themselves, nor for the European project at large. It
doesn’t make economic sense not to speak about political
sense.”  Second Package  Greece is seeking to qualify in the coming weeks for a
sixth disbursement of aid under last year’s 110 billion-euro
rescue from the euro area and  International Monetary Fund . Prime
Minister  George Papandreou ’s government also wants to benefit
from a planned second aid package of 159 billion euros approved
by euro-area leaders on July 21.  “Europe is proceeding with recovery at a pace which is a
bit slower than we were expecting,” Paramo said. “At the
beginning of the year we had strong growth. Now growth is
subsiding somewhat in the context of huge uncertainty. At the
global level, we have growth diminishing and prices of raw
materials stay high.”  The ECB offered yesterday a series of three-month dollar
loans to ease a liquidity crunch that had confronted European
banks with the highest costs for obtaining the U.S. currency in
almost three years. The ECB has bought 143 billion euros of
bonds, starting with Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland last year and
widening the support operation to Italy and Spain in August.  ‘Infused Confidence’  “We have infused confidence in particular in connection
with the liquidity tensions in the financial system,” he said.  The ECB’s move and a pledge by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to keep Greece in
the euro and prevent a default gave a lift to markets.  “In the domain of fiscal policy, public finances are being
reigned in, debt is contained and European politicians are
working very hard in reinforcing governance at the level of the
European Union, which I think is a cornerstone for the future of
stability in  Europe ,” Paramo said.  The euro has made an achievement in terms of the external
value of the currency, in terms of progress as a  reserve
currency  and in terms of  price stability  in the euro-area
economy, he said.  The deficit of the 17-nation euro region “is half of the
deficit in the U.S., the public debt is much lower, the
employment created in Europe over the last 10 years is three
times the employment created in the U.S.,” Paramo said.  Bulgaria “is doing the right thing” in maintaining a
tight fiscal policy to support a lev-euro peg, Paramo said. The
EU’s poorest country in terms of economic output per capita will
adopt the currency in the future “when convergence is
sustainable,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net  