-- 
Libya Said to Seek Tanker to Load Oil for Zawiyah Refinery

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-09-16T13:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/libya-said-to-seek-tanker-to-load-oil-for-zawiyah-refinery-1-.html
Libya  is seeking an oil tanker to
load an 80,000 metric-ton cargo of crude as soon as possible,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the shipment.  The 600,000 barrels will be picked up from the western port
of Mellitah or the Marsa al Hariga terminal in the east, for
shipment to Libya’s Zawiyah oil refinery in the west, the people
said, declining to be identified because the consignment hasn’t
been publicly announced. The loading date is said to be prompt,
which implies immediate collection, they said.  Libya wants to resume crude exports in two to three weeks,
Guma El-Gamaty, the U.K. coordinator for the country’s National
Transitional Council, said Sept. 8. Shipments from the nation,
holder of  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves, plunged during a
conflict that escalated in February and led to the ousting of
 Muammar Qaddafi  as national leader.  The oil tanker Newlead Avra, which had been traveling to
Mellitah, didn’t collect a cargo of condensate as intended and
is now sailing to Cyprus, the vessel’s owner said yesterday.  The ship, which has a carrying capacity of 73,400
deadweight tons, was instructed to sail to Limassol, Cyprus,
without having collected a cargo, Elisa Gerouki, a Piraeus,
Greece-based spokeswoman for NewLead Holdings Ltd., said by e-
mail yesterday.  Condensate that’s produced in oil-extraction is equivalent
to extra-light crude, according to James Zhang, an analyst at
Standard Bank Plc in  London . For the shipping industry, such
cargoes can be deemed clean petroleum products provided they
contain no residues from crude production, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net 
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  