-- 
Anti-Qaddafi Forces Advance on Strongholds as Turkish Premier Arrives

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-09-16T15:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/libya-rebels-fight-for-sirte-as-cameron-sarkozy-pledge-aid-to-new-rulers.html
Opponents of  Muammar Qaddafi 
advanced on two of his loyalists’ strongholds as the Turkish
premier arrived in Tripoli to meet Libya’s new rulers.  The Misrata Military Council’s forces pushed into the city
of Sirte, Qaddafi’s birthplace on the Mediterranean coast,
according to a statement from the group today. Anti-Qaddafi
fighters also entered the mountain town of Bani Walid,  Al
Jazeera  said.  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  was greeted in
Tripoli by Mustafa Abdel Jalil, chairman of the National
Transitional Council. Erdogan said  Turkey  would aid Libya
militarily and politically, and offered help in the construction
a parliament, telling a crowd, “Libya belongs to Libyans.”  Erdogan’s trip follows a visit to Libya yesterday by U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , the first foreign leaders to visit Tripoli since
helping the rebel forces of the NTC oust Qaddafi last month.
U.S. President  Barack Obama  will meet Abdel Jalil at the opening
of the United Nations General Assembly in  New York  on Sept. 20.  Obama plans to congratulate Jalil on the defeat of
Qaddafi’s forces and discuss transition plans,  Ben Rhodes ,
Obama’s deputy national security adviser, told reporters today.  The Misrata Military Council said yesterday that its
fighters took control of the entrances to Sirte, and began
searching for officials loyal to Qaddafi. They deployed 900
armed  pickup trucks  the largest fleet assembled by the forces
for a single operation again Qaddafi’s supporters.  Seeking Backup  The Misratan forces withdrew early today to avoid being hit
by rockets from positions south of the city after delivering
food and water to trapped civilians. They also sent ammunition
to forces in Benghazi and asked for backup, according to the
statement today. The Misrata Military Council operates
independently from the NTC, while units from Benghazi don’t.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization said today that its
warplanes struck multiple rocket launchers, missile systems,
armored vehicles and a military storage facility in Sirte
yesterday in attacks coinciding with the start of the anti-
Qaddafi forces’ ground offensive.  Cameron and Sarkozy said they would push at the United
Nations Security Council today for the adoption of a resolution
releasing more Libyan assets that were frozen under sanctions
against Qaddafi.  ‘Not Finished’  “This is not finished, this is not done, this is not over;
there are still parts of  Libya  under Qaddafi’s control,”
Cameron told a joint news conference in Tripoli yesterday. “We
will help you to find Qaddafi and bring him to justice.”  Britain is releasing 600 million pounds ($950 million) of
Libyan assets, Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters
in London.  Asked whether their intervention had been influenced by a
desire to get at Libya’s oil wealth, Sarkozy said, “There were
no kickbacks, no hidden agreements to access Libya’s resources.
We did what we thought was fair.”  The North African country will resume crude exports within
three or four days, the nation’s representative to a meeting of
Arab  central bank  governors in Doha said yesterday. Output will
be about 700,000 barrels a day by the end of this year and an
estimated 1.6 million barrels a day by the end of 2012, Abdulla
Saudi told reporters in the Qatari capital.  The U.K. has put forward a draft resolution to the UN
Security Council to end an asset freeze on the Libyan National
Oil Corp. and Zueitina Oil Co., according to a Western diplomat
who spoke on condition of not being identified. The 15-member
body may vote on the measure today.  Use of Assets  The resolution also would authorize the Central Bank of
Libya, the Libyan Foreign Bank, the Libyan Investment Authority
and the Libyan Africa Investment Portfolio to use their assets
for specified purposes. Those include purchases of humanitarian
aid; fuel, electricity and water for civilian use; and the
strengthening of Libya’s government and economy.  Eighteen of 19 Libyan ports are now “operational,”
according to a notice to the UN’s shipping agency from the NTC
published on the website of  Inchcape Shipping Services 
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  