-- 
Ican’s Singhvi Sees Difficult Growth Phase on Policy Paralysis

-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 
2011-09-16T08:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/ican-s-singhvi-sees-difficult-growth-phase-on-policy-paralysis.html
Anil Singhvi, chairman at Ican
Investment Advisors Pvt. in Mumbai, comments on  interest rates 
and inflation in India after the central bank raised the
benchmark borrowing cost for the sixth time this year.  The  Reserve Bank  of India today raised the repurchase rate
by a quarter-percentage point to 8.25 percent after data this
week showed the wholesale-price index rose 9.78 percent in
August from a year, the most in 13 months. Singhvi spoke in a
telephone interview  On further rate hikes:  “I think we’ll see one more round of rate hikes this
November. So as long as inflation is a concern, expect more.
Investment climate is a factor of confidence in the government,
and interest rates won’t affect the economy as much as
government action to control inflation and boost growth.  ‘‘With no measures in sight from the government, it is left
to the central bank to work on controlling inflation.  ‘‘Inflation cannot be tackled by rate hikes alone. This
government should at least seem like they’re doing something to
help matters. They can’t keep saying inflation will come down
without even showing an action plan. There are a number of bills
pending.  ‘‘Our view on  India  is that we’ll go through a difficult
growth phase for 12 months largely because of policy paralysis
rather than anything else.  ‘‘We are all so clued into equity markets in India and we
see them as a marker for growth partly because there isn’t much
of a  debt market  in this country.  ‘‘How much we grow is not the RBI’s concern. Their concern
is tackling inflation. And we only need to see how much a common
man gets on his saving account as interest when compared to
inflation rates. It’s obvious that the common man is subsidizing
the economy at current rates.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  