-- 
Iceland to Remove Capital Restrictions by 2013 After Deal With Opposition

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-16T21:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/iceland-will-remove-capital-restrictions-by-2013-arnason-says.html
Iceland will remove  capital
controls  by 2013 instead of 2015, after the North Atlantic
island’s government brokered a deal with opposition parties in
parliament, according to Economy Minister Arni Pall Arnason.  “After a debate about the capital controls in parliament
lately it’s my conclusion that it’s unavoidable to introduce a
clearer strategy relating to the matters that are required to
simplify the removal of capital controls and speed the
process,” Arnason said in a statement on his  website . “I’m
pleased to have experienced the will of all party leaders to
complete this task.”  The  economy ministry  will request a time schedule from the
island’s Financial Supervisory Authority, outlining the
necessary actions that need to be taken in order to lift the
restrictions. By the end of October 2012, Arnason will introduce
an assessment to the Reykjavik-based legislature on whether
there’s room to remove the restrictions before 2013.  Iceland is still recovering from its 2008 banking meltdown,
which sent the krona down about 80 percent against the euro
offshore before the central bank halted the sell-off with
capital controls. Since then, the country has used the currency
restrictions to protect its economy as it tries to appease
creditors seeking to recoup some of the $85 billion Iceland’s
banks defaulted on almost three years ago. The government wants
 European Union  accession talks, started in July last year, to
result in euro membership as early as 2015.  Offshore kronur are estimated at 460 billion kronur ($3.96
billion) or about 25 percent of Iceland’s economy, according to
the island’s  central bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  