-- 
Tiffany’s International Sales Set to Exceed U.S. on New Stores

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-09-16T12:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/tiffany-s-international-sales-set-to-exceed-u-s-on-new-stores.html
Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-
largest jewelry retailer, will soon get more revenue from
outside the U.S. than from its home market as it opens stores in
Europe, the head of the company’s French unit said.  An influx of Chinese and Russian tourists to Europe is
helping boost sales in the region, Agnes Cromback, president of
Tiffany  France , said yesterday in an interview at the jeweler’s
store near Place Vendome in Paris.  “We have very good average spend with Chinese,” some of
whom come to France’s capital for only one day during European
tours, Cromback said. “Tiffany’s international business will
soon be more important than the U.S.”  The proportion of Tiffany’s revenue coming from the U.S.
dropped to about half in the year through January from about 61
percent four years prior. The New York-based jeweler expects
full-year sales in  Europe , where it usually gets about a tenth
of its revenue, to increase by at least 20 percent this year,
Chief Financial Officer Patrick F. McGuiness said last month.  Tiffany operated 31 stores in Europe as of July 31. The
company will open its fourth store in France and first outside
Paris in Nice as soon as March, Cromback said.  ‘Show It Off’  “The further south you go, the more people like jewelry
and like to show it off,” she said.  As well as looking at openings around  Belgium , the
Netherlands and Luxembourg, the jeweler will continue
refurbishing boutiques, with the shop near Place Vendome set for
renovation in 2013, she said.  Tiffany’s three French boutiques are within about a 15
minute walk of each other in Paris. Two are in neighboring
department stores  Galeries Lafayette  and Printemps.  Department stores, which have been upgrading their store
design, product selection and service, attract a different type
of luxury consumer, partly because they’re less intimidating,
Cromback said. The format also attracts more shoppers. With as
many as 100,000 visitors a day, Galeries Lafayette greets more
people than the Eiffel Tower, she said.  “If you’re preparing something very important and you want
the shopping experience, you come here,” Cromback said,
referring to Place Vendome. “If you want to be efficient, you
go to the department store.”  Price increases helped Tiffany raise its full-year earnings
forecast last month. So far, that hasn’t affected sales in
France, Cromback said. Tiffany’s prices range from 35 euros
($48.35) to more than 200,000 euros in Europe, she said. The
company doesn’t offer discounts.  The jeweler gets about 25 percent of its annual revenue
during the  Christmas shopping season , Cromback said.  “This is the serious part of the year,” she said. “I
hope that tourism will be up and people will be willing to spend
money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 