-- 
Lilly, Novo Drugs’ Cancer Tie Unproven, Researcher Says

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-09-16T10:53:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/lilly-novo-drugs-cancer-tie-unproven-german-researcher-says.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  and  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Byetta and Novo Nordisk A/S’s Victoza, two
insulin-raising drugs, don’t appear to carry an increased risk
of cancer based on available data, according to a German
researcher.  “The bulk of findings tends to speak against such an
association,” Michael Nauck, head of the  Diabeteszentrum Bad
Lauterberg  in Harz,  Germany , said in an interview. “There is no
general agreement.” Nauck debated Peter Butler of the
 University of California  at  Los Angeles  at the  European
Association for the Study of Diabetes meeting  today on whether
so-called GLP-1 therapies increase cancer risk.  Sales of the drugs may be hurt should Butler’s view prevail
that there are signs of increased cancer from the drugs. He and
other UCLA researchers said in a study this year that a review
of a database of side effects showed patients taking Byetta and
a Merck & Co. drug had a higher chance of developing pancreatic
or thyroid tumors.  The treatments are safe and there’s no evidence of a higher
cancer risk, according to the manufacturers of the drugs.
Doctors are increasingly turning to GLP-1 medicines to fight
 diabetes , which affects 366 million people worldwide, killing
one every seven seconds, according to an estimate by the
International Diabetes Federation. The drugs mimic a hormone
called GLP-1 to stimulate natural insulin production in
diabetics.  ‘Serious’ Side Effects  In  a study  published in the journal Gastroenterology in
July, Butler and the other researchers said the GLP-1 drug class
“could have serious unintended and unpredicted side effects.”  Their analysis of the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration ’s
database of reported adverse events from 2004 to 2009 found that
patients taking Byetta and Januvia, a Merck drug belonging to a
separate new class of diabetes drugs, had a six-fold increased
chance of pancreatitis.  The researchers also found a 2.9-fold greater rate of
pancreatic cancer and an increased risk of thyroid cancer for
diabetics using exenatide, the chemical name for Byetta,
according to a UCLA statement handed out to reporters yesterday.
Sitagliptin, as Januvia is also known, was associated with a
2.7-fold higher rate of pancreatic cancer, compared with other
therapies. The study didn’t look specifically at Novo’s Victoza.  Motivation for Research  “The data we have so far makes the question sufficiently
robust that it has to be answered,” Butler said in an
interview. “Hopefully this debate will raise the awareness of
the scientific community, so that people will be motivated to
join in the research.”  Several researchers and drugmakers including Novo Nordisk
criticized Butler’s analysis, saying the FDA’s voluntary
reporting system can’t be used to calculate the incidence of
side effects.  Butler’s study is an “erroneous analysis” and its results
“are really not reliable at all,” Matteo Monami, a physician
at the University of Florence and Carreggi Teaching Hospital in
 Italy , said in an interview.  Monami yesterday presented a study showing no increase in
cancer or pancreatitis for so-called dipeptidyl peptidase-4
inhibitors such as Januvia. Another study to be discussed today
will show this drug class potentially has a protective
cardiovascular effect, he said.  Database Implications  While the FDA database has limitations, it also offers
advantages such as a large sample size, the fact that it is
accessible to everyone and that it’s independent from companies
that market the drugs, Butler said today.  Diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin needed to convert
blood sugar into energy. Regulators already have taken note of
possible links between the new classes of diabetes drugs and
pancreatitis and thyroid tumors. Pancreatitis is a risk factor
for pancreatic cancer.  For Nauck, the data examined not only fails to establish a
link between GLP-1 therapies and thyroid and pancreatic cancer.
It also may show the drugs protect against certain other forms
of cancer, such as prostate tumors, he said.  “Looking at the same database and using very, very similar
methods, I find evidence that some forms of cancer are
reduced,” Nauck said in the interview.  Signals that GLP-1 drugs may potentially reduce prostate
cancer in diabetics are “subject to the same sort of bias” as
the signals found by Butler and colleagues, he said. “You can
either believe both those findings or none of them,” Nauck
added.  Limiting Use  Some doctors say they’re limiting their use of the new
drugs.  “There must be some restraint with new compounds such as
GLP-1s and DPP-4 inhibitors,” Gerard Guillain, an
endocrinologist in Nice,  France , said. “I am not sure we are
totally aware what happens with these drugs. I only prescribe
them when it’s absolutely necessary. Otherwise I avoid them.”  Carl Johan Oestgren, a professor at the Department of
Medical and Health Sciences at  Linkoeping University  in
Linkoeping,  Sweden , uses GLP-1 analogues “only for a few
patients.”  “I don’t think there is evidence at all that GLP-1
analogues may induce cancer at this stage,” he said. Still,
“when new drugs come to the market, it’s very important to be
careful at the beginning.”  ‘Benign Profile’  Lilly, Amylin, Novo Nordisk and Merck say their products
haven’t been shown to cause cancer. “To date the available data
do not demonstrate that exenatide increases the overall risk of
cancer in humans,” Indianapolis-based Lilly and San Diego-based
Amylin said in e-mailed statements last week.  Victoza has a “very benign side effect profile in real-
life use,” Novo Chief Science Officer Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen
said in a Sept. 8 telephone interview.  Sitagliptin, the chemical name for Januvia, also is safe,
according to  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck.  “We are absolutely confident about the safety of
Januvia,” Barry Goldstein, vice president of diabetes and
endocrinology clinical research for Merck, said in an interview
in Lisbon. “We’ve scrutinized the databases we have. We’ve
studied Januvia for 10 years. We don’t find any evidence of
pancreatitis or cancer. It is a safe and effective medicine.”  Sales of the daily shot Victoza more than quadrupled in the
second quarter to 1.25 billion kroner ($230 million). Bagsvaerd,
Denmark-based Novo Nordisk may reap sales of 15 billion kroner a
year by 2016, according to Berenberg Bank estimates. Byetta, a
twice-daily injection, had worldwide sales of $710.2 million
last year.  Trials Needed  Butler and Nauck agree on one point: Prospective randomized
clinical trials are needed to conclusively show whether GLP-1
therapies carry an increased risk of cancer.  While there is evidence for and against a link, the
evidence against predominates, Nauck said during the debate.  “I do not see a reason to change clinical practice as far
as the prescription of these drugs is concerned,” he said.
“The issue is there. We cannot resolve it today. We will have
to deal with it in the future.”  Said Butler, “We are really not in the ‘yes’ camp. We are
in the ‘maybe’ camp.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  