-- 
India Stocks Gain for Third Week as Rate Increase Meets Forecast

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-09-16T11:56:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/india-stocks-gain-for-third-week-as-rate-increase-meets-forecast.html
India ’s benchmark stock index
advanced, gaining for a third straight week, after the nation’s
central bank increased interest rates in line with forecasts.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the nation’s biggest truck-maker, surged
7 percent, the most since March 2010. The  Reserve Bank  of India
raised its repurchase rate to 8.25 percent from 8 percent, it
said in a statement today. Fourteen of 17 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted the decision while three
expected no change. Oil &  Natural Gas  Corp., the largest energy
explorer, rallied the most since June 2010, after the government
delayed a plan to sell shares in the company.  “The rate hike was already priced in,” Jitendra Panda,
the Mumbai-based head of broking at  Future Capital Holdings
Ltd. (FCHL) , said by phone. “Markets will see a consolidation and not
much correction now.”  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 57.29, or
0.3 percent, to 16,933.83 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai,
after surging 1.5 percent intraday. It gained 0.4 percent this
week. The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India advanced 0.2 percent to 5,084.25 while its September
futures traded at 5,087. The BSE-200 Index added 0.3 percent.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao’s move contrasts with  Brazil  and
 Russia , which cut borrowing costs in the past month, while  China 
has paused rate increases since early July. Higher food and fuel
prices and weakness in the rupee may keep inflation above 9
percent, a level topped in each of the last nine months.  The decision today to raise  interest rates  leaves scope for
economic expansion to pick up in the second half of the year,
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in a statement today. The
central bank’s policy will help the country get back to a more
“comfortable inflation situation,” he said.  ‘Premature Change’  Inflation in India is the highest among the so-called BRICS
nations, quickening to a 13-month high of 9.78 percent in
August. Consumer prices rose 7.2 percent in Brazil, 8.2 percent
in Russia and 6.2 percent in China last month from a year ago.
In  South Africa , they climbed 5.3 percent in July.  “Inflation remains high, generalised and much above the
comfort zone of the Reserve Bank,” the central bank said in the
statement. “A premature change in the policy stance could
harden inflationary expectations, thereby diluting the impact of
past policy actions. It is therefore imperative to persist with
the current anti-inflationary stance.”  Price gains may quicken after Indian Oil Corp. increased
gasoline prices starting today for the second time in four
months. The increase in gasoline prices will have a “direct
impact of 7 basis points” on inflation, in addition to an
“indirect impact with a lag,” according to today’s statement.  Worst Performer  The Sensex has tumbled 17 percent this year, the most in
 Asia , on concern the central bank’s record rate increases may
compound the effects of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and
slowing economic growth in the U.S. on corporate profits.
Earnings for 47 percent of Sensex companies missed analysts’
estimates in the June quarter, compared with about 33 percent in
the previous three months.  A rally in shares of Tata Motors, Oil & Natural Gas and
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s largest carmaker, helped
the Sensex close higher today.  Tata Motors, owner of the Jaguar and Land Rover brands,
surged 7 percent to 161.85 rupees after August sales of luxury
sports utility vehicles increased at the fastest pace in more
than a year. Land Rover sales have increased every month since
November 2009, when Tata Motors starting reporting its monthly
global sales, helping counter waning demand for Jaguar and the
Nano, the world’s cheapest car.  ‘Not Comfortable’  ONGC rallied 5.4 percent to 274.70 rupees, the biggest
advance since June 25, 2010. The government decided not to go
ahead with the 5 percent stake sale scheduled to start on Sept.
20, ONGC said in an exchange filing, without stating a reason.  “Global events mean the market is volatile and the
government is probably not very comfortable with that,” said
Jigar Shah, senior vice-president and head of research at Kim
Eng Securities India Pvt. “It would’ve been very awkward if a
government share sale didn’t succeed.”  Maruti rose 2.5 percent to 1,109.45 rupees after spokesman
Kanwaljeet Singh said a strike at its supplier’s plants has been
called off and engine and transmission supplies are restored.
 State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest lender, rose 2.5
percent to 1,945.60 rupees, while  NTPC Ltd. (NATP) , the largest power
producer, jumped 4.8 percent to 172.45 rupees.  Overseas investors sold a net 92 million rupees ($1.95
million) of local stocks on Sept. 14, reducing their investment
in equities this year to 15.3 billion rupees, according to data
on the  website  of the market regulator. They withdrew a net $2.4
billion in August, the most since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  