-- 
Indian 10-Year Bond Yield at Six-Week High on Rate Increase

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-16T12:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/india-s-10-year-bonds-drop-as-economists-predict-rate-increase.html
India ’s 10-year bonds extended
declines, pushing yields to a six-week high, as the central bank
increased borrowing costs for the sixth time this year to cool
inflation.  The  Reserve Bank of India  raised the repurchase rate by 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 8.25 percent, a move
predicted by 14 of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
while three expected no change. Bonds also declined on concern
demand for the fixed-income notes will drop this week as
quarterly tax payments by companies drain cash from banks.  “The interest-rate action shows containing inflation
remains the RBI’s top priority,” J. Moses Harding, an executive
vice president at IndusInd Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “Liquidity will
be kept tight at least until December.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.36 percent at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. That is the highest level since Aug. 4.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has raised rates by a total of
350 basis points starting March, 2010, the fastest round of
increases since the  Reserve Bank  was established in 1935,
Bloomberg data show. India’s inflation accelerated to 9.78
percent in August, the fastest pace in more than a year, a
government report showed Sept. 14.  ‘Anti-Inflationary Stance’  “Inflation remains high, generalised and much above the
comfort zone of the Reserve Bank,” the central bank said in
today’s statement. “A premature change in the policy stance
could harden inflationary expectations, thereby diluting the
impact of past policy actions. It is therefore imperative to
persist with the current anti-inflationary stance.”  Lenders raised 1.02 trillion rupees ($21.5 billion) in
overnight loans from the RBI to meet cash shortages, central
bank data showed.  Bonds also declined on concern Finance Minister  Pranab
Mukherjee  will fail to meet a goal to cut the  budget deficit  as
a slide in stocks hampers plans to raise money selling stakes in
state-owned companies. India today deferred a proposed sale of
shares in Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the nation’s largest energy
explorer, after the Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index lost
almost 10 percent this quarter.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
rose 19 basis points to 7.96 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  