-- 
Rupee Gains Most in Two Weeks on Europe Optimism, Rate Increase

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-09-16T12:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/indian-rupee-strengthens-paring-weekly-loss-on-europe-optimism.html
India ’s rupee strengthened the most
since Sept. 2, paring the week’s loss, on speculation  Europe ’s
policy makers will contain the region’s debt crisis, bolstering
demand for emerging-market assets.  The currency advanced after the  European Central Bank  said
yesterday it coordinated with other central banks to extend
three-month loans to euro-area banks. The  Reserve Bank  of India
today raised  interest rates  for the sixth time this year, in
line with forecasts. Analysts at Brown Brothers Harriman,
including New York-based Win Thin, predict a “short-term”
rebound for the rupee after the rate increase.  “However, the lack of policy support for the rupee
combined with India’s large current-account deficit, dependency
on short-term flows and exposure to equity markets will probably
keep the currency as an underperformer in the region until  risk
aversion  subsides,” they wrote in a report after the RBI
announcement.  The rupee gained 0.6 percent to 47.2650 per dollar at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
paring the week’s loss to 1.5 percent. It had fallen to a two-
year low of 48.02 on Sept. 14 before pulling back on speculation
the RBI sold dollars.  Inflation Concerns  The central bank raised the repurchase rate to 8.25 percent
from 8 percent, and said rising inflationary expectations remain
a key risk. Fourteen of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
expected the rate decision, while three predicted no change.  “With inflation still the number one concern for the RBI,
further hikes cannot be ruled out,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist in Singapore at Westpac Banking Corp. “Risk
aversion will persist and leave equity-market investors wary.”  The rupee might fall to 48.50 or even 48.80 per dollar in
the coming few weeks, Cavenagh said.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 47.95 in
three months, compared with expectations of 48.25 yesterday.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  