-- 
India Adds 1,100 Products in Program to Benefit Overseas Sales

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-09-16T13:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/india-extends-duty-drawback-plan-to-depb-items-correct-.html
India expanded a list of export
products eligible for tax exemptions in a plan to support
companies as  Europe ’s debt crisis slows overseas sales.  The so-called duty drawback plan for exporters will be
expanded to include 1,100 items that got benefits from a
government program scheduled to end on Sept. 30, according to a
statement issued by  Finance Ministry  in New Delhi today.  Exporters of drugs, autos and engineering goods will be
among those included in the benefit program that has 2,835
items. Under the plan, the government will refund part of the
custom levies on imported raw materials to make goods for
overseas sales. The revamp means products in the program ending
this month will continue to enjoy the benefits.  “We are very happy that they have done this,” Umang Vohra, Chief Financial Officer at Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd.
said in a phone interview today.  India ’s second-biggest
drugmaker saved up to 1.2 billion rupees ($25 million) in
customs levies last year due to the program, Hitesh Goel and
Priti Arora, analysts at Kotak Securities said in a report in
May.  Dr. Reddy’s rose 3.3 percent to 1,527.1 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai, the stock’s biggest increase since July
13. Cipla dropped 0.5 percent to 282.7 rupees. The BSE India
Sensitive Index added 0.3 percent.  Drugmakers including Dr. Reddy’s and Cipla Ltd. benefited
from the program because they pay significant  customs duties  on
imported raw materials, the Kotak analysts said.  India’s merchandise exports, which account for about a
fifth of the country’s economy, rose at its slowest pace in four
months in August. Overseas sales increased 44.2 percent from a
year earlier to $24.3 billion, trade secretary Rahul Khullar
said in  New Delhi  on Sept. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  