-- 
India Raises Benchmark Rate as Subbarao Breaks Ranks With BRIC Economies

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-09-16T12:55:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/india-raises-benchmark-rate-as-subbarao-breaks-ranks-with-bric-economies.html
India ’s central bank raised
 interest rates  for the 12th time since the start of March 2010,
breaking ranks among the so-called BRIC nations that have either
cut or held borrowing costs as the global recovery falters.  The  Reserve Bank of India  increased the repurchase rate to
8.25 percent from 8 percent, it said in a statement today.
Fourteen of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted
the decision and three expected no change.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao’s move contrasts with  Brazil  and
 Russia , which cut borrowing costs in the past month, while China
has paused rate increases since early July. Higher food and fuel
prices and weakness in the rupee may keep inflation above 9
percent, a level exceeded in each of the last nine months.  “The decision clearly points out that the RBI’s top
priority is curbing inflation despite concerns about global
turmoil,” said Indranil Sen Gupta, Mumbai-based emerging  Asia 
economist at Bank of America Corp. “There will be pressure on
inflation after last evening’s petrol-price increases and the
rupee’s depreciation.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent bond due April 2021 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.36 percent, a six-
week high at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index gained 0.3 percent and the rupee
advanced 0.6 percent to 47.265 per dollar.  Weaker Rupee  The  Indian rupee  has declined 5.4 percent this quarter, the
worst fall in Asia, as investors shunned emerging markets on
concern the world economy is weakening.  Inflation in India is the highest among the BRICS nations,
quickening to a 13-month high of 9.78 percent in August.  Consumer prices rose 7.2 percent in Brazil, 8.2 percent in
Russia and 6.2 percent in China last month from a year earlier.
In  South Africa , they climbed 5.3 percent in July.  “Inflation remains high, generalised and much above the
comfort zone of the Reserve Bank,” the central bank said in the
statement. “A premature change in the policy stance could
harden inflationary expectations, thereby diluting the impact of
past policy actions. It is therefore imperative to persist with
the current anti-inflationary stance.”  Subbarao has raised borrowing costs by a total of 350 basis
points since mid-March 2010, the fastest round of increases
since the Reserve Bank was established in 1935, Bloomberg data
show.  ‘Comfortable Inflation’  “The measures taken would get us back to a more
comfortable inflation situation earlier rather than later, while
leaving scope for growth to pick-up in the second half of the
year,” Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  India needs to control inflation to protect purchasing
power and sustain growth, the  Reserve Bank  has said.  The $1.7 trillion economy expanded 7.7 percent in the three
months ended June 30 from a year earlier, the slowest pace since
the last quarter of 2009. Gross domestic product rose 7.8
percent in the previous three months.  “Growth in India is moderating and not collapsing,” Leif Eskesen, a Singapore-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said
before the report. “The global softness is clearly a concern,
but India’s more domestically oriented economy is less
vulnerable than other Asian economies.”  India’s central bank said that even as many indicators
point to moderating growth, “in the current scenario, with the
likelihood of inflation remaining high for the next few months,
rising inflationary expectations remain a key risk.”  Gasoline Prices  Inflation may accelerate after Indian Oil Corp., the
country’s biggest refiner, raised gasoline prices from today for
the second time in four months. Losses from selling fuels below
cost are increasing following the rupee’s decline against the
dollar, Indian Oil Finance Director P.K. Goyal said yesterday.  The increase in gasoline prices will have a “direct impact
of 7 basis points” on inflation, in addition to an “indirect
impact with a lag,” according to today’s statement.  Oil in  New York  has dropped 6.6 percent this quarter. It
fell 0.3 percent to $89.1 a barrel at 5:45 p.m. in Mumbai.  “Even though crude prices have softened, the rupee’s fall
is making imports more expensive,” said  Roy Paul , Mumbai-based
deputy general manager of treasury at Federal Bank Ltd. “That
will keep the pressure on inflation.”  China , Brazil  Officials from China to  South Korea  have refrained from
raising rates in recent weeks to gauge whether slowing economic
growth will dissipate price pressures. In Brazil, the central
bank opted to cut its target Selic rate on Aug. 31 for the first
time since 2009 to protect expansion.  Policy makers in Russia, which doesn’t target one rate,
reduced the rate charged on repurchase loans and raised the
deposit rate on Sept. 14 to bolster the amount of cash in the
market and spur growth.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  last month said curbing
inflation is his government’s priority. The opposition has
criticized him for failing to control price gains in a country
where the  World Bank  estimates more than three-quarters of the
population live on less than $2 a day.  “As monetary policy operates with a lag, the cumulative
impact of policy actions should now be increasingly felt in
further moderation in demand and reversal of the inflation
trajectory towards the later part of 2011-12,” the central bank
statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  