-- 
International Demand for U.S. Assets Increased Less Than Estimated in July

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-09-16T15:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-increased-less-than-estimated-in-july.html
Global demand for U.S. stocks,
bonds and other financial assets was weaker than forecast in
July, the Treasury Department reported today.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$9.5 billion during the month compared with net buying of $3.4
billion in June, according to statistics issued in  Washington .
Including short-term securities such as stock swaps, foreigners
sold a net $51.8 billion compared with net selling of $29.4
billion the previous month.  The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities is a gauge
of confidence in U.S. economic policy, and today’s report
suggests many investors may have sought a higher return
elsewhere, said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “Foreign corporations have been purchasing less
Treasuries, and that reflects the low yields,” LeBas said after
the report was released. He said that’s “a shame for foreigners
because the value of Treasuries rose tremendously” since July.  Before today’s report, economists in a Bloomberg News
survey projected long-term financial assets would show net
buying of $30 billion in July according to the median estimate.
Five economists participated and their estimates ranged from
$8.5 billion to $70 billion.  ‘Diversification’  Joseph Lupton, global economist at JPMorgan Chase in  New
York , said there has been a gradual “diversification” out of
U.S. Treasury securities this year by the central banks of the
world. “There is a gradual shift,” Lupton said.  With Europe’s finances in crisis, “there are few
opportunities for investing in relatively stable, lower risk
economic environments” and “that essentially leaves the
U.S.,” said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic Advisors
Inc. in Holland, Pennsylvania.  China  remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries in July after its holdings rose by $8 billion to
$1.174 trillion.  Hong Kong , counted separately from China,
reduced its holdings by $6.5 billion to $111.9 billion.  Japan , the second-largest holder, increased its holdings in
July by $3.8 billion to $914.8 billion.  Caribbean banking centers,  Russia  and the European banking
center of Luxembourg reduced their positions. The U.K. and
Brazil added to their holdings of Treasuries.  The total amount of  U.S. government debt  held abroad fell
to $4.478 trillion in July from $4.496 trillion the month
before, according to the Treasury’s statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  