-- 
Italy’s Debt Remains Under Review for Moody’s Downgrade on Growth Concern

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-09-16T21:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/italy-s-debt-remains-under-review-for-moody-s-downgrade-on-growth-concern.html
Italy’s  credit rating  remains under
review for a possible downgrade for the first time in almost two
decades by Moody’s Investors Service, amid concern that economic
growth will remain too weak to reduce the region’s second-
largest debt.  The debt, rated Aa2, was placed on review June 17. In light
of the “increasingly challenging economic and financial
environment and fluid political developments in the euro area,”
Moody’s said it a statement it will continue to evaluate the
rating and strive to conclude the review within the next month.  Italy risks following  Spain , Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus and
 Greece  as euro-region countries having their credit rating cut
this year. Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  passed a 54 billion-
euro ($74.5 billion) austerity package this month that convinced
the  European Central Bank  to buy its bonds after borrowing costs
surged to euro-era records in August.  The risk of a downgrade comes just weeks after  Standard &
Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating for the first
time. While the Aug. 5 move roiled global markets, bond
investors ignored S&P’s warnings about U.S. creditworthiness and
piled into Treasuries. The yield on the benchmark U.S.
government bond fell to a record 1.8770 on Sept. 12.  An Italian downgrade may aggravate a volatile political
situation -- Berlusconi faces four trials -- after a decade with
virtually no economic growth that has undermined debt reduction.
Its government debt was 119 percent of gross domestic product
last year, more than any euro country after Greece.  Budget Gap  Unlike Ireland and Portugal, which followed Greece in
seeking bailouts from the EU and the  International Monetary
Fund , Italy until July had managed to skirt the worst of the
fallout from the debt crisis.  While its budget gap was 4.6 percent of GDP in 2010, lower
than France and  Germany , debt will reach 120 percent this year.  Italy’s economy expanded an average 0.2 percent annually
from 2001 to 2010, compared with 1.1 percent in the euro area.
GDP rose 0.3 percent in the second quarter from the three months
through March, when it grew 0.1 percent, national statistics
institute on Sept. 9.  With austerity in the pipeline, “we now expect the economy
to contract in 2012 and 2013,”  Ben May , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London , said in a Sept. 9 note.  Deficit Cuts  Berlusconi pushed through two packages of deficit cuts
since mid-July totaling about 100 billion euros. Measures
included raising the value-added tax by one percentage point to
21 percent and a levy on incomes of more than 300,000 euros to
balance the budget by 2013. The second, announced on Aug. 5, was
a condition of ECB support.  While ECB purchases knocked more than 100 basis points off
the yield in a week, borrowing costs began rising again as the
government diluted the package. That prompted Berlusconi to
revise the plan, introducing the increase in the value-added
tax, raising the levy on high earners and lifting the  retirement
age  for women.  The yield on 10-year notes was at 5.51 percent today,
pushing the difference investors to hold Italian bonds instead
of benchmark German bunds to 365 basis points. The cost of
insuring Italian debt against default is more than double the
level at the start of the year.  S&P in May and Moody’s in June first warned that they may
downgrade  Italy , saying the government may miss its revenue and
deficit targets amid chronically sluggish growth and possible
political instability.  The government’s first budget package approved in May
wasn’t enough to convince S&P that Italy will be able to reduce
its debt. The rating company said on July 1 that even with the
budget cuts, there’s a “one-in-three likelihood that the
ratings could be lowered within the next” two years because
anemic economic growth would undermine fiscal goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  