-- 
J&J Metal Hips Failed in More Than 25% of Cases, U.K. Says

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-09-16T19:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/j-j-metal-hips-failed-in-more-than-a-quarter-of-cases-u-k-says.html
A metal-on-metal hip implant made
by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  failed in more than a quarter of cases by
the sixth year after the devices were installed, according to a
U.K. medical registry.  The ASR Acetabular implant from J&J’s DePuy Orthopaedics
Inc. unit was removed or replaced 29 percent of the time after
six years, compared with a 9.5 percent failure rate for all
metal-on-metal implants, the  National Joint Registry of England
and Wales  said in its 2011  annual report .  Findings by the registry last year led  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J to recall the ASR devices. The world’s biggest
hip maker faces more than 2,000 lawsuits related to its
implants. Regardless of manufacturer, metal-on-metal implants
need replacing more often than other types, according to the
U.K. registry.  “There appears to be a sharp increase in the risk of
revision at around six years after primary surgery for the
metal-on-metal group although more data is needed to confirm
this finding,” the registry report said.  The revised figures should be viewed in a broader context,
 Lorie Gawreluk , a spokeswoman for DePuy.  Evaluate ‘With Caution’  “The six-year revision rate should be interpreted with
caution because it is based on a small number of cases,” she
said in an e-mail. “The five-year data is more statistically
robust given the much larger patient population from which it is
drawn.”  The report found 17 percent of the ASR Acetabular implants
were removed or replaced after five years, Gawreluk said.  In the seventh year after implantation, overall removal
rates for hip implants were 4.7 percent, according to the
registry. The rate for metal-on-metal implants, which consist of
metal balls and sockets, was 14 percent compared with 3 percent
for cemented devices.  Use of metal-on-metal devices in  England  and  Wales  has
declined to 5 percent of procedures in 2010 from 15 percent in
2007, the registry said.  The registry says it has the world’s largest joint database
with 1.1 million records covering hip, knee and ankle joint
procedures in England and Wales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  