-- 
Japanese Stocks Advance Most Since March as ECB Offers Banks Support

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-09-16T07:36:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/japanese-stocks-head-for-two-week-high-as-ecb-offers-loans-to-banks.html
The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose
by the most in more than five months after the  European Central
Bank  and international policy makers coordinated to lend dollars
to euro-area banks, increasing confidence the region’s debt
crisis will be contained.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  climbed 4.6 percent,
leading gains among Japan’s largest lenders. Canon Inc., a maker
of cameras and copiers that counts on Europe for almost a third
of its sales, rose 4.3 percent.  Olympus Corp. (7733)  jumped 7.4 percent
after Citigroup Inc. started coverage of the optical-equipment
maker with a “buy” rating.  The Nikkei 225 gained 2.3 percent to 8,864.16 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, the biggest advance since March 30. The broader
Topix rose 2.2 percent to 768.13 today after central banks took
joint action to ensure liquidity to  Europe ’s lenders.  “The move takes the risk of a sudden bankruptcy among the
banks off the table,” said Juichi Wako, a senior strategist at
Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. “The market has become too
cautious and this may make investors less risk averse.”  The Topix rebounded 1.6 percent this week as the leaders of
Europe’s biggest economies expressed support for keeping Greece
in the union and speculation built that  China  will help the
region’s most indebted nations. A selloff by overseas investors
sent the index down 13 percent in the seven weeks through Sept.
9., the longest streak of outflows since March 2009.  Joint Action  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced for a fourth day
yesterday in  New York , rising 1.7 percent, as the ECB said it
coordinated with the  Federal Reserve  and other central banks to
extend three-month loans to euro-area lenders to ensure they
have enough cash for the rest of the year. The ECB said two
banks this week borrowed dollars from it, a sign they were
having difficulty getting the U.S. currency in the market.  Still, some investors said the ECB’s pledge to support
Europe’s lenders was likely to lift markets only temporarily.  “This doesn’t represent a fundamental solution, so
investors are likely to dump shares on the next piece of
negative news,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , chief strategist at
Toyota Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  Japanese banks rose today as concern eased that Europe’s
debt crisis will spread to the financial sector. Mitsubishi UFJ
gained 4.6 percent to 345 yen and its closest rival Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. rose 4.1 percent to 2,181 yen.  Banks Rise  Banks also got a boost after  Katsunori Nagayasu , head of
the Japanese Bankers Association reiterated the country’s
lenders won’t forgive loans to Tokyo Electric　Power Co. if asked
by the government.  The utility at the center of the worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl tumbled 5.9 percent to 335 yen, the biggest decliner
on the  Nikkei 225. (NKY)   Exporters to Europe advanced after the euro appreciated
against the yen, improving the earnings outlook for companies
that ship to the region. Canon gained 4.3 percent to 3,410 yen.
Kyocera Corp., an electronics maker that gets almost 20 percent
of its sales in Europe, advanced 2.4 percent to 6,910 yen.  The euro appreciated to as high as 106.99 yen last night in
Tokyo, compared with 105.29 at the close of  stock trading 
yesterday.  Olympus soared 7.4 percent to 2,225 yen after Citigroup
initiated coverage of the stock with a “buy” rating, saying
the company will benefit from demand in developing markets for
digestive endoscopes. The company has 70 percent of the world’s
market share for the instruments, according to Citi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 