-- 
Jefferson County’s Journey From Sewer-Bond Scandal to Settlement: Timeline

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-09-16T17:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/jefferson-county-alabama-s-path-from-scandal-to-debt-settlement-timeline.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama ’s elected
leaders voting to settle with creditors averted what would have
been the biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.  The deal approved by a 4-1 vote in Birmingham today caps
more than three years of negotiations between public officials
in Alabama’s most populous county and creditors led by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The county was pushed into crisis in 2008 after the
cascading blows of Wall Street’s credit crisis hit it with
unforeseen costs on $3.14 billion of bonds that are paid for
with revenue from its sewer system.  Jefferson County was the municipality hardest hit by the
2008 financial unraveling. Adding to the county’s challenges
were a sewer project marred by public corruption and political
pressure to restrain rising sewer bills.  Below is a timeline of events leading up to the agreement:  December 1996: Jefferson County agrees to repair and rebuild its
sewer system for collecting and cleaning water overflows to
settle a lawsuit alleging that untreated sewage was being
discharged into rivers during heavy rains, violating the federal
 Clean Water Act .  February-March 1997: Jefferson County sells bonds to finance the
project, raising $555 million in offerings led by underwriter
Raymond James & Associates. The county purchased a derivative in
connection with some of the fixed-rate debt.  The bonds were so-called revenue bonds, backed by the
proceeds of the customer bills instead of a general pledge on
the county’s tax collections. Documents from the bond offering
estimated the sewer project would cost about $1.5 billion. The
expanding scope of it subsequently pushed the cost to $2.2
billion, leaving the sewer system more than $3 billion in debt.
Sewer rates rose more than fourfold over 10 years to pay for it.  November 1997: Republican Commissioner Bettye Fine Collins sends
a letter to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asking
it to investigate the derivative transaction “in which
Jefferson County was abused.”  The financing -- which refinanced floating-rate debt with
fixed-rate debt, and then used the derivative to essentially
convert it back to floating-rate again -- left it with a higher
interest cost than when it began, she said. She estimated it
raised the county’s expense by some $1.2 million a year,
creating alarm about cronyism, excessive fees and fraud.  “I had proposed a competitive sale but was outvoted by my
colleagues who wanted to dispense political patronage,” she
said.  October 2002-December 2003:  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  serves as lead
banker on the  financings at the center  of the county’s collapse.
Before the transactions, more than 95 percent of the sewer bonds
were traditional fixed-cost securities.  By the end of it, 93 percent carried interest rates that
fluctuated along with the market, including $2.1 billion of so-
called auction-rate securities. The county tried to mitigate the
risk of rising expenses with interest-rate swaps, under which it
received adjustable payments meant to cover the bonds and paid a
fixed rate in return. The county entered into 18 swap trades
with a notional value of $5.6 billion, with JPMorgan the
dominant provider,  according to the SEC.  Such structured deals
involved multiple bank fees for resetting the  interest rates  on
the bonds, providing credit support, and selling the swaps.  The bank’s fees on the swaps weren’t disclosed; rather,
they were embedded in the interest rates the county paid.
JPMorgan overcharged the county on the swaps to cover the cost
of more than $8 million in secret payments made to friends of
county commissioners who worked for local companies, a step to
secure JPMorgan’s lead role, according to the SEC.  JPMorgan banker  Charles LeCroy , the bank’s representative
in the Jefferson County deals, was candid with his colleagues
about the political  influence peddling , according to an SEC
complaint.  When a colleague objected that “randomly paying off people
that have nothing to do with the deal just doesn’t sit well,”
he replied: “That’s the deal -- that’s just the price of doing
business,” according to SEC records.  March 2004: LeCroy is fired by JPMorgan for requesting the bank
pay a  law firm  for services that weren’t rendered, according to
regulatory records.  June 2005: LeCroy is sentenced to three months in jail after
pleading guilty to  wire fraud  in connection with an
investigation into whether Philadelphia bond business was
steered to supporters of then Mayor John Street.  August 2005: Bloomberg News reveals that JPMorgan charged
Jefferson County fees almost twice what was typical in
transactions of that size and documenting payments to William Blount, a longtime friend of Commissioner Larry Langford, and
other politically connected consultants. Langford, who oversaw
finance and was later elected Birmingham mayor, dismissed
questions about the risk.  “You know, I get the impression that people think a bunch
of rubes in Alabama shouldn’t be smart enough to utilize these
swaps,” Langford said. “And let there be an understanding: As
long as this is a legal instrument, and it drives down costs, if
we have to do one tomorrow, I’ll do it again.”  April 2007: Porter, White & Co., a financial adviser brought in
to analyze the swaps, estimates that the $120 million in swap
fees it was charged were as much as $100 million more than
warranted.  January-March 2008: As the effects of the housing-market crash
sent ripples through the financial system, the credit ratings of
two companies that insured Jefferson County’s bonds, Financial
Guaranty Insurance Co. and XL Capital Assurance Inc., are cut
because of losses suffered on securities tied to home loans.  Without top credit ratings, buyers including money-market
funds couldn’t hold the bonds. Concerned investors dumped them
en masse. Banks, seeking to shore up their own cash reserves,
stop stepping in to buy unwanted auction-rate securities. Many
auctions fail, leaving Jefferson County with penalty interest
rates. As central banks slash rates, the payments received under
the swaps fall instead of increasing, adding to the costs.  JPMorgan and other banks that agreed to buy a portion of
the bonds in return for a fee are protected by contracts that
required the county to pay off $850 million of the debt in four
years, instead of as long as 40 years, as the county had
planned. When the bonds were cut to junk, the county faced the
risk they could be forced to pay hundreds of millions in fees to
escape from the swaps. On Feb. 29,  Standard & Poor’s  rated the
sewer bonds below investment grade. “Once we got cut to junk
status, we couldn’t go any lower without just leaving the scene
and turning over a corpse to somebody,” then County
Commissioner Jim Carns said.  Bankruptcy became a possibility as the county begins
relying on a series of standstill agreements with banks to stave
off financial collapse.  August 2008: JPMorgan reaches agreements with state regulators
to repurchase auction-rate securities sold to some investors to
settle an industrywide probe of whether Wall Street banks misled
prospective buyers about the risks. JPMorgan served as the sole
broker-dealer for $1.8 billion of Jefferson County’s auction-
rate bonds, according to county records.  September 2008: Jefferson County’s trustee declares it to be in
default under agreements covering the $3.2 billion of sewer
bonds for failing to make $46 million of principal payments.  January-August 2009: The county suffers a financial setback when
an Alabama Circuit Court Judge strikes down the legality of a
local job and business tax. A new tax for the county is
authorized by the state in August, although it is later
challenged in court.  October 2009: The former commissioner in charge of finance,
 Larry Langford , is convicted of accepting bribes in exchange for
giving more than $7 million in sewer-bond business to Blount.
Langford is later sentenced to 15 years in jail.  November 2009: JPMorgan agrees to a $722 million settlement with
the SEC over allegations that LeCroy and the bank’s former
municipal derivatives chief, Douglas MacFaddin, paid more than
$8 million in undisclosed payments to Blount and two other
local-broker dealers that performed no known role in the deals.  Part of the settlement includes forfeiting $647 million in
fees Jefferson County would owe to escape from the swaps, which
had kept officials from refinancing as other borrowers stung by
similar deals did since 2008. That was of little help because
the county’s creditworthiness was already in doubt after it was
declared in default and unable to borrow on its own.  LeCroy and MacFaddin, also facing SEC civil actions,
challenged them, saying the SEC lacks authority to pursue them
under federal antifraud statutes because the interest-rate swaps
aren’t securities. The case is pending.  Meanwhile, former Jefferson County Commissioner Mary Buckelew received a sentence of three years probation and is
fined $20,000 after pleading guilty to charges she lied to a
federal grand jury about accepting designer shoes, a purse and a
spa trip from Blount during bond-related trips to  New York .  February 2010: Blount is sentenced to 52 months in jail after
pleading guilty to paying bribes of cash, clothes and jewelry to
Langford to get $7.2 million of the county’s bond and
derivatives business.  July 2010: Gary White, a former commissioner who oversaw the
county’s environmental services department, is given 10 years in
prison for accepting bribes from an engineering company that
worked on the sewer system. As of today, 21 people have been
convicted or pleaded guilty to corruption-related charges in
connection with the sewer construction and financing, including
three other onetime commissioners.  July 2010: President  Barack Obama  signs the Dodd-Frank law in
response to the regulatory failings underpinning the financial
crisis. It includes provisions, inspired in part by Jefferson
County, seeking to protect municipalities from excessive fees
and risks posed by derivative trades sold by Wall Street banks.  March 2011: The new Jefferson County tax is struck down by the
state’s  Supreme Court , which said it was approved without
sufficient public notice, plunging the county back into fiscal
crisis. Earlier that month, while in  Washington , County
Commissioner James Stephens’ chief of staff had said such a
court decision would make bankruptcy “almost inevitable.”  August 2011: After preparing to file for bankruptcy and publicly
debating it, county commissioners decide to extend talks through
mid-September with a view toward reaching a resolution.  Sept. 16, 2011: Jefferson County’s commission votes 4-1 to
accept a tentative deal with creditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  San Francisco  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  