-- 
Jewelry Makers Given Three Months by U.S. to Set Cadmium Limits

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-09-16T15:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/jewelry-makers-given-three-months-by-u-s-to-set-cadmium-limits.html
The U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission said it will write regulations to limit cadmium
content in children’s jewelry if the industry doesn’t act to
police itself by Dec. 16.  The CPSC, which regulates household products ranging from
toys to lawn mowers, issued the warning in a  Federal Register
notice  today. The agency also granted a petition from four
consumer groups asking that cadmium, a toxic metal which can
lead to liver and kidney damage if ingested, be banned unless a
safe level can be established.  The move comes as congressional Republicans have focused on
regulations as a barrier to reducing unemployment. The Obama
administration last month said it would eliminate unneeded rules
to save businesses $10 billion over five years.  The CPSC directed its staff to begin working on a
regulation unless  ASTM International Inc. , a private-industry
standard-setter, acts in the next three months. The staff should
also determine whether companies are complying with voluntary
commitments within the next nine months, according to the
notice.  Last October, after receiving the petition from the  Sierra
Club  and three other consumer groups, CPSC Chairman  Inez Tenenbaum  said retailers and manufacturers needed to act “to
protect the health and safety of consumers.”  The consumer groups described a “rising tide of cadmium”
in children’s products as manufacturers sought a “cheap,
unregulated alternative to lead,” which is already subject to
CPSC limits. The Oakland, California-based Center for
Environmental Health and two Rochester, New York-based consumer
groups joined the Sierra Club in the request.  Dress Barn Inc. (DBRN)  and Claire’s Stores Inc. recalled
necklaces, earrings and bracelets last year after finding
cadmium.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  offered $3 refunds to customers who
bought “Shrek” drinking glasses with high levels of cadmium in
the paint. The products involved in all three recalls were made
in  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  