-- 
JPMorgan Lowers Forecast for Euro Amid Dovish ECB, Dissent on Bond-Buying

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-16T16:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/jpmorgan-lowers-forecast-for-euro-amid-dovish-ecb-dissent-on-bond-buying.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its
forecasts for the euro versus the dollar amid signs the  European
Central Bank ’s focus on inflation has faded and as leaders
disagree over approaches to the region’s debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency will trade at $1.38 at year-end,
compared with an earlier forecast of $1.45, strategists John Normand and Thomas Anthonj wrote today in a client note. The
euro will fetch $1.40 in June 2012, compared with the previous
estimate of $1.48, they wrote.  JPMorgan lowered its projections “to reflect ECB’s
dovishness and internal dissent over bond purchases,” the
London-based strategists wrote.  The euro weakened 0.6 percent to $1.3792 today in  New York ,
paring a weekly advance to 1 percent.  The New York-based financial firm joined banks including
BNP Paribas SA, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and
Nomura Holdings Inc. in lowering year-end targets for the euro
this month.  JPMorgan disagrees “with the emerging consensus that the
euro will trend lower over the next year,” Normand and Anthonj
wrote in their note.  While  Europe  faces an “enormous” funding challenge next
year, authorities also have put programs in place to manage the
debt crisis in peripheral countries, they wrote. There is
potential for the  Federal Reserve  to buy more Treasuries, and
the U.S. fiscal position will likely deteriorate if even parts
of President Barack Obama jobs program are approved, they wrote.  Inflation Risks Eased  The ECB said yesterday in its monthly bulletin that threats
to euro-area growth have intensified and inflation risks have
eased, signaling policy makers may take further action should
Europe’s debt crisis worsen. They raised they benchmark rate to
1.5 percent in July.  The central bank has purchased 143 billion euros ($197
billion) of bonds to curb the euro region’s debt crisis,
starting with  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland last year and
widening to Italy and Spain in August.  Germany ’s Juergen Stark
resigned from the ECB’s board last week in protest of the bond
program, which he said blurs the line between monetary and
fiscal policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  