-- 
UBS, JPMorgan, ETF, AT&T, BP, Bridgestone in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-16T11:58:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/jpmorgan-ecb-walgreen-at-t-bp-bridgestone-in-court-news.html
Kweku Adoboli, the  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader
arrested in  London  yesterday, admitted to causing losses while
the bank’s risk-control officers were examining his trades, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  UBS said yesterday it suffered a loss of about $2 billion
from “unauthorized” trading.  Adoboli hired lawyers at Kingsley Napley in London to
represent him, a spokeswoman said today in a phone interview.  The firm previously advised Nick Leeson, who caused the
collapse of Barings Plc with $1.4 billion in losses in 1995.
Leeson, a former derivatives trader, caused the demise of
Britain’s oldest merchant bank after losses on the futures and
options markets in Singapore and Osaka,  Japan , were uncovered.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, asked British police at 1
a.m. to arrest Adoboli before notifying the U.K. financial
regulator or prosecutors, according to two people familiar with
the matter.  The Financial Services Authority was notified shortly after
police. Prosecutors at the Serious Fraud Office, which also
handles white-collar crime, weren’t contacted at all, according
to the people, who declined to be identified because the
investigations are private.  The investigation highlights the fragmented financial crime
enforcement agencies in the U.K. with jurisdictions that often
overlap. That UBS went straight to police after learning about a
$2 billion loss on trades indicates that the 31-year-old Adoboli
may have been a flight risk, or that the bank wanted to distance
itself from any crime, said Lindsay Thomas, a financial
regulation adviser at Sustainable Risks.  UBS wants “to suggest that it was a terrible criminal act,
and that they were a victim,” Thomas said in a phone interview
in London.  The City of London police arrested Adoboli at a business
address in London at 3:30 a.m. on suspicion of fraud and abuse
of position in connection with unauthorized trading at UBS’s
investment bank. Police declined to identify the address.
Adoboli remains in custody during the probe, Commander Ian Dyson
said yesterday.  UBS is still investigating the matter, the Zurich-based
bank said in a statement. No client positions were affected, and
it may be unprofitable in the third quarter because of the loss,
UBS said, declining to comment further.  For more, click here.  New Suits  ETF Securities Sued by Former Executive in U.K. Over Bonus  ETF Securities Ltd., the world’s largest provider of
exchange-traded commodity funds, was sued in London by a former
employee who says he is owed a stake in the company tied to a
2006 bonus award.  Stefan Garcia, now an executive at another ETF firm, said
the bonus gave him options to buy 1,000 shares of the company at
49.99 pounds ($79) with no time limit, according to U.K. court
documents filed in July.  ETF Securities, based in Jersey, is considering selling as
much as $1 billion in shares through an initial public offering
amid growing investor demand for exchange-traded products,
according to a May report in the Wall Street Journal that cited
unidentified bankers familiar with the matter.  Graham Tuckwell, chairman and chief executive officer of
ETF Securities, said in a phone interview the case was
“absolutely without merit.” He said the claim was based on a
“small administrative error” and the options had expired.  Garcia was awarded the options because at that early stage
the company had “limited cash to fund its growth,” according
to documents filed by his lawyers. Tuckwell sent Garcia an e-
mail in May refusing to allow him to exercise the options.  Mark Levine, a partner at London law firm Mishcon de Reya
who is representing Garcia, said his client had a multimillion-
pound claim and declined to comment further.  The case is Cherrin v. ETF Security Ltd., HQ11X02645, High
Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division.  JPMorgan Unit Must Buy Back $558 Million in Loans, Suit Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMC Mortgage unit was sued by  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the trustee for a mortgage portfolio, for refusing
to buy back more than 800 defective home loans.  EMC rejected “repeated repurchase demands” for the loans
in the Bear Stearns Mortgage Funding Trust 2007-AR2, San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo said in a public version of the
complaint filed Sept. 14 in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington. The case was initially filed under seal.  “The loans have been plagued by an alarming rate of
defaults and foreclosures,” Wells Fargo said in the complaint.
“Approximately three-quarters of the loans in the trust have
been modified or liquidated, or are now seriously delinquent.”  The complaint is the second Wells Fargo has filed as
trustee against EMC. The trustee settled a suit brought in
January after EMC agreed to turn over files for more than 2,000
underlying mortgages in the trust.  A review of 948 loan files revealed that at least 840, or
about 89 percent, failed to comply with EMC’s representations
and warranties, according to the complaint.  Patrick Linehan, a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Bear Stearns Mortgage Funding Trust 2007-AR2 by
Wells Fargo Bank NA as Trustee v. EMC Mortgage LLC, CA6861,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  U.K. to Sue ECB Over Planned Restrictions on Clearing Houses  Britain will sue the  European Central Bank  over plans to
prevent some euro-denominated securities from being cleared
outside the 17 countries that share the currency, in the first
such move by a government.  The U.K. planned to present a legal challenge against the
ECB over its location policy for clearing houses at the European
Court of Justice in Luxembourg, the Treasury in London said in
an e-mailed statement Sept. 14.  “It does seem to indicate a possible change in the
approach that the U.K. is taking to  Europe ,” Darren Fox, a
financial services lawyer at Simmons & Simmons LLP, said in a
telephone interview in London. “There has been a perception in
the City that the U.K. hasn’t been doing as much in Europe as it
could have done to protect the interests of the U.K. financial-
services industry. Perhaps this is a sign that the worm is
turning.”  It’s the first time any European government has sought to
sue the ECB, the Treasury said. The U.K. is accusing the central
bank of going against principles of the European Union single
market and contravening European law amid wider international
efforts to regulate derivatives markets.  A spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based ECB declined to
comment.  For more, click here.  Express Scripts Sues Walgreen Over Medicare Patients  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  sued Walgreen Co. for what it called a
“campaign to disparage” the pharmacy-benefits manager in an
illegal attempt to wrest away customers.  Walgreen, the biggest U.S. drugstore chain, is using false
advertising to encourage Medicare patients to leave Express
Scripts in violation of a contract that expires Dec. 31, St.
Louis-based Express Scripts said in a Sept. 7 complaint filed in
federal court in  Chicago . Express Scripts said it will suffer
“irreparable damage” unless the court issues an injunction
stopping Walgreen’s action.  Walgreen, of Deerfield, Illinois, said in June that it will
not participate in Express Scripts’ pharmacy network next year
because negotiations collapsed on renewing the contract worth
more than $5 billion in annual drug sales. A  website  sponsored
by Walgreen says Medicare recipients who remain with Express
Scripts won’t be able to fill Part D prescriptions after Dec.
31.  “This is false and highly misleading because nothing will
prohibit Walgreen from continuing to fill valid prescriptions
for such members after Dec. 31, 2011, even if Walgreen is not a
part of Express Scripts’ pharmacy network,” Express Scripts
said in the complaint.  Walgreen has asked the court to stay the proceedings,
saying in a Sept. 12 motion that Express Scripts brought its
claims in the wrong forum because the contract requires the
parties to resolve such disputes through binding arbitration.  “We think that it is important to inform our patients and
the public how this may impact their ability to fill
prescriptions at Walgreen next year if Express Scripts serves as
the pharmacy-benefit manager for their particular health care
plans, and we regret that Express Scripts has resorted to
litigation in an effort to stop us,” Michael Polzin, a
spokesman for Walgreen, said Sept. 14 in an e-mail. “We
obviously intend to vigorously defend against their suit.”  The case is Express Scripts Inc. v.  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , 11-cv-
06223, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BP Investors’ Derivative Spill Suits Dismissed by U.S. Judge  BP Plc (BP/)  won’t have to face some lawsuits in the U.S. brought
by institutional investors on behalf of the company over last
year’s  Gulf of Mexico  drilling-rig explosion and oil spill, a
federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison in Houston agreed with
BP’s arguments that the claims should be filed in U.K. courts
because the company is based in London. Ellison said he may
reverse this dismissal if English courts “refuse to accept
jurisdiction” for reasons other than the plaintiffs’ failure to
comply with procedural requirements.  “Because this derivative lawsuit involves the internal
governance of an English corporation, the convenience of the
parties and the interests of justice favor  England  as a more
convenient forum,” Ellison said yesterday in a 31-page
decision.  Investors sued BP claiming that the company’s management
and board caused the spill by knowingly putting profits ahead of
safety. The Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April 2010 while
drilling a BP well off the Louisiana coast, killing 11 and
spilling more than 4.1 million barrels of oil.  The investors’ suits, so-called derivative claims brought
on behalf of the company, are combined with other shareholder
actions before Ellison in Houston. Lawsuits seeking money for
economic and personal injuries from the spill are consolidated
before a different U.S. judge in New Orleans.  “The primary concern of this derivative litigation is the
internal affairs of an English corporation, and the suit seeks
to recover damages for the benefit of BP only,” Ellison said in
his ruling. “English law governs this dispute and will
determine whether the individual defendants breached their
fiduciary duties and harmed BP in the process.”  BP spokesmen Scott Dean and Daren Beaudo didn’t immediately
return phone or e-mail messages seeking comment on the ruling
after regular business hours. Mark Lebovitch and Lewis Kahn,
investor attorneys, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment.  The case is In re BP Shareholder Derivative Litigation,
4:10-cv-03447, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  Lions Gate Suit Against Carl Icahn Voluntarily Dismissed  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s lawsuit against
billionaire investor Carl Icahn in  Manhattan  federal court was
voluntarily dismissed by both sides.  Lions Gate, an independent producer of films including
“Precious” and “American Psycho” and the “Mad Men”
television series, sued Icahn in October, claiming he tried to
interfere with the studio’s plan to merge with Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer Inc.  In papers filed with the court yesterday, both sides said
the case is being dismissed with prejudice, meaning it can’t be
reinstituted. The papers didn’t say whether the dismissal is
part of any settlement in the case.  In March, U.S. District Judge Harold Baer dismissed most of
Lions Gate’s allegations, permitting it to go forward with a
claim that Icahn paid a special price for Dallas Mavericks owner
Mark Cuban’s 5.4 percent stake in Lions Gate, which the studio
said wasn’t fair to other investors.  William Savitt, a lawyer for Lions Gate, and Joseph
DiBenedetto, who represents Icahn, didn’t return messages
seeking comment on the court filing.  The case is Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. V. Icahn, 1:10-
cv-08169, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  AT&T, U.S. Offer Plan for Confidential Data in T-Mobile Case  AT&T Inc. (T)  and the U.S. Justice Department agreed on a plan
for handling confidential data in the government’s antitrust
lawsuit seeking to block the company’s purchase of wireless
carrier T-Mobile USA Inc.  A filing by the department yesterday in federal court in
 Washington  sets definitions for what will be deemed confidential
and how that information will be disclosed in the case. AT&T
didn’t oppose the department’s proposed order, the government
said.  The two sides haven’t addressed the issue of how much
access AT&T’s in-house lawyers will have to confidential
materials submitted by “non-parties” in the case, according to
the filing. The non-parties should have a chance to be heard in
court regarding how their confidential information will be
handled, the department said.  “Defendants wish to designate up to 10 (total) in-house
lawyers to have access to confidential information,” the
department said in the filing.  Mike Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman in Washington, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone message and an e-mail message
seeking comment on the filing.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition.  AT&T, in a filing last week, said the T-Mobile deal is good
for mobile-phone customers because it would lead to better
service, fewer dropped calls and lower prices for consumers.  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle has set a hearing
for Sept. 21 and told the parties to be prepared to discuss
settlement options.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Fleishman Doesn’t Take Stand as U.S. Rests in Insider Trial  James Fleishman, the former Primary Global Research LLC
executive on trial over charges he participated in an insider-
trading scheme, didn’t take the stand in his own defense after
prosecutors finished their case.  Fleishman, of Santa Clara,  California , is charged with two
counts of conspiracy for his role in what prosecutors said was a
scheme in which technology-company employees, working as
consultants for the company passed secret tips to hedge fund
managers.  “The government has rested and the defense has rested,”
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan told jurors
yesterday. “On Monday, we will have closing arguments and you
will get the case then.”  Rakoff said Fleishman’s lawyers may submit some written
evidence without calling witnesses to testify. After court,
 Ethan Balogh , Fleishman’s lawyer, said his client wouldn’t
testify. If convicted, Fleishman faces as long as 25 years in
prison.  The Mountain View, California-based firm, also known as
PGR, matches employees of public companies with fund managers
for a fee. Of the 15 people charged in the probe, 12 have
pleaded guilty. Fleishman and Winifred Jiau, a former PGR
consultant convicted in June, were the only ones who have gone
to trial.  Also yesterday, former Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. manager Manosha Karunatilaka was sentenced to 18 months in
prison for his role in the scheme involving PGR.  Balogh yesterday cross-examined Suk-Joo Hwang, a former
Samsung Electronics Co. manager who said he worked as a
consultant for PGR for seven years. Hwang said he sometimes
passed confidential information to PGR clients.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Blame for 2010 Gulf Spill Will Be Decided by Trial Judge  Which companies share the blame for the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill and will have to pay for it will be decided in a non-jury
trial set to begin Feb. 27, a federal judge in New Orleans said.  BP Plc (BP) , which owned the subsea well that exploded off
Louisiana in April 2010, claims  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ,  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) ,  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  and other contractors involved
in the offshore drilling operation share responsibility for
mistakes that caused the disaster.  “The trial will address all allocation of fault issues
that may properly be tried to the bench without a jury,” U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  said Sept. 14 in a written order.
This includes “the negligence, gross negligence, or other bases
of liability of, and the proportion of liability allocable to
the various defendants, third parties, and non-parties,” he
said.  The Macondo blowout and the explosion that followed killed
11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors. The
lawsuits over economic losses and personal injuries have been
combined before Barbier in New Orleans.  The lawsuits also name as defendants Transocean, the
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig that exploded; Houston-based Halliburton, which
provided cementing services to the well; and Cameron
International, which provided blowout-prevention equipment. BP’s
minority partners in the well,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and
Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, were also sued.  The first test trial on damages is scheduled for July.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Bridgestone to Pay $28 Million Fine Over Bribes, U.S. Says  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s biggest tire maker, agreed
to pay $28 million to settle criminal allegations it conspired
to bribe government officials in Latin America, the U.S. Justice
Department said.  Bridgestone will plead guilty to charges of plotting to rig
bids and make corrupt payments related to the sale of products
including marine hose, used to transfer oil between tankers and
storage facilities, Sharis A. Pozen, acting chief of the Justice
Department’s antitrust division, said yesterday in a statement.
The company said it will withdraw from the marine hose business.  From as early as January 1999 until late May 2007, Tokyo-
based Bridgestone conspired to fix prices and allocate market
shares of marine hose in the U.S. and elsewhere, Pozen said. The
company allegedly conspired to make payments to Latin American
government officials to obtain and retain business.  As part of the agreement, Bridgestone will cooperate with
the department’s investigation, according to the statement. The
agreement requires court approval.  Bridgestone has dismantled its international engineered
products department, closed its Houston office and terminated
many of its third-party agents, the company said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  “We are committed to the efforts to further enhance and
expand our remediation measures, and to conduct business in
compliance with the competition and anticorruption laws around
the world,” Bridgestone said.  Hermes Executive Says Takeover Win Locks in Independence  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA’s founding family’s ability to set
up a holding company is “a decisive step” in the fight to
defend against a takeover, the luxury-goods maker’s deputy
managing director said.  A Paris court yesterday rejected an appeal by minority
investors who opposed a decision by the French market authority
waiving rules to allow the family to set up a holding company.
The family sought the structure to protect the Birkin-bag maker
after  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest
luxury-goods maker, began building what is now a 21.4 percent
stake.  “When the holding company is in place, it will become
completely obvious that the claims of unity that have taken
place for months and have been questioned will be impossible to
challenge anymore,” Deputy Managing Director Patrick Albaladejo
said in a phone interview yesterday. “This is a decisive
step.”  The Autorite des Marches Financiers was right to grant the
family permission to pool a 50.2 percent Hermes stake into a
holding company without bidding for the rest of the business, as
the regulator would normally require for a group with that large
a stake joining together, the Paris appeals court said.  The court rejected the objections of minority investors
represented by a shareholder advocacy group Adam, which had
sought to have AMF force the family to make an offer for all
outstanding shares.  While LVMH has said it isn’t seeking control or a board
seat, its stake has prompted takeover talk. LVMH won’t be a
passive shareholder in Hermes and can provide its Paris-based
rival with strategic and operational help, LVMH Chairman  Bernard
Arnault  has said.  “All the statements from the family have been very precise
and decisive on this, that they don’t want to engage in
discussions,” Albaladejo said, adding that he isn’t aware of
any contact with Arnault.  Hermes wants LVMH to reduce its stake by more than half to
free shares on the open market, according to Bertrand Puech, who
heads the bag maker’s founding family. Even if LVMH doesn’t
reduce the holding, Hermes will run the company as it sees fit,
Puech has said.  For more, click here.  Watson, Sandoz Pay $145 Million to Settle Drug-Price Case  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , the generic-drug maker, will
pay $79 million and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit will pay $66
million to resolve claims they defrauded U.S. and state
governments by causing Medicaid to overpay for drugs.  Both lawsuits were filed under the U.S. False Claims Act by
Ven-A-Care of the Florida Keys Inc., a specialty pharmacy. The
settlements resolved portions of the U.S. false claims cases and
similar claims by various states. The law allows whistle-blowers
to file on behalf of the government and share in any recovery.  Ven-A-Care has settled at least 18 lawsuits since 2000 that
have allowed state and federal governments to collect at least
$2.2 billion. Ven-A-Care has reaped more than $380 million in
whistle-blower fees during that period. James Breen, an attorney
for Ven-A-Care, declined to comment on the latest settlements.  The settlements by Watson and Sandoz were filed Sept. 14 in
federal court in Boston, where U.S. District Judge Patti Saris
is overseeing the so-called Average Wholesale Price litigation
against drugmakers.  Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Watson, declined to comment on the settlement. He referred to
the company’s last annual report, filed in February, that said
the company reached a settlement with Ven-A-Care for $79 million
in December.  The claims were “unfounded,” and Sandoz settled “to end
the uncertainty of protracted litigation,” Eric Althoff, a
spokesman for Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis, said in an e-
mail. “Sandoz is committed to conducting business in compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as our own
high ethical standards,” he said.  The case is In Re Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale
Price Litigation, MDL No. 1456, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  SABMiller’s Grolsch Wins EU Court Appeal of Antitrust Fine  Grolsch, a unit of  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, won a European Union court appeal of a
31.7 million-euro ($43.8 million) fine levied for colluding on
beer prices in the Netherlands.  Antitrust officials didn’t give sufficient proof to
“establish the direct participation of Grolsch” in the cartel
and “failed to explain” why the company should be held liable
for the conduct of a Dutch subsidiary, the EU General Court, the
region’s second-highest tribunal,  said  in a ruling yesterday.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,
fined Royal Grolsch NV,  Heineken NV (HEIA)  and Bavaria NV in 2007 for
fixing prices in the Netherlands from at least 1996 to 1999.
InBev NV, which has since merged with Anheuser-Busch Cos. to
become the world’s largest brewer, escaped a fine after tipping
off EU officials. Grolsch was bought by SABMiller in a takeover
completed in 2008.  Heineken won a cut to its fine to 198 million euros from
219.3 million euros in a ruling by the EU court in June. Bavaria
had its penalty trimmed to 20.7 million euros from 22.8 million
euros, after the court said the European Commission failed to
prove the extent of the cartel.  The commission will “analyze the ruling carefully” and
will then consider whether to appeal the judgment or readopt the
cartel decision, Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the EU
regulator, said in an e-mail.  The case is: T-234/07, Koninklijke Grolsch v. Commission.  New York ‘Boiler-Room’ Salesman Anderson Gets Two Years  Baldwin Anderson was sentenced to two years in prison for
taking part in a “boiler-room” investment-fraud scheme on New
York’s Staten Island.  Anderson, 57, a former salesman for Gryphon Holdings Inc.,
was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein in
Brooklyn, New York. He’s been in custody since June 14, when he
admitted to participating in the crime during the second day of
his trial. He was the last of 18 defendants in the Gryphon case
to plead guilty and the only one to go to trial.  Gryphon misled investors into paying for phony stock tips
and investment advice, defrauding them of $20 million,
prosecutors charged. Gryphon told victims its office was on Wall
Street or even in the New York Stock Exchange when it was in a
strip mall on Staten Island, according to prosecutors in the
office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch.  “I lost sight of the truth, I lost sight of what was good
and I lost sight of the laws that govern this great country,”
Anderson told Weinstein at a Sept. 13 hearing.  Anderson’s lawyer, Michael Padden, declined to comment
after the sentencing.  Kenneth Marsh, 44, who ran Gryphon, was the last defendant
before Anderson to plead guilty, on April 14. He hasn’t received
his prison sentence yet.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  