-- 
Kenyan Constitutional Body Rejects Government Plan to Change Election Date

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-09-16T07:08:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/kenyan-constitution-body-rejects-plan-to-move-elections-to-december.html
A Kenyan body set up to oversee the
implementation of the country’s constitution urged lawmakers to
reject a proposed amendment to alter election dates, saying the
change would undermine the one year-old charter.  Kenya ’s Cabinet on Sept. 13 proposed holding national
elections on the third Monday of December every fifth year,
instead of on the second Tuesday of August as stipulated in the
constitution.  “The proposed amendment will lead to uncertainty in the
electoral process,” the Commission for the Implementation of
the Constitution, based in Nairobi, said in a  statement 
published in the Daily Nation newspaper today.  A new constitution was one of the key elements of a peace
accord signed in February 2008 that ended two months of ethnic
fighting following a disputed presidential election. At least
1,500 people died in the violence, while a further 300,000 were
forced to flee their homes. The charter replaced a constitution
that dated to Kenya’s independence from Britain in 1963.  The Cabinet wants the election date changed because of the
time needed to delineate constituencies and to align the vote
with the country’s budget cycle, according to a statement on the
government’s  website .  ‘Alarmed’  The commission, an independent body whose members were
vetted by Kenya’s parliament last year, said the contention that
a review of boundaries could not be completed in time for the
elections “cannot be a basis for the constitutional
amendment.” It is also “alarmed” about the use of the budget
cycle to justify a change to the election date.  “If the budget cycle does not fit into the constitutional
framework, what requires alignment with the constitution is the
budget cycle, not the constitution,” the commission said.  Kenya’s parliament is currently in recess and resumes on
Oct. 11.  Piecemeal changes to Kenya’s first constitution after
independence resulted in the document becoming “a pale shadow
of its original self,” the commission said.  “If Kenyans accept amendments such as the one on the
election date proposed by the Cabinet, whose effect is clearly
to claw back and undermine the constitution, the nation will
have started on a slippery slope which could well sign the death
knell of the new constitutional dispensation.”  Alfred Mutua , spokesman for Kenya’s government, said he
couldn’t immediately comment when contacted today on his mobile
phone in  Washington , where President Mwai Kibaki is attending a
meeting of the  United Nations General Assembly .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  