-- 
Kenya to Move to ‘Cash-Light’ Economy Over Next Five Years to Cut Costs

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-16T12:03:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/kenya-to-move-to-cash-light-economy-over-next-five-years.html
Kenya ,  East Africa ’s biggest
economy, will introduce regulations to help develop a “cash-
light” economy over five years as it seeks to lower financial
transaction costs, a senior Treasury official said.  “We need to see a dramatic reduction in costs for
financial services and this cannot be achieved using the models
of the past,” Geoffrey Mwau, the  Finance Ministry ’s economic
secretary, told reporters today in Nairobi, the capital. “It
will be driven by technology. It means moving away from using
cash as a primary payment mechanism. That’s key for becoming a
cash-light economy over the next five years.”  More than three-quarters of Kenyans are outside of the
formal banking system, according to Financial Sector Deepening
Kenya, a donor-funded group known as FSD Kenya, aimed at giving
low-income earners more access to financial products.  Safaricom Ltd.’s M-Pesa, or “mobile money” in Swahili,
started a service in 2007 enabling users to send and receive
money via their mobile phones. A survey by the company in 2009
showed that customers saved as much as $3 and three hours of
their time by transferring money through M-Pesa compared with
traditional methods, such as traveling with the cash by bus,
Betty Mwangi-Thuo, chief of new products at Safaricom, said in
October.  Competitors  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , Telkom Kenya Ltd. and Essar
Telecom Kenya Ltd. have also started mobile phone-based banking
systems. New products allow users to pay for everything from
airplane tickets to crop insurance, or open a deposit-taking
bank account with local banks that pay interest.  “We think there is a huge pent-up demand for financial
services but at a much lower price,” FSD Kenya director, David
Ferrand, said today at the same news conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  