-- 
Kosovo Lifts Trade Embargo on Serbian Products as Tensions Ease

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   D o u g l a s   L y t l e
-- 
2011-09-16T12:44:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/kosovo-lifts-trade-embargo-on-serbian-products-as-tensions-ease.html
Kosovo  ended a trade embargo on
products from Serbia in an effort to ease tensions between the
two Balkan nations that escalated two months ago.  “We lifted the embargo because it’s the decision of the
Kosovo government which says that we need to implement the
agreement reached in Brussels,” Mimoza Kusari Lila, Kosovo’s
Trade and Industry Minister told Bloomberg News via  text
messages  in the capital Pristina today. “But there are
conditions, because the Jarinje border post remains completely
closed for commercial goods and Brnjak is open only for goods
that are not subject to excise duties such as alcohol,
cigarettes and fuel.”  Kosovo in July imposed the trade ban on goods from  Serbia 
and sent special police forces to the Serb-dominated north of
the country as it sought to assert authority over its entire
territory three years after declaring independence from Serbia.
A Kosovo policeman died and Serbs extremists torched one of the
border crossings.  Serbia and Kosovo on Sept. 2 struck an agreement on
“status-neutral” documents as they continue EU-sponsored talks
aimed at easing relations between the two nations that were at
war over a decade ago. Serbia needs to show it’s making efforts
to improve relations with its former province as it aims to win
the EU candidate status by year’s end and receive billions of
euros in aid.  Kosovo and the EU mission known as Eulex deployed customs
officials at two border crossings with Serbia via helicopters
after local Serbs again put up roadblocks, according to the
Kosovo Police spokesman Baki Kelani. The border posts are also
guarded by North Atlantic Treaty troops in Kosovo.  The  United Nations  governed the province until it declared
independence in 2008. About 6,000 NATO soldiers remain stationed
in Kosovo, down from 50,000 in 1999. The U.S. and 22 EU nations
recognize Kosovo as an independent country, while five EU
members, Russia and Serbia refuse to do so. 