-- 
Kremlin Fund Adds China’s CIC, Blackstone to Advisory Board

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-09-16T16:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/kremlin-equity-fund-selects-china-s-cic-blackstone-as-advisers.html
Russia’s private-equity fund set up
by President  Dmitry Medvedev  appointed an international advisory
board that includes  Lou Jiwei , chairman of China Investment
Corp., and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Schwarzman.  Prime Minister Vladimir Putin welcomed the advisers while
speaking on a panel at an investment conference in the Black Sea
resort of Sochi today. The panel included Leon Black, CEO of
Apollo Global Management LLC, who is also one of the Russia
Direct Investment Fund advisers.  Medvedev announced the creation of the fund in January as
part of his drive to wean the economy off its dependence on
natural resources. Russia relies on energy sales for 17 percent
of its gross domestic product, while commodities make up 8
percent of Brazilian GDP, according to government data.  The Russian fund will probably make $500 million of
investments outside the resources industry within six months,
CEO Kirill Dmitriev said in a phone interview today.  “To modernize the economy, you need smart capital, you
need people who not only provide money, but also give ideas,”
Dmitriev said. “Russia is quite focused on attracting long term
capital.”  The board will include Bader Al-Saad, managing director of
Kuwait Investment Authority, and Choi Chong Suk, chairman of
Korea Investment Corp., according to an e-mailed statement from
the fund today.  Joseph Schull, head of European operations at  Warburg
Pincus , Apax Partners LLP CEO Martin Halusa, TPG Capital co-
founder  David Bonderman  and Permira Advisers LLP co-Managing
Partner Kurt Bjorklund, will also be on the board, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Abelsky at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net  