-- 
UBS Trader Kweku Adoboli Hires Firm That Advised Nick Leeson

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-16T12:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/kweku-arrested-ubs-trader-hires-law-firm-kingsley-napley.html
Kweku Adoboli, the trader arrested
yesterday on suspicion of fraud at  UBS AG (UBSN) , hired lawyers at
 Kingsley Napley LLP  in  London  to represent him, a spokeswoman
for the  law firm  said today in a phone interview.  Adoboli, 31, worked on the bank’s Delta One desk and was
arrested by London police yesterday after the Swiss bank said
that unauthorized trades caused a $2 billion loss. He’s being
held at a City of London police station pending an investigation
into allegations of fraud and abuse of position.  The firm has previously advised  Nick Leeson , who caused the
collapse of Barings Plc with $1.4 billion in losses in 1995.
Leeson, a former derivatives trader, caused the demise of
Britain’s oldest merchant bank after losses on the futures and
options markets in Singapore and  Osaka ,  Japan , were uncovered.  Kingsley Napley, founded in 1937, is also advising Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News Corp.’s News
International unit, in the phone-hacking scandal, and Vincent Tchenguiz, the real estate investor arrested by the U.K.’s
Serious Fraud Office in March as part of an investigation into
the collapse of the Icelandic bank Kaupthing Bank hf.  Kingsley Napley spokeswoman Louise Beeson said she couldn’t
comment on the specifics of Adoboli’s case. Police have 36 hours
from the time of his arrest yesterday to charge Adoboli or
release him.  Adoboli admitted to causing the losses while the bank’s
risk-control officers were examining his trades, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  Adoboli’s Job  Adoboli worked for a unit of UBS’s investment bank that
handles trades for clients, typically helping them to speculate
on or hedge the performance of a basket of securities. It also
takes risks with the bank’s own money in arranging trades.  Leeson was sentenced to prison about 10 months after his
crime was uncovered. He was freed from a Singapore jail after
serving two-thirds of his six-and-a-half year sentence for fraud
and forgery.  Brooks was arrested in July over allegations that reporters
at the now-defunct News of the World tabloid hacked into the
voicemail of celebrities, politicians and murder victims while
she was editor of the paper. Neither Brooks or Tchenguiz have
been charged with a crime.  The firm also advised the deceased General  Augusto Pinochet , the former dictator of  Chile .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  