-- 
N.Y. Tax Collections Miss Target in 5 Months of Fiscal Year

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-09-16T20:11:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/new-york-tax-collections-miss-target-in-5-months-of-fiscal-year.html
New York  tax collections missed
projections by $75.7 million in the first five months of the
fiscal year, leading Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli to warn that
the state may need to alter its financial plan.  “We should be prepared for the possibility that revenue
growth may falter, requiring downward adjustments in the
financial plan,” DiNapoli said in an e-mailed  statement 
announcing the August cash report.  Personal-income taxes, the largest source of revenue, were
$45.2 million short of projections in the financial plan updated
Aug. 2, he said.  Collections from April 1 through Aug. 31 rose $3.3 billion,
or 15 percent, from the period last year, DiNapoli said.
DiNapoli has warned since April that the state should prepare
for collections to fall below predictions as the  U.S. economy 
continues to falter.  The lower-than-expected revenue through August may be the
beginning of the drop, DiNapoli said.  “The financial plan is operating on a razor thin margin,”
he said.  Budget Review  Next month, Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s budget office will
begin its annual review of the mid-year spending and revenue,
and is expected to release an updated version of the financial
plan in early November, according to the comptroller’s office.  This year’s budget granted the governor the power to cut
spending in certain areas without having to call back the
Legislature for approval.  Key among those areas is Medicaid spending. In the first
five months of this fiscal year, New York has spent $17.9
billion on Medicaid, a 5 percent jump over the same period a
year earlier, according to the August cash report. This year’s
budget allows Cuomo to control state spending on health care for
the poor by cutting costs through rate reductions regardless of
case-load increases, according to the financial plan.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Freeman Klopott in New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  