-- 
New York Gasoline Gains as Europe Seen to Cut Oil Refinery Runs

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-09-16T16:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/new-york-gasoline-gains-as-europe-seen-to-cut-oil-refinery-runs.html
New York  gasoline strengthened amid
speculation that European refiners may be forced to reduce
processing rates because of higher crude prices, lowering the
amount of exports to the U.S. East Coast.  The cracking margin, or profit from processing crude into
high-quality fuels such as gasoline and heating oil, was around
75 cents a barrel in Northwest  Europe  yesterday, compared with
$4.45 a month earlier, according to estimates from KBC Energy
Economics.  The premium for reformulated, 87-octane gasoline in New
York Harbor strengthened 0.75 cent to 1.63 cents a gallon over
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 9:54 a.m.
Prompt delivery of the fuel rose 4.67 cents to $2.8383 a gallon.  European plants were running at more than 80 percent two
weeks ago and if margins decline or remain at current levels,
processing may fall below 80 percent, Ehsan Ul-Haq, senior
market consultant at KBC in Walton-on-Thames,  England , said in a
phone interview today.  Hurricane Maria is nearing the southeastern coast of
Newfoundland and hurricane conditions are expected there in the
next few hours, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in an
advisory at about 10:30 a.m. Korea National Oil Corp.’s Come by
Chance refinery, located in Newfoundland and Labrador, exports
refined products to the U.S. East Coast.  The U.S. East Coast imported 126,000 barrels a day of
finished gasoline and blending components from  Canada  in June,
according to the Energy Department.  Reformulated, 87-octane gasoline in the Gulf Coast held at
a discount to futures of 4.5 cents a gallon as of 11:12 a.m. New
York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 