-- 
News Corp.’s Shine Group Acquires U.K. Social-Gaming Company Bossa Studios

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-09-16T20:28:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/news-corp-s-shine-group-acquires-u-k-social-gaming-company-bossa-studios.html
Elisabeth Murdoch ’s television-
production company Shine Group Ltd. is aiming to capitalize on
Facebook Inc.’s popular gaming platform with its first digital
acquisition, London-based startup Bossa Studios.  Shine, a unit of  News Corp. (NWSA) , announced the purchase of
Bossa in an e-mailed statement today. Patrick Keegan, a
spokesman for Shine, declined to disclose terms of the deal.  Bossa launched its debut title, Monstermind, on Facebook
today. Players design and build virtual cities that they defend
against monsters. The game is a faster-paced take on Zynga Inc.
titles such as FarmVille or CityVille, and Shine plans to make
money by charging players for special elements, such as
artillery or defenses, through Facebook’s credit system.  “As a global content company, we are committed to
producing exceptional experiences across multiple platforms,”
Murdoch said in the statement. “We have long identified social
gaming as a critical component to this strategy.”  Founded in October 2010, Bossa’s 20-person team will work
to cross-promote Shine’s television properties, which include
“MasterChef” and “The Biggest Loser.”  News Corp. (NWS) , controlled by Elisabeth’s father, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , agreed to acquire Shine
in February for 415 million pounds ($673 million). The purchase
prompted a group of News Corp. shareholders led by Amalgamated
Bank of  New York  to sue the company over the acquisition,
alleging that nepotism drove the deal.  Elisabeth Murdoch and New York-based News Corp. agreed in
August to delay plans for her to join the company’s board.  News Corp. rose 59 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $16.96 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market at 4 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  