-- 
News Corp. Ex-Employee Said Contacted in U.S.

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-16T18:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/news-corp-former-employee-said-to-be-contacted-for-u-s-probe.html
Prosecutors investigating hacking
and bribery allegations at  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  are
seeking to interview a former employee of a U.S. unit who claims
knowledge of illegal activity at the company, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  U.S. prosecutors in  Manhattan  this month contacted a lawyer
for Robert Emmel, a former account director at News America
Marketing In-Store LLC, about allegations of hacking and
possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, said
the person, who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter.  Emmel said in court papers that he had evidence of
“widespread illegal activity” at News Corp.’s retail marketing
unit and gave it to federal lawmakers and regulators in 2006,
the year the company fired him. Emmel made the allegations in a
lawsuit News America Marketing brought against him.  Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in New York, declined to comment on whether prosecutors
had made the contact. Emmel declined to comment.  Philip Hilder, a lawyer for Emmel, said in an interview
that “authorities have reached out” to him. Hilder declined to
identify the investigators or what they are seeking.  Suzanne Halpin , a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment on the development.  The contact with Emmel’s lawyer was previously reported by
the watchdog group Media Matters for America.  ‘Fraudulent Billing’  Emmel, in papers filed in the News America Marketing
lawsuit, described the evidence given to lawmakers and
regulators in 2006 as “substantial oral and documentary”
information of the company’s “extensive billing and revenue-
sharing fraud against its customers; its predatory and
anticompetitive schemes against competitors” and “fraudulent
inflation of its reported earnings unbeknownst to its
shareholders.”  Emmel said in court filings that he made the disclosures in
mailings and meetings with the staffs of the U.S. Senate Finance
Committee, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the  New
York  attorney general’s office.  News America Marketing sued Emmel in federal court in
Atlanta in April 2007, claiming he stole trade secrets by
keeping a copy of his company computer’s hard drive and other
internal documents after being fired five months earlier. News
America Marketing also accused Emmel of breaking a December 2006
confidentiality agreement.  No Action  No action was taken against News Corp. by the authorities
Emmel contacted in 2006, the company said in a court filing last
year before Emmel won a reversal of a verdict against him.  “All of Mr. Emmel’s claims against News America Marketing
are meritless,” Halpin said in an interview last month. “There
have been three very public lawsuits about these matters, and at
no time during any of these legal proceedings was any evidence
produced to support Mr. Emmel’s claims.”  Emmel no longer has possession of the documents and is
barred by a court order from discussing them unless he is
subpoenaed or is cooperating with government investigators.  Since making the disclosures, Emmel has been a witness for
rivals who filed civil lawsuits against News America Marketing
for anticompetitive practices related to supermarket
advertising.  The breach of contract case is News America Marketing In-
Store LLC v. Emmel, 07-cv-00791, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 