-- 
Norway’s Biggest Shipbroker to Add Workers, May List in 2012

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-09-16T07:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/norway-s-biggest-shipbroker-to-add-workers-may-list-in-2012.html
RS Platou ASA,  Norway ’s biggest
shipbroker, plans to increase its headcount almost 40 percent
and is considering listing its shares next year as it expands to
capture more of the shipping and offshore market.  “We want to use the industrial platform that we started
with in Norway 24 years ago and gave us credibility and go to
 Singapore , New York, Houston and other places and replicate the
success,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Anker said in an
interview in his Oslo office on Sept. 14.  Platou aims to increase its staff to 450 to 500 people by
the end of next year, from 360, Anker said, as it starts an
investment banking office in  New York  this month and also may
open more offices in West Africa. The 75-year-old company has
also expanded via acquisitions including shipbroker Stewart
Group Ltd. It will add 30 to 40 people to its asset management
unit over the next 12 to 18 months.  The energy industry is being helped by rising global
spending by oil producers and explorers as well as an economic
expansion in emerging markets, Macquarie Equities Research has
said. Oil services are benefiting from increased exploration in
deep water and harsh environments off  Brazil , West Africa and
the Arctic. Stricter rules after the Deepwater Horizon explosion
in the  Gulf of Mexico  have also spurred interest in newer
platforms, boosting prices.  Listing  The  Oslo-based  broker will also consider listing its shares
next year, after in June delaying an initial public offering for
a second time in the past three years amid tumbling markets.
Platou’s sales rose 19 percent to 994 million kroner ($177
million) last year, with ship-brokering and offshore accounting
for the bulk of revenue. It reported an annual net income of 102
million kroner.  “The earliest we reconsider doing an IPO would be the
second quarter of next year,” said Anker, who became CEO in
1987. “We’re generating funds internally, so we can grow. But
if we want to do bigger acquisitions, it’s easier to give people
publically traded shares so they can see what it’s worth.”  Anker is looking at a listing in Oslo and may also consider
a secondary listing in  Hong Kong . The company will also expand
operations in  London , Anker said, declining to be more specific.  Zero Rates  Global markets have been struggling amid slower economic
growth and a spreading debt crisis sapping confidence from
 Europe  to the U.S. Shipping is suffering from a global glut of
capacity. The container-shipping industry is contending with the
longest stretch of near-zero rates in its half-century history
on the Asia-to-Europe route, the world’s second-busiest,
according to Morgan Stanley. Rates for capesizes, typically
hauling coal and iron ore, slumped 88 percent since June 2008.  Platou also has offices in Singapore, Aberdeen, Moscow,
Accra, Cape Town, Rio de Janeiro,  Shanghai , Piraeus and Geneva.
The company also provides project financing and research.  Anker said the “biggest relative” growth potential is in
 investment banking . The chief, who is part owner of Platou,
plans to boost sales by about 50 percent to 1.5 billion kroner
within two to four years and keep an average operating profit
margin before bonuses of 50 percent to 60 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  