-- 
NYSE Owners Become Biggest Losers on Niederauer’s German Embrace: Real M&A

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-16T21:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/nyse-owners-become-biggest-losers-on-niederauer-s-german-embrace-real-m-a.html
Duncan Niederauer ’s embrace of
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  is transforming NYSE Euronext’s “merger of
equals” into the worst takeover in America.  Since the owner of the New York Stock Exchange agreed in
February to sell itself in return for equity in Deutsche Boerse,
the value of the $9.53 billion agreement has plummeted by 23
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The decline is
the largest of any all-stock takeover worth $1 billion or more.
The offer is now below NYSE Euronext’s share price before the
two venues said they were in talks to merge.  While Niederauer will head the world’s largest exchange
after selling the symbol of American capitalism to a company
based in  Frankfurt , tying the deal to the value of Deutsche
Boerse’s stock has cost  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  owners $2 billion on their
40 percent stake of the combined entity. With the European debt
crisis ensnaring  Germany  and pummeling equities in the region’s
largest economy, Niederauer faces the prospect of ending two
centuries of American ownership for shareholders that have lost
half their money since NYSE Euronext went public in 2006.  “It’s a take-under now as opposed to a takeover,”  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor
Inc., which oversees $4 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a merger of equals in name only. Niederauer tried for a
political deal. That had to impact the price and the structure
of the deal.”  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman at NYSE Euronext of  New York ,
and Naomi Kim, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Boerse, both declined
to comment on the decrease in the value of the acquisition.  Caveat Emptor  The agreement was part of a wave of more than $30 billion
in announced takeovers as the world’s biggest exchanges turned
to dealmaking to cut costs and generate more revenue from
trading in stocks, options and futures.  Combining NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse will create the
world’s largest futures exchange. It will also control 41
percent of U.S. options, helping to offset declines in equities
trading. The deal, approved by both companies’ shareholders and
boards of directors, trumped a hostile offer from New York-based
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  of
Atlanta after regulators signaled they would block it.  NYSE Euronext’s owners will get 0.47 shares in the merged
entity for each share they own. Shareholders of Deutsche Boerse,
which traces its roots back to the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and
the  medieval fairs  of the 11th century, will swap their shares
and own 60 percent after the transaction is completed.  Stock Versus Cash  At the time it was announced, Niederauer, NYSE Euronext’s
52-year-old chief executive officer, called the all-stock deal a
merger, rather than an acquisition by the German exchange.  “It’s a merger of equals,” he said Feb. 15. “I don’t
know how many more times we can say that.”  That’s one reason why NYSE Euronext, whose history dates
back to 1792 when the New York Stock Exchange was formed under a
sycamore tree on  Wall Street , agreed to take shares instead of
cash, according to Edward Ditmire, an analyst with Macquarie
Group Ltd. in New York.  “He could not have constructed the deal as a merger of
equals if they were receiving cash as consideration,” he said
in a telephone interview.  With Deutsche Boerse tumbling 29 percent since the
announcement, the deal for NYSE Euronext is now worth only $7.38
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. On a per-share basis,
that values NYSE Euronext at about $28.27, or 15 percent below
its price before Feb. 9, when the two exchanges said they were
in advanced talks to combine.  Last Resort  Deutsche Boerse’s decline deepened as concern that Germany
will have to bail out other European governments to keep them
from defaulting pushed the nation’s 30-company  DAX Index (DAX)  down 26
percent since reaching its 2011 high on May 2.  The benchmark gauge for German common equity extended its
retreat last week as European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said threats to the euro region’s economy intensified
and German officials said  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government
was preparing plans to protect banks in case  Greece  defaults.  Germany is the chief underwriter of emergency loans offered
to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal .  Including today’s 1.5 percent slide, NYSE Euronext itself
has tumbled 17 percent since Feb. 9 as its shares were dragged
down by Deutsche Boerse. While NYSE Euronext has also been hurt
by concern that France and Germany will tax financial
transactions, its slump has been more than seven times as large
as Nasdaq OMX’s 2.2 percent loss over the same span.  ‘Ill-Timed’  “NYSE shareholders have definitely been punished by this
deal” in the short-term, said  Andrew Ross , a partner and global
equity trader at First New York Securities LLC, a New York-based
proprietary trading firm that bets on stocks, commodities and
derivatives, said in a telephone interview.  Niederauer may be “responsible for not having greater
vision or clarity as to what would take place. It looks like a
very ill-timed deal. Nasdaq looks smart in staying out of this
consolidation,” he said.  For Haverford Investments’ Tim Hoyle, the cost savings and
earnings boost from combining with  Deutsche Boerse  will more
than make up for the decrease in NYSE Euronext’s stock value.  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse are forecasting 400
million euros ($552 million) in cost savings. The biggest chunk
of cost cuts will come from the new company’s technology
business. The combined company will also boost revenue by about
150 million euros as a result of the merger, according to an
earnings  presentation  from NYSE Euronext on Aug. 2.  Enduring Value  “The value of the combined is much greater than either
company on its own,” Hoyle, research director for Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Haverford Investments, which oversees $6.5
billion, including NYSE Euronext shares, said in a telephone
interview. “The long-term benefits still outweigh the short-
term volatility. It may be frustrating that the stock is down
now, but that’s what we endure as equity investors.”  That may not be enough for Niederauer to make long-time
NYSE Euronext shareholders whole. Even with dividends, the
exchange has lost 52 percent since it became a publicly traded
company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Things haven’t gone the way that Duncan, the management
team and the board of NYSE had imagined,” Macquarie’s Ditmire
said. “When this deal was announced, it looked like it was
thoughtfully constructed.”  Now, “the stock is probably lower than it would have been
if the deal hadn’t been struck. It’s been a rough ride for
shareholders,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at +1-212-617-5919 or  nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 