-- 
OAS Court Rules for Venezuela Presidential Aspirant Lopez

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 
2011-09-16T23:02:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/oas-court-rules-for-venezuela-presidential-aspirant-lopez-1-.html
The Inter-American Court of Human
Rights has ordered Venezuela to lift a ban preventing an
opponent of  Hugo Chavez  from challenging the president in next
year’s elections.  The ruling from the  San Jose , Costa Rica-based court, the
judicial arm of the  Organization of American States , directs the
electoral council to ensure that Leopoldo Lopez isn’t prohibited
from being a candidate, Carlos Vecchio, coordinator of Lopez’s
political party Voluntad Popular, told reporters in Caracas
today. The court also ordered the government to pay Lopez
$12,000 in costs.  “We did it,” Lopez wrote on his Twitter account.
“Justice was done. I have been cleared.”  Lopez has said he plans to participate in a Feb. 12 primary
to elect a single opposition candidate to run against Chavez in
elections scheduled for Oct. 7 next year. Chavez, who is
suffering from cancer, said this week he will recover in time to
secure 10 million votes next year and win by a “knockout”
against opposition “scum.”  Lopez, twice mayor of the Caracas municipality of Chacao,
was first placed on a blacklist in 2005 by the Comptroller
General’s office. The accusations against him involve a donation
from state oil company Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA, where he
previously worked, to Primero Justicia, a former non-government
organization of which Lopez was a member that has now become a
political party.  Earmarked Funds  A second charge involves the transfer of earmarked funds in
the municipality of Chacao to cover local salary and services
costs.  Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro said the government would
study the court’s decision before deciding whether to respect
it. He also stated that the private media are using Lopez’s case
to attack the government.  “The proof is there, the testimonies,” Maduro said in
comments broadcast on state television. “These are decisions
taken based on our laws, so why don’t the media publish that? It
seems that in Venezuela just being in the opposition is a
license for crime.”  The Comptroller General’s office said that the court’s
decision was illegal and would promote corruption, state news
service AVN  reported today , citing a statement from the agency.  “The ruling not only goes against the human rights of all
Venezuelans, but against the judicial order of our country,”
the office said, according to AVN. “It erodes the defense of
human rights, which is the real victim of corruption.”  Lopez has never been tried, and has said only a judge has
the constitutional power to ban a political candidate.  ‘Political Tool’  “The members of the Court were utterly clear in their
judgment -- the use of political disqualification as a
deliberate strategy to suppress those who challenge the status
quo will not be tolerated,” Lopez said in an e-mailed
statement. “This practice has subverted the political rights of
all Venezuelan citizens and should never again be utilized as a
political tool.”  Lopez’s lawyer Enrique Sanchez Falcon said the government
may take no action until Lopez puts himself forward as a
presidential candidate, which wouldn’t occur unless he won the
primary.  “We will know if the state adheres to the decision when
the electoral council accepts Leopoldo Lopez’s bid as candidate
for the elections,” Sanchez Falcon told reporters in Caracas.
“His candidacy for the primary is different because it’s an
internal election among parties.”  Front Runner  The government may decide to respect the decision in order
to take votes away from opposition front runner Henrique
Capriles Radonski, said  Boris Segura , Latin America strategist
with Nomura Securities International Inc. Denying the ruling
would reflect poorly on the government, he said.  “Lopez was polling strongly until people began to think he
wouldn’t be allowed to take part, and I don’t think five months
is enough time to recuperate those losses,” Segura said in a
phone interview from  New York . “If they allow him to run it
would be to weaken Capriles, with whom he shares a similar
profile. This sentence will change the dynamics within the
opposition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  