-- 
Obama to Meet Libyan Council Leader Jalil at UN General Assembly Next Week

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-16T17:24:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/obama-to-meet-libyan-council-leader-jalil-at-un-general-assembly-next-week.html
President  Barack Obama  will meet
with the leader of Libya’s National Transitional Council,
Mustafa Abdel Jalil, next week at the opening of the United
Nations General Assembly in  New York .  Obama plans to congratulate Jalil on the defeat of Muammar Qaddafi’s forces and discuss transition plans,  Ben Rhodes ,
Obama’s deputy national security adviser, said.  “We would like to see” the transitional council
“recognized as the government of Libya,” Rhodes said at a
briefing today in Washington.  Qaddafi remains at large and the U.S. has no indication
he’s fled Libya. Rebel forces are pushing into the city of
Sirte, Qaddafi’s birthplace on the Mediterranean coast, the
Misrata Military Council said today. Anti-Qaddafi fighters also
entered the mountain town of Bani Walid,  Al Jazeera  said.  Obama arrives in New York for the UN opening the evening of
Sept. 19 and the meeting with Jalil will take place the next
day. It’s one of several the president has scheduled to discuss
democratic movements in Africa and the  Middle East  as well as
global economic issues, Rhodes said.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy, the first foreign leaders to visit Tripoli
since Qaddafi’s ouster, also will meet with Obama in New York,
Rhodes said. The global economy and  Europe ’s debt crisis will be
at the top of their agenda, along with developments in Libya and
the Middle East.  Debt Crisis  Europe’s debt crisis will be a key topic at the UN meeting
and leading into a Group of 20 meeting scheduled next month in
 France , Rhodes said. Obama has said the continent’s woes are
hindering the U.S. recovery.  European finance ministers meeting in Poland ruled out
efforts such as tax cuts or extra spending to prop up the
faltering economy, saying the 18-month debt crisis leaves them
no room for new fiscal stimulus.  The European Central Bank and its counterparts in the U.K.,
Switzerland,  Japan  and the U.S. said yesterday they’ll provide
dollar loans to ease a liquidity crunch that had confronted
European banks with the highest costs for obtaining the U.S.
currency in almost three years.  Netanyahu Meeting  Obama also has set a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu on Sept. 21. The Obama administration, in
support of  Israel , is opposing a Palestinian plan to seek
statehood status in the UN. So far, there is no plan for Obama
to have separate discussions with Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas.  Abbas, in a televised address today, said Palestinians
“have a legitimate right” to join the UN and will go there
next week seeking full membership. The U.S. has said it would
veto any resolution before the Security Council granting full
membership as a nation-state.  Rhodes wouldn’t say whether the administration believes it
can avert a showdown on a Palestinian bid for full membership.
Israel’s supporters in the U.S. Congress have threatened to cut
aid to the Palestinian Authority as punishment for seeking a UN
vote. The only way the situation can be resolved is a resumption
of direct talks between Israel and the Palestinians, Rhodes
said.  “Whatever happens in New York, this is going to have to be
resolved between the Israelis and the Palestinians,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 