-- 
Obama Excludes New F-16s From Taiwan Arms Package, Washington Times Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-09-16T10:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/obama-excludes-new-f-16s-in-taiwan-arms-package-times-says.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama 
approved an arms package for  Taiwan  that excludes 66  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 C/D jets the island requested in 2006, the
Washington Times  reported  on its website today.  The estimated $4.2 billion weapons deal probably includes
an upgrade of Taiwan’s existing F-16 A/B fighter jets, the
report said, citing unidentified administration and
congressional officials. Taiwan asked for the new fighters to
deter China, which considers the island a rogue province.  China objects to U.S. arms sales to Taiwan and has tried to
block delivery of the F-16 airplanes. The government in Beijing
halted high-level military exchanges with the U.S. for about a
year after the Pentagon proposed selling $6.4 billion worth of
weapons to Taiwan in January 2010.  “ China  is opposed to U.S. arms sales to Taiwan,” Jiang
Yu, a spokeswoman for the Foreign Ministry in Beijing, said at a
briefing today. Asked whether a decision to deny new jets and
only upgrade old ones would be welcome, she replied: “Our stand
on U.S. sales of arms to Taiwan is clear and firm.”  Luo Shou-he, a spokesman from Taiwan’s Ministry of National
Defense, said he was unaware of a “formal decision on the
matter,” adding that “the U.S. is still reviewing Taiwan’s
request.”  ‘Defensive Nature’  The U.S. supplies armaments “of a defensive nature” to
the island under the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act. The planned sale
last year included advanced Lockheed Patriot missiles, UH-60
Black Hawk helicopters made by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and
 Boeing Co. (BA)  anti-ship Harpoon missiles.  Chinese officials “do not regard U.S. arms sales to Taiwan
as something normal,” General Ma Xiaotian, deputy chief of
general staff of the  People’s Liberation Army , told a forum in
 Singapore  last year while relations were frayed. Chen Bingde,
the army’s chief of staff, said in July that U.S. weapons sales
to Taiwan hampered relations with the American military, Xinhua
News Agency reported.  China has more than 1,000 missiles deployed opposite Taiwan
and “is developing capabilities intended to deter, delay, or
deny possible U.S. support for the island in the event of
conflict,” according to an  annual Pentagon report  released last
month. The military balance “continues to shift in the
mainland’s favor,” it said.  In 1992, President  George Bush  authorized the sale of 150
F-16 A/B warplanes worth $4 billion to Taiwan. The island’s
“relatively modest defense spending has failed to keep pace
with ambitious military developments on the mainland,” last
month’s Pentagon report said.  U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, and 45
other members from both parties  wrote Obama  on May 26 urging him
to expedite the sale of 66 of the aircraft made by Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed.  “We are deeply concerned that further delay of the
decision to sell F-16s to Taiwan could result in closure of the
F-16 production line,” the letter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  