-- 
Obama Says Patent Law, Jobs Plan Needed to Revive Growth

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-09-16T15:58:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/obama-says-patent-overhaul-jobs-plan-steps-to-reviving-growth.html
President  Barack Obama  said a law
overhauling the U.S. patent system will clear the way for
inventors and entrepreneurs to attract investment and create
jobs, making the U.S. more competitive.  “We should be making it easier to turn new ideas into new
jobs and into new businesses,” Obama said today before signing
the legislation at  Thomas Jefferson High School  for Science and
Technology in Alexandria, Virginia.  Obama, who is confronting opposition from congressional
Republicans on his latest jobs package, has repeatedly cited the
revamping of the patent law as an example of bipartisan action
on measures to boost the economy. He also used the occasion to
promote the $447 billion proposal he unveiled last week, saying
it’s a needed response to a short-term economic crisis.  “This bill answers the urgent need to create jobs right
away,” Obama said.  The  patent law  will help generate growth over the long-
term, he said. The measure gives the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office more control over its funding and makes fundamental
changes in how patents are processed and reviewed. It passed the
House in June and won final approval Sept. 9 on an 89-9 vote in
the Senate.  Patent Fees  The patent office, which is funded entirely by user fees,
will be able to set its own fees, with any money in excess of
the budgeted amount going to a fund that can only be used by the
agency. The office plans to hire as many as 2,000 more examiners
in the coming fiscal year, revamp an outdated information
technology system and open satellite offices across the country
to tap into local workforces.  The goal is to address a backlog of almost 700,000
 applications  awaiting first review and decrease the average 34
months it takes to issue a patent. Reducing the time it takes to
give inventions legal protection will speed new products to the
market, helping economic growth, according to the bill’s
supporters.  The  Washington  suburb where Obama signed the legislation is
home to the patent office headquarters and the school where it
took place is named for the third U.S. president who, as
secretary of state under  George Washington , signed the nation’s
first patent law in 1790.  Economic Themes  The signing ceremony combined several of Obama’s economic
themes: innovation, public-private partnerships and education.
The public school’s curriculum is developed with input from
business and industry and admission is competitive. To graduate,
students must complete an original engineering or experimental
research project.  “I could not be more impressed by what you guys are
doing,” Obama told students.  The president also announced new programs to promote the
commercial use of work done by scientists at universities and
government research labs. The  National Institutes of Health  will
help companies cut the time and cost for developing new drugs
and the  National Science Foundation  will establish a prize to
reward the university that makes the most progress in
accelerating job growth.  The patent office already has been working to speed up the
application process, including giving green technology fast-
track reviews. DuPont Co., the Wilmington, Delaware-based
chemical company, used the program to obtain patents on
biofuels, said DuPont Chief Executive  Ellen Kullman , who is a
member of the president’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness.  Accelerating Process  “Pace is really critical here,” she said. “If you can
get the pace of the patents going, you can accelerate the pilot
launch; you can accelerate the production.”  The legislation is the culmination of more than a decade of
discussions and six years of negotiations and lobbying by every
industry. It covers each step of the patent process, setting new
procedures to review issued patents while curtailing some
litigation. It has the support of companies including  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and a group that
represents  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  3M Co. (MMM)  and
 General Electric Co. (GE)   Some small business have criticized the legislation as
giving big companies an unfair advantage in obtaining patents
and creating new hurdles to enforcing  patent rights  against
companies that copy inventions without compensation.  Supporters have expressed reservation on the funding issue,
saying it doesn’t go far enough to protect the patent office
from having funds siphoned off to other priorities. Congress has
diverted almost $1 billion from the agency since a 1990 law
required the patent office to pay for itself.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Alexandria,  Virginia , at   kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at   aholmes25@bloomberg.net  