-- 
Obama Backs Pending EPA Rules After Pulling Back on Ozone, Waxman Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-16T22:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/obama-backs-pending-epa-rules-after-pulling-back-on-ozone-waxman-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration pledged to move ahead with proposed environmental
regulations affecting utilities and manufacturers after pulling
back smog rules, a Democratic lawmaker said.  After Obama quashed regulations to lower ozone limits, “I
was told by people in the White House that they felt this would
give them stronger grounds to stop Republicans who want to delay
or postpone or eliminate” additional pollution-control
proposals, Representative Henry Waxman, the ranking Democrat on
the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said in an interview
taped today for C-SPAN’s “Newsmakers,” which airs on Sundays.  “They are going to hold the line,” said Waxman, of
 California .  Obama told the  Environmental Protection Agency  on Sept. 2
that tighter standards on ozone, which causes smog, would impose
unnecessary regulatory expenses on a weak  U.S. economy . The
ozone rule, which the White House estimated would cost $19
billion to $90 billion, was the most expensive under
consideration by the administration.  The  Business Roundtable , the National Association of
Manufacturers and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest U.S.
industry lobbying group, praised Obama’s action on ozone.
Representatives of the groups met in August with White House
Chief of Staff  William Daley  to complain about the costs.  Up next on the EPA’s agenda are rules designed to cut
emissions from coal-fired  power plants , cement factories and
industrial boilers used by many industries, including paper
manufacturing and hospitals.  “As the president has made clear, the administration will
continue to take steps to defend the authority of the  Clean Air
Act  and the important progress we have made to protect the air
we breathe,” Clark Stevens, a White House spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  Delaying Measures  The Republican leadership in the  House of Representatives 
has promised to delay or derail implementation of six air-
pollution standards.  A subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee
approved legislation this week that would postpone the cement-
plant and boiler regulations. The entire committee is scheduled
to vote on it next week and will also hold a hearing on
regulatory processes with EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson.  The full House is scheduled to vote next week on a measure
that would subject all EPA rules to an independent economic
assessment.  Waxman said that none of those measures would become law
because the Senate is unlikely to take them up, “and if they
get to the president, I expect him to veto them,” he said.  The EPA didn’t respond to e-mails requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  