-- 
Tombini Says Brazil to Keep Adjusting Interest Rates as Crisis Demands

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-09-16T18:39:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/tombini-says-brazil-to-keep-adjusting-interest-rates-as-crisis-demands.html
Brazil  will continue to adjust
monetary policy to take into account the impact that the global
economic crisis is having on its economy, central bank president
Alexandre Tombini said.  Tombini did not indicate in which direction the central
bank would adjust the benchmark Selic rate, which it cut last
month by 50 basis points after a series of five increases.
Future interest rate decisions will be geared toward slowing
inflation to the bank’s 4.5 percent target by the end of 2012,
he said in a speech in Sao Paulo.  “The central bank’s policy will continue to be adjusted in
the future looking at the international context,” Tombini said.
“We have to keep following the evolution and ramifications
which right now are unpredictable.”  Policy makers cut the benchmark  interest rate  a half point
to 12 percent on Aug. 31, citing a “substantial deterioration”
in the global economy. Some economists said the decision showed
how the central bank had adopted a policy of targeting growth
and had abandoned its 2012 inflation target.  Traders are betting the central bank will cut the rate to
11 percent by the end of the year, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures. Slower economic
growth, a cooling labor market and the weakening global recovery
are all helping to contain inflation, Tombini said.  Consumer prices rose 7.23 percent in the year through
August, exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s target range for a fifth straight month. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell 8 basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 10.64 percent at 2:23 p.m.
New York time.  Economists lowered the growth forecast in the latest
central bank survey. They now expect growth to slow to 3.56
percent this year, down from a forecast of 4 percent at the
start of June. Last year the economy expanded 7.5 percent, its
fastest pace in more than two decades.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  