-- 
ONGC Gains Most in Year After Share Offering Is Deferred

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-16T12:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/ongc-gains-most-in-year-after-government-delays-share-offering.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,  India ’s
largest energy explorer, gained the most in more than a year in
Mumbai trading after the government delayed a plan to sell
shares in the company.  ONGC climbed 5.4 percent to 274.70 rupees, the most since
June 25, 2010. The benchmark Sensitive Index advanced 0.3
percent. The stake sale would have fetched 118 billion rupees
($2.5 billion) at current prices.  The government decided not to go ahead with the 5 percent
stake sale scheduled to start on Sept. 20, ONGC said in a stock
exchange filing today, without stating a reason. This is the
fourth postponement of the offer aimed at helping Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee raise 400 billion rupees from asset
sales this financial year.  “Sudden changes in decisions make it difficult for
investors and shows the government’s decision-making process
isn’t the way it should be,” said  Deepak Pareek , a Mumbai-based
analyst with Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. “I don’t see anything has
changed in the past month, the markets were weak then and are
weak now.”  India’s benchmark Sensitive Index has slumped 17 percent
this year, the worst performer in Asia, as fears of a sovereign
debt crisis in Europe and a slowdown in the U.S. economy hit
stock markets around the world.  A decision on the offer will be taken in due course, New
Delhi-based ONGC said.  Knee-Jerk Reaction  The government planned to offer 427.8 million ONGC shares,
according to the sale prospectus dated Sept. 5. JM Financial
Services Ltd.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Morgan Stanley and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  are
managers to the sale, the document showed.  “It’s a knee-jerk reaction and knee-jerk reactions don’t
inspire confidence,” Deven Choksey, managing director of
Mumbai-based brokerage K.R. Choksey Share & Securities Pvt.,
said by telephone. “The government continues to say the
disinvestment target will be met, but who can say with
certainty, because decisions change so quickly.”  India’s government deferred the sale of shares in  Steel
Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL)  in June because market conditions
deteriorated. Mukherjee has raised  11.4 billion rupees , or 3
percent of this year’s asset-sales target so far, by selling
shares in Power Finance Corp. in May.  “India is confident of meeting the share-sale target for
the current financial year,” R. Gopalan, economic affairs
secretary in the finance ministry, said in an interview today.  ONGC completed meetings with potential investors in
Singapore,  Hong Kong ,  London  and  New York  during the past two
weeks. The share sale, first planned for the quarter ending
March 31, was subsequently rescheduled to the following quarter,
July and then September.  “Global events mean the market is volatile and the
government is probably not very comfortable with that,” said
Jigar Shah, senior vice-president and head of research at Kim
Eng Securities India Pvt. “It would’ve been very awkward if a
government share sale didn’t succeed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  