-- 
Looming U.S. Winter May Repeat Cold, Snow

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-16T16:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/looming-u-s-winter-may-repeat-cold-snow.html
The winter of 2011-2012 will
probably be colder than normal for much of the northern U.S.,
although a repeat of the worst of last year’s East Coast
snowstorms is unlikely, forecasters said.  A cooling in the  Pacific Ocean  known as La Nina is
predicted to return this year, joined by another season of
frigid Arctic blasts caused by pressure differentials over the
North Pole and northern Atlantic Ocean.  “We’re looking at a cold start to the winter with maybe a
mild finish,” said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  Forecasters are predicting the coldest weather from the
Great Plains to the  Great Lakes , along with heavy snows across
the northern tier. Cold weather is likely to increase demand for
heating and power-plant fuels.  The coming winter may be colder than both the 30- and 10-
year averages, increasing heating demand, said Travis Hartman, a
meteorologist at MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .
Nov. 1 to March 31 will probably be 7 percent colder than the
10-year norm and 1.3 percent colder than last year, Rogers said.  New York  City may be hit by several snowstorms, according
to Hartman. He doesn’t expect a repeat of the past two years,
when snow records fell in Central Park and some city streets
were unplowed for days.  No Blockbuster  “As far as calling for another blockbuster year, we’re not
there,” Hartman said.  The upper Great Plains, Great Lakes and Midwest may see
another year of heavy snow, he said. When the snow pack from the
winter of 2010-2011 melted, it caused record flooding along the
Ohio, Mississippi and Missouri rivers as far south as  Louisiana .  Hartman said that depending on how fast and when the snow
melts, more flooding may be in store in the first half of 2012.  The coldest area may be the northern Great Plains, Midwest
and Great Lakes region, said Paul Pastelok, a meteorologist at
 AccuWeather Inc . in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . The Northeast
probably won’t be as cold or snowy as last year, he said.  The U.S.  Climate Prediction Center’s  latest  forecast  for
January to March 2012 calls for most of the U.S. to have
seasonal temperatures, with about a 50 percent chance the upper
Plains and Great Lakes will be below normal.  “It’s not too much outside the normal winter outlook,”
said Eric Bickel, a commodity analyst at Summit Energy Services
Inc. in Louisville,  Kentucky . He said his company relies on the
CPC and other government forecasts.  Gas Cushion  Bickel said natural gas production remains strong along
with inventories. When the heating season starts, there should
be “a good cushion” built up, he said.  Power plants  use about
30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according to the Energy
Department.  MDA has developed an index of heating degree days to
measure the severity of winter made up of information from 200
weather stations across the U.S. The data is weighted according
to historical natural gas usage from December to February.  The value projected for this year is 2,725, Hartman said.
The 30-year average value is 2,619.3 and the 10-year average is
2,617.57.  This season’s MDA number has an extra day because 2012 is a
leap year, Hartman said.  Heating degree days value is derived by subtracting the
average daily temperature from a base of 65 degrees Fahrenheit
(18.3 Celsius) and is designed to show energy demand. The higher
the value, the cooler the weather, and thus the more energy
probably being used to heat homes and business.  Cold Start  Rogers said he’s confident the start of winter will be
colder because when there are back-to-back La Ninas, as in 2010
and 2011, the second one tends to bring lower temperatures to
the U.S.  On average, La Ninas occur every three to five years and
last from nine to 12 months. Last year’s La Nina was a
contributor to record flooding in  Australia , the persistent
Texas drought and an above-average  Atlantic hurricane season .  Forecasters are also watching to see if low pressure
develops over the  North Pole , a pattern called the negative
phase of the Arctic Oscillation. When this happens, cold air is
pushed down into the temperate regions of  North America ,  Europe 
and  Asia  and the pole is warmer than normal.  It can also cause blocks that disrupt the normal flow of
the atmosphere. If the blocking occurs off the East Coast, then
New York,  New England  and the mid-Atlantic may see a lot of
snow, Pastelok said. If it is further west, the Midwest, Great
Lakes and upper Great Plains will bear winter’s brunt, he said.  Arctic Ice  Hartman and Pastelok believe this will happen because the
Arctic ice cap is shrinking. The sea ice has fallen to its
second-lowest amount since 1979, when satellites started
tracking it, the U.S.  National Snow and Ice Data Center  said
yesterday.  Rogers said that while he doesn’t subscribe to the sea ice
theory, he forecasts the blocking will occur because of cyclical
variation.  Since the mid-1970s, the Arctic Oscillation has been
positive, meaning warmer winters for the temperate regions in
the Northern Hemisphere. In the past two winters, however, there
have been major negative episodes which have resulted in record
snowfalls. Last winter, 49 of the 50 U.S. states, all except
 Florida , had some snow cover.  If major snows develop this year, they may bring colder
temperatures as well, said Pastelok. A large snowpack chills the
air and creates a “feedback” in which cold brings snow that
brings more cold, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 