-- 
Mortgage REITs Head to Europe as Barrack, Sternlicht Seek Distressed Deals

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/mortgage-reits-head-to-europe-as-barrack-sternlicht-seek-deals.html
Colony Financial Inc. (CLNY)  and  Starwood
Property Trust Inc. (STWD) , the U.S. mortgage investors formed two
years ago amid an expected surge of distressed debt, are turning
to Europe as banks tighten lending and sell real estate loans.  Colony, a  Santa Monica , California-based company led by
Thomas Barrack, invested $30 million in July for a stake in five
non-performing loans backed by buildings in Frankfurt and
Berlin.  Barry Sternlicht , the founder of Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Starwood, calls Europe a “fertile field” and has made
deals including a $71.5 million loan on a group of 45 properties
leased by a unit of Metro AG,  Germany ’s largest retailer.  The real estate investment trusts are seeking transactions
overseas on expectations that delinquencies will rise and banks
will dispose of more bad debt and make fewer loans in a
weakening economy. The two companies are trading below their
2009 initial public offering prices as competition for U.S.
transactions increases and lenders work out more distressed
loans, limiting the REITs’ buying and financing opportunities.  “It’s hard to find a rock that hasn’t been overturned in
America,” said  Dan Fasulo , managing director at Real Capital
Analytics Inc., a New York-based research company. “It doesn’t
surprise me that some of the major players here would turn to
Europe, where there remains a lot of skeletons in the closet.”  European lenders have 151.4 billion euros ($210.1 billion)
of commercial real estate loans in default, compared with $121
billion at U.S. banks, according to New York-based data provider
Trepp LLC. Banks in the U.K. have the largest share of those
loans, with 64 billion euros in delinquent debt.  Ireland, U.K. Defaults  Irish properties have Europe’s highest default rate with 30
percent, followed by the U.K. with 26 percent and Austria with
15 percent, Trepp said in a report on Aug. 17.  “There’s quite a bit more pain to come,”  Matt Anderson ,
managing director of Trepp in Oakland,  California , said of
European banks working through defaulted loans.  The euro region’s sovereign debt crisis may hinder an
economic recovery as countries cut expenses instead of taking
measures to boost growth, according to a report last month by CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc. On Aug. 18, Morgan Stanley cut its
forecast for 2011 global expansion, saying the U.S. and Europe
are “dangerously close to a recession.”  Banks in Europe have been slow to unload bad debt as they
examine their books and devise strategies to minimize losses,
such as extending loan maturities, according to Natale Giostra,
a senior director with CB Richard Ellis in  London .  New  capital requirements  for European banks may push
lenders to sell nonperforming loans to raise money, said Craig Guttenplan, a London-based analyst with CreditSights Inc.  Facing the Music  “Over time these banks are going to want to stop
extending,” Kevin Traenkle, Colony’s chief investment officer,
said in a telephone interview. “They’re going to want their
borrowers to face the music.”  Traenkle predicts European banks will become big sellers of
distressed loans within two years. He doesn’t have a dollar
target for Colony’s deals in the region.  As of Aug. 5, European debt accounted for about 10 percent
of the company’s $557.9 million in invested and committed funds.  While Colony focuses primarily on purchasing debt, Starwood
expects to find opportunities to lend. Banks in  Europe  probably
will tighten credit standards for borrowers in the third
quarter, the  European Central Bank  said July 28.  Early Innings  “There is a lot of demand for money like ours in Europe,
and it is going to be more originations,” Sternlicht said on an
Aug. 2 conference call with analysts. “If the U.S. is in inning
five of its recap, Europe’s in inning one or two.”  The REIT plans to hire an executive to shop for deals in
Europe, Sternlicht said on the call.  Tom Johnson , a spokesman for Starwood, declined to comment
on the company’s strategy.  International debt accounted for 9.7 percent of Starwood’s
$2.5 billion in holdings as of June 30, when the REIT had $129.9
million of British-pound investments and $71.3 million in euro-
denominated investments, according to a regulatory filing.  Starwood and Colony are part of a generation of REITs that
had initial public offerings in 2009 as so-called blind pool
companies, which seek to raise money before owning any assets.
Starwood went public that August. Colony,  Apollo Commercial Real
Estate Finance Inc. (ARI)  and  CreXus Investment Corp. (CXS)  sold shares the
following month. All four are trading below their IPO price.  ‘Painful’ Share Price  “It’s painful to see the stock down here,” Sternlicht
said during the conference call on Aug. 2, when the shares
closed at $19.20, 4 percent below their $20 IPO price. “It’s a
marathon, not a bunny race, and we will get through it.”  By the time the companies went public, lenders that had
frozen credit in the wake of the U.S. real estate crash got more
comfortable financing deals and underwriting mortgages to be
bundled and sold as bonds. Competition between financial
institutions and investors for new U.S. loans intensified.  “The investing landscape got very, very crowded,” Joshua
Barber, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said
in a telephone interview. “It got really crowded fast.”  As blind-pool companies, the REITs didn’t have any
investments when they sold shares to the public. Building their
portfolios took time, and that also hurt the stocks, according
to Bose George, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods.  Difficulty Finding Deals  “It’s been difficult to get stuff to invest in,” George
said in a telephone interview from  New York . “The sector took a
lot of time to deploy their capital.”  Starwood has lost 8.2 percent since its shares began
trading, trailing a 22 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index in the same period. Colony is down 25 percent from its
IPO price, versus a 14 percent increase for the broader gauge.  Commercial-mortgage REITs can make money on distressed debt
by purchasing loans at a discount and working out new terms with
the borrowers. The companies may also take control of the
underlying properties, expecting to turn a profit on income from
the real estate and an eventual sale.  The strategy carries hazards, according to Guttenplan of
CreditSights. The economy may weaken and drag down income from
the real estate, reducing the value of the mortgages.  “The risk is you overpay for the loans,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Limited Pool  “U.S. REITs may compete for a limited pool of distressed
loan assets in Europe,” said Guy Langford, U.S. leader of
distressed asset and debt services for  Deloitte & Touche LLP  in
New York. “Banks in Europe have been slower in selling
problematic loans than U.S. lenders, partly because of
uncertainty over the economy, regulatory change and government
support.”  Traenkle said he likes Colony’s opportunities in Europe
because fewer investors are chasing deals there than in the U.S.  “In Europe you don’t have as many groups that have the
expertise of buying nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets
from the banks,” he said. “The competitive set is just much,
much smaller.”  In 2010, private-equity real estate funds received $3.4
billion for Europe-focused investments, compared with $22.5
billion for North American transactions, according to Preqin
Ltd. Through June 30, private-equity real estate funds for
investing in Europe raised $2.3 billion, compared with more than
$12 billion for North American investments, the London-based
research firm said.  The REITs’ managers, Starwood Capital Group LLC and  Colony
Capital LLC , have operations in Europe and have done commercial-
property transactions there.  German Loans  Colony Financial frequently joins Colony Capital in its
investments, taking a stake in ventures that buy mortgages and
other assets. The companies teamed on the purchase of the five
nonperforming German loans, which were bought for 19 percent of
the unpaid principal balance.  Starwood’s Metro mortgage is backed by property that is 93
percent occupied with a weighted average lease term of 12 years.
The debt has a loan-to-purchase value of 69 percent and matures
in 2017, according to Starwood.  “They have a good opportunity” in Europe, Stifel
Nicolaus’s Barber said of Starwood. “Ultimately it depends on
the credit markets.”  Making “good, solid investments” -- in the U.S. as well
as overseas -- will help Colony Financial’s share price,
according to Traenkle.  “We do envision our European exposure to grow,” he said.
“These debt buys and these workout scenarios will be as
attractive in Europe as they are in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  