-- 
Mortgage Debacle Costs Banks $66 Billion as Suits Sap Profit

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-09-16T15:23:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/mortgage-debacle-costs-u-s-banks-66-billion-as-bad-home-loans-sap-profit.html
Faulty mortgages and foreclosure
abuses have cost the nation’s five biggest home lenders at least
$65.7 billion, according to a tally by Bloomberg News, and new
claims may push the industrywide total to twice that amount.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. lender, had the
biggest costs, totaling $39.1 billion since the start of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
ranked second by assets, followed with $16.3 billion, and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, had $5.09 billion,
the data show.  The costs have eclipsed predictions from bankers and
analysts that lenders would suffer only modest damage from what
Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has
called “the mortgage mess.”  Paul Miller , the FBR Capital
Markets & Co. analyst, said costs for all banks could surpass
$121 billion as the bill comes due for lax lending practices.  “You’re not talking about improperly stapling together two
documents, you’re talking about systematic fraud in the
system,”  Neil Barofsky , the former special inspector general
for the  U.S. Treasury ’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, said in
an interview. “What this shows is that before the financial
crisis, the banks were essentially lying to the purchasers of
the mortgages about the quality.”  What’s Included  Bloomberg’s tally was compiled from regulatory filings,
company statements and financial presentations by the nation’s
five biggest mortgage lenders. The data cover provisions and
expenses attributable to repurchases, foreclosure errors and
abuses, payments to reimburse investors for lost value on faulty
mortgages, legal settlements and litigation expenses.  The compilation also includes writedowns of assets, such as
mortgage servicing rights, when the company attributed the loss
in value to problems in mortgage underwriting or foreclosures
and the costs of remedies. The figures may increase as more
detailed breakdowns become available.  Miller, a former bank examiner, previously said costs might
range from $54 billion to $106 billion for the banking industry.
Under his new $121 billion estimate, which covers only
repurchase costs, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan and
Ally Financial Inc. will bear 60 percent of the burden, with
Bank of America alone paying 33 percent.  Ally, previously known as GMAC Inc., has been hit with
$3.28 billion in costs. The Detroit-based financer of auto loans
and leases lost $10.3 billion in 2009 and required a government
bailout totaling more than $17 billion, largely due to losses
from its Residential Capital mortgage unit. Ally is now 74
percent owned by the U.S. Treasury Department.  Adding Up  Costs at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , ranked third by assets among U.S.
lenders, totaled $1.9 billion. The New York-based lender needed
a $45 billion bailout as bad bets on subprime loans drove the
company to post a 2008 net loss of $27.7 billion. The bailout
has since been repaid.  “We have been diligent in settling claims related to the
mortgage business, where appropriate,” said  Gina Proia , a
spokeswoman for Ally. “We believe we are appropriately reserved
based on what we know today and what we are able to estimate.”  Shannon Bell at Citigroup, Thomas Kelly at JPMorgan and
Richele Messick at Wells Fargo declined to comment on the data.  Most of Bank of America’s costs have been tied to mortgages
written by Countrywide Financial Corp., the leading subprime
lender, which Bank of America rescued from collapse in 2008.  “The reserves that we have established are part of the
effort to address legacy and Countrywide issues and put them
behind us,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman.  Guarantees Offered  Banks typically made home loans and bundled them into
securities sold to private investors and government-backed
enterprises. They usually offered “representations and
warranties” in which lenders promised to buy back the mortgages
or cover losses if the loans turned out to be based on
inaccurate or missing data on criteria such as the borrower’s
income, the property’s value or whether it would be used as a
primary residence.  “The impact of the reps and warranties was completely
underestimated for a long time,” said  Laurie Goodman , a senior
managing director at Amherst Securities Group LP in  New York  who
specializes in mortgage-backed securities. “It’s not anymore.”  Actions that may boost the total costs include the Federal
Housing Finance Agency’s Sept. 2 lawsuit against 17 firms, which
cited possible defects in $196 billion of mortgage securities
bought by the Washington-based  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, based
in McLean, Virginia. FHFA became the conservator for Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac following government takeovers in the 2008
credit crisis.  AIG Lawsuit  Last month,  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  filed a suit
against Bank of America for more than $10 billion, alleging
fraud. The bank denied AIG’s allegation and blamed the New York-
based insurer for the problems.  “AIG recklessly chased high yields and profits throughout
the mortgage and structured finance markets,” said  Larry DiRita , a Bank of America spokesman. “It is the very definition
of an informed, seasoned investor, with losses solely
attributable to its own excesses and errors.”  As for foreclosures, banks are negotiating a settlement
with state attorneys general that may be valued at $20 billion.
All 50 states are investigating whether banks relied on
inaccurate, inadequate or missing documents to seize homes.  Success by claimants could push the costs for errors and
misrepresentations to more than $100 billion, said  Robert Litan ,
a vice president of research and policy at the Kansas City,
Missouri-based Kauffman Foundation, which promotes
entrepreneurial activity.  What Went Wrong  “As large as that number is, it’s a small fraction of the
overall economic damage that the crisis and these mortgages
caused to the economy,” said Litan, who was on a commission
that investigated the savings and loan crisis in the 1980s.
“There were trillions of dollars of damage.”  The FHFA lawsuit cited the prospectus for one mortgage-
backed security underwritten by Bank of America entities, which
said no loans were larger than the underlying value of the
homes. In fact, 11 percent of loans sampled by the agency fit
that description, the suit said. Another securitization said
4.45 percent of the homes weren’t owner-occupied, while the true
percentage was 15.27 percent, according to the suit.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  “acknowledged that their losses
in the mortgaged-backed securities market were due to the
unprecedented downturn in housing prices and other economic
factors,” said DiRita at Bank of America.  The industry-wide errors “were not minor slip-ups,” said
Peter Swire, a law professor at  Ohio State University  in
Columbus,  Ohio , and until last year a special assistant to
President Barack Obama for economic policy. “Our biggest banks
were talking homeowners into taking some of these bad loans at
the front end and then dumping fraudulent loans on investors at
the back end.”  Selling Contracts  Moynihan at Bank of America has said the lender will sell
some of its contracts to handle billings, collections and
foreclosures on home loans, and JPMorgan will reduce its
remaining mortgage portfolio “until it’s close to zero,” Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon told analysts on a July 14
conference call.  JPMorgan liabilities could swell if it’s forced to bear the
cost of bad loans made by Washington Mutual Inc., according to
the bank’s regulatory filings. JPMorgan acquired most of WaMu’s
assets from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in 2008 after
the Seattle-based company became the biggest bank to fail in
U.S. history.  WaMu sold securitized mortgages to investors that might be
subject to repurchase demands, according to JPMorgan. While the
bank contends the FDIC would be responsible for the costs, the
agency  contested  that position and the dispute hasn’t been
resolved, according to a July 14 JPMorgan presentation.  More Claims  Analysts have predicted banks will face more claims if  home
prices  continue to decline and foreclosures keep rising. Default
notices sent to overdue U.S. homeowners surged 33 percent in
August from the previous month, and total foreclosure filings
increased 7 percent, according to a Sept. 15 report from
RealtyTrac Inc., the Irvine, California-based data seller. The
increase in default notices was the biggest monthly gain in four
years.  Collectively, that leaves investors with little certainty
on how big the tally may become, according to Barofsky, the
former TARP official and now a senior fellow and adjunct
professor at the New York University School of Law.  “I don’t think anyone knows where the bottom is for all
these costs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  