-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers Ask Court for Permission to Auction Television Rights

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-16T22:42:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/los-angeles-dodgers-ask-court-for-permission-to-auction-telecast-rights.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  asked a
bankruptcy court for permission to auction television rights to
the  Major League Baseball  club’s games, saying a sale would
allow it to pay off its debts and leave bankruptcy.  “Market conditions are optimal for licensing the telecast
rights because the market for sports media rights in Los Angeles
is vibrant at this time,” the Dodgers said in a motion filed
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Baseball
Commissioner  Bud Selig  rejected a proposed cable-television
rights deal that team owner Frank McCourt had negotiated with
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  Thomas Lauria , a lawyer for Major League Baseball, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call or e-mail seeking comment on
the auction request. MLB spokesman Pat Courtney and Fox Sports
spokesman Chris Bellitti also declined to comment.  Fox holds the rights to show Dodgers’ baseball games on
 cable television  and has an exclusive right to negotiate for a
new telecast contract until next year.  Under the proposal put forward today, the Dodgers would
negotiate exclusively with Fox for 45 days. If the Dodgers and
Fox reach a deal, the network would most likely act as a so-
called stalking horse bidder, making the initial offer at an
auction,  Bruce Bennett , a lawyer for the Dodgers, said today in
a phone interview.  Stalking-Horse Bid  Whether it agrees on a stalking-horse bid with Fox or not,
the team would have 60 more days to solicit bids for an auction
from other parties, according to court papers.  “The goal of this process is to generate the highest
possible value and to maximize the benefit to the estate,”
Bennett said.  The Dodgers would include MLB in the marketing process and
would submit any deal to Selig for approval, the team said in
its filing.  In court papers dated July 29, Fox argued that marketing
the television rights may violate the company’s current
contract, which runs through the 2013 baseball season.  The Dodgers have said the current Fox contract provisions
cannot be enforced in bankruptcy because they would hinder the
team’s ability to reorganize and obtain the best outcome for its
creditors.  The Dodgers are assuming there will be an auction for the
rights, although the team may not need one, according to
Bennett.  “The flexibility is there for all conceivable options,”
Bennett said.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 