-- 
Osborne Says ’Time Is Short’ for Euro Area to Act on Debt Crisis

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-09-16T10:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/osborne-says-time-is-short-for-euro-area-to-act-on-debt-crisis.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said time is running out to stem the debt crisis
engulfing the euro region.  He urged leaders to implement a July 21 agreement to expand
the powers of the euro-area bailout fund, resolve
“uncertainty” over Greece and spell out how they plan to
strengthen their banks. He made the comments as he prepared to
join European Union finance ministers meeting in Poland today.  “I will be looking for my euro-zone colleagues to send a
clear signal that they truly recognize the gravity of the
situation and are dealing with it,” Osborne told business
leaders in Manchester,  England , today. “Time is short.”  Eighteen months of crisis-fighting and 256 billion euros
($354 billion) in aid for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal have
failed to stabilize markets. The turmoil has spread to Italy and
Spain, sending tremors through Europe’s banking system and
leading to speculation that a currency meant to be permanent
might break up.  Europe’s challenges are being compounded by snags over
Finnish demands for collateral to underpin Greece’s rescue loans
and German objections to altering European treaties. Officials
are unlikely to reach a deal today to clear the way for Greece’s
next 109 billion-euro package, Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said.  Sense of Crisis  Underlining the sense of crisis, U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  is attending today’s talks in Wroclaw to spur
European finance chiefs into action.  Osborne said leaders in the U.S. as much as  Europe  have
failed to respond quickly to the crisis. He reiterated his call
for closer fiscal union among euro-area countries, saying it was
part of “the remorseless logic of monetary union.”  In the U.K., ministers are scrambling for solutions to
prevent the economy from tipping back into recession.  “Our biggest export markets, in Europe and America,
have all but stopped growing,” Osborne said. “There is a lack
of belief in the ability of political systems in the euro zone
and  North America  to respond.”  Still, he said he was confident Britain “can weather this
storm.” His “decisive” plan to cut the  budget deficit  had
pushed U.K. markets interest rates to record lows and abandoning
it would lead to a “collapse” in confidence, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  