-- 
Obama’s Payroll Tax-Cut Plan Criticized by U.S. House Republican Leaders

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-09-17T04:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/house-republican-leaders-criticize-obama-s-payroll-tax-cut-plan.html
U.S. House Republican leaders
objected to President Barack Obama’s plan to cut  payroll taxes 
to stimulate job growth, saying it would lead to too large a
boost in taxes later when the temporary break ended.  In a memo to  House Republicans  yesterday, House Speaker
 John Boehner , Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  and other leaders
detailed several criticisms of the payroll tax idea, a key
component of Obama’s $447 billion  jobs plan . The lawmakers said
an added tax burden would result when, under the president’s
plan, an extension and expansion of a “holiday” on such taxes
for employees and employers would expire in 2013.  “There may be significant unforeseen downsides to large
temporary tax cuts immediately followed by large tax
increases,” they wrote. The leaders added they hope “honest
and fruitful discussions” with the White House could yield an
accord on the tax provision that could be supported by lawmakers
in both parties.  Obama’s jobs plan has run into bipartisan resistance.
Republicans say the package of tax and spending measures he
proposed Sept. 8 relies too heavily on ideas such as added
spending on infrastructure and to modernize schools that were
already used in 2009’s economic stimulus. They say the nation’s
9.1 percent unemployment rate is evidence the earlier measure
didn’t work.  Republican leaders and some Democrats also oppose tax
increases Obama proposed to help offset the costs, including
higher taxes on investment income and on the oil and gas
industries.  Common Ground  The payroll tax-cut proposal is designed to encourage
employers to expand their payrolls and boost  consumer spending .  The president wants workers to pay 3.1 percent of wages up
to $106,800 in Social Security payroll taxes, down from 4.2
percent this year and 6.2 percent in a typical year. He proposed
a similar cut to employers’ side of the payroll tax for the
first $5 million of a company’s wages and a complete payroll tax
holiday for the first $50 million in increased payroll in 2012.  The House Republican leaders raised other concerns about
the payroll tax cut, in addition to the tax burden upon
expiration. They said Obama’s proposal to offset the forgone
revenue by limiting itemized deductions for wealthier taxpayers
would hurt fundraising by “thousands of churches and
nonprofits.”  The Republican leaders also objected to Obama’s call for
$30 billion in payments to state and local governments and a $15
billion initiative to refurbish homes. They said the home-
improvement proposal is too similar to an existing program that
has generated “allegations of misuse of funds” and too little
evidence of results.  Road Construction  They also questioned the president’s proposal for $50
billion in road construction funds and creation of a new
infrastructure bank, in part because added spending would come
before changes are made to the system for deciding which
projects get funded.  The House leaders cited some areas of Obama’s proposal as
potential common ground. They gave their strongest support to a
proposal to let companies write off 100 percent of capital
expenses in 2012, continuing a break that started in September
2010. The break, estimated to cost $5 billion, would let
companies take deductions faster than they otherwise would.  Experts, including economist Christopher House of the
 University of Michigan , say expensing is not that powerful an
incentive when  interest rates  are at near-historic lows, as they
are now. Many companies can borrow money if they need it now
instead of accelerating  tax deductions .  Less Generous  If Congress doesn’t act, a less generous bonus depreciation
schedule would be in effect for 2012 before normal rules resume
in 2013.  The Republicans said they want to expand on Obama’s call to
delay the effective date of a law requiring the federal, state
and many local governments to withhold 3 percent of payments to
contractors in an attempt to combat tax cheating by companies
that do business with the public sector.  Obama is seeking a one-year delay to make the rules take
effect in 2014. Republicans, backed by the U.S.  Chamber of
Commerce  and contractors, plan to try to repeal the requirement
with legislation this year.  The Republicans said they wanted to work with Obama on a
portion of his proposal that would extend and expand tax credits
for hiring veterans. They didn’t endorse his specific proposal.  “We believe there is an opportunity to make meaningful and
significant progress in this area,” they wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  