-- 
Household Net Worth in U.S. Fell in Second Quarter as Home Prices Slumped

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-16T16:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/household-worth-in-u-s-fell-by-149-billion-in-second-quarter.html
Household wealth in the U.S.
dropped in the second quarter for the first time in a year, hurt
by falling share prices and declining home values.  Net worth for households and non-profit groups decreased by
$149 billion, a 1 percent drop at an annual pace, to $58.5
trillion, the  Federal Reserve  said today in its flow of funds
report from Washington. It rose at a 7.4 percent rate in the
previous three months. Housing wealth decreased for a fourth
consecutive quarter from April to June.  A loss of $947 billion in real estate assets over the past
year was compounded by a drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
last quarter, the first decline in a year. The erosion in
wealth, which remains below pre-recession levels, and a stagnant
job market may prompt Americans to keep trimming debt and
rebuild savings, limiting the spending that accounts for 70
percent of the economy.  “Households’ ability to spend is being constrained,” said
Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “Consumers are just tired to death
of seeing the value of their homes fall.” The decline in wealth
“provides the argument for long-term stagnation in  consumer
spending .”  Today’s report also showed American households cut debt for
a 12th consecutive quarter.  Pre-Recession High  Since reaching a five-year low of $49.5 trillion in the
first quarter of 2009, net worth has improved by $8.94 trillion.
That still leaves it $7.4 trillion below the record high of
$65.9 trillion reached in the quarter ended June 2007, six
months before the recession began.  The value of real estate decreased by $98.6 billion in the
second quarter after dropping by $219 billion in the previous
three months.  Owners’ equity as a share of total real-estate holdings
held at 38.6 percent last quarter, today’s report showed.  The value of financial assets, including stocks and pension
fund holdings, held by American households decreased by $139
billion in the second quarter, according to the flow of funds
data.  Household debt dropped at a 0.6 percent annual rate in last
quarter. Mortgage borrowing decreased at a 2.4 percent pace.
Other forms of  consumer credit , including auto and student
loans, increased at a 3.4 percent pace.  Cutting Debt  Americans are reducing debt and rebuilding savings to
weather an  unemployment rate  that has averaged 9 percent this
year. Payrolls were unchanged in August and the jobless rate
held at 9.1 percent, the Labor Department said on Sept. 2.  Consumers already are restraining their spending. Retail
sales were unchanged in August after rising 0.3 percent in July,
according to Commerce Department data this week.  Today’s report also showed the balance sheets of businesses
are faring better relative to households. Companies had a record
$2.05 trillion in cash and other liquid assets at the end of the
second quarter, up from $1.96 trillion in the prior three
months. Profits at U.S. companies have topped analysts’
estimates for 10 straight quarters.  Total non-financial debt in last quarter rose at a 3
percent annual pace, led by an 8.6 percent increase by the
federal government and a 4 percent gain among businesses. State
and local government borrowing dropped at a 3.2 percent pace.  To contact the report on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  