-- 
Pacific Negotiators Seeking Trade Accord to Target Labor Rights, U.S. Says

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-16T00:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/pacific-negotiators-seeking-trade-accord-to-target-labor-rights-u-s-says.html
Negotiators seeking a trade accord
among nine Pacific nations will try to resolve the most
sensitive issues over the next two months after progress this
week on less divisive matters, a U.S. trade official said.  The U.S. is preparing suggestions for labor-rights
protections, an issue that stalled ratification of a pending
free-trade agreement with  Colombia , and will continue work on
access for products and services in different markets, Barbara Weisel, who led delegates to this week’s eighth round of talks
in  Chicago , told reporters yesterday. The U.S. will also propose
rules for state-owned enterprises, she said.  “Issues that could be easily dispatched have been
dispatched,” Weisel, an assistant U.S. Trade Representative,
said. “Issues that are more sensitive are now coming to the
fore.”  Vietnam is “keen to have a fruitful discussion” on worker
protections in a Pacific pact, said Tran Quoc Khanh, that
nation’s lead negotiator.  Nations joining the U.S. in the Pacific-trade discussions
are Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,  New Zealand , Peru,
 Singapore  and Vietnam.  U.S. companies would like to see the negotiations completed
next year so they can accelerate pursuit of customers in new
markets, said Calman Cohen, president of the Washington-based
Emergency Committee for American Trade, a business organization
whose members include  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Target Corp. (TGT)   The Pacific partnership, if successful, may eventually
expand to include Japan and  China , Cohen said.  Doubling Exports  “We see it as potentially becoming a template for a free-
trade area for all countries in the Asia-Pacific,” he said in
an interview.  The talks give President Barack Obama a chance to forge his
first trade accord. He’s working to win congressional approval
for deals with Colombia, South Korea and Panama. All three were
signed during the administration of Republican President George W. Bush. Obama has pledged to double U.S. exports by 2015.  U.S. trade with the eight nations that rim the Pacific
totaled $170 billion last year, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department. A deal would be the largest for the U.S. since the
North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994.  This week’s goal was making progress toward broad outlines
for the accord before an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
meeting set for November in Honolulu.  Customs, Telecommunications  Aspects of the negotiations moving toward consensus include
customs, technical barriers to trade, telecommunications,
government procurement, rules for small- and medium-sized
enterprises, regulatory coherence, competitiveness and
development, according to a statement from the U.S. Trade
Tepresentative’s office.  Investment rules and intellectual property protections need
more work, Weisel said.  The U.S. already has free-trade agreements with four
nations involved in the Pacific talks --  Australia , Chile, Peru
and Singapore -- and the Obama administration isn’t seeking to
renegotiate market access in those pacts, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Chicago at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  