-- 
Packers Locker-Room Tour May Be Only Dividend NFL Team’s New Shares Offer

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/packers-locker-room-tour-may-be-only-dividend-nfl-team-s-new-shares-offer.html
In July 2006,  Green Bay  Packers fan
Jeffrey Thiel got a Wisconsinite’s dream: a tour of the oval-
shaped locker room where quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  and
linebacker Clay Matthews now get prepared for games.  Thiel, a 45-year-old physical therapist from Fond du Lac,
is one of the 112,158 owners of the defending Super Bowl-
champion Packers. That number may increase this year. The team
is planning to sell 100,000 more shares to raise money for the
$140 million renovation of  Lambeau Field . The locker-room tour
was part of the team’s annual shareholders’ meeting, one of the
benefits for those who own stock, which never appreciates in
value and cannot be sold.  “That was probably my proudest moment as a Packers
shareholder,” said Thiel, who lives about 60 miles south of
Green Bay. “Not too many people can say they’ve been inside the
Packers locker room. Things like that make owning the stock
worthwhile to me.”  The Packers announced last month that they were planning a
renovation of the 54-year-old stadium, adding two gates and
about 6,600 seats. Team Vice President of Administration Jason
Wied said the project would be funded by the team mostly through
debt and a stock sale, the team’s fifth, pending league approval.
He said Green Bay-based  Associated Banc-Corp (ASBC) , Wisconsin’s
largest independent bank by assets, probably would handle the
debt financing.  “Ever since we announced the renovations, we have been
fairly inundated with calls and letters from fans asking us to
have another sale,” Wied, a 39-year-old Green Bay native, said
in a telephone interview. “Right now our survival is not at
stake, so funding it through the taxpayers wouldn’t have been
appropriate.” Wied said the team was unsure how much of the
project would be funded through debt financing.  Approval Votes  The Packers need 24 votes of approval, or 75 percent, from
the other 31 NFL owners, league spokesman  Brian McCarthy  said in
an e-mail. No vote has been scheduled, he added.  Nicholas Bertha, a Milwaukee native and managing director
of  Fieldpoint Private Bank & Trust , bought stock for his entire
family in 1997, during the team’s most recent sale. He keeps his
framed Green Bay Packers Inc. stock certificate on the desk of
his Greenwich, Connecticut, office.  “I would definitely recommend it to other fans,” Bertha
said. “It gives you a greater sense of loyalty, and when the
Packers do another sale I would absolutely spend $200 to $500
dollars for a couple more shares.”  Green Bay is the smallest market in the NFL, with a
population of 100,971, according to the  U.S. Census Bureau .
Bertha said his favorite part of being a shareholder is that he
has played a role in keeping the team in Green Bay.  “The Packers will never leave, and if it weren’t for this
ownership structure, the team probably wouldn’t still be
there,” he said.  Ninth in Value  The Packers are valued at $1.08 billion, ninth highest in
the league, according to  Forbes  magazine. The team’s permanence
keeps the franchise from reaching its maximum value, Robert Boland, Academic Chair of NYU’s  Tisch Center for Hospitality and
Sports Management , said in an interview.  “One of the things that makes ownership in American sports
so powerful is that it’s complete, you can move it, you can
paint it, you can rename it,” Boland said. “The Packers have
lost that, but at the same time they are a living symbol of
history in the league.”  The only publicly owned team in the four major American
sports leagues, the Packers have about 112,000 shareholders
owning 4.75 million shares.  Four Sales  The team has sold shares four times in its 93-year history,
first in 1923 when 1,000 people bought $5 shares and most
recently in 1997 when the team raised $24 million dollars to
renovate Lambeau. Then, the Packers issued more than 100,000
shares at $200 apiece. Wied said that the team expects to at
least equal those totals during this sale, either at the same
price or perhaps higher. He said the team would like to get
approval from the league and be in position to start selling
before Christmas.  The ownership structure is only a part of the Packers’
relationship with the community and its fans, Thiel said.
Packers traditionally ride local children’s bikes to training
camp, and this year, local police officers can pay $50 for a
badge with team’s logo and “Titletown” etched above it.  “The city pretty much shuts down for Packers games --
people plan their whole day around it,” said Thiel, who attends
at least one home game a year. “I think that level of
investment is unique to Green Bay and  Wisconsin .”  Shareholders receive a vote on board members, and an
invitation to the team’s annual meeting in July, where the team
schedules a unique event each season, such as the locker-room
tour or a private rookie practice. There is also a private
merchandise store with shirts, hats and accessories priced from
$5 to $65.  League Rules  The NFL requires that every franchise have one person with
at least 30 percent of the ownership stake. Boland said that the
Packers, whose ownership structure has been grandfathered into
subsequent labor agreements, lack a fiscally solvent, wealthy
owner to bail them out if they run into financial trouble.  Wied said the team holds about $200 million in reserve.  “It puts us in a very vulnerable position without those
deep pockets to back us up,” Wied said. “If we can’t move
forward financially, and our franchise is revoked, that’s the
end. We’re either in this league or we’re out.”  Thiel keeps his framed stock certificate on the wall in his
den, next to pennants from the team’s last three Super Bowls. He
said that though he doesn’t need another share for himself, he
would happily purchase more for family members.  “As soon as I heard they were going to sell stock 15 years
ago it was basically a no-brainer,” he said. “It’s a fun way
to keep the community and fans invested.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  