-- 
Palm Oil to Climb on Soybean Oil Supply Cut, Demand, Mistry Says

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-09-16T08:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/palm-oil-to-climb-on-soybean-oil-supply-cut-demand-mistry-says.html
Palm oil  may rally next year as
demand for biofuels cuts  soybean oil  supply and a potential
reversal in monetary policy in  China  and  India  boosts demand,
according to Dorab Mistry, director of Godrej International Ltd.  Prices in Malaysia will see a gradual recovery after
November to reach 4,000 ringgit ($1,296) a metric ton by the
second quarter of 2012, Mistry said, maintaining a forecast he
made on July 28. Futures may “bottom out” at about 2,800
ringgit a ton this month, he said. The commodity last traded
below 2,800 ringgit in October 2010 and ended at 3,078 ringgit
yesterday. The market is closed today.  “Both China and India have been raising  interest rates  and
tightening  money supply  in order to fight food inflation in
their domestic markets, and yet we have seen these high
prices,” Mistry told a conference organized by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in Singapore today, according to an advance copy of
his remarks. “What will happen when the central banks of China
and India take a more normal approach and let interest rates
fall? That is why I remain optimistic about prices of grains,
oilseeds and vegetable oil for 2012.”  China has raised interest rates five times over the past
year and India today increased rates for 12th time since the
start of 2010 to control inflation partly blamed on food costs.
World food prices probably will stay at historically high levels
this year after falling in August on lower costs for cooking
oils and dairy products, the  United Nations  said Sept. 8.  ‘Good Shape’  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said on Sept. 14 the nation’s
economy is “generally in good shape” and that inflation is
generally controllable. China will continue proactive fiscal
policy and prudent monetary policy, he said at the World
Economic Forum meetings in the Chinese city of Dalian.  India and China are the world’s biggest palm oil users.  A slowing expansion of oil-palm plantations in  Indonesia ,
the biggest producer, because of European Union rules and
efforts by non-governmental groups is a reason for his
“bullish” outlook, said Mistry, who’s traded the cooking oil
for more than three decades. He correctly predicted that prices
would climb to more than 3,000 ringgit last year.  Palm oil on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange has lost 22
percent since reaching a 35-month high of 3,967 ringgit a ton in
February on concern that output will expand this year. Malaysian
output may gain 2 million tons to 19 million tons in 2011, while
Indonesian production may rise 3 million tons to 25.5 million
tons, Mistry said July 28.  Biodiesel Popularity  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the world’s biggest listed producer,
expects palm oil to remain at about 3,000 ringgit for the rest
of this year on good demand, Franki Anthony, the company’s
plantation managing director, said on July 22.  Rising popularity of biodiesel made from soybean oil and
its expanding mandate in Brazil and Argentina will reduce its
availability for export from these two countries, Mistry said.  The new “normal” price for soybeans will be $11 to $15 a
bushel, he said. Palm oil competes with soybean oil for use in
foods and fuels.  Soybeans for November delivery on the Chicago Board of
Trade gained 0.7 percent to $13.6825 a bushel by 3:06 p.m. in
 Singapore  today. The most-active contract has gained 32 percent
in the past year.  Global soybean inventories before the 2012 harvest will
reach 62.55 million tons, compared with 60.95 million estimated
in August and 68.82 million this year, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said Sept. 12. Farmers in the U.S., the world’s
biggest grower and exporter, will harvest 3.085 billion bushels
this year, above the 3.032 billion expected in a Bloomberg News
survey and up from 3.056 billion estimated in August.  “The jury is still out on North American crops but the
indifferent weather gave us a premature  bull market  in grains
and oilseeds, despite ample production everywhere else,” Mistry
said. While the weak macro-economic outlook for  Europe  and the
U.S. will keep a lid on commodity prices in the immediate
future, “for 2012, one has to be bullish unless the developed
world gets sucked into a double-dip recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  