-- 
Palomar Gets $31 Million as Syneron Ends Hair-Removal Case

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-09-16T20:58:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/palomar-gets-31-million-as-syneron-settles-hair-removal-case.html
Palomar Medical Technologies Inc.,
a maker of cosmetic lasers, said it will receive $31 million
plus royalties from  Syneron Medical Ltd. (ELOS)  in a settlement of
their patent-infringement dispute over hair-removal systems.  Syneron and its Candela unit will get a license to Palomar
technology for professional hair-removal systems, and will pay
royalties for home-use products, the companies said today in a
statement. Palomar will also get a license to some Syneron
patents.  The settlement ends a dispute started in 2006 over high-
powered lasers used to remove hair. Burlington, Massachusetts-
based Palomar’s lawsuit was against Candela, which Yokneam
Illit, Israel-based Syneron bought last year.  The agreement “eliminates our exposure to continued legal
liability in the matter, does not require any additional
payments for professional hair-removal systems, and supports our
ongoing efforts to improve the company’s gross and operating
margins,” Syneron Chief Executive Officer Louis P. Scafuri said
in the statement.  Both companies make light-based systems for cosmetic
procedures including the removal of hair, wrinkles and varicose
veins.  Palomar rose 26 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $8.66 at 4:29
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Syneron rose 38
cents, or 3.7 percent, to $10.56 in U.S. trading.  General Hospital Corp. in  Boston , which licenses the
technology to Palomar, will get 40 percent of the settlement
payments minus Palomar’s legal costs.  The settled cases include  Palomar Medical Technologies Inc. (PMTI) 
v. Syneron Inc., 08cv11902, and Palomar v. Candela Corp.,
06cv11400, Candela Corp. v Palomar Medical Technologies Inc.,
both U.S. District Court for the District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  