-- 
Payrolls Decreased in 30 States in August While Jobless Rate Climbed in 26

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-16T14:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/payrolls-fell-in-30-u-s-states-in-august-led-by-new-york.html
Payrolls fell in 30 U.S. states in
August, led by New York and  Georgia , while the jobless rate
increased in 26, showing the slump in hiring is broad-based.  Employers cut staff by 22,700 workers in New York last
month, and by 18,200 in Georgia, figures from the Labor
Department showed today in Washington. Nevada continued to lead
the nation in unemployment with a rate of 13.4, up from 12.9
percent in July.  The economy needs to generate more jobs to spur income
growth after  consumer spending  stagnated in the second quarter,
raising concerns of another recession. A Labor Department report
on Sept. 2 showed employers added no workers to payrolls last
month, the weakest reading since September 2010, and the jobless
rate held at 9.1 percent.  “Consumers and businesses have turned very cautious,”
 John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets in Boston, said before the report. “The recent
spate of layoff announcements suggest that there could be deeper
cuts to payrolls toward year-end, impacting holiday spending.”  After Nevada, the jobless rate was highest in  California  at
12.1 percent, Michigan at 11.2 percent and  South Carolina  at
11.1 percent.  The biggest job gains last month occurred in Minnesota,
where employers boosted payrolls by 28,400, when the end of a
partial shutdown of the state’s government returned about 23,000
workers to their jobs. Employment in  North Carolina  climbed by
16,500 workers and increased in Arizona by 15,400.  Texas Decline  Payrolls in Texas fell by 1,300 workers, the first decrease
in almost a year. Over the past 12 months, 44 states gained
jobs, while six showed a decline.  With payroll growth faltering, employment prospects for
Americans have weakened compared with earlier in the year.
Employers added 35,000 workers a month on average from June
through August. That compared with 155,000 a month on average in
the prior three-month period, a rate economists such as  Chris
Rupkey  at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York  say is
roughly in line with stable unemployment.  Political squabbling over the budget and mounting fear of a
default in  Europe  caused the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
plummet 17 percent from July 22 to Aug. 8, prompting companies
and consumers to cut back. Slowing job growth is adding to
pressure on Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and
President Barack Obama to rouse an economy that’s at risk of
stalling two years after the last recession ended.  Obama’s Plan  Obama this week sent a $447 billion job-growth package to
Congress that would include tax cuts for workers and employers,
hiring incentives for small businesses, more money for
infrastructure spending and aid to state and local governments
to stem layoffs of educators.  Banks have been among companies announcing the biggest
dismissals.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender by
assets, will eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next few years as part
of Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s plan to bolster
profit and the company’s stock. Bank of America announced the
job cuts in a statement last week.  “We don’t have to be the biggest company out there, we have
to be the best,” Moynihan said at a New York investor
conference. “We can get out of things we don’t need to do, make
the company leaner, more straightforward, more driven.”  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank, will limit
hiring to only “critical” jobs as the economic slowdown
continues and revenue slumps, the company said this week.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  