-- 
Penguins’ Crosby Cleared to Practice With No Contact After Concussion

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-09-16T16:56:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/penguins-crosby-cleared-to-practice-with-no-contact-after-concussion.html
Sidney Crosby , the Pittsburgh
Penguins’ captain and leading scorer, has been cleared to
practice without contact as he recovers from post-concussion
symptoms.  Crosby will join the Penguins on the ice tomorrow,
according to the National Hockey League team.  “I’m excited to get going,” Crosby said on the team’s
 website . “Whatever symptoms I’ve had have been pretty minimal.
To be able to get cleared to do this is good.”  Crosby is recovering from hard hits in the team’s Jan. 1
Winter Classic outdoor game against the Washington Capitals and
a Jan. 5 game against the  Tampa Bay Lightning . Team doctors have
said Crosby won’t be cleared to resume playing until he is 100
percent healthy.  After being cleared in July to resume workouts, Crosby
stopped skating in mid-August when the concussion symptoms
returned. The 24-year-old center skated briefly with the team on
Sept. 7.  Crosby missed the final 41 games of last season due to the
injury. He registered 66 points in 41 games, setting an NHL
record for the fewest games played by a team’s leading scorer.  He was the first pick of the 2005 draft, and two years
later won the Hart Trophy as the NHL’s Most Valuable Player at
the age of 19, the youngest to get the honor. He also scored the
gold-medal-winning goal at the 2010 Winter Olympics in
 Vancouver , lifting  Canada  over the U.S. in overtime.  The Penguins’ first preseason game is  scheduled  for Sept.
21 against Detroit. Their regular-season schedule begins Oct. 6
in Vancouver against the Canucks, who lost to  Boston  in last
season’s Stanley Cup Final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net 
NI NHL
NI PENGUINS
NI PA
NI CANADA 