-- 
Perry ‘Ponzi’ Remark Carries Political Risk by Pitting Old Against Young

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-09-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/perry-ponzi-remark-carries-generational-risk.html
To get a sense of the political
risk Republican presidential candidate  Rick Perry  faces by
calling Social Security a “Ponzi scheme,” meet Flo McDonald.  “They should shoot him for what he said about Social
Security,” said the 82-year-old, sitting by the pool at Kings
Point, a retirement community outside of Tampa, Florida.  Perry’s remarks about Social Security have exposed a
generational divide among Americans. Sixty-two percent of adults
aged 55 and older disagree with Perry’s characterization of the
program, while 55 percent of those 35 years of age and younger
agree with it, according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted
Sept. 9-12.  Those dynamics set the stage for primary contests in such
early voting states as Florida and  Iowa  that have a high
percentage of seniors who are reliable voters. In 2008, 44
percent of Republican primary voters in  Florida  were 50 years
old or older; in Iowa, seniors represented 27 percent of the
primary turnout.  “We have very clear age schisms,” said  Susan MacManus , a
political science professor at the  University of South Florida .
“That makes it a tricky issue here.”  Sipping coffee inside the Kings Point clubhouse, Angela
Foti said she’s worried about Perry’s undefined pledge to remake
the program, particularly given the economic decline.  “What are we going to do, go bag groceries?” said the 71-
year-old retired secretary. “Who’s going to hire me?”  Perry has said that no current Social Security recipient
would be affected.  Independents Split  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , 64, who was
ahead in primary polls until Perry, 61, entered the race, said
his rival’s position makes him unelectable because it alienates
independent voters whose support will be necessary to beat
President  Barack Obama . In the Bloomberg poll, independents were
split, with 48 percent agreeing with Perry and 46 percent
disagreeing with him.  “I want to save Social Security,” Romney said in a Sept.
8 interview on Sean Hannity’s radio show. “It is an essential
safety net for the American people. And number two, it is
terrible politics. If we nominate someone who the Democrats
could correctly characterize as being against Social Security,
we will be obliterated as a party.”  Perry’s supporters said voters will reward him for speaking
frankly about the financial challenges of the program.  “One of the appeals of Governor Perry as a candidate for
president is he’s willing to say what he thinks,” said Henry Barbour, a Perry fundraiser. “People are sick and tired of
politicians who are afraid to tell the truth.”  Young Voters  The message did resonate with younger voters, who were
interviewed in Florida and by telephone after the Bloomberg
poll. They said they don’t expect the program to be around when
they retire if changes to it aren’t made today.  “To call it a  Ponzi scheme  is absolutely valid and not
insulting at all,” said Phillip Koski, 18, of Port Charlotte,
Florida. “Mitt Romney is just trying to do what every
politician wants to do, brush the problem aside as if it’s
nothing.”  Travis Carrell, a 34-year-old from  Louisiana , said Perry’s
statement makes him more likely to support the Texas governor.  “You’d be surprised how many regular working guys really
feel like they’re getting hosed with Social Security,” he said.
“Guys like Rick Perry and myself, we feel we’re getting
Ponzi’ed.”  Perry has attempted to assuage the fears of seniors by
saying that he “slam-dunk guaranteed” that benefits would be
available to current retirees. “Those individuals that are
moving towards being on Social Security, that program’s going to
be there for them when they arrive there,” he said in a Sept.
12 debate in Tampa.  Attitudes Changing  Voters, including many seniors, are increasingly
recognizing that changes must be made to the program, says
MacManus.  “There’s an assumption outside of Florida that you can’t
talk critically of Social Security but that is really not
true,” she said. “A lot of people know that something is going
to have to be done on Social Security.”  Florida Republican Senator  Marco Rubio  proposed raising the
 retirement age  for younger workers in his 2010 campaign -- a
proposal that sparked attack advertisements from opponent former
Florida Governor  Charlie Crist , who promised to protect the
program. Rubio won a three-way race in 2010 by 19 percentage
points.  “It’s a delicate balance of trying to speak to an issue
that needs to be reformed while also assuring current Social
Security recipients that they’re not going to be impacted,”
said Republican consultant Eric Eikenberg, who worked for Crist
and former Florida Representative Clay Shaw, when he was
chairman of the Social Security committee. “You have to be
careful in your choice of words.”  Back at the Kings Point pool, Rosemary McEvoy, 71, said
Perry has been rhetorically careless. “Social Security is so
important to practically everybody in Sun City,” she said. “He
shouldn’t talk about it like that.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  