-- 
Philippine Peso Completes Biggest Weekly Decline in 10 Months

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-16T09:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/philippine-peso-heads-for-biggest-weekly-decline-in-10-months.html
The Philippine peso completed its
biggest weekly loss in ten months on speculation foreign
investors are selling the nation’s assets as  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsens.  The currency touched an 11-week low today after the central
bank signaled it will curb speculation and adjust rules on non-
deliverable forward transactions. The monetary authority may ask
lenders to set aside more capital for NDFs to temper gains in
the peso and reduce the risk of market losses, a proposal
circulated among bankers says.  “The near-term bias continues to favor a much weaker
currency,” said Jonathan Ravelas, chief market strategist at
Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. “We will see more volatility in the
coming weeks, depending on the data coming from Europe and the
U.S.”  The peso dropped 1.8 percent this week to 43.273 per
dollar, its biggest weekly loss since November 2010, as of the
4:00 p.m. close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency gained 0.1 percent today.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  pressed
euro-area governments to take decisive action to halt the debt
crisis, after the ECB bought them more time by extending an
emergency lifeline to lenders.  The Philippine monetary authority’s supervision unit is
soliciting comments from lenders on a plan to impose a 187.5
percent market risk weight on NDFs, according to the draft
guideline obtained by Bloomberg News and received by at least
three bankers who asked not to be identified. That means banks
will have to set aside capital equal to almost double their
exposure.  The yield on the 5.875 percent government bonds due January
2018 rose 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, this week
to 5.125 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  