-- 
Philippines Plans to Impose Capital Requirement on Peso Bets

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-09-16T03:05:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/philippines-said-to-plan-higher-capital-requirement-on-peso-bets.html
The  Philippine central bank  may ask
lenders to set aside more capital to cover non-deliverable
currency forwards to temper gains in the peso and reduce the
risk of market losses, a proposal circulated among bankers says.  The monetary authority’s supervision unit is soliciting
comments from lenders on a plan to impose a 187.5 percent market
risk weight on NDFs, according to the draft guideline obtained
by Bloomberg News and received by at least three bankers who
asked not to be identified. That means banks will have to set
aside capital equal to almost double their exposure.  “We’re still at the stage of soliciting comments from
banks,” Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla, who heads the
supervision unit, said in a mobile-phone text message today.  Emerging-market policy makers have tightened rules on
capital flows after bond yields and economic growth rates that
are higher than in developed nations lured funds.  South Korea 
will review and improve measures to counter volatility in
capital flows, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said yesterday.  “Central bankers are clearly watching market volatility
and capital flows closely,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-
based economist at  Barclays Capital . “It’s not a surprise what
the BSP is doing. It’s a prudent policy to ensure we don’t have
one-way bets on the currency. It will help temper expectations
of too much appreciation of the peso.”  The peso reached a three-year high of 41.90 per dollar on
Aug. 1, threatening to erode the value of the nation’s exports
and overseas remittances, which together account for more than
40 percent of the economy. The currency climbed 0.1 percent to
43.29 per dollar today after six days of losses, while one-month
NDFs dropped 0.1 percent to 43.48.  Close Monitoring  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas started monitoring NDFs closely
in November, required daily reporting of the trades in June and
last month warned it may impose “prudential limits”. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars and are favored
by many investors because funds don’t have to be deposited and
registered locally.  The draft circular noted that NDFs are popular because
onshore regulations deter trading of the local currency. It
didn’t rule out an escalation of measures “should the market
conditions warrant.”  ‘Gentleman’s Agreement’  “Since trades are undertaken with the expectation of a
stronger peso, NDFs can be a cause for systemic risk,” the
circular said. “If price gaps reverse and/or funding liquidity
becomes constrained, the likelihood of systemic dislocation
looms larger.”  Philippine banks agreed last week to limit the volume of
their NDF transactions to half of the Aug. 4 level from a
previous ceiling of 80 percent, according to the draft document.
The Bankers Association of the  Philippines , which includes the
nation’s 36 commercial lenders, may convert a so-called
‘gentleman’s agreement’ into a formal arrangement that the
central bank can police, the proposal said.  Capital inflows are a “key headwind” that can complicate
monetary-policy setting and stoke inflation, central bank
Governor Amando Tetangco said in a Sept. 13 speech to traders
and fund managers.  “I have no problem with fund movements resulting from
fundamentals-based risk perception,” he said. “What I have a
problem with is when fund movements are based on herd
thinking.”  Arbitrage arises on the discount on peso traded overseas
compared with the local  spot market , the draft circular said.  “Arbitrage is driving activity in the NDF market and the
risks from such trades may be currently undervalued,” it said.
Bets that the peso will strengthen “have created pockets of
arbitrage” which hastened the peso’s advance, the proposal
said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 