-- 
Pigs, Wigs, Digs Make D.C. ‘Heir Apparent’ Fizz: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-09-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/pigs-wigs-digs-make-d-c-heir-apparent-fizzy-joke-fest-jeremy-gerard.html
You may wish to forego bacon and
eggs for awhile after seeing “The Heir Apparent,” David Ives’s
rhyming romp at  Washington ’s  Shakespeare Theatre Company .  About half way through Act I of this fizzy froth about a
decaying old miser and the conniving hangers-on angling for his
fortune, a rather adorable baby pig is pulled from a canvas bag,
and with it the first audible squeals of the evening.  Along with the visual delight, Hamlette’s appearance gives
Ives the opportunity to rhyme “gaucher” with “kosher,” and
though I could hear it coming a mile away, it still made me
laugh.  Ives is a theater polymath whose head-tripping “Venus in
Fur” begins performances on Broadway next month. He writes deft
comedies, searching dramas (“New Jerusalem”) and adaptations
of French farce like his “School for Lies,” which julienned
Moliere with his verbal mandoline.  The source here is a lesser known farceur, Jean-Francois
Regnard. The jokes rely heavily on the digestive tract, the use
of breasts as doorknobs, and the stature-challenged.  Not for Ives the soigne elegance of David Hirson’s
reinvented alexandrines in “La Bete.”  Ives loves anachronism, so you’ll hear references to
Cadillacs and Godzilla, along with frequent use of the word
“slash.” And what can you say about a poet who rhymes
“salon” with “arrondissement” in a play written entirely in
rhyming couplets?  Little Guy  Well, that it’s hit or miss, with plenty of both in Michael
Kahn’s strenuously zany production. Floyd King is appealingly
crotchety as the misanthropic Geronte, as is Nancy Robinette as
the dowager Madame Argante, whose daughter Isabelle (Meg
Chambers Steedle) hopes to marry Geronte’s nephew Eraste (Andrew
Veenstra).  Eraste’s servant Crispin is in love with Geronte’s maid
Lisette (Kelly Hutchinson). As convention dictates, the servants
outwit and outsmart the masters. Carson Elrod’s manic Crispin
dominates the show, impersonating Geronte when a diminutive
lawyer (Clark Middleton) comes to draft his will.  Alexander Dodge has provided a gorgeous salon set, with
high columns, expensive-looking, autumn-hued faux-marbling and a
giant cuckoo clock whose true purpose I also saw a mile off --
and I can be a dolt about such things.  Murell Horton probably found heaven designing the costumes,
which look straight out of  Marie Antoinette ’s armoires.  Through October 23 at the Lansburgh Theatre, 450 7th St.
NW. Information: +1-202-547-1122;
 http://www.shakespearetheatre.org . Rating: ***  Before or after the show, have drinks and tapas -- the mini
paella simplified with shrimp, mussels and rice, and tiny
fritatas were outstanding -- up the block at Jaleo. 480 7th St.
NW; +1-202-628-7949).  ‘Fela!’  Opening tonight on its mainstage, the Sidney Harman Theatre
(610 F St. NW), the Shakespeare Theatre kicks off its 25th
anniversary season with ‘Fela!’ the sexy, hyperkinetic musical
biography of Afrobeat founder and social activist Fela Kuti.
Staged and choreographed by Bill T. Jones, the show stars the
astonishing Sahr Ngaujah in the title role. (The production will
continue a national tour when this run ends on Oc. 9.) Rating:
***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 