-- 
Polish Wages Exceed Forecast in August, Hiring Slows; May Delay Rate Cuts

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-09-16T12:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/polish-wages-top-forecast-hiring-slows-may-delay-rate-cuts-1-.html
Polish corporate wages grew faster
than economists predicted in August while hiring slowed, giving
the central bank room to wait a few months before cutting
 interest rates  as the economy weakens.  Wages rose 5.4 percent from a year earlier, up from 5.2
percent the previous month, the  Central Statistical Office  in
Warsaw said today. That compares with a median estimate of 22
economists for an increase of 4.9 percent. Wages fell 0.6
percent from July. Employment rose 3.1 percent from a year
earlier in August, slower than the 3.3 percent median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists.  The central bank raised its benchmark interest rate four
times in the first half of the year to 4.5 percent after
inflation reached a near-decade high in May, stoking concern
that higher prices would boost wages. Inflation has exceeded the
bank’s 2.5 percent target since last July.  “The jobs number is really weak and shows that companies
aren’t hiring,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, head of financial markets
research at BRE Bank in Warsaw, said by phone. “Long-term, what
it tells the central bank is that in a few months we won’t be
seeing wage pressure.”  The zloty weakened against the euro after the data, trading
at 4.3442 at 2:10 p.m. in Warsaw, down 0.4 percent on the day.
The yield on the five-year Treasury bond was little changed
after the data at 5.047 percent, up from 5.034 percent
yesterday.  Poland’s economy grew 4.3 percent from a year earlier in
the second quarter after expanding 4.4 percent in the first.
Gross domestic product will rise 4 percent this year, the
European Commission said yesterday, adding that growth will slow
in the second half as  Europe ’s outlook sours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  