-- 
Central Bank Funding Pledge Seen as Short-Term Relief, Currency Swaps Show

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-09-16T14:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/policy-makers-fix-on-dollar-funds-leads-to-next-day-cost-rise.html
The cost for European banks to fund
in dollars rose, signaling that investors view policy makers’
offer of unlimited loans in the currency as a short-term fix
that doesn’t address the euro region’s underlying problems.  “Major central banks have merely treated the symptom
rather than the cause,” said Michael Derks, the chief
strategist at foreign-exchange broker FxPro in  London .  The cost of converting euro payments into dollars, measured
by the three-month cross-currency basis swap, was 85.4 basis
points below the euro interbank offered rate as of 3:20 p.m. in
London, from 81.9 basis points yesterday, after the European
Central Bank and peers around the world made it easier to fund
in the greenback.  The ECB and its counterparts in the U.K.,  Switzerland ,
 Japan  and the U.S. said yesterday they’ll provide unlimited
three-month money to lenders in three tenders starting October.
They acted after dollar funding dried up for European banks,
particularly French lenders, amid concern  Greece  won’t be able
to avoid defaulting on its debt.  The cost of one-year dollar funding also climbed, with the
cross-currency  basis swap  for that period at 63.9 basis points
under Euribor, compared with 62.1 basis points yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference was 75.2
basis points on Sept. 13, when the swap was the most expensive
since December 2008.  The euro weakened 0.3 percent to $1.3833, paring a weekly
increase to 1.3 percent.  ‘Wrong Disease’  “Policy makers are fighting the wrong disease,” said
Alberto Gallo, a strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in London. “Liquidity is not an issue, but solvency still is.”  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between three-month
Euribor and overnight index swaps, fell to 75.6 basis points,
from 76.9 yesterday, still within nine basis points of the
highest level since March 2009, reached Sept. 12.  Three-month Euribor -- the rate banks say they pay for
three-month loans in euros -- rose to 1.535 percent from 1.531
percent yesterday. One-week Euribor gained to 1.111 percent,
from 1.089 percent.  The three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, in
dollars rose to 0.351 percent from 0.350 percent, according to
the British Bankers’ Association.  Overnight Deposits  The  European Central Bank  said financial institutions
increased overnight deposits. Banks parked 98 billion euros with
the ECB yesterday, compared with 87 billion euros the day before
and 197.8 billion euros on Sept. 12, the Frankfurt-based lender
said in data released overnight. The ECB currently lends banks
as much cash as they need in its refinancing operations at its
benchmark rate of 1.5 percent.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
insuring the senior debt of 25 lenders and insurers dropped for
a fourth day, tumbling seven basis points to a two-week low of
254, heading for its biggest-ever weekly decline, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The index surged to a closing-price record
of 314 basis points on Sept. 12.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline
signals an improvement in investor perceptions of  credit
quality .  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  