-- 
Polish Stocks Advance, Extending Longest Rally in Two Months

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-16T08:54:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/polish-stocks-advance-extending-longest-rally-in-two-months.html
Polish stocks climbed for a fourth
day, with the benchmark index heading for the longest winning
streak in almost two months, amid speculation policy makers will
be able to contain  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The WIG20 Index rose 0.8 percent to 2,301.8 at 10:41 a.m.
in Warsaw. The gauge has advanced 2.2 percent this week as the
 European Central Bank  announced coordinated measures with the
 Federal Reserve  to ensure lenders have enough dollars and
Germany and France assured investors  Greece  will remain a member
of the euro.  Bank Handlowy SA headed for the highest close in more than
two weeks, increasing 3.6 percent to 66 zloty. ING Groep NV kept
its “buy” recommendation for the Citigroup Inc. unit, saying
Handlowy is “the best Polish bank stock to invest” in because
its policy of not lending in foreign currencies to retail
clients will protect it from potential losses that other local
lenders may post after the zloty fell against the euro and Swiss
franc.  BRE Bank SA (BRE) , a unit of Commerzbank AG, climbed 3.6 percent
to 219 zloty, rising for a third day, and PKO Bank Polski SA,
the country’s largest lender, added 1 percent to 31.7 zloty.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper producer with the biggest
European mine output, jumped 1.5 percent to 168.4 zloty,
extending yesterday’s 6.1 percent rally as the price of the
metal climbed for a second day.  Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA advanced 1.5 percent to 101.5
zloty, its fourth day of gains as the coking coal producer will
join the WIG20 Index after today’s session, replacing CEZ AS,
the largest Czech power utility, according to a Warsaw bourse
statement on Aug. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  