-- 
Polish Central Bank Ready to Offer Swaps to Banks If Needed

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-16T14:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/polish-central-bank-ready-to-offer-swaps-to-banks-if-needed-1-.html
Poland ’s central bank stands ready
to offer foreign-exchange swap transactions to local lenders to
boost liquidity when the need arises, Governor Marek Belka said.  The Narodowy Bank Polski has access to swap lines in
“euro-zloty, dollar-zloty and still has Swiss francs versus
other currencies at its disposal,” Belka told reporters today
in Wroclaw, western Poland. “When the banks need it we are able
to supply them on commercial terms.”  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it coordinated
with the  Federal Reserve , the Bank of England, the Bank of  Japan 
and the Swiss National Bank to extend three-month loans to euro-
area banks in an effort to ensure they have enough cash for the
rest of the year. The zloty rallied to the strongest level in a
week, adding 0.9 percent to 4.2891 per euro by 4:23 p.m. in
Warsaw.  “Belka’s announcement is zloty-positive,”  Rafal Benecki ,
senior economist at ING Bank Slaski SA in Warsaw, wrote in a
note to clients. “NBP action should make the banking sector
less vulnerable to likely stress in the euro-zone banking
sector.”  A foreign-exchange swap consists of a spot trade with a
commitment to reverse it in the future. The Polish central bank
introduced swaps a part of the package designed to improve trust
in the industry in October 2008. The transactions allowed
domestic lenders to buy the zloty and foreign currencies
directly from the central bank, instead of trading with other
commercial lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  