-- 
Protesters Push Chile to End 30 Years of Fiscal Austerity

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-16T12:24:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/protests-push-pinera-to-end-30-years-of-chile-fiscal-austerity.html
Katherine Barrios’ five years at a
Chilean university left her with debts of about $26,000, more
than twice her annual salary as a teacher. It also ensured her
support for protests that have shuttered many schools for three
months and threaten to undermine 30 years of fiscal austerity.  “It’s like paying a mortgage,” Barrios, 31, said in a
phone interview. “That is why we are protesting. I want things
to change for coming generations.”  Chile , the model of economic and political stability in
Latin America for the past 20 years, has in recent months been
rocked by protests after a quarter of a million pupils occupied
classrooms in June to demand more state investment in education.
On Aug. 25, the weekly protests degenerated into pitched battles
with police, who drenched the center of Santiago in tear gas.  Meeting students’ demands may cost 2.2 percent of gross
domestic product, the Santiago-based Universidad de Chile
 estimates , denting the spending restraint that has eliminated
the country’s debt. Failure to improve education may prevent
Chile from making the leap to become the region’s first advanced
nation this decade, as pledged by President Sebastian Pinera.  “Chile will never, ever become a developed country without
an improved education system,” Cesar Perez-Novoa, a managing
director of Santiago-based brokerage Celfin Capital SA, said in
an interview by phone. “This is a wealthy country where there
has been economic stability that hasn’t come with education.”  Bearing the Cost  Households bear the cost of 39 percent of all education
spending in Chile, higher than the other 33 members of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and almost
double the U.S. rate, according to the  Paris-based group . Yet,
education levels are worse than all other OECD members except
 Mexico , according to an  OECD survey .  Chile ranked 31st in the  World Economic Forum ’s latest
 Global Competitiveness Index . To become an innovation-driven
economy, Chile needs to improve education, where it ranks 87th,
said the Geneva-based organization that hosts the annual meeting
of business and political leaders in Davos,  Switzerland .  Education “is our Achilles heel,” Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters Sept. 6 after unveiling results of the
index.  A lack of qualified professionals is a “threat” to the
development of the  mining industry  in Chile,  Diego Hernandez ,
chief executive officer of Codelco, the world’s largest copper
producer, told the annual gathering of the copper industry in
April. State-owned Codelco will spend almost $20 billion on
revamping its mines this decade.  Austerity  While limiting outlays on education, Chile’s austerity
helped it emerge from a financial crisis in the early 1980s to
become the only Latin American country with net savings,
equivalent to  7.6 percent of GDP  as of March.  That austerity has helped control inflation, attract
foreign investors and keep  interest rates  low, fueling economic
growth that averaged 3.7 percent from 2005 to 2010. The
government is targeting a fiscal surplus of 1.3 percent of GDP
this year.  Investors have shrugged off the stalemate between students
and the government. The yield on government 10-year dollar bonds
fell to a record 2.98 percent on Sept. 2 from 3.56 percent a
year earlier as soaring copper prices offset concern that the
protests will force Pinera to boost spending.  Chile’s peso strengthened 3.9 percent in the past year, the
biggest gainer among major Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as the price of copper climbed 15 percent.  As the government pledges more money for education, it may
have to permanently raise corporate income taxes to 20 percent
from 17 percent, Economy Minister Pablo Longueira said in an
interview published by Santiago-based El Mercurio on Sept. 10.  ‘Shameful’  After paying one year of her course herself, Barrios in
2006 resorted to taking out a student loan that the government
said had to be with Banco Falabella. The Santiago-based bank
charged more than 5 percent above inflation, which was 2.6
percent at the time, even though the credit was guaranteed by
the state, she said. After borrowing about 4.4 million pesos
($9,200), she will pay back about 12.4 million.  “That was the only credit available to me, and the
interest is shameful,” she said.  The government has offered to cut the interest rate on
loans to 2 percent above inflation and to provide more
scholarships. It’s not enough, say the students.  “This is of course a crisis,”  Jorge Sequeira , director of
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization’s  Latin America  bureau for education, said in an
interview. “It all started with the level of indebtedness and
the impact that has on  household income , especially the poor and
middle class.”  Profit Driven  Chile’s profit-driven education model took shape during the
dictatorship of  Augusto Pinochet , who turned higher learning
into a “pay-as-you-go” system,  Martin Carnoy , an education
professor at  Stanford University  near  Palo Alto ,  California ,
said by phone. As part of a plan to privatize everything from
utilities to the country’s pension system, Pinochet cut funding
for state-run universities that were a hotbed of opposition to
his 1973-1990 military rule.  Pinera, whose brother oversaw Pinochet’s introduction of
the private pension system, has pledged to improve education,
while maintaining tight control over spending. The crisis has
helped make the billionaire the least popular president since
the end of Pinochet’s rule and already forced the exit of one
education minister.  Fiscal Discipline  “Some say you have to forget about fiscal discipline in
the face of social demands,” Minister Larrain said on Sept. 13.
“We won’t change our commitment by one millimeter and won’t
abandon fiscal responsibility.”  Student leaders say it is time for the poor and middle
classes to receive more of the benefits from three decades of
growth. Households pay 21 percent of primary, secondary and
post-secondary schooling in Chile, the highest level in the
OECD, according to the organization.  Demonstrations often resemble a carnival as protesters
stage dances and dress like characters from Hollywood films
“Pirates of the Caribbean” and “V for Vendetta.” Drawing
comparisons with the so-called Arab Spring protests in the
 Middle East , the media has taken to calling the youth-led
movement the “Chilean Winter.” Other protests have involved a
kiss-in and a 1,800-hour relay run around the presidential
palace.  Garnering Support  “We’re seeking a complete restructuring of education,”
said Esteban Gutierrez, a 24-year-old university student, during
a break from playing drums at this week’s protest. “We are
going to keep protesting.”  The party atmosphere has helped garner support from about
three-quarters of Chileans, Santiago-based pollster Adimark GfK
said in a  Sept. 5 survey  of 1,112 people. The poll from Aug. 3
to 31 has a three percentage point margin of error.  Still, the marches often turn violent, with riots erupting
in major cities around the country. A 16-year-old-boy died Aug.
26 during clashes with police in Santiago at the end of a two-
day protest.  Unless students begin to give way on some of their demands,
the marches may continue until the government agrees to dig
deeper. Students have scheduled demonstrations for Sept. 22 and
Sept. 29 after the government rejected their conditions for
restarting talks that stalled earlier this week.  “These kids have been very, very brave,” Barrios said.
“It’s hard to understand how the authorities can be so deaf.
They don’t listen to peoples’ demands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 