-- 
Proven Energy in Receivership After Turbine Fault, KPMG Says

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-16T16:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/proven-energy-in-receivership-after-turbine-fault-kpmg-says.html
Proven Energy Ltd. called in  KPMG 
LLP as receivers to sell the Scotland-based maker of  wind
turbines  after discovering a defect and suspending sales of its
flagship model.  “As a result of the product issue and the inability to
obtain necessary additional funding, the directors had no option
but to cease trading,” KPMG, a unit of KPMG Europe LLP, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  KPMG said 55 staff were made redundant with “immediate
effect,” while 20 were retained to help prepare the business
for a sale.  Proven Energy halted sales of its Proven 35-2 turbine after
finding a defect in three machines.  “Although Proven has achieved substantial turnover growth
in recent years, the company has made significant losses as it
focused on product development, making it difficult for the
business to cope financially with the cost of the product
failure,” Blair Nimmo, head of restructuring for KPMG in
 Scotland , said in the statement.  The Ayrshire-based producer, which makes small wind
turbines for homes and farms and has more than 3,000 of its
products installed worldwide, believes the defect is minor and
can be repaired, according to the statement.  “We are hopeful that a sale of all or parts of the
business and assets can be achieved,” Nimmo said.  The receivership was put in place at the directors’
request, according to the statement. Receivership is a process
whereby a creditor who holds a charge on the company’s assets as
security for its debts, hires a receiver to recover the money
owed, according to KPMG’s website.  The P-7 and P-11 turbines made by Proven, which supplied 6-
kilowatt machines to power a research station in  Antarctica  in
2009, are not affected, the company said.  Low Carbon Accelerator Ltd. (LCA) , a fund investing in renewable
energy, fell the most on record in London trading on Sept. 14
after saying it planned to write down its holdings in Proven
Energy after the board informed it of the turbine defects.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  