-- 
Pumped ‘Drive’; ‘Dogs’; ‘How She Does It’; ‘Restless’: Movies

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-09-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/pumped-drive-dogs-how-she-does-it-restless-movies.html
A high-speed muscle-car of a
thriller, Nicolas Winding Refn’s exhilarating “Drive” pumps up
its B-movie, heist-gone-bad chassis with arty direction and a
go-for-broke performance by  Ryan Gosling .  The star, his Travis Bickle stare in place, plays Driver, a
Hollywood stunt man by day, getaway driver by night. Danish
director Refn wastes no time demonstrating Driver’s skills --and
his own -- with an opening car chase that makes “Bullitt” look
like an old Hal Roach two-reeler.  Wickedly cast, “Drive” features Bryan Cranston
(“Breaking Bad”) as Driver’s agent, a two-bit crook and grease
monkey who sees the talented wheel man as his ticket to stock
car fortune.  For seed money, the agent turns to a mobbed-up ex-movie
producer (Albert Brooks, revelatory in a sly, vicious
performance) and his vulgar, violent partner (Ron Perlman).  Driver, meanwhile, has struck up a protective friendship
with waifish neighbor Irene ( Carey Mulligan ) and her young son
(Kaden Leos). When Irene’s husband (Oscar Isaac) is released
from prison, Driver backs off romantically but gets drawn into
the ex-con’s criminal doings.  The two story lines eventually merge, but not before
several bloody shocks of violence and an unexpected death or
two. Hossein Amini’s script, based on James Sallis’s novel, is
ruthlessly efficient. We learn nothing of Driver’s back story,
but who needs the baggage?  “Drive,” from FilmDistrict, is playing across the U.S.
Rating: ****  ‘Straw Dogs’  Rod Lurie’s blunt, bloody remake of Sam Peckinpah’s “Straw
Dogs” does away with the original’s moral ambiguity and thorny
philosophy, provoking little beyond cathartic whoops when the
bad guys meet their gruesome ends.  The basics remain: A cultured, civilized man is reduced to
violence (or rises to it) after a gang of backwoods thugs rapes
his wife and lays siege to his home. Lurie transports the
original setting from rural  England  to the Deep South, indulging
in more redneck stereotypes than a Jeff Foxworthy routine.  James Marsden and Kate Bosworth play David and Amy Sumner,
a successful Hollywood couple (he writes, she acts) who move
back to the wife’s rural hometown. The family farm needs some
repairs, so David hires a crew of locals that includes Charlie
(Alexander Skarsgard), Amy’s resentful, psychotic ex-boyfriend.  The inevitable showdown is on the moment David orders a
light beer.  Peckinpah’s film -- better discussed than watched --
infamously hinted at Amy’s complicity in her rape. That
unpalatable notion is jettisoned here, along with anything
approaching nuance: Lurie’s name for this fictional backwater?
Blackwater.  “Straw Dogs,” from Screen Gems, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: **1/2  ‘I Don’t Know How She Does It’  With only a slight downgrade in cast, “I Don’t Know How
She Does It” could take a spot among those harried-mom TV
movies crowding any Lifetime holiday season. Sarah Jessica Parker strains amiability in yet another formulaic, unfunny
romantic comedy.  Flatly directed by Douglas McGrath, “I Don’t Know” stars
Parker as a Boston financial manager juggling career, marriage
and motherhood, mourning the snowmen she’ll never build with the
kids.  With its unsavvy depiction of finance and “Working Girl”-
era gags, “I Don’t Know” hits one false note after another.
Parker pushes the Carrie Bradshaw coquetry beyond natural
limits, wringing zero sympathy for the rich-people problems
onscreen.  “I Don’t Know How She Does It,” from the Weinstein
Company, is playing across the U.S. Rating: **  ‘Restless’  “Harold & Maude” minus wrinkles, Gus Van Sant’s
“Restless” is as mopey as any death-romanticizing teenager.  Enoch Brae (Henry Hopper, Dennis’s son) and Annabel Cotton
(Mia Wasikowska) -- one as pretty as the other -- meet cute at a
funeral. He dresses like a thrift-store Rimbaud and talks to the
ghost of a Japanese kamikaze pilot. She looks like Mia Farrow in
“Rosemary’s Baby” and faces terminal cancer with “Love
Story” pluck.  A less pretentious film might have had some fun with the
notion of a kamikaze rebounding from suicide only to get stuck
with two moody teens. “Restless” isn’t that movie.  “Restless,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , is playing in
New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: **  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 