-- 
Putin’s Front Aims to Add 15% to Ruling Party’s Vote in December

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-16T07:33:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/putin-s-front-aims-to-add-15-to-ruling-party-s-vote-in-december.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
All-Russia People’s Front is seeking to raise support for his
ruling party in December parliamentary elections by as much as
15 percentage points, a senior official said.  “If the  front  manages to achieve the task it was set up
for, that is to consolidate civil society and to listen to the
views of people who aren’t in  United Russia , the front should be
able to add 12-15 percentage points to the overall vote,”
Mikhail Babich, deputy leader of the movement, said in an
interview in Moscow yesterday.  Putin formed the nationwide coalition of supporters in May
amid falling popularity of United Russia, whose rating has
fallen close to 40 percent after it won almost two-thirds of the
vote four years ago. The prime minister, 58, who handed the
presidency in 2008 to his protege,  Dmitry Medvedev , hasn’t ruled
out a return to the Kremlin. Widening support of the party will
bolster his standing, analysts say.  Putin “is our leader, in all senses of the word, our chief
ideologue and the person who enjoys the highest rating in the
country and the love and respect of the people,” said Babich,
who is also a member of United Russia.  Falling Support  The next nationwide parliamentary vote is scheduled for
Dec. 4, three months before the presidential election in March.
Putin picked Medvedev, a 46-year-old former corporate lawyer, to
replace him as president because of a constitutional ban on
serving more than two consecutive terms.  While the two men have said they will decide jointly which
of them will run for the Kremlin in 2012, advisers to Medvedev
have urged him to seek the endorsement of United Russia to
secure re-election.  Medvedev has the backing of more educated, urban voters,
and “of course the president’s support is important to us so
that this electorate will vote for our program,” said Babich.  United Russia’s support fell to 41 percent last week, the
Public Opinion Foundation, also known by its Russian acronym
FOM, said in a  report  on its website yesterday. The survey was
based on interviews with 3,000 people Sept. 10-11. No margin of
error was given. United Russia has a two-thirds majority in the
 State Duma , or lower house of parliament, after receiving about
64 percent of the vote in 2007.  Medvedev’s approval rating rose to 47 percent, the highest
since May, the FOM survey published yesterday showed. Putin’s
approval was unchanged at 52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  