-- 
Putin Says Berlusconi Sex Allegations ‘Made Out of Envy’

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-16T13:19:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/putin-says-berlusconi-sex-allegations-made-out-of-envy-1-.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said sex allegations against his Italian counterpart,
 Silvio Berlusconi , who is on trial for paying for sex with a
minor, were “made out of envy.”  “As much as people have attacked Silvio Berlusconi for his
special relationship with the fair sex, mostly out of envy I
believe, he has behaved like a responsible political leader in
this acute situation,” Putin said at a forum in the Black Sea
resort of Sochi today, referring to  Italy ’s debt crisis.  Berlusconi’s government, scrambling to contain a surge in
Italian borrowing costs, won final parliamentary approval this
week for its second austerity plan since July, a 54 billion-euro
($74 billion) package of spending cuts and tax increases. The
premier’s popularity fell to a record low of 24 percent, a poll
published Sept. 15 showed.  A guest at Putin’s private birthday bash last October, the
Italian prime minister has boasted of his close personal ties
with his Russian counterpart, who has visited Berlusconi’s villa
in Sardinia. The Italian media in 2009 published reports of
parties at the Sardinian villa and other residences with dozens
of young women.  ‘Convivial Affairs’  Berlusconi’s dinner parties at the center of a prostitution
investigation were “convivial affairs” and prosecutors’
allegations about the events are “unfounded,” two of the
premier’s lawyers said today.  Prosecutors in the southern city of Bari are investigating
local businessman Gianpaolo Tarantini, who they suspect of
paying young women to attend parties with Berlusconi. Berlusconi
hasn’t been charged in the case and has denied ever paying for
sex.  The prime minister is on trial over his ties, and possible
payments, to Karima El Mahroug, a Moroccan woman known as Ruby
Heart Stealer. She says she attended at least one party at the
prime minister’s mansion near Milan in February 2010, when she
was 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Sochi at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  