-- 
Rakoff Will Decide If Madoff Trustee Can Sue for False Profits

-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 
2011-09-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/rakoff-to-rule-if-madoff-trustee-can-sue-for-false-profits-1-.html
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said
that he rather than a bankruptcy judge will initially decide
whether the trustee for Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc. has the right to sue customers for recovery of so-called
fictitious profits.  One of Madoff’s customers, James Greiff, argued on July 29
Rakoff should take a lawsuit away from the bankruptcy court in
which  Irving Picard , the Madoff trustee, sued Greiff for taking
more cash out of the Madoff firm that he put in. Picard has sued
hundreds of other Madoff customers on the same grounds. Rakoff
said in a ruling yesterday that he would make initial decisions
on two issues.  Rakoff told Greiff and the Madoff trustee to explain
whether the profits shown on Greiff’s account statements
represent valid debt to counter a fraudulent transfer claim.
Rakoff also wants the parties to explain whether a provision in
bankruptcy law known as the safe harbor bars suits because they
stem from trades in securities.  Rakoff said he will later file a written opinion giving
reasons for his ruling in detail.  Rakoff is revisiting the same issues that were decided in a
26-page opinion on Aug. 31 by U.S. District Judge Kimba M. Wood,
another federal district judge in  Manhattan . Wood ruled that the
Madoff trustee is using valid theories to recover money
customers took out of the  Ponzi scheme  before the fraud was
discovered.  Merkin Funds  Wood said that U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton L. Lifland was
correct last year when he ruled Picard was justified in bringing
$34 million in claims against the Ariel and Gabriel funds
controlled by  Ezra Merkin . Woods said Picard’s claims withstand
attack at the early stages of the lawsuit.  In one of the issues Rakoff said he will decide, Wood ruled
for the Madoff trustee in saying that a defrauded customer’s
claim against the broker didn’t constitute “value” to offset a
fraud claim.  Like Greiff, Merkin contended that he’s protected from a
lawsuit by Section 546(e) of the  Bankruptcy Code  known as the
safe harbor. Again on the same issue that Rakoff will decide,
Wood ruled in August that there was no authority for the
proposition that a Ponzi scheme operator qualifies a stockbroker
when no actual trades in securities were ever made.  The Merkin case decided by Wood is different, according to
Helen Davis Chaitman, Greiff’s lawyer. Where Merkin was accused
of participating in fraud, “this kind of allegation is totally
absent from the complaints against” Greiff and about 5,000
other innocent Madoff victims, Chaitman said in an e-mail.  As federal district judges of the same rank, Rakoff is not
bound by Wood’s 26-page opinion.  SIPC  The Madoff trustee sued Greiff last year in  bankruptcy
court . The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008, with
the appointment of the trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The Greiff case in district court is Picard v. Greiff, 11-
03775, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-
00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  