-- 
Treasuries Rise as European Finance Ministers Rule Out Economic Stimulus

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-16T21:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/treasuries-rise-as-european-finance-ministers-rule-out-economic-stimulus.html
Treasuries rose, led by longer-term
securities, as European officials ruled out economic stimulus,
renewing demand for a refuge from sovereign-debt concern.  Yields on 10-year notes pared their biggest weekly increase
since July a day after the  European Central Bank  took steps to
maintain liquidity for financial institutions. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said at a conference of European
finance ministers in  Poland  today that leaders need to work
together to avoid setting off a “protracted” slump.  “People are coming back into the long bond and buying,”
said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury
trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “It’s a
definite flight to quality. Everybody thought the crisis was
ring-fenced.”  Yields on the 10-year notes slid three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.05 percent at 5:16 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities maturing in August 2021 gained 10/32, or $3.13 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 22/32.  The 10-year note yields posted a weekly increase of 13
basis points, the biggest gain since the five days ended July 1.
The yields fell four days ago to 1.8770 percent, the record low.
Yields on 30-year bonds rose seven basis points on the week to
3.31 percent.  Finance Ministers  European finance ministers rejected efforts to prop up the
faltering economy and gave no indication of providing aid for
lenders to go along with yesterday’s ECB liquidity lifeline.  Ten-year note yields rose yesterday the most in three weeks
as the ECB said it will work with the  Federal Reserve  and other
central banks to lend euro-area financial institutions dollars.  “Yields have bounced back this week from Lehman-scenario
levels because of some good news earlier in the week, but it
remains to be seen if this improvement in sentiment will last
given there’re still a lot of uncertainties,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in  London .  Geithner said at the conference in Wroclaw, Poland, that
Europe must “choose” to solve its debt crisis so its fate
doesn’t rest with financial markets or the nations that back the
 International Monetary Fund . He flew from  Washington  for the day
to meet with EU finance ministers and central bankers in his
first-ever appearance at one of their scheduled meetings.  U.S. Bond Rally  U.S. debt securities have rallied in 2011 as speculation
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will cripple the region’s
financial institutions and evidence of a stalled American
economic recovery spurred demand for the safest assets.  The government auctioned $32 billion of three-year notes,
$21 billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year bonds at
record low yields this week.  Treasuries have returned 7.8 percent in 2011 in what would
be their best year since the depths of the financial crisis in
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. U.S.
30-year bonds have returned 23 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  may decide to replace
holdings of shorter-term Treasuries with longer maturities at
its two-day policy meeting starting Sept. 20 in an effort to
keep borrowing costs low and support the economy.  “We are in favor of taking a bet on the Fed and advise
investors to buy long,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia,
referring to 30- and 10-year securities.  Consumer Confidence   The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment increased this month to 57.8 after falling in
August to 55.7, the lowest level since November 2008, a report
showed today. The median estimate of 67 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an advance to 57.  China , the largest foreign lender to the U.S., raised its
holdings of Treasuries by 0.7 percent in July to $1.17 trillion,
the most since October, according to Treasury Department figures
released today. It had $1.16 trillion of U.S. notes and bonds, a
record high.  Xia Bin, an adviser to China’s central bank, was optimistic
in a July 25 telephone interview that President Barack Obama and
Republicans in Congress would overcome an impasse over raising
the statutory debt limit. Obama signed a bill raising the debt
limit on Aug. 2.  Japan , the second-largest overseas investor in Treasuries,
raised its holdings 0.4 percent to $914.8 billion, the most
ever, the data show.  Foreign holdings of Treasuries fell for a second month in
July to $4.48 trillion after rising to a record high $4.51
trillion in May. It was the first two-month decline in overseas
holdings since June and July of 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  