-- 
Treasury 10-Year Note Yields Increase Most Since July on European Outlook

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-17T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/treasury-10-year-yields-are-set-for-biggest-weekly-advance-in-11-weeks.html
Treasuries dropped, pushing 10-year
note yields up the most in more than two months, after the
 European Central Bank  coordinated with the  Federal Reserve  and
other central banks to maintain liquidity for the euro area’s
financial institutions.  Yields on 10-year notes pared this week’s advance from a
record low after European finance ministers conferring yesterday
in Poland ruled out economic stimulus. The Federal Reserve may
decide at its two-day policy meeting next week to replace
holdings of shorter-term Treasuries with longer maturities to
keep borrowing costs low and support the recovery.  “We’ll be prone to volatility,” said  David Coard , head of
fixed-income trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a
brokerage for institutional investors. “In times like these,
people want guidance, and they want to hear what the Fed’s
thinking.”  Yields on 10-year notes increased 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 2.05 percent this week, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent securities
maturing in August 2021 dropped 1 5/32, or $11.56 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 22/32.  The five-day gain in yields was the biggest since July 1,
when they advanced 32 basis points. The yields fell on Sept. 12
to a record low 1.8770 percent. Yields on 30-year bonds rose
seven basis points to 3.31 percent this week.  Bond Rally  U.S. debt securities have rallied in 2011 as speculation
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will cripple the region’s
financial institutions and evidence of a stalled U.S. economic
recovery spurred demand for the safest assets.  The government auctioned $32 billion of three-year notes,
$21 billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year bonds at
record low yields this week.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel said Sept. 14 in a statement that they’re
“convinced”  Greece  should stay in the euro region as they
faced international calls to step up efforts to stem the
region’s debt crisis.  The ECB said the next day it will work with the Fed and
other central banks to lend euro-area financial institutions
dollars, damping demand for a refuge.  U.S. 30-year bonds rose yesterday as European finance
ministers meeting in Wroclaw,  Poland , rejected efforts to prop
up the faltering economy and gave no indication of providing aid
for lenders to go along with the ECB liquidity lifeline.  Geithner in Europe  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday at
the conference that leaders need to work together to avoid
setting off a “protracted” slump. He said Europe must
“choose” to solve its debt crisis so its fate doesn’t rest
with financial markets or the nations that back the
 International Monetary Fund .  He flew from  Washington  for the day to meet with EU finance
ministers and central bankers in his first-ever appearance at
one of their scheduled meetings.  At its Sept. 20-21 meeting, the Fed may decide to increase
its holdings of longer U.S. government maturities under what is
known as Operation Twist after an initiative during the
administration of President  John F. Kennedy .  “We are in favor of taking a bet on the Fed and advise
investors to buy long,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia,
referring to 30- and 10-year securities.  Fed Outlook  The Fed may also lower its interest payments on excess
reserves deposited by banks, which may encourage demand for
shorter maturities such as two-year notes.  The difference in yield between 10-year Treasuries and
inflation-protected debt, a measure of the outlook for consumer
prices known as the break-even rate, was 1.97 percentage points
after falling this week to 1.90 percentage points, the lowest
level since October 2010.  Consumer prices advanced 0.4 percent in August after a gain
of 0.5 percent in the previous month, the Labor Department
reported this week. The median forecast of 84 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of 0.2 percent.  China , the largest foreign lender to the U.S., boosted its
holdings of U.S. Treasuries in July to $1.17 trillion, the
highest level in nine months. China’s trade surplus surged that
month to the highest level in more than two years.  Investors in China added Treasuries even as President
Barack Obama and Republicans in Congress clashed over the U.S.
debt ceiling. Obama signed a bill raising the limit Aug. 2.  “They continue to buy notes and bonds every month because
they’ve got so much money,” said  David Ader , head of government
bond strategy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at CRT Capital Group
LLC. “If they stopped buying, they wouldn’t have much else to
do with the cash, so they buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  