-- 
Hungary Risks Bond Slump on Holdings, SocGen, Buda-Cash Say

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-16T15:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/record-foreigner-hungary-debt-holding-poses-risk-buda-cash-says.html
Foreign investors’ holdings of
Hungarian government debt surged to a record, posing the risk of
a “significant” sell-off, according to  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and
Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt.  Treasury bonds and bills held by foreigners rose 9.4
billion forint ($45 million) at yesterday’s close to 3.96
trillion forint, the highest since at least July 2002, extending
the jump this year to 52 percent, according to data from the
Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg.  “One significant wobble in market confidence toward the
country may be enough to spark a spectacular liquidation of
bonds,” analysts at Buda-Cash including Balint Torok in
Budapest wrote in a research report today. “ Hungary ’s
assessment in the market has deteriorated substantially in the
past month” and the threat of a slump in foreign bond ownership
is also a risk for the forint, said Buda-Cash, the second-
biggest trader in equity futures in  Budapest  this year after
Erste Group Bank AG.  Hungary plans to allow early repayment of mortgages
denominated in Swiss francs or euros at as much as 20 percent
below market rates, forcing lenders to swallow the losses, Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  told parliament on Sept. 12.  The holdings by foreign investors of Hungarian debt may
prompt a “significant sell-off in yields,” Guillaume Salomon,
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in a research
report today after meeting government and central bank officials
in Budapest.  Borrowing Costs Increase  “Officials were keen to discuss whether the international
community would continue buying,” Salomon said. “We are
concerned about this level of exposure by foreign holders.”  Barclays Capital  recommended on Sept. 14 that investors
sell Hungary’s 10-year dollar bonds because the mortgage plan
signals a return to “market-unfriendly” policies.  Hungary yesterday sold 50 billion forint in 12-month
Treasury bills at an auction, with yields jumping the most in a
year compared with the previous sale. The higher borrowing costs
may be a reflection of the less favorable perception of
Hungary’s policies in the market, the Buda-Cash analysts said.  The forint and Hungarian bonds rallied by yesterday’s close
for the first time in six days as an effort by central banks
worldwide to support banks’ liquidity increased demand for
riskier assets.  The forint depreciated 0.6 percent to 286.67 per euro as of
5:11 p.m. in Budapest, taking its loss this week to 2.3 percent.  Bond Yields  Citigroup Inc. will add nine emerging-market countries
including Hungary to its local-currency government bond indexes,
citing the growing appetite for such benchmarks, Thomas Klaffky,
New York-based managing director at the bank said in a statement
today.  The yield on Hungary’s benchmark government bonds maturing
in June 2022 was little changed at 7.69 percent, after reaching
7.78 percent two days ago, the highest in a month.  “What may be attracting investors’ interest is the fact
that they can still obtain a healthy real  interest rate  here,”
Zsigmond Gelencser, an analyst at Buda-Cash, said by telephone
when asked about the surge in foreign bond holdings.  Hungary’s inflation rate was 3.6 percent in August,
according to a statement from the statistics office in Budapest.  The central bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at 6 percent for a seventh month in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  