-- 
Refunding Wave Imperils Rally as Bond Sales Reach 2011 High: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/refunding-threatens-rally-with-sales-at-2011-high-muni-credit.html
Municipal issuers taking advantage
of record-low rates to refinance debt have boosted long-term
debt sales to the highest level this year, threatening to push
up yields.  Refunding deals of $8.6 billion since Aug. 1 are almost
double that for the same period last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. States and municipalities plan to sell
$12.6 billion of long-term debt during the next 30 days, the
highest level for the year.  The 10-year index of top-rated municipals dropped to 2.05
percent on Sept. 12, the lowest level since January 2009, when
Bloomberg’s data for the securities begins. Yields on top-rated
30-year tax-exempts were 3.65 percent yesterday, after falling
to 3.56 percent on Sept. 12, also the lowest yield since
Bloomberg records began.  “The market may have seen its lows in yields and given
that there’s more supply, you probably could see somewhat of an
uptick in rates,” Michael Pietronico who manages $585 million
as chief executive officer at  Miller Tabak  Asset Management,
said in a telephone interview.  Interest rates  on long-term municipal debt may need to rise
by about 20 basis points in the fourth quarter to help draw
investor interest, Pietronico said. Municipal issuance will
increase to an average $25 billion a month, up from $20 billion
a month so far this year, because of refinancing opportunities,
said Alan Schankel, director of fixed income research for
Philadelphia brokerage Janney Montgomery Scott LLC. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Yields Forecast  Yields on 30-year debt will increase by 21 basis points
while 10-year rates will rise by 38 basis points in the fourth
quarter of this year, Peter DeGroot, head of municipal research
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a Sept. 9 report. Higher
issuance, along with less debt maturing in October and November
than in earlier months, may have an effect on the market.  “Supply may begin to weigh on the market in October, given
the current and expected uptick in refundings, with average
weekly volume in the $6 billion to $7 billion bond range, as
reinvestment capital declines and low yields persist,” DeGroot
said.  The total from bondholders reinvesting proceeds of matured
securities is expected to decrease to $55 billion in October and
November from $61 billion in the previous two months, DeGroot
said in an e-mail.  Refinancing deals this year total about $34 billion,
compared with $30 billion sold during the same time in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That amount doesn’t
include refundings in combination with new issues.  Tax-Break May End  Municipalities may also be advancing plans to borrow this
year because President  Barack Obama  proposes lowering the tax
break for municipal-bond interest to 28 percent from 35 percent
for couples earning more than $250,000 a year.  “Issuers might move some deals forward to try and lock in
lower rates before the market begins to consider the potential
for any kind of longer-term  tax reform ,” Miller Tabak’s
Pietronico said.  The  South Carolina  State Public Service Authority, the
second-largest U.S. municipal electric utility system, on Sept.
14 refinanced $135.8 million of debt, saving $7.7 million,
Mollie Gore, the agency’s spokeswoman said in a telephone
interview from Moncks Corner, South Carolina.  “It’s foremost in our minds to keep our costs low and cut
costs when we can so we get the best possible rate for our
customers,” Gore said. “And that includes looking at our debt
when it makes sense to do that, and now is one of those times.”  California  Selling  California, the most-populous U.S. state, today will begin
selling $2.5 billion in tax-exempt general obligations,
including a $1.3 billion refinancing. The transaction is the
state’s first long-term general-obligation borrowing this year.  “We have been monitoring the situation in the markets and
looking for refunding opportunities,”  Tom Dresslar , spokesman
for California Treasurer Bill Lockyer, said in a telephone
interview.  “Our schedule has just been too clogged with new money the
last couple of years, that’s not the case now,” he said.
“Market conditions are good and we’re taking advantage of the
opportunity.”  Minnesota , which ended a 20-day government shutdown July
20, is set to issue $918 million of tax-exempt general-
obligation debt as soon as Sept. 27, including $152.7 million of
refunding bonds.  The total return on municipal debt including price changes
and interest income is 8.46 percent this year, 41 basis points
more than Treasuries and 236 basis points more than corporate
bonds, according to Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch Municipal
Master Index.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  MASSACHUSETTS, which had its credit outlook upgraded to
positive from stable by  Standard & Poor’s  in February, is set to
sell $475 million of tax-exempt general obligations through
competitive bid as soon as Sept. 21. The proceeds will finance
capital projects. The state is rated AA, S&P’s third-highest
grade. (Added Sept. 16)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net 
Freeman Klopott in New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  