-- 
Republican 2012 Hopefuls Roll Out Economic Proposals From Taxes to Trade

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-09-16T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/republican-2012-hopefuls-roll-out-economic-proposals-from-taxes-to-trade.html
The Republican presidential
candidates are starting to move on from attacking  Barack Obama 
for his handling of the economy to drawing differences with each
other on the best way to promote jobs and growth.  The distinctions, on everything from which taxes to cut and
by how much, to how much to reduce government spending, have
emerged as the candidates have begun to fill in the details of
some of their plans.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , the front-runner in opinion
polls, has so far been the least specific about the policies
he’d pursue. That’s left his rivals plumbing the book he
released in November 2010, entitled “Fed Up! Our Fight to Save
America from Washington,” for clues on his views. Among his
suggestions there: getting rid of the current  tax code  entirely.  The philosophical underpinnings of the candidates’
positions are “pretty much cut from the same cloth,” said
 Douglas Holtz-Eakin , who served as economic adviser to Arizona
Senator  John McCain  in the last presidential campaign. They
attack President Obama’s economic policies and advocate smaller
government, lower taxes and less regulation. They’ve also been
critical of the  Federal Reserve .  “They’re all going to have to come out with more specifics
on what they’re going to do,” said Gregory Valliere, chief
political strategist with the Potomac Research Group in
Washington. “That’s where some differences will come out.”  Detailed Plan  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who is running
second to Perry in polls, has the most detailed plan to date, a
59-point program that includes proposals on everything from
worker training programs to visas for skilled immigrants. The
net result, he says: annual economic growth of 4 percent.  “If you’d hired McKinsey, this is the plan you’d get,”
said  Kevin Hassett , director of economic policy studies at the
 American Enterprise Institute  in Washington, referring to
consultants McKinsey & Co. Romney, 64, is the former chief
executive of the investment firm Bain Capital LLC.  Taxes -- and the need to reduce them -- are once again a
centerpiece in the Republican campaign. What’s different is the
focus on corporate and capital gains taxes, rather than on
household income taxes, said Michael Tanner, senior fellow at
the  Cato Institute  in Washington.  “It reflects the economic times and the idea that we’re
talking about job creation,” Tanner said.  Job Growth  A study last year by the  Heritage Foundation  in Washington
concluded that a 10 percentage point cut in the corporate tax
rate would boost job growth by an average 581,000 per year from
2011 to 2020.  Perry, 61, questioned in his book how U.S. companies can
compete with tax rates well above those of their foreign rivals,
though he didn’t say how much to cut.  Other candidates have provided more specifics. Romney and
former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman  have called for a reduction to
25 percent from 35 percent. U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann 
of Minnesota in the past has sponsored legislation to reduce the
rate to that level as well, though she’s suggested since she’d
like to cut it by more.  Others have proposed going further.  Rick Santorum , 53,
former senator from Pennsylvania, wants the corporate tax cut in
half and would exempt manufacturing facilities.  Newt Gingrich , 68, former speaker of the House of
Representatives, would slash it to 12.5 percent and also allow
companies to write off 100 percent of new-equipment purchase
costs.  Herman Cain, 65, who once headed Godfather’s Pizza Inc.,
proposes “the 9-9-9 plan” -- a 9 percent business flat tax, a
9 percent individual flat tax and a 9 percent national sales tax.  Personal Taxes  Differences have also started to surface on personal taxes.  Huntsman, 51, who started the campaign portraying himself
as the moderate in the race, advocates a major overhaul of
household income taxes with “drastically lower” rates of 8
percent, 14 percent and 23 percent. To pay for that, he’d end
all deductions and credits. Huntsman would also eliminate taxes
on  capital gains  and dividends.  “It’s a real swashbuckling plan,” Hassett said.  Perry also favors sweeping tax changes. He said in his book
that one option would be to replace the current code in favor of
a flat tax on income. Another option would be to put in place
“an alternative model such as a national sales tax or the Fair
Tax.”  Fair Tax  Cain and Texas Congressman  Ron Paul , 76, have also spoken
approvingly of the Fair Tax -- a retail sales tax that would
shield Americans below the poverty line from its impact.  Romney was more guarded when asked about the proposal in a
Sept. 12 candidates’ debate. The tax “lowers the burden on the
very highest income folks and the very lowest income folks, and
raises it on middle-income people,” he said.  He then plugged his proposal to eliminate taxes on interest
income, dividends or capital gains for middle-class Americans
making less than $200,000. That plan has been criticized by some
conservatives for not going far enough and “for signing on to
Obama’s definition of middle class,” Valliere said.  On federal spending, the candidates agree it needs to be
reduced, though they differ over how much.  Romney initially wants to cut government outlays to 20
percent of gross domestic product. Others, including Huntsman
and Santorum, favor an 18 percent cap.  Spending Cuts  Bachmann, 55, a leader of the Tea Party caucus in Congress,
has a three-page list of “potential spending cuts,” including
eliminating the International Trade Commission and the Overseas
Private Investment Corp., which promotes development abroad.  A key difference is over military outlays: Paul has been
the most vocal about reducing them -- a policy that the others
have either shied away from endorsing or opposed outright.  It’s on trade that Romney has cast aside his cautiousness.
He has promised that on his first day as president he’ll brand
 China  a currency manipulator for holding down the value of the
yuan and set in motion plans to slap duties on U.S. imports of
Chinese goods in return.  Huntsman, who served as ambassador to China in the Obama
administration from 2009 to 2011, chided Romney for the tough
talk, saying in a Sept. 7 debate that “now is not the time in a
recession to start a trade war.”  Romney has also surprised analysts like Valliere by joining
the other Republicans in criticizing Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  for his handling of monetary policy. While he’s
eschewed the heated rhetoric of Perry -- the Texas governor said
it would be “almost treasonous” if Bernanke pushed ahead with
additional monetary stimulus -- Romney has declared that he
wouldn’t reappoint the Fed chairman when his term is up in 2014.  ‘Fire’ Bernanke  Gingrich has said he’d “fire” Bernanke -- though since
the Fed is independent the president can’t do that. Paul would
go even further and abolish the central bank.  Economists Mark Zandi of Moody’s Analytics and Nariman Behravesh of consultant IHS said they doubt that the Republican
programs will have much short-term impact on growth. While
proposals such as broad-based tax reform will benefit the
economy by enhancing efficiency, the effect of such steps only
will be felt over time, they said.  Holtz-Eakin, who is president of the American Action Forum
in  Washington , disagreed. Businesses will grow more confident
and start to spend more if they believe the economy’s potential
is being expanded, he said.  “We are growing so slowly that every time something bad
happens we get dangerously close to zero and everybody gets
panicky,” he said. “The trend rate of growth is too slow. The
Republicans want to increase it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  