-- 
RIM Chiefs Lose Billionaire Status as Stock Drops on Lower Sales

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-09-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/rim-chiefs-lose-billionaire-status-as-stock-declines.html
Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis ,
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s largest shareholders and co-chief
executive officers, have lost their status as billionaires from
the stock this year as it has shed more than half its value.  The executives, who each own about 5 percent of the
BlackBerry maker, had the value of their stakes drop to about
$640 million yesterday from about $1.9 billion in February.  RIM’s earnings reports have disappointed investors for
three consecutive quarters as the company struggles to gain
ground from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad. Waterloo, Ontario-
based RIM missed analysts’ estimates Sept. 15 for profit and
shipments of the Blackberry and PlayBook tablet computer.  “These guys have misexecuted,” said Matthew Thornton, an
analyst for Avian Securities LLC in  Boston . “They have been
very late with the new products. They’ve missed their own
forecasts. They’ve done nothing to reassure  Wall Street  that
they’re going to get more competitive against Apple and Google’s
Android products.”  RIM fell 19 percent to $23.93 on the Nasdaq Stock Market at
4 p.m. New York time yesterday, down 66 percent from a 2011 peak
and 84 percent from its record in June 2008.  The plunge in RIM’s stock price this year marks a reversal
in the fortunes of a company that dominated the U.S. smartphone
market after introducing the BlackBerry in 1999. The stock rose
more than 70-fold between 1999, when it began trading on the
Nasdaq, and its 2008 peak.  Wireless Pioneer  Lazaridis founded RIM in 1984 when he was a senior at the
University of Waterloo in Canada. The company began working on
wireless products three years later, developing a pager that
evolved into what is known as the BlackBerry. Balsillie, a 1989
graduate of  Harvard Business School , joined RIM in 1992.  The company’s smartphone market share started eroding after
Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007 and phones running  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software gained popularity. In the second
quarter, RIM’s share of the global smartphone market dropped to
12 percent from 19 percent a year earlier, according to Gartner
Inc. In the same period, Apple climbed to 18 percent from 14
percent, and Google’s Android rose to 43 percent.  This month, investor Jaguar Financial Corp. asked RIM to
consider selling itself or spinning off its patents to boost
investor returns.  “Given today’s stock action, you’ll get more activists
going in and seeing what’s the strategic direction, and does it
make sense,”, Jeff Fidacaro, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group in New York, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Everything is on the table.”  -- Editors: Ville Heiskanen, Peter Elstrom  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  