-- 
Ruble Heads for Third Weekly Drop to Dollar on Europe

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-09-16T09:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/ruble-heads-for-third-weekly-drop-to-dollar-on-europe-correct-.html
(Corrects to show  Benoit Anne  works for Societe Generale
SA in fourth paragraph.)  The ruble headed for its third
weekly loss against the dollar as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will worsen hurt demand for riskier emerging-market assets.  Russia’s currency lost 0.4 percent to 30.5177 versus the
dollar as of 12:28 p.m. in Moscow, taking its weekly drop to 1.9
percent. The ruble was little changed at 42.0923 against the
euro, leaving it down 0.2 percent at 35.7275 against the central
bank’s dollar-euro target basket, its sixth day of declines.  The euro snapped a two-day gain versus the dollar and yen
after Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said it was
unlikely any agreement on collateral for a Greek bailout would
be reached at a meeting of European officials today. Greek bonds
maturing in two years yielded 50.4 percent today, compared with
a yield of 6.2 percent on similar-maturity Russian debt.  “While the ruble has weakened markedly in recent days,
there is potential for more sell-off,” Benoit Anne, head of
global emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA in
 London , said by e-mail. “The next big level is 36 against the
basket, and we could get there quickly if the relief rally that
we saw yesterday turns out to be short-lived.”  Markets rallied yesterday after the  European Central Bank 
said it will coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  and other
central banks to conduct three separate dollar liquidity
operations to ensure lenders have enough of the currency through
the end of the year.  Ruble Weakness  The ECB’s decision is “not a big deal for now” for the
ruble, Anne said. The European crisis will probably remain the
biggest driver of ruble weakness for the rest of the year, he
said.  BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s biggest lender, expects the
currency to weaken as much as 0.8 percent to 36 against the
basket by the end of 2011, Dina Ahmad, a foreign-exchange and
rates strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said by phone.  “It’s the combination of weaker  oil prices  and expected
capital outflows with the elections that’s driving our
bearishness on the ruble,” she said.  BNP Paribas now expects investors to withdraw $45 billion
from Russia this year, up from $30 billion previously, as
uncertainty over who will run for president spurs outflows.
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who handed the presidency in 2008
to his protege,  Dmitry Medvedev , hasn’t ruled out a return to
the Kremlin.  Oil,  Russia ’s chief export earner, has fallen 6.5 percent
so far this quarter, and traded down 0.2 percent at $89.23 per
barrel today.  Investors increased bets that the ruble will weaken
further, with non-deliverable forwards showing it at 30.9373 per
dollar in three months, compared with 30.7993 yesterday. The
contracts provide a guide to expectations of currency movements
and interest-rate differentials and allow companies to hedge
against currency shifts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  