-- 
Samsung Seeks to Lift German Sales Ban, Sues Apple in Australia

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-09-17T07:59:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/samsung-electronics-claims-apple-ipad-iphone-infringe-australian-patents.html
Samsung Electronics Co. filed an
appeal against a German court’s ban on sales of its Galaxy
tablet computers, and accused  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  of patent infringement
in Australia, deepening disputes between the companies over
smartphone technology.  The company filed the appeal yesterday against a court
ruling won by Apple to block Galaxy Tab sales in Germany,  James
Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, said by phone today.
The South Korean company also filed yesterday a cross claim with
the Federal Court of Australia alleging Apple’s iPhone and iPad
infringe seven patents related to wireless communications
standards, it said in an e-mail.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, and Samsung have
been embroiled in a global battle over market share for both
phones and tablet computers. Apple has accused Samsung of
“slavishly” copying the iPad and iPhone and has had success in
curtailing Galaxy sales in  Australia  and Germany. There are also
lawsuits pending in the U.S. and Asia.  “Samsung has a proud history of innovation in the mobile
industry,” the Suwon, South Korea-based company said after
filing the Australian suit. “It has invested continuously in
R&D, design and technology to produce our innovative and
cutting-edge mobile devices.”  Samsung is also trying to invalidate and revoke Apple
patents that have been asserted against Samsung’s Galaxy phones
and tablets in Australia.  The appeal filed with a Dusseldorf court follows a Sept. 9
ruling upholding the temporary nationwide sales ban on the
Galaxy Tab 10.1 issued a month earlier.  Apple has also won an injunction in Germany against the
Galaxy Tab 7.7, the latest version with a smaller screen than
the Tab 10.1 and the iPad, forcing Samsung to pull the product
out of the IFA consumer-electronics show in Berlin earlier this
month.  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, declined to
comment on Samsung’s filings in Australia and Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  