-- 
SEC Watchdog to Refer Ex-Counsel’s Madoff Work to Justice

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-16T21:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/sec-watchdog-plans-to-refer-ex-counsel-s-madoff-work-to-justice.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s inspector general plans to ask the  Justice
Department  to review whether the agency’s former top lawyer
violated conflict-of-interest laws, according to three people
with knowledge of the watchdog’s findings.  H. David Kotz, the inspector, is completing his report on
ex-general counsel  David Becker ’s possible conflicts and it is
expected to be released next week, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the matter isn’t public. Kotz and
congressional investigators have been probing why Becker was
allowed to work on SEC policies related to the Bernard Madoff
fraud after inheriting profits from the  Ponzi scheme .  Kotz opened his probe after Becker and his brothers were
sued by the court-appointed trustee in the Madoff bankruptcy
case to recover $1.5 million in what he termed fictitious
profits. When he joined the agency in 2009, Becker told Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  and William Lenox, then the agency’s ethics
counsel, about his family’s Madoff investment. Lenox told Becker
in May 2009 that he didn’t have a financial conflict of interest
and could work on the matter.  Becker, who left the SEC in February, declined to comment
today, as did SEC spokesman  John Nester .  Compensation Fund  As general counsel, Becker advocated that Madoff victims be
compensated for losses from an SEC-overseen insurance fund using
a formula that adjusted for inflation. The argument, which
hasn’t been adopted by the trustee, could have made it less
likely that the trustee would seek to reclaim profits from
Becker.  In a letter to lawmakers in March, Becker said he was
“confident that any fair review of my actions” will show he
worked in the best interests of investors and the SEC. Schapiro
told a House panel earlier this year that she wished Becker had
recused himself.  Stephen Gillers, a professor at  New York University School
of Law  who specializes in legal ethics, said any criminal case
would be difficult to make because Becker did what he was
supposed to do: he raised the issue and obtained clearance from
the ethics officer.  “I can’t see this as a criminal prosecution,” Gillers
said. “We can question the judgment of everyone involved, but
lapses in judgment are not a crime.”  Ethics Counsel  Gillers said that any “fault here has to be laid at the
door of the ethics counsel” whose advice was “sketchy” and
“pretty aggressive.”  Former SEC Chairman  Harvey Pitt , who is representing Lenox
in the matter, defended his actions.  “Mr. Lenox had handled issues exactly like this one for
18 years, and his advice was thoughtful, correct and has
been mischaracterized repeatedly by those who have spoken out
about it without being encumbered by any information about what
transpired,” Pitt said.  Kotz has referred other matters to criminal authorities,
including allegations that SEC officials backdated leasing
documents to hide a missed deadline and that two employees
engaged in  insider trading . The Justice Department doesn’t
necessarily have to open a case based on the referral.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican who is
chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and
Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican who heads a
Financial Services subcommittee on investigations, have
spearheaded a congressional review of the matter. Neugebauer’s
panel and an Oversight subcommittee have scheduled a joint
hearing for Sept. 22 to coincide with the expected release of
Kotz’s report.  Becker, 64, worked as a clerk for former U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Stanley Reed after graduating from Columbia University
School of Law, where he was editor-in-chief of the law review.
He was the SEC’s general counsel from 1999 to 2002 before
rejoining the agency in 2009. After leaving the SEC in February,
he returned to law firm  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  as
a partner.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  