-- 
Serbia Sees 2011 Budget Deficit of 4.5% of GDP on 2% Growth

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-09-16T12:42:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/serbia-sees-2011-budget-deficit-of-4-5-of-gdp-correct-.html
Serbia’s  budget deficit  will reach
4.5 percent of gross domestic product this year, lower than an
International Monetary Fund target as growth reaches 2 percent
following a recession, Deputy Finance Chief Dusan Nikezic said.  The budget deficit compares with a gap of 4.6 percent of
GDP last year, even allowing for higher spending this year on
wages and pensions and no cuts in infrastructure plans, he said,
adding the government’s “clear signal” will also get the 2011
budget gap under the IMF’s target of 4.6 percent of GDP in its
loan program with Serbia.  Serbia and the IMF agreed on a 1 billion-euro ($1.4
billion) precautionary loan arrangement to help the Balkan
nation maintain financial stability. The credit is conditional
on the government submitting to parliament the revised budget
and a restitution law. It allows an increase in the deficit
target as slower economic growth weighs on revenue collection.  Public debt will probably represent between 40 percent and
42 percent of GDP, Nikezic said at a press conference today in
Belgrade.  Serbia  is still emerging from its worst recession in a
decade and the government is trying to boost tax collection and
keep spending under control without cutting too many social
benefits, just months before general elections next spring.  The nation of 7.5 million people, which hopes to become a
European Union candidate in 2011, needs the IMF’s support to
convince investors it is committed to macroeconomic stability
ahead of next month’s planned $1 billion debut Eurobond sale.  The IMF also approved a higher deficit target for 2012, or
3.9 percent of GDP, up from a previously agreed 3.2 percent. The
Washington-based lender’s board is due to approve the loan on
Sept. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  