-- 
Silver Lake Is Said to Consider Acquiring Yahoo, Then Selling Asian Assets

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-09-16T22:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/silver-lake-is-said-to-consider-acquiring-yahoo-then-selling-asian-assets.html
Private-equity investor  Silver Lake 
is considering a bid for Yahoo! Inc., the Web company that
ousted Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz , two people involved
in the deliberations said.  As part of a deal, Silver Lake would sell off Yahoo’s Asian
assets and then attempt to turn around the main operations or
find a buyer for that business, said the people, who asked not
to be named because the matter is private. Representatives of
Silver Lake have approached other companies to gauge interest in
purchasing Yahoo’s main business, one person said.  Yahoo Chairman Roy Bostock fired Bartz last week after her
efforts to fend off Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. fell short.
Asian assets that include a 43 percent stake in Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd., combined with a slumping share price, make the
company a possible takeover candidate, said analysts at Deutsche
Bank Securities and such investors as Di Zhou, an analyst at
 Thornburg Investment Management .  Representatives of Yahoo and Silver Lake didn’t return
phone messages seeking comment.  Yahoo’s board met yesterday to hear a presentation from
investment bank Allen & Co. on the company’s options and
deliberate the search for a successor to Bartz, another person
familiar with the matter said earlier this week.  A range of companies have been preparing possible bids for
Yahoo and have gotten in touch with the company’s board in
recent days, the technology blog AllThingsDigital reported this
week. Silver Lake is among potential buyers, it reported.  Alibaba, Softbank  A private-equity company would likely seek a buyer for
Yahoo’s stakes in Alibaba and  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , which according
to Gabelli & Co., account for about 80 percent of the company’s
market value. Alibaba Group Chairman Jack Ma tried to repurchase
the stake from Bartz and was rebuffed.  Other Yahoo assets include e-mail, instant messaging and
news and information portals that generate revenue from
advertising and, according to ComScore Inc., were viewed by 674
million people in July. Yahoo also owns the No. 2 U.S. Web-
search engine, after Google’s.  Yahoo’s directors are under pressure from investors such as
Third Point LLC, which urged the board to resign last week after
buying a 5.2 percent stake. The investment firm said directors
erred in spurning a takeover bid from Microsoft Corp. in 2008
and hired a CEO who wasn’t up to the job.  The “board of directors has made a number of decisions
that have directly harmed the company and resulted in a stock
price far below the company’s intrinsic value,” New York-based
Third Point said in a filing.  Yahoo shares rose 8 cents to $14.97 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has dropped 10 percent
this year.  Separately, Yahoo said today that it raised interim CEO Tim Morse’s base pay. His salary increased to $750,000 from
$600,000. The raise, approved by the board, took effect
yesterday, Yahoo said in a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  