-- 
Singapore Exports Unexpectedly Rise

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-09-16T01:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/singapore-exports-unexpectedly-rise-on-sales-of-ships-boats.html
Singapore ’s exports unexpectedly
rebounded in August as sales of ships, boats and optical
apparatus countered a slump in electronics caused by weakening
global growth.  Non-oil domestic exports rose 5.1 percent from a year
earlier, after a 2.8 percent drop in July, the island’s trade
promotion agency said in a statement today. The median of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg survey was for a 6.5 percent decline.  Europe ’s failure to resolve its debt crisis and diminishing
U.S. jobs growth have hurt Asian exports and trimmed expansions
from  China  to the  Philippines , prompting central banks to hold
back on further tightening monetary policy. The recovery in
overseas sales last month may not be sufficient to prevent
Singapore’s economy from contracting for a second quarter,
according to Bank of America Corp.  “The components that are pretty sensitive to the business
cycle, like electronics, did more poorly whereas the gain was
generated largely from the lumpy segments such as ships,” said
Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. “I am reluctant to say we are completely out of
the woods and we’re still assuming that a technical recession is
likely.”  A technical recession is usually defined as two consecutive
quarters of declines in gross domestic product, which contracted
in the city state in the three months through June from the
previous quarter.  Policy Implication  The slowdown in economic growth may prompt the central bank
to loosen its monetary policy stance at its half-yearly review
next month, Chua said. The island uses the  exchange rate  as its
main tool to manage inflation.  The  Singapore dollar  fell 0.3 percent to S$1.2457 against
the U.S. currency as of 9:01 a.m. local time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Singapore government lowered its forecasts for 2011
economic and export growth last month and Finance Minister
Tharman Shanmugaratnam said last week the island won’t be immune
to a global slowdown.  Singapore’s overseas sales are sometimes supported by non-
electronics goods as the nation built industries such as
pharmaceuticals and marine engineering to reduce its reliance on
one type of product.  Electronics shipments by companies such as contract
manufacturer Venture Corp. dropped 19.4 percent in August from a
year earlier, after declining 16.9 percent the previous month.  Petrochemicals, Ships  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, increased 20.4 percent. The increase was led by
ships, boats and optical apparatus, and disk media products,
according to today’s report. Pharmaceutical shipments fell 7.1
percent after surging 48.5 percent in July.  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as Sanofi-
Aventis SA can cause industrial output to fluctuate from month
to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning
before making different products.  Singapore’s non-oil exports rose a seasonally adjusted 8.3
percent last month from July, when they declined 2.3 percent,
today’s report showed.  Singapore cut its forecast for 2011 export growth last
month, saying non-oil domestic exports will probably climb 6
percent to 7 percent, less than a previous prediction of 8
percent to 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  