-- 
Slovenia Approves 2011 Budget After Pension Changes Rejected

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-16T11:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/slovenia-approves-budget-review-after-pension-changes-rejected.html
Slovenia passed the budget review
for this year as the euro-region country cuts spending after the
rejection of a pension-system overhaul.  Lawmakers voted 45-10 for the amended budget plan, which
forecasts a deficit of 4.7 percent of gross domestic product,
according to Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The Cabinet aims to cut
about 370 million euros ($511 million) in the new spending plan,
the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. Finance
Minister  Franc Krizanic  said in July the administration wanted
to cut 455 million euros.  “The minority government comes with a request that you
take into account the domestic and international environment and
give your support to the budget review,” Pahor told lawmakers
in Ljubljana ahead of the vote. “Slovenia must keep its budget
and public spending under control.”  Pahor’s minority government needs to trim expenditures
after voters rejected a proposed extension of the  retirement age 
to 65 in a June referendum as it struggles to put the economic
recovery on a solid footing. Slower economic growth is likely to
put additional pressure on the public finances by curbing tax
receipts and increasing social-benefit payments.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Slovenia’s bonds
maturing in 2021 rather than similar-maturity German debt fell
to 298 basis points, or 2.98 percentage point, as of 12:48 p.m.
in Ljubljana from 309 points yesterday and a record spread for
the security of 321 basis points two days ago.  Weakening Economy  Slovenia’s economy is losing momentum as demand for its
exports in  Europe  weakens and the sovereign-debt crisis adds to
uncertainty over the global recovery. The economy of the former
Yugoslav nation slowed to 0.9 pace in the second quarter on the
year from 2.3 percent in the previous three-month period.  Growth in the 17-nation euro area, which Slovenia joined in
2007, slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter from 0.8
percent in the first with the German economy almost grinding to
a halt as Europe’s debt crisis roiled financial markets and
weighed on confidence.  Pahor, who’s been in power since 2008, is facing a
confidence vote on Sept. 20, when he will present a set of five
new ministers that will replace officials from the two parties
that have abandoned the government since May. If Pahor fails to
win the vote, Slovenes will probably go to the polls in
December. Regular elections are set for autumn 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  