-- 
Solyndra Lobbied White House for Solar Panels on U.S. Buildings

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-16T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/solyndra-lobbied-white-house-for-solar-panels-on-u-s-buildings.html
Solyndra LLC, the failed company
that  House Republicans  said may have benefited from White House
political connections, unsuccessfully sought a meeting with
environment chief  Carol Browner  to argue for the use of solar
panels on government buildings, e-mails show.  Chris Fish, a lobbyist with McAllister & Quinn LLC in
Washington, wrote the White House Energy and Climate Change
office on July 12, 2010, to request a meeting between Solyndra
executives and Browner, who was director of the office,
according to e-mails the White House turned over to House
investigators for the Energy and Commerce Committee.  Solyndra executives sought to “increase U.S. government
installation deployment of U.S.-made solar panels,” according
to the e-mail from Fish.  The solar-panel maker, whose $535 million U.S. loan
guarantee awarded in September 2009 is being investigated by the
Republican-led energy committee, filed for  bankruptcy protection 
on Sept. 6. Two days later, its offices were raided by the FBI.  According to Fish’s e-mail, the company was seeking to
supply Solyndra’s lightweight, thin-film solar panels to
governmental agencies to install on the rooftops of government
buildings and to extend “buy American” procurement provisions
that favor U.S.-based suppliers.  “Solyndra is one of the very few solar panel manufacturers
reaching large-scale production in the U.S.,” Fish said in the
e-mail.  $187,000 for Lobbying  The Fremont, California-based solar-panel maker paid
McAllister & Quinn more than $187,000 in 2010 and 2011 to lobby
on its behalf, according to Senate records.  McAllister lobbyist Stephen Ham said in a follow-up e-mail
on July 16, “Apparently there is an issue with the government
buying Chinese panels over U.S. manufactured ones.”  Ham said yesterday the firm doesn’t comment on its clients.  While White House officials initially suggested a meeting
with Browner’s deputies, climate-office official Stephen
Moilanen wrote back on July 20, rejecting the request.  “Unfortunately, we will be unable to accommodate this
request at this time, as we feel this request would be better
directed to the  Department of Energy  itself,” Moilanen wrote
Fish.  In June 2010, Solyndra withdrew a planned initial public
offering for as much as $300 million. On July 6, a report in
Greenwire, an online news outlet that covers the environment,
said the company was hemorrhaging cash.  Solyndra spokesman  David Miller  called the report “total
crap,” in a July 6 e-mail to Gregory Nelson, deputy director of
the White House office of public engagement, according to the
batch of documents, which the White House also released to the
press.  ‘Troubling Questions’  A report released by the House Energy committee on Sept. 14
said e-mails obtained from its seven-month investigation “raise
troubling questions” about whether budget officials weighing
the risk of granting Solyndra the loan guarantee were rushed by
Obama aides to reach a decision.  Jeffrey Zients, deputy director of the White House Office
of Management and Budget, described the review as thorough
during testimony to the committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  