-- 
Solyndra Collapse Foreseen by Some Workers, a ‘Shock’ to Others

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-09-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/solyndra-collapse-foreseen-by-some-workers-a-shock-to-others.html
Alex Brudny, a mechanical engineer
at Solyndra LLC until two weeks ago, says he wondered why the
Obama administration gave the California company $535 million in
loan guarantees.  “To a majority of us, it looked like a political stunt,”
Brudny, 59, said in a telephone interview. “The product was not
as good as we counted on, and things were not really going well,
and it was just a matter of time to me.”  The collapse of Solyndra, a solar-power manufacturer, has
prompted inquiries by Congress, the FBI and watchdogs at the
Energy and Treasury departments. For 1,100 workers such as
Brudny, it also has meant the loss of a job when the company
shut down on Aug. 31.  Brudny was among employees who arrived at the Fremont,
California, company to hear the news that day, then stuck around
for an address by Solyndra Chief Executive Officer Brian Harrison, who told them new financing hadn’t come through. The
Energy Department had rejected Solyndra’s request for a
restructuring of its U.S. loan deal a day earlier, according to
a memo released Sept. 12 by Republicans on the House Energy and
Commerce Committee.  “There was no notice,” said Brudny, who is looking for a
new job. “The environment was full-blast, working as hard as we
could all the way until the last minute.”  The Obama administration has said investments such as its
bet on Solyndra are necessary to compete with the aid  China  is
pouring into development of renewable-energy sources.  “The question is whether we are willing to take on this
challenge, or whether we will simply cede leadership in clean
energy to other nations and watch as tens of thousands of jobs
are created overseas,” Jonathan Silver, executive director of
the Energy Department’s loan office, told the House panel on
Sept. 14.  ‘Total Shock’  Sangita Patel arrived for work at Solyndra the day it
announced it would file for  bankruptcy protection  to find
reporters camped out on the front lawn. She didn’t share
Brudny’s sense of foreboding.  “Total shock,” the manufacturing engineer said of her
reaction when a colleague in the parking lot told her their
employer had announced it was shutting down.  “The day before was a perfectly normal day,” Patel, who
declined to give her age, said yesterday as she emerged from a
workshop at a job fair in Union City, about 12 miles (19
kilometers) from Solyndra’s headquarters. “No sign or no rumors
about anything.”  ‘Delightful Company’  Boyd Charette, a 51-year-old  San Francisco  resident, fell
between Brudny and Patel in his assessment of Solyndra, which he
joined in 2008 and left in April.  “Solyndra was one of the most delightful companies I’ve
ever worked for,” Charette said in a telephone interview,
citing the enthusiasm and intelligence of co-workers and his
conviction at the time that the company would succeed. “It was
one of the highlights of my life professionally.”  Charette said he quit after hearing colleagues predict
Solyndra wasn’t going to make it.  “They were telling me that the cost of the product was
higher than what they would be able to sell it for, and they
didn’t feel that would change anytime soon,” said Charette, who
now works as a software engineer for Milpitas, California-based
Soladigm Inc., a startup backed by General Electric Co. that
makes glass that switches from clear to tinted on demand.  “Dozens of employees left in the first three months of
2011 because they were worried that the company’s business plan
was not viable,” Charette said.  Lawsuit Filed  Peter Kohlstadt, a former Solyndra research and development
engineer, has filed a lawsuit against the company alleging it
violated a federal law requiring employers to give 60 days’
notice of a mass dismissal or factory closing.  Kohlstadt, who is seeking class-action status for his
complaint, said he’s out more than $10,000 in accumulated
vacation pay.  “They didn’t have enough money to pay us,” Kohlstadt said
in a telephone interview. “It was like a slap in the face.”  Solyndra didn’t give out severance packages and reimbursed
employees only for vacation time accrued in the final 90 days,
former employees said.  ‘Boom, You’re Gone’  “It was like, boom, you’re gone, you are out of there,”
said Kohlstadt, a 49-year-old father of two. “Now, I am sitting
here without a job, without health insurance and my wife is not
working.”  David Miller , a Solyndra spokesman, said he couldn’t
comment on pending litigation.  “We did set up two social networks and have been actively
working with companies from all over the country to try to place
our very talented workforce,” Miller said yesterday in an e-
mail. “Solyndra has a reputation for great people, and I think
that shows in the number of inquiries we have received.”  About 170 fired Solyndra workers participated in a Sept. 9
career-counseling meeting organized by the U.S. Department of
Labor and local agencies, according to Patti Castro, interim
director of the Alameda County Workforce Investment Board, a
Hayward, California-based job training agency.  Attendees ranged from skilled engineers confident that they
would find another Silicon Valley job to assembly-line workers
worried about their prospects, Castro said in an interview.  “It is terrible what happened, and the employees deserved
to be notified at minimum at least two weeks before,” Alameda
County Supervisor Nadia Lockyer said in an interview yesterday
after addressing jobseekers at the Union City job fair. “It’s
very telling to how tough these times are that it was done in
that manner.”  LinkedIn, Google  Greg Sandusky, 50, a maintenance technician at Solyndra,
said he came to yesterday’s job fair for some feedback on his
resume. Sandusky is among about 100 employees still on the
company payroll until next month as it winds down.  Sandusky said the company has set up Solyndra alumni groups
on the professional networking site run by LinkedIn Corp. and on
Google Inc.’s website.  California’s jobless rate climbed to 12 percent in July,
second only to  Nevada ’s, while the national rate that month was
9.1 percent, according to Labor Department data.  “It’s still a very tough job market,” Jeff Ruster,
executive director of Work2Future, an economic-development
agency in Santa Clara County that is helping organize job events
for former Solyndra workers, said in a telephone interview. “We
are trying to help connect people as quickly as we can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 