-- 
Song Download Damages Improperly Reduced, Appeals Court Says

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-09-16T22:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/song-download-damages-improperly-reduced-appeals-court-says-1-.html
A judge improperly cut the damages
assessed against a teenager who downloaded and redistributed
thousands of songs from the Web without paying, a federal
appeals court said  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Boston today rejected U.S.
District Judge Nancy Gertner’s 90 percent reduction of the award
and directed her to reconsider whether the jury’s $675,000
penalty against Joel Tenenbaum was excessive.  “We affirm the finding of liability against Tenenbaum and
in favor of plaintiffs,” U.S. Circuit Chief Judge Sandra Lynch
said in the appellate opinion. The panel “rejected Tenenbaum’s
arguments that the Copyright Act is unconstitutional.”  The record industry has suffered billions of dollars of
lost revenue since Napster, the original peer-to-peer, or P2P,
file-sharing website for music, appeared in 1999. After Napster
was shut down by court order, other file-sharing sites took its
place. In 2005 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that another P2P
site, Grokster Ltd., was liable for copyright infringement on a
“gigantic scale.”  Recording companies including Sony Music Entertainment,
 Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  and  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group 
sued Tenenbaum in 2007 after warning him in a letter that he was
infringing their music copyrights. Gertner found him liable for
copyright infringement on a sample of 30 songs and scheduled a
trial by jury to determine whether the infringement was
“willful” and what the damages would be.  ‘Unconstitutionally Excessive’  Under federal copyright law, statutory damages can range
from $750 a song to as much as $150,000 if the infringement is
willful.  The jury in July 2009 awarded damages of $22,500 a song,
or $675,000. Gertner cut the penalty in July 2010, calling it
“unconstitutionally excessive.”  “We are pleased the court agreed with us that the finding
of liability was correct and that the district court erred in
finding the verdict unconstitutional,” Jennifer Pariser, of the
 music industry ’s trade group the  Recording Industry Association
of America , said in an e-mailed statement.  Charles Nesson, a lawyer representing Tenenbaum, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment.  Smaller Penalty  Both Tenenbaum and the record industry appealed the
district court’s decision. The music companies wanted the jury
award to stand, and Tenenbaum sought a smaller penalty. The U.S.
also appealed, claiming that the statutory damage awards are
constitutional.  The music industry, in addition to suing file-sharing
sites, pursued consumers, many of them college students, who
were downloading and sharing digital songs. The consumers,
identified by Internet service providers, were allowed to pay
fines to avoid court action and most took that option.  Tenenbaum is one of two cases to be tried in federal court.
In 2009, a federal jury in  Minneapolis  said Jammie Thomas-Rasset
should pay $80,000 for each of 24 songs downloaded, for a total
damages award of $1.92 million. The judge found the award
excessive and the music industry appealed to Eight Circuit Court
of Appeals.  Tenenbaum, from Providence,  Rhode Island , was attending
Goucher College in Baltimore when the infringement occurred,
according to court papers. He later went to graduate school at
 Boston University .  The 30 infringed songs, a sample of the tracks Tenenbaum
obtained and shared, included Nirvana’s “Come As You Are.”  The case is Sony BMG Music Entertainment v. Tenenbaum, 10-
1883, U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit (Boston). The
lower court case is Sony BMG Music v. Tenenbaum, 07-11446, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  ( Boston ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  