-- 
Spanish Opposition Criticizes ‘Feverish’ Tender for Airports

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-16T11:30:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/spain-s-opposition-pp-criticizes-airport-privatization.html
Spain ’s opposition People’s Party,
which polls indicate will win elections on Nov. 20, criticized
the government’s tender to sell management contracts for Madrid
and Barcelona airports, saying the timetable is “feverish.”  “It’s not acceptable to rush through the biggest asset
sale as they are doing with the privatization of Aena,” Andres Ayala, the PP’s infrastructure spokesman, told lawmakers
yesterday, according to an e-mailed statement from the party.
‘It is being done at the worst moment.’’  Spain’s government has set a deadline of Oct. 31 for
companies including  Ferrovial SA (FER)  to present bids for the
countries’ two largest airports as it aims to reduce the amount
of debt it needs to issue this year. The Socialist government
wants to raise at least 3.7 billion euros ($5.1 billion) from
the  management contract  for Madrid Barajas airport and 1.6
billion euros from Barcelona El Prat.  The PP, which privatized state assets when it governed in
the eight years through 2004, would win 44.8 percent of the vote
if elections were held now, giving Spanish opposition leader
 Mariano Rajoy  an outright majority in Parliament, the newspaper
El Pais reported Sept. 12, citing a poll. The Socialists would
win 30.7 percent, according to the poll, which had a margin of
error of 3.2 percentage points.  Bidders  Ferrovial SA, the owner of  London ’s Heathrow airport, has
teamed up with Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,  Australia ’s
Industry Funds Management Pty Ltd. and Infinity Investments of
 Abu Dhabi  for its offer to run both airports, while  Acciona SA (ANA) 
is allied to Frankfurt airport operator Fraport AG.  A group led by Fomento de Construcciones & Contratas SA and
including  Singapore ’s Changi Airport Group and Munich-based
 Siemens AG (SIE)  is also bidding for the two hubs, as is  GMR
Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)  of India and a team including  Aeroports de
Paris (ADP)  and Global Infrastructure Partners of the U.S.  Grupo  San Jose  is bidding solely for Madrid Barajas, while
Barcelona-based  Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE)  wants to run only
its home city’s hub.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  