-- 
Spanish Regional Debt Surges to Second-Quarter Record, Bank of Spain Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-16T11:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/spain-second-quarter-regions-debt-reached-12-4-percent-of-gdp.html
Spanish regions’ debt burden surged
to a record in the second quarter, adding to pressure on the
central government to rein in spending or risk missing the
nation’s deficit goal.  The 17 semi-autonomous regions’ outstanding debt burden
rose to 133.2 billion euros ($183.7 billion), or 12.4 percent of
gross domestic product, from 11.6 percent in the first quarter,
the  Bank of Spain  said on its website today. From a year
earlier, the debt surged 24 percent and the outstanding amount
has more than doubled since 2007.  Spain ’s regions are key to the nation’s efforts to cut the
euro area’s third-largest budget deficit as they manage more
than a third of public spending, including health and education.
 Fitch Ratings  downgraded five regions including Andalusia and
Catalonia this week, saying debt levels are climbing and the
weak economic recovery will undermine revenue.  Spain’s regional governments are behind schedule to meet
deficit targets, according to data released last week that
Moody’s Investors Service called “credit negative.” Slippage
by the regions “adds to pressure on the central government to
make the needed cuts to meet the general government deficit
targets,” Fitch Director Douglas Renwick said on Sept. 13.
Risks to Spain’s sovereign rating are “clearly on the
downside,” he said.  ‘Slippage’ Risk  “My sense is the central government won’t be able to
offset completely the slippage by the regions,”  Giada Giani , an
economist at Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone interview from
 London .  The 17 regions posted an average budget shortfall of 1.2
percent of GDP in the first half, the Madrid-based  Finance
Ministry  said on Sept. 8, citing data that aren’t directly
comparable to the figures used in the final deficit
calculations. The regions have a target of 1.3 percent of GDP
this year, as part of the overall public-deficit goal of 6
percent of GDP for this year, down from 9.2 percent in 2010.  The overall public-sector debt load amounted to 65.2
percent of GDP, the Bank of Spain said today. That compares with
the government’s year-end forecast of 67.3 percent of GDP, which
it revised down in April from the 68.7 percent estimated in the
budget.  Elections  Thirteen of Spain’s 17 states held elections on May 22,
adding to pressure on spending. The opposition  People’s Party 
emerged from the vote with control of most regions and has been
slashing spending since taking over. The party is also set to
win national elections on Nov. 20, polls shows, and opposition
leader  Mariano Rajoy  said yesterday he would push for a new
budget stability law and a “binding” spending limit for
regional administrations.  The PP would win 44.8 percent of the vote if elections were
held now, giving Rajoy an outright majority in Parliament, the
newspaper El Pais reported Sept. 12, citing a poll. The
Socialists would win 30.7 percent, according to the poll, which
had a margin of error of 3.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  