-- 
SpongeBob TV Attention-Deficit Study Doesn’t Hold Water: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-16T00:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/spongebob-tv-attention-deficit-study-doesn-t-hold-water-view.html
SpongeBob SquarePants probably
doesn’t need any more defending. Since his drubbing in the
medical journal  Pediatrics  on Monday, plenty of fans have stood
up for him, testifying to his messy, merry appeal.  But his viewers, and their parents, could probably use some
support, too, or at least reassurance that there’s no need to
walk out on Bikini Bottom just yet.  The new rap against Mr. SquarePants (he’s also been slammed
for exalting junk food and accused of promoting  homosexuality )
comes from a study by psychologists at the  University of
Virginia , which claims to have found evidence that the TV show
moves too fast for little kids, and thus erodes their ability to
pay attention. Too-fast pacing is a familiar complaint about
children’s TV, dating to the 1970s. Until now it has not stood
up to scientific scrutiny, and there is good reason to think the
new study won’t either.  The researchers found that a group of 20 4-year-olds who
watched the cartoon “ SpongeBob SquarePants ” for just nine
minutes performed significantly worse on tests of “executive
function” than did like-sized groups of 4-year-olds who either
watched the animated show “Caillou,” a relatively sedate
program, or played with paper, crayons and markers for nine
minutes.  (In the Pediatrics article, the two programs aren’t named,
but are referred to, revealingly, as “a very popular fantastical
cartoon about an animated sponge that lives under the sea” and
“a realistic Public Broadcasting Service cartoon about a typical
U.S. preschool-aged boy.”)  The “SpongeBob” clip had scene changes every 11 seconds, on
average, while the “ Caillou ” segment had them only every 34
seconds.  After viewing the clips, or coloring pictures, the children
were given four tests. They were instructed, for example, to
touch their heads and toes, and to repeat strings of numbers in
reverse order.  Tired Minds  Those who watched “SpongeBob” worked at just half the
capacity of those in the other two groups, the lead researcher
told reporters, because their brains were exhausted from having
worked so hard to follow the fast animation.  Interpreted that way, the findings sound alarming. But
experience tells us we should be cautious about leaping to the
conclusion that quick scene changes caused the kids’ poor test
results.  In the mid-1970s, when television was being disparaged as a
“plug-in drug,” psychologists at the  University of
Massachusetts , Amherst, published the first  study  on whether
fast-paced TV can affect children’s attention. The study was
similar to the University of Virginia’s, but better designed.  The researchers observed three groups of 24 4-year-olds.
Two groups watched a 40-minute segment of, notably, the same TV
show: “Sesame Street,” which was then criticized for moving too
quickly. Children who watched it, it was said, risked developing
shorter attention spans and becoming extraordinarily impulsive.
One group watched a segment containing shot changes every six
seconds while the other group watched one in which some scenes
went on for as long as eight minutes. The third group listened
to their parents read stories.  No Proof Found  Afterward, researchers tested the children to gauge their
concentration and attention span. They found no differences
among the three groups.  In the decades that followed, other researchers looked for
proof that the pace of television might impair children’s
thinking, but came up with almost nothing. One 2000  study  found
some evidence that 4- and 5-year-olds who watched “ Mighty
Morphin Power Rangers ” had shorter attention spans immediately
after than those who watched “ Mr. Rogers’ Neighborhood .”  But that study, like the University of  Virginia  one,
compared apples with oranges -- two entirely different TV shows
-- so there’s no telling which characteristics of the programs
might have affected the children’s thinking.  Could it be that the children were slow to settle down and
get to work because “SpongeBob” is funny and they were energized
by laughter? As much as we respect all forms of expression, it’s
safe to say that “Caillou” is not particularly funny, and it’s
easy to see how kids could turn from watching it to performing
serious tasks without needing a moment to recover.  The notion that any TV cartoon might be bad for children’s
brains because it moves so fast is no better established now
than it was when it was first proposed more than three decades
ago. Our friend under the sea remains innocent until proven
guilty.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 