-- 
Sri Lanka Leaves Interest Rates Unchanged to Support Growth

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 
2011-09-16T02:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/sri-lanka-leaves-key-rates-unchanged-for-eighth-straight-month.html
Sri Lanka’s central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged for an eighth straight month, seeking
to support economic growth as the global recovery falters.  The  Central Bank of Sri Lanka  kept its reverse repurchase
rate at 8.5 percent and the repurchase rate at 7 percent, the
Colombo-based bank said on its  website  today.  Nations from  South Korea  to  Malaysia  also left borrowing
costs unchanged this month as  Europe ’s debt crisis and elevated
U.S. unemployment sap export demand and crimp expansion. Sri
Lankan economic growth accelerated to 8.2 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, benefitting from Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal’s decision to hold rates since a cut in January.  “The need of the hour is to keep interest rates low to
stimulate growth,” Sarath Rajapakse, director of research at
Capital Trust Securities Pvt. in  Colombo , said before the report.
“The central bank has room to keep policy rates benign because
inflation is slowing.”  The benchmark Colombo All-Share Index of stocks has climbed
3.2 percent so far in 2011 and is the world’s best performer
over the past three years, surging 195 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Sri Lankan rupee has
strengthened 0.8 percent against the dollar this year.  Global Slowdown  “It is expected that the moderation of world economic
activity along with the slowing down of both advanced economies
as well as emerging economies would have some dampening effect
on credit and therefore monetary expansion in the period ahead,”
the central bank said today.  The monetary authority added that “if warranted,
appropriate monetary policy action would be taken to contain
monetary expansion, going forward.”  Consumer prices rose 7 percent in August from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in seven months.  Sri Lanka  would be
comfortable with inflation of 4 percent to 6 percent, and price
gains may moderate closer to 6 percent by the end of 2011,
Cabraal said in June.  Sri Lanka’s macroeconomic conditions are “quite strong”
and the nation’s monetary policy stance is “appropriate” to
support growth, the  International Monetary Fund  said this month.
The lender has disbursed $1.75 billion to Sri Lanka under its
$2.6 billion loan program.  Cabraal lowered the central bank’s reverse repurchase rate
by 1.25 percentage points to 8.5 percent from the start of July
2010 to January this year.  The island’s gross domestic product growth quickened last
quarter from a 7.9 percent pace in three months through March.  Foreign investment and tourism after the end of the
conflict against the  Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam  in May
2009 have also aided Sri Lanka’s $50 billion economy.  Sri Lanka Telecom Plc (SLTL) , the nation’s biggest fixed-line
phone company, said in July that it’s spending about 11 billion
rupees ($100 million) to expand networks, including in the
island’s north and east where the war was fought.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  