-- 
Stimulus Fatigue Stymies Obama in Finding Votes for Jobs Plan

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/stimulus-fatigue-stymies-obama-in-rounding-up-votes-for-full-jobs-package.html
Republican lawmakers are rejecting
President  Barack Obama ’s $447 billion  job-creation  plan in its
entirety and expressing skepticism about its pieces, creating
doubt about whether it can overcome obstacles in Congress.  As Obama tries to rally public support behind tax breaks
and spending on schools and bridges, the reaction on  Capitol
Hill  indicates that only a few fragments of the plan may become
law -- most likely tax cuts to promote consumer demand and
hiring. Many Republicans dismiss Obama’s proposal as a warmed-
over version of the 2009 stimulus law they opposed.  “I just don’t see much Republican support in the Senate
for hardly anything that’s been out there so far, and especially
when they put the pay-fors forward,” said  John Thune  of  South
Dakota , the fourth-ranking Republican in the Senate. “I mean,
that’s just a complete non-starter.”  Republicans, who have ideas about how to lower unemployment
by limiting regulation and expanding domestic oil production,
aren’t ceding ideological or political ground to the
administration. Beyond that, the Senate’s Democratic leader
isn’t rushing to bring Obama’s proposal to the floor as he
focuses on other legislation such as disaster assistance. Also,
some rank-and-file Democrats have complained about the tax
increases in the bill.  Obama proposes paying for the measure with a cap on some
deductions and exclusions for high-income taxpayers, along with
tax increases for private equity firms, oil and gas companies
and corporate jet owners. Democrats and Republicans have
objected to the cap on tax breaks, and the other revenue-raising
proposals haven’t advanced in the past.  ‘Pass This Bill’  With 14 months until he faces re-election and a 9.1 percent
unemployment rate, the president has been traveling across the
country telling the public to press Congress to “pass this
bill,” though the bill itself is likely to be carved up.  “We’ve got to tell Congress to do their part,” Obama said
in Raleigh,  North Carolina , on Sept. 14. “You’ve got some
Republicans in Congress, they like to talk about how ‘We’re in
favor of America’s job creators.’ Well, you know what, if you’re
in favor of America’s job creators, this is your bill.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  said in a Washington speech
yesterday that some of Obama’s proposals “offer opportunities
for common ground.” He wasn’t specific, and he didn’t signal
that House leaders felt any urgency to advance the plan.  “Let’s be honest with ourselves,” said Boehner, an Ohio
Republican. “The president’s proposals are a poor substitute
for the pro-growth policies that are needed to remove barriers
to job creation in America.”  Entire Package  The White House has been pressing for passage of the entire
bill. Obama political adviser  David Axelrod  said on ABC’s Good
Morning America Sept. 13 that the administration is “not in a
negotiation to break up the package” and Republicans shouldn’t
consider it an “a la carte menu.”  Still, White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters later in the day that Obama wouldn’t veto partial
measures. If Congress were to “send a portion of the American
Jobs Act, the president would of course not veto it,” Carney
said. “He would sign it and then he would return to press the
Congress to get the job done.”  The package’s elements with the best chance of making it to
the president’s desk are tax cuts, in part because letting the
current payroll tax cut lapse would raise taxes for workers,
lawmakers in both parties said. Representative Mike Simpson, an
Idaho Republican, predicted that a payroll tax cut would
ultimately pass.  Obama wants workers to pay 3.1 percent of wages up to
$106,800 in Social Security payroll taxes, down from 4.2 percent
this year and 6.2 percent in a typical year. He has proposed a
similar cut to the employer’s side of the payroll tax for the
first $5 million of a company’s wages and a complete payroll tax
holiday for the first $50 million in increased payroll in 2012.  Skepticism  Some Republicans, including Thune and Representative  Scott Garrett  of  New Jersey , are skeptical of the payroll tax cuts.
Representative Kevin Brady, a senior Republican on the House
Ways and Means Committee, said rebates and tax cuts designed to
stimulate consumer demand in 2001, 2008, 2009 and 2011 didn’t
work as intended.  “We’re taking a hard look at the payroll taxes from the
standpoint that the last four consumer rebates -- the two Bush
ones and the two Obama ones -- have been economically very
disappointing,” he said. “They just haven’t performed.”  House Republicans  haven’t said how they might package the
payroll tax cuts when they write legislation. They might pair
them with provisions the White House opposes, such as
restrictions on regulation or cuts in entitlement spending.  Representative Ron Kind, a Wisconsin Democrat, questioned
whether the payroll tax cut for employers would prompt much
hiring by small businesses.  ‘Just Not’ Hiring  Employers “are just not going to hire until consumer
demand” improves, he said. The cuts in employer payroll taxes
may mean “better  cash flow ” for struggling small businesses
and help them avoid layoffs, he said. “But I don’t think it’s
going to result in a lot of new hires on the employer side.”  Brady, who represents suburbs near Houston, said the idea
that might garner the most Republican support would be Obama’s
proposal to extend through 2012 the ability for businesses to
write off 100 percent of some equipment purchases.  “For small businesses especially, private business
investment like buying new equipment, new buildings, new
technology, that has a direct correlation with jobs and
hiring,” Brady said.  Obama’s Democratic allies, including Senator  Robert Menendez  of New Jersey, note that Republicans have backed
infrastructure investments, payroll tax cuts and a job-training
program used in  Georgia .  “To me, there’s a lot of this that should be an easy lift,
but certainly those are three that come -- off the top of my
head -- that Republicans are actually advocates of,” he said.  Deficit Issue  Some Republicans may support money for roads and bridges,
Simpson said, though he added that his colleagues look warily on
new spending as long as the U.S. has a large  budget deficit .  Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson  of  Nebraska , who faces a
tough re-election contest in 2012 in a Republican-leaning state,
said he opposes the tax increases and would reserve judgment on
Obama’s spending proposals.  Republicans plan to focus some of their attacks on the idea
that Obama is trying to spur economic growth in the months
leading up to the reelection campaign. Instead, they say,
Congress should focus on proposals such as a tax code overhaul
that would promote long-term growth.  “We don’t need temporary anything,” said Representative
 John Campbell , a California Republican. “We need new permanent
policies: tax policies, deficit policies, and regulatory
policies that people can count on so that they can make longer-
term decisions.”  Garrett, the New Jersey Republican, said Obama’s broad
rhetoric is better than his substance.  “The devil is in the details,” he said. “And I have yet
to see any details I am actually signing onto.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  