-- 
Syrian Forces Kill 32 Demonstrators as UN’s Ban Urges Assad to ‘Listen’

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-16T13:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/syrian-forces-kill-eight-as-un-s-ban-urges-assad-to-listen-.html
Syrian forces have killed at least
32 protesters throughout the country since yesterday as  United
Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said “enough is enough.”  At least 24 people were killed today by security agents in
the suburbs of the central city of Homs, the west central
governorate of Hama, the northern province of Idlib, the eastern
town of Deir al-Zour, the capital, Damascus, and the southern
area of Daraa, where the uprising against President Bashar al- Assad began in mid-March, Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria and Mahmoud Merhi, head
of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by telephone.  “For six months, we have seen escalating violence and
repression,” Ban told reporters at the UN in  New York 
yesterday. “The international community has repeatedly appealed
to President Assad to stop, most recently the foreign ministers
of the  Arab League . He must now listen to such urgent calls.”  This year’s crackdown on dissent has left more than 3,600
civilians dead, according to Qurabi. About 30,000 have been
detained and 13,000 of them are still being held, according to
estimates from Qurabi and Merhi.  At least eight people died yesterday in Hama, Idlib, Deir
al-Zour, the suburbs of Damascus and in Daraa. State media said
one member of Syria’s security forces was killed and another
four were injured in Basr al Harir, on the outskirts of Daraa,
when they came under fire today from “armed groups, including
gunfire from the minarets of mosques.”  Opposition Conference  Opponents of Assad plan to gather about 300 people at a
conference tomorrow inside  Syria , Merhi said.  Opposition groups said yesterday in Istanbul that they had
formed a national council of more than 100 members, 70 of them
in exile, in a push to unify against Assad’s government.
Representatives are from the Sunni, Shiite, Alawite, Druze and
Christian communities as well as the Kurdish minority and the
Muslim Brotherhood.  Ban said the “international community should really take
some coherent measures and speak in one voice.” Opposition in
the UN  Security Council  from Russia and  China  has prevented
adoption of a U.S. and European proposal for UN sanctions.  U.S. and European leaders have stepped up their own
sanctions against Assad, including bans on oil exports, and
urged him to cede power. The measures haven’t halted the
suppression of what Syria’s government calls foreign-backed
terrorism.  Syrian state media  organizations aired what they called a
“confession” by Colonel Hussein Harmoush, the most senior
commander to break away from the army. Harmoush fled to  Turkey 
after the uprising began. The Turkish government turned him over
to Syrian authorities.  Harmoush, speaking on state television, said the Muslim
Brotherhood smuggled weapons to several Syrian cities, including
Hama and Homs, and that the leaders of “criminal groups”
coordinated with each other to distribute weapons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Dubai at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 