-- 
UBS Trading Loss to Be Investigated by U.K., Swiss Financial Regulators

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-16T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/u-k-swiss-financial-regulators-to-probe-ubs-trading-losses.html
U.K. and Swiss finance regulators
are starting an investigation into the $2 billion trading loss
at  UBS AG (UBSN)  that led to trader Kweku Adoboli’s arrest on fraud
charges.  The probe into the firm’s accounts will be handled by a
third-party firm that’s independent of Zurich-based UBS, the
Financial Services Authority and the Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority said in a joint statement yesterday.
Adoboli was charged yesterday in London with fraud and false
accounting, less than 36 hours after he was arrested.  The “comprehensive independent investigation into the
events surrounding the trading losses incurred by UBS” in
London will focus on the details of the allegedly unauthorized
trades, control failures that allowed them to happen, and an
assessment of the bank’s methods to prevent fraudulent trading,
the regulators said. It’s unclear how long the investigation
will take, according to the statement.  UBS notified the police and regulators of the unauthorized
trades early in the morning Sept. 15. Adoboli was arrested at
3:30 a.m. and remains in police custody in  London . He is being
held until Sept. 22, when he can request bail at a court
hearing.  The City of London Police said their investigation is
continuing and they are working with the FSA, the  Crown
Prosecution Service , and the  Serious Fraud Office , which
prosecutes white-collar crime in the U.K.  Prior UBS Fine  Two years ago, the FSA fined UBS 8 million pounds
($12.6 million), at the time the third-largest penalty ever
imposed by the regulator, for not stopping employees in its U.K.
international wealth-management business from making
unauthorized trades with customer money.  UBS’s loss is the largest of its type since former Societe
Generale SA derivatives trader  Jerome Kerviel  caused a 4.9
billion-euro ($6.8 billion) loss in 2008.  The FSA said in a March 2008 policy document it had
discussed the Kerviel case with as many 50 banks in London and
that “many had already put in place reviews to ensure they
identify any gaps in trading controls and close them as soon as
possible.”  The FSA warned banks to monitor traders’ positions for
material risks and said that most firms were satisfied “that
their basic controls and governance surrounding trading, risk
management and settlement activities are effective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at   cscinta@bloomberg.net  