-- 
U.K. Stocks Climb for a Fourth Day; Barclays, BG Group Rally, ARM Declines

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-16T16:22:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/u-k-stocks-climb-for-a-fourth-day-barclays-bg-group-rally-arm-declines.html
U.K. stocks gained for a fourth day
as European officials met in Poland to discuss how they can
expand the new bailout fund for the euro area.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  climbed 3.4 percent, extending its biggest
weekly advance since February 2010.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  rose amid
speculation a Chinese oil producer may be interested in the
company’s Brazilian business.  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  rallied 6.9 percent.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  increased 30.87, or 0.6 percent, to
5,368.41 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , bringing this week’s
advance to 3 percent. The FTSE All-Share Index also gained 0.6
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 1.4 percent.  Stocks jumped yesterday after Germany and France reaffirmed
that Greece will remain a member of the euro and the  European
Central Bank  announced coordinated measures with the  Federal
Reserve  to ensure euro-area lenders have enough dollars.  “It’s encouraging to note that markets rose strongly on
the news,” said Lothar Mentel, chief investment officer at
Octopus Investments Ltd. “But given the limitation of the
initiatives towards solving the crisis, we are cautious to see
these latest moves as the beginning of a lasting improvement.”  The FTSE 100 has lost 10 percent since the start of July
amid mounting concern that Greece will default on its debt and
that banks are struggling to get finance.  Meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  in
 Poland  today, euro-area finance chiefs said the debt crisis left
no room for tax cuts or extra spending to spur an economy on the
brink of stagnation.  Barclays, BG Group  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by assets, surged
3.4 percent to 163.4 pence, extending the stock’s advance this
week to 13 percent. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc increased
2.3 percent to 24.27 pence.  A measure of euro-area banks yesterday rallied 6.3 percent
for its biggest jump since January after the ECB said it will
lend dollars to banks in coordination with the Fed and other
central banks. The loans, which have a maturity of about three
months, are in addition to the bank’s regular seven-day dollar
offerings.  BG Group climbed 1.7 percent to 1,283.5 pence after the
Financial Times reported that BG has held talks with at least
one Chinese oil company interested in its Brazilian business. BG
had considered selling a minority stake and Chinese companies
were among those interested, the newspaper said, citing unnamed
industry specialists.  Inmarsat Increases  Inmarsat advanced 6.9 percent to 532.5 pence for a fifth
day of gains. The company this week said it was “natural” for
private equity firms to consider an investment.  French Connection Plc jumped 11 percent to 103 pence before
the retailer reports first half results on Sept. 19. Oriel
Securities Ltd. said it expects confidence from the company,
citing a successful new collection.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  paced declining shares, falling 2.5
percent to 595 pence as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. removed the
shares from its “conviction buy” list. The stock had climbed 4
percent the previous two days.  Mining companies  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  retreated,
falling 1.5 percent to 1,198 pence and 1.3 percent to 1,052
pence respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  