-- 
U.K. Gives Consent for Trial of Genetically Modified Wheat

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-09-16T15:32:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/u-k-gives-consent-for-trial-of-genetically-modified-wheat-2-.html
A trial of wheat that’s been
genetically modified to resist crop-damaging aphids was approved
by the U.K. government.  The trial will be carried out between next March and
September 2013 by 160-year-old Rothamsted Research, the
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said today on
its  website . The Advisory Committee of Releases to the
Environment, an independent “expert group,” found the plants
will pose no threat to people or the environment, Defra said.  “This isn’t being grown for food,” James Dubrey, a
department spokesman, said by phone. “It’s all been tested in
labs, and now it’s on to the field trial, which is an essential
stage for any research. It’s a small-scale trial with tight
controls and had to go through a complex and detailed clearance
process.”  Defra has given consent for trials of biotech organisms
seven times since May 2008 before today, according to its
website. That included testing of a potato variety resistant to
cyst nematodes, a pest that invades or feeds on roots.  More than 20 species of aphids attack U.K. crops, reducing
yields and quality, the National Farmers Union said. Approval of
the wheat trial is “an exciting development,” chief science
and regulatory affairs adviser Helen Ferrier said in an e-mailed
statement.  Crop Losses  “Genetic improvement, enabling the plants to be more
resistant to aphid infestation, is one important way to reduce
unsustainable crop losses and reliance on pesticides,” Ferrier
said. “Genetic modification is one highly effective breeding
technology that can make crops resistant to pests.”  The trial must take place at the Rothamsted Research farm
in Harpenden,  England , Defra said. The test site can be no
larger than 12,800 square meters (3.2 acres) and will be
composed of two fields no bigger than 6,400 square meters and at
least 20 meters (66 feet) apart, it said.  Rothamsted is the largest U.K. farm-research center and
“almost certainly the oldest agricultural research station in
the world,” according to its  website .  The test variety must be surrounded by a wheat-pollen
barrier formed by another type of the grain at least 2 meters
wide during the trial to assure control, Defra said. It also
said no cereal plants can be grown within 20 meters.  During the year following harvesting of the modified wheat,
the area must be left unseeded and any “volunteer” plants must
be killed, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at   jdeane3@bloomberg.net  