-- 
Pound Drops for Fourth Week on Speculation Policy Makers Will Increase QE

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-16T15:21:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/u-k-pound-extends-fourth-weekly-decline-against-dollar-on-qe-speculation.html
The pound fell for a fourth week
against the dollar on speculation a deteriorating economic
outlook will spur the  Bank of England  to introduce additional
monetary stimulus.  Sterling approached an eight-month low versus the greenback
reached on Sept. 14 after reports this week showed U.K. retail
sales fell, jobless claims increased and inflation accelerated.
Business Secretary Vince Cable called for further monetary
stimulus, or quantitative easing, and recommended the use of
“creative mechanisms” that go beyond the purchase of
 government bonds . Gilts posted a weekly decline.  “This week’s data has not been supportive of sterling,”
said Audrey Childe-Freeman, global head of currency strategy in
London at the private-banking unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The
U.K. is facing continual inflationary pressure in a stagnant
economic environment, and that’s never great for the currency.
There is growing sentiment in the market that there will be
further QE.”  The pound depreciated 0.5 percent this week to $1.5801 at
4:15 p.m. in  London , extending its decline to 5.6 percent from
this year’s high of $1.6747 set on April 28. It was little
changed today. Sterling strengthened 0.7 percent to 87.25 pence
per euro, paring its weekly loss to 1.5 percent.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Deputy Prime
Minister Nick Clegg have emphasized the possibility of further
monetary easing to help revive Britain’s economy. Bank of
England policy maker  Adam Posen  on Sept. 13 called for the
central bank to buy as much as 100 billion pounds in securities
within three months and said the delay in acting has made
economic prospects “worse.”  QE by November  The Bank of England and the  Federal Reserve  will embark on
further quantitative-easing measures by November,  David Blanchflower , a professor at Dartmouth College and a former
member of the BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee, said yesterday at
the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in  New York .  Gilts rose for the first time in four days. The 10-year
yield dropped three basis points to 2.49 percent and the price
climbed 0.225 to 111.05. The yield has still climbed four basis
points this week.  The central bank’s quantitative-easing program, currently
worth 200 billion pounds, remains the preferred tool to
stimulate demand, Cable wrote in a pamphlet published before the
Liberal Democrats’ annual  party conference  starting Sept. 17.  U.K. inflation accelerated for a second month in August,
reaching 4.5 percent from a year earlier, compared with 4.4
percent in July, the  Office for National Statistics  said Sept.
13. A report the following day showed public-sector employment
fell by a record in the second quarter, while jobless-benefit
claims increased by 20,300 in August amid the biggest fiscal
squeeze since World War II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  