-- 
U.S. Company Default Risk Barometer Has Biggest Weekly Decline Since July

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-16T21:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/u-s-company-risk-gauge-is-poised-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-two-months.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk fell by the most this week in almost two months
after central banks acted to provide dollar funding and as
finance ministers gathered in Wroclaw,  Poland , spurring
speculation that global banking strains would ease.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 6.2 basis points this week
to a mid-price of 125.4 basis points as of 5:03 p.m. in New
York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, fell after
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday policy makers need to be “ahead of the curve” and
show the unity of purpose central banks displayed in providing
dollars to European banks. Ministers discussed shoring up
 Europe ’s most-indebted nations, with U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  also attending.  The meeting suggests that “policy makers, and more
importantly central bankers, are getting a sense of what it
takes to calm fears down, which is basically some sense that
there’s a coordinated policy action across all of them,” said
 Rizwan Hussain , a New York-based credit strategist at Morgan
Stanley.  The index has decreased from 135.9 basis points on Sept.
12, its highest level since July 2009. The weekly decline was
the largest since the period ending July 22.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  