-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper Rises on Eased Europe Concern

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-16T11:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-rises-on-eased-europe-concern.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Copper Rises for Second Day on Reduced European Crisis Concern  Copper rose for a second day in  London , narrowing a second
weekly drop, on reduced concern about Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis after central banks allied to help fund euro-area
lenders.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Barclays to Open London Precious Metals Vault on Demand Jump (1)  Barclays Capital  will open a precious metals vault in
London next year as demand for assets boosted investors’
holdings and pushed prices to a record.  Rural Electrification in Talks for $350 Million Chinese Loan (1)  Rural Electrification Corp., a state-controlled lender to
Indian power projects, is in talks to borrow $350 million from
Chinese banks, Chairman Hari Das Khunteta said.  Rice Imports by Bangladesh May Be Miss Forecast on Output (1)  Rice imports by Bangladesh, South Asia’s biggest buyer, may
be half the amount forecast earlier by the government as local
production increases and domestic prices decline, according an
executive at the state food buyer.  China Hanking Said to Revive Iron Ore Mining IPO in  Hong Kong   China Hanking Holdings Ltd., an iron-ore miner, plans to
revive an initial public offering to raise about $170 million in
Hong Kong, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  World’s First Solar Building Exporting Energy Shelved by Masdar  Masdar shelved plans for the world’s first building that
makes more energy than it consumes, a year after the financial
crisis forced the Abu Dhabi company to step back from setting up
the first carbon-neutral city.  U.K. Deal Crackdown Forces Mystery Bidders to Reveal Themselves  Mystery suitors for U.K. companies will be forced to
declare themselves next week as regulators implement stricter
guidelines to increase transparency and protect shareholders.  BHP, Vale, Rio ‘Cheap’ on Catastrophic Fears: Chart of the Day  Exporters of  iron ore  such as Vale SA, Rio Tinto Group and
BHP Billiton Ltd. are cheap as Europe’s fear of economic
catastrophe drags shares below levels supported by prices for
the commodity, said Investec Securities Ltd.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Freeport’s  Indonesia  Strike May Cut Output by 230,000 Tons (1)  A strike at Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg
copper and gold mine in Indonesia may cut output by 230,000 tons
of ore per day, according to an estimate from the government,
which is trying to broker a resolution.  MINING:  De Beers to Move Diamond Trading to Botswana From London (1)  De Beers, which produces more than a third of the world’s
diamonds, has agreed to move its diamond trading to Botswana
from London by the end of 2013 under a 10-year agreement with
the Southern African nation.  Mongolian $300 Million Gold Deal May Revive Nation’s Output (1)  Goldstream Inc., said it acquired gold miner ZAO Zolotoy
Vostok Mongolia for $300 million in the nation’s second biggest
deal and will restart a suspended operation next month as prices
for the metal hit records.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Fall as ECB Coordinates With Fed to Lend Banks Dollars  Gold  may fall for a third day in London and head for the
biggest weekly loss since May as easing concerns about  Europe ’s
debt crisis cuts demand for the metal as a protection of wealth.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Rises, Cutting Weekly Drop, as Lower Prices May Spur Demand  Corn rose in  Chicago , reducing a third weekly drop, on
speculation lower prices will stoke demand. Wheat and soybeans
climbed.  Sugar Declines Amid Weakening Demand; Arabica Coffee Advances  Sugar fell in London, paring a weekly gain, on slowing
demand before the Northern Hemisphere harvest starts next month.
Arabica coffee advanced.  England  Dry Weather Plagues Farmers as Government Saves Trout  Parts of central and eastern England are still in a state
of drought after the driest spring on record prevented some
farmers from irrigating crops and led the government to relocate
fish over the past week, the Environment Agency said.  Bangladesh  Plans to Import 600,000 Tons of Wheat by June  Bangladesh plans to import 600,000 metric tons of wheat in
the next nine months for various state- run welfare programs,
Badrul Hasan, director for procurement at the Directorate
General of Food, said today.  Rubber Jumps for Second Day as ECB Plan Improves Demand Outlook  Rubber gained, paring a weekly drop, on speculation that a
plan by the  European Central Bank  and international policy
makers to lend dollars to euro-area banks will contain the
credit crisis, boosting the outlook for demand.  Japan  Seeks 31,000 Tons of Food Wheat in Tender on Sept. 30 (1)  Japan is seeking to buy 31,000 metric tons of food wheat
and 37,000 tons of food barley in a tender on Sept. 30,
according to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries.  Palm Oil to Climb on Soybean Oil Supply Cut, Demand, Mistry Says  Palm oil may rally next year as demand for biofuels cuts
soybean oil supply and a potential reversal in monetary policy
in  China  and  India  boosts demand, according to Dorab Mistry,
director of Godrej International Ltd.  SHIPPING:  North Sea Forties Premium Jumps to Record High on Cargo Delays  The premium of North Sea Forties crude to Dated Brent, the
benchmark for more than half of the world’s oil, jumped to a
record after a series of shipment delays and cancellations.  Norway’s Biggest Shipbroker to Add Workers, May List in 2012  RS Platou ASA, Norway’s biggest shipbroker, plans to
increase its headcount almost 40 percent and is considering
listing its shares next year as it expands to capture more of
the shipping and offshore market.  ECONOMIES:  European Banks ‘Grossly Under-Capitalized,’ Brown Says (1)  European banks as a whole are “grossly under-capitalized”
in a region where governments are constrained by sovereign debt
problems and faltering economic growth, said former U.K. Prime
Minister Gordon Brown.  Resource Grab Costs to Rise as Yields Hit ’08 High: China Credit  The highest funding costs since 2008 may make it more
expensive for China’s state banks to lend to commodity producing
nations, as the world’s fastest-growing major economy tries to
secure natural resources to fuel growth.  China Auto Market to Avoid Bubble, Mobius Says: Chart of the Day  China’s car industry, facing expansion plans by most major
manufacturers amid slowing sales growth, will avoid “a bubble”
in capacity thanks to low ownership rates, said Templeton Asset
Management’s  Mark Mobius .  China Foreign Direct Investment Rises 11.1% to $8.45 Billion  Foreign direct investment in  China climbed 11.1 percent in
August from a year earlier as  the nation’s growth encourages
companies from Volkswagen AG  to Caterpillar Inc. to expand.  Trichet Urges Euro Officials to Get ‘Ahead of Curve’ in Crisis  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet pressed
euro-area governments to take decisive action to halt the debt
crisis, after the ECB bought them more time by extending an
emergency lifeline to lenders.  Euro Ministers Spar on Collateral as Geithner Calls for Action  Europe’s challenges in stemming the debt crisis were
underscored by snags over collateral to underpin  Greece ’s rescue
loans and German objections to altering European treaties.  India Increases Rates as Subbarao Breaks With BRIC Nations (2)  India’s central bank raised  interest rates  for the 12th
time since the start of March 2010, breaking ranks among the so-
called BRIC nations that have either cut or held borrowing costs
as the global recovery falters.  Spanish Regions’ Debt Surges to a Record, Bank of Spain Says (1)  Spanish regions’ debt burden surged to a record in the
second quarter as administrations struggled to rein in spending
amid a slump in  tax revenue .  OTHER MARKETS:  Euro Weakens on EU Divisions Over Greece; Dollar Index Rises  The euro fell, halting a two-day gain versus the dollar and
yen, on concern issues of collateral required by some nations to
take part in another Greek bailout will hinder agreement at a
meeting of European officials today.  Europe Stocks Advance for Fourth Day; U.S. Index Futures Decline  European stocks rose for a fourth day as investors awaited
a meeting of policy makers in  Poland  for more details on their
efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis. Asian shares
climbed and U.S. index futures fell.  Asian Stocks Rise, Paring a Weekly Loss, on ECB Liquidity Plan  Asian stocks rose, trimming losses on the regional
benchmark index this week, after the European Central Bank and
international policy makers coordinated to lend dollars to euro-
area banks, increasing confidence the region’s debt crisis may
be contained.  Crude Oil  Heads for Fifth Weekly Gain in London on Europe Plan  Oil headed for a fifth weekly gain in London, the longest
winning streak since March, on bets that a plan to contain
Europe’s debt crisis will help shore up fuel demand.  BHP, Vale, Rio ‘Cheap’ on Catastrophic Fears: Chart of the Day  Exporters of iron ore such as Vale SA, Rio Tinto Group and
BHP Billiton Ltd. are cheap as Europe’s fear of economic
catastrophe drags shares below levels supported by prices for
the commodity, said Investec Securities Ltd.  SPORTS:  All Blacks Beat Japan 83-7 to Move Clear Atop World Cup Group  New Zealand beat Japan 83-7 to move clear atop its Rugby
World Cup group with the maximum points from its opening two
matches.  Manchester United  Said to Get Singapore’s Approval for Listing  Singapore’s stock exchange approved Manchester United’s
application to raise about $1 billion in an initial public
offering in the city-state, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  