-- 
U.S. to Attack Al-Qaeda Terrorists Beyond ‘Hot Battlefields,’ Brennan Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-16T22:21:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/u-s-will-hit-al-qaeda-beyond-hot-battlefields-obama-aide-brennan-says.html
The U.S. has the right to strike
terrorists in other sovereign countries beyond “hot
battlefields” such as Afghanistan, said  John Brennan , President
 Barack Obama ’s top counterterrorism adviser.  “Because we are engaged in an armed conflict with al-
Qaeda, the  United States  takes the legal position that, in
accordance with international law, we have the authority to take
action against al-Qaeda and its associated forces without doing
a separate self-defense analysis each time,” Brennan said in
prepared remarks delivered today to a conference at Harvard Law
School in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “We reserve the right to take unilateral action if or when
other governments are unwilling or unable to take the necessary
actions themselves,” he said.  Brennan’s address comes a little more than four months
after U.S. forces killed al-Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden in
 Pakistan , and as experts inside and outside the Obama
administration debate what limits the U.S. should have in
killing lower-ranking al-Qaeda operatives in areas of the  Middle
East  and North Africa. The U.S. has conducted strikes against
al-Qaeda targets using drones from Pakistan to Yemen and
Somalia.  “The United States does not view our authority to use
military force against al-Qaeda as being restricted solely to
’hot’ battlefields like Afghanistan,” Brennan said.  Imminent Threats  Some U.S. allies and “others in the international
community” disagree with the stance, arguing that action can
only be taken in response to an imminent threat, Brennan said.  “Practically speaking, then, the question turns
principally on how you define ‘imminence,” he said.  Brennan said because al-Qaeda doesn’t have a traditional
force structure or present a threat as a nation-state might,
such as massed troops at a border, the concept of imminence
“should be broadened.” Increasing numbers of U.S. partners
have begun to recognize that, he said.  Because of the need for cooperation in battling terrorists,
“the more our views and our allies’ views on these questions
converge, without constraining our flexibility, the safer we
will be as a country, Brennan, 55, said.  The conference was titled ‘Law, Security and Liberty after
9/11.” In his remarks, Brennan also said that U.S. policy on
detention and interrogation must adhere to legal norms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 