-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Rises More Than Estimated on Outlook for Economy

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-16T20:09:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/u-s-consumer-sentiment-rises-more-than-forecast-to-57-8-in-michigan-index.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
rose in September from the lowest level since November 2008 as
Americans’ views of current economic conditions improved.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment climbed to 57.8 this month from 55.7
in August. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a reading of 57. The group’s measure
of consumer expectations six months from now dropped to the
lowest level since May 1980.  A lack of job and income growth, higher costs and a
volatile stock market help explain why retailers like Best Buy
Co. are struggling to drum up sales. These headwinds for
 consumer spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the economy,
raise the risk the recovery will falter and put pressure on
President  Barack Obama , lawmakers and the  Federal Reserve  to
consider more measures aimed at boosting growth.  “The freefall is over,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief
economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York , who projected the
sentiment gauge would climb to 58. “Consumer spending looks
pretty sluggish, but it’s not seeing the recession-like weakness
shown by the confidence numbers.”  Estimates of the 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for
the confidence measure ranged from 52 to 60. The index averaged
89 in the five years leading up to the recession that began in
December 2007 and ended in June 2009.  Stocks gained for a fifth day, the longest rally since July
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid optimism European
leaders will make progress controlling the region’s debt crisis.
The  S&P 500  climbed 0.6 percent to 1,216.01 at the 4 p.m. close
in New York.  Bloomberg Measure  Today’s confidence figures compare with the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, which held last week at its second-
lowest level this year.  The Bloomberg gauge of sentiment was minus 49.3 in the week
to Sept. 11. The figure is close to the minus 54 in January
2009, which matched the worst reading in the history of the
series dating back to 1985.  The Michigan survey’s index of current conditions, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
increased to 74.5 from 68.7 the prior month.  The index of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
dropped to 47 from 47.4.  ‘Value Conscious’  “Customers are even more value conscious when they shop,
are buying smaller baskets and are selecting some lower cost
items,” said W. Rodney McMullen, chief operating officer at
 Kroger Co. (KR) , the biggest U.S. grocery chain.  Speaking on a Sept. 9 conference call with analysts, he
said, “last quarter, we were beginning to read the shift in
consumer sentiment which translated into more obvious behavior
changes this quarter.”  Americans are also facing gasoline prices that haven’t
shown signs of declining. Fuel costs this month through
yesterday averaged $3.65 a gallon, compared with $3.62 in
August, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring
organization.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.7 percent over the next 12 months, compared
with 3.5 percent in the prior survey.  Inflation Expectations  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Fed policy
makers, Americans expect a 3 percent rate of inflation, after
2.9 percent last month.  Some 60 percent of those surveyed in the Michigan report
said they anticipate their incomes to fall in the coming year
after adjusting for inflation, the worst reading in the
measure’s history.  For the year ahead, 17 percent said they expect their
finances to improve, the lowest share ever recorded. About 75
percent of consumers said they anticipate “bad times” in the
economy in the coming year, up from about 50 percent in the
January survey.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said policy makers
will discuss the tools they could use to boost the recovery at
their meeting Sept. 20-21 and stand ready to use them if
necessary.  Obama announced a jobs plan before a joint session of
Congress on Sept. 8, calling for an extension of a payroll-tax
break for Americans and unemployment assistance.  Obama Plan  He also pushed for a payroll tax break for small
businesses, an increase in infrastructure spending and more aid
for cash-strapped state governments.  Best Buy, the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, this week cut its full-year earnings forecast. The
Richfield, Minnesota-based chain also reported a 30 percent
decline in second-quarter profit.  “The consumer is making very measured choices,” Chief
Executive Officer Brian Dunn said in a Sept. 13 telephone
interview. “I don’t think it’s a year where someone is going to
buy a TV and a tablet and a new smartphone and go to
Disneyland.”  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the package-delivery company
whose shipments make it an economic bellwether, said yesterday
that slower growth may persist into 2013.  UPS expects 1 year to 1.5 years of “subpar growth” in the
economy, Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said today at an
investor conference in Louisville,  Kentucky . While no
improvement is in sight now, the economy is “not getting
worse,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  