-- 
S&P 500 Index Posts Longest Rally Since July

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-16T20:44:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-research-in-motion-shares-slide.html
U.S. stocks advanced for a fifth
straight day, the longest rally since July for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, amid optimism that European leaders will make
further progress on controlling the region’s debt crisis.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  jumped 5.5 percent to a record, while
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  gained 2.5 percent as a report showed that
confidence among U.S. consumers rose.  Textron Inc. (TXT) ,  Tyco
International Ltd. (TYC)  and  Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL)  added more than 3.1
percent after a report that United Technologies Corp. is lining
up financing for an acquisition.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  slumped at least 1.1 percent.  The S&P 500 rose 0.6 percent to 1,216.01 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The index gained 5.4 percent since Sept. 9, its third-
biggest weekly rally since 2009. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  added 75.91 points, or 0.7 percent, to 11,509.09. The
rally trimmed the gauge’s drop this year to 0.6 percent.  “The stock market is extremely undervalued,”  David Goerz ,
the San Francisco-based chief investment officer at Highmark
Capital Management Inc., which oversees $17.2 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “As things begin to improve, the market
can rise back to a more normal valuation. The fact that we got
some moderation in terms of thinking about the ECB and how it’s
going to address the crisis helped reduce some of the risk. In
addition, the most recent data points suggest that this pause in
economic activity is in fact transitory.”  The  S&P 500  lost 18 percent between April 29 and Aug. 8
amid concern that  Europe ’s crisis threatened the global economy.
The decline left the index trading at 12.2 times earnings last
month, the cheapest since 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Since then, the index rose 8.6 percent.  Most-Indebted  Equities rose yesterday as the  European Central Bank  and
international policy makers coordinated to lend dollars to banks
to tame the credit crisis. Earlier this week, French and German
leaders confirmed they will support  Greece ’s continued
participation in the shared euro currency. Ministers began
meeting today in Wroclaw,  Poland , to discuss ways of shoring up
Europe’s most-indebted nations, with U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  also in attendance.  European finance ministers ruled out efforts to prop up the
faltering economy and gave no indication of providing aid for
lenders to go along with yesterday’s liquidity lifeline from the
ECB. Clashing with Geithner, finance chiefs from the euro region
said the 18-month debt crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or
extra spending to spur an economy on the brink of stagnation.  ‘Hostage’  “We’re hostage to the European crisis,”  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at  Fort Lee , New Jersey-based Palisade
Capital Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. The firm
manages $3.4 billion. “The fear is that there will be another
systemic move that will put us into a recession. Sentiment has
gotten too negative. There’s a case to be made that any pullback
is going to be a buying opportunity.”  Household product and retail companies had the two biggest
gains in the S&P 500 within 24 industries, rallying at least 1.7
percent. Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, jumped 5.5
percent to $239.30, the highest level since it went public in
1997. Procter & Gamble, the world’s largest consumer-products
company, climbed 2.5 percent, the most in the Dow, to $64.33.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment climbed to 57.8 this month from 55.7
in August. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a reading of 57. The group’s measure
of consumer expectations six months from now dropped to the
lowest level since May 1980.  Seeking Financing  United Technologies, the maker of Sikorsky helicopters and
Carrier air conditioners, is seeking financing that may exceed
$20 billion for a major U.S. acquisition, a person familiar with
the matter said. The person wasn’t authorized to speak publicly
because the details are confidential. John Moran, a spokesman
for United Technologies, declined to comment.  Reuters reported the financing search earlier today, citing
people it didn’t identify. The story said Goodrich Corp. and
Rockwell Collins were attractive targets, according to people
not directly involved in the matter, and said Textron and Tyco
International were among companies mentioned in the past.
Rockwell climbed 7.8 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$56.21. Textron increased 6.8 percent to $18.63, while Tyco rose
3.1 percent to $43.70.  Banks had the biggest decline in the S&P 500 within 24
industries, falling 0.4 percent as a group. Bank of America, the
biggest U.S. lender by assets, retreated 1.4 percent to $7.23.
JPMorgan retreated 1.1 percent to $33.43.  Losing Ground  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  tumbled 19 percent to $23.93 after
missing analyst estimates as sales of BlackBerry smartphone
models slowed and the company shipped fewer PlayBook tablet
computers than projected. The company is losing ground in that
market to Apple Inc.’s iPhone and devices that use Google Inc.’s
Android software. It has made little progress with its PlayBook
in the tablet computer market, shipping just one device for
every 46 iPads that Apple sold in the latest quarter.  “RIM is on a path to becoming a niche player,” said Ted Schadler, an analyst for Forrester Research Inc. “RIM has to
essentially retrench its strategy. It has to focus on what about
its products make them different or better than Apple or Google
products.”  A gauge of energy shares in the S&P 500 dropped 0.1
percent, the only decline among 10 industries, as crude oil
slumped the most in a week.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, fell 1.9 percent to $72.84.  Today was the expiration for U.S. futures and options
contracts on indexes and individual stocks. So-called quadruple
witching occurs once every three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  