-- 
UBS Trader Adoboli Charged With Fraud, False Accounting Dating to 2008

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-17T15:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/ubs-trader-adoboli-charged-with-fraud-false-accounting-on-2-billion-loss.html
Kweku Adoboli, the trader arrested
Sept. 15 after  UBS AG (UBSN)  said it discovered unauthorized trades
that caused a $2 billion loss, was charged with fraud and two
counts of false accounting dating back to 2008.  The 31-year-old was taken into custody at a magistrates
court in  London  yesterday until Sept. 22, when he can make an
application for bail. Adoboli’s false accounting offenses
started in October 2008, according to the court charge sheet. He
is also charged with fraud dating back to January 2009.  Adoboli “dishonestly abused” his position as a senior
trader, which required him “to safeguard, or not to act
against, the financial interests of UBS,” according to court
documents.  Adoboli worked for UBS’s investment bank on its Delta One
desk, which handles trades for clients, typically helping them
to speculate on or hedge the performance of a basket of
securities. The group also takes risks with the bank’s own money
in arranging trades. UBS has said that no client positions were
affected.  He hired criminal law firm Kingsley Napley LLP in London to
represent him. Lawyers from the same firm advised  Nick Leeson ,
the former derivatives trader who caused the collapse of Barings
Plc with $1.4 billion in losses in 1995.  Adoboli wore a sky-blue sweater over a white shirt for his
appearance in court yesterday and didn’t speak apart from
confirming his name and date of birth. He didn’t enter a plea.
Kingsley Napley said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that it
wouldn’t comment on behalf of its client.  FSA Investigation  The U.K. Financial Services Authority and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority said they would
investigate the UBS trading losses.  The investigation, to be carried out by a third party, will
focus on “the control failures which permitted the activity to
remain undetected” and “will include an assessment of the
overall strength of UBS’s controls to prevent unauthorized or
fraudulent trading activity in its investment bank,” the FSA
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Adoboli’s arrest comes as global regulators are pressing
banks to curb proprietary trading and is likely to revive calls
for firms to increase controls on risk and separate their
 investment banking  from their retail businesses.  The police investigation is continuing and the  City of
London  Police said they are working with the FSA and the  Serious
Fraud Office , which prosecutes white-collar crime.  Crown Prosecution  “Lawyers from the  Crown Prosecution Service  Central Fraud
Group have today authorized City of London police to charge”
Adoboli, Sue Patten, the head of the CPS group, said in a
separate statement.  The bank asked British police at 1 a.m. on Sept. l5 to
arrest Adoboli. Adoboli was arrested at 3:30 a.m. that day on
suspicion of fraud by abuse of position. He was held at a police
station in central London while the claims were investigated
after the Zurich-based bank asked for the arrest of its
employee.  Richard Morton, a spokesman for UBS, declined to comment on
the charges.  UBS Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  called the loss
“unauthorized” and “distressing” in an e-mail to employees,
without giving details.  UBS is said to have hired the London-based law firm  Herbert
Smith  to advise on the investigation, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  The bank’s honorary chairman Nikolaus Senn said in an
interview today with Swiss TV channel SF that Oswald Gruebel
wouldn’t be able to remain as CEO because of the losses. UBS
lacked adequate controls, he said.  Trade Support  Before working on the trading desk, Adoboli worked as a
trade support analyst at UBS, according to a profile posted on
LinkedIn.  The $2 billion loss is the largest since former Societe
Generale SA derivatives trader  Jerome Kerviel  caused a 4.9
billion-euro ($6.7 billion) loss in 2008. Kerviel worked on a
similar trading desk to Adoboli.  Britain’s FSA has said it had discussed the Kerviel case
with as many as 50 banks in London and that “many had already
put in place reviews to ensure they identify any gaps in trading
controls and close them as soon as possible,” according to a
policy document from March 2008.  Adoboli graduated from the University of Nottingham in July
2003, earning his degree with honors in e-commerce and digital
business, the school said in a statement. He also attended the
Ackworth School in West Yorkshire as an overseas boarder until
1998, Kathryn Bell, the head of the school, said in an e-mail.  Adoboli is now shown as inactive on the Financial Services
Authority’s register. His father, John Adoboli, a former United
Nations official, told the U.K.’s Press Association in an
interview from Tema,  Ghana , that the family was “heartbroken
because fraud isn’t our way of life.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  