-- 
UBS’s $2 Billion Loss, Rescue Fund, Proxy Access: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-09-16T11:34:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/ubs-s-2-billion-loss-spain-oks-efsf-proxy-access-musicland-compliance.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
said it may be unprofitable in the third quarter after a $2
billion loss from unauthorized trading at its investment bank.  London police arrested Kweku Adoboli, a UBS employee, in
connection with the loss, according to a person with knowledge
of the situation who requested anonymity. City of London police
and UBS declined to identify the man.  UBS management aims to “get to the bottom of the matter as
quickly as possible, and will spare no effort to establish
exactly what has happened,” the bank’s group executive board,
led by Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , said in a memo to
staff yesterday.  The bank tumbled the most since March 2009 in Swiss trading
following the announcement, which deals a blow to Gruebel’s
attempts to rebuild the investment bank after the division
recorded 57.1 billion Swiss francs ($65 billion) in cumulative
pretax losses in three years through 2009. The trading loss may
revive calls for Gruebel to shrink or shut the unit.  A 31-year-old man was arrested at business premises in
central  London  at 3:30 a.m. yesterday on “suspicion of fraud by
abuse of position,” City of London Police Commander Ian Dyson
said in a statement yesterday. The man remains in custody while
the police investigate, the police said.  Adoboli’s LinkedIn page lists him as a director in ETF and
Delta1 Trading at UBS investment bank in London.  The matter is still under investigation, UBS said in a
statement yesterday.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Spain  Becomes Fourth Country to Pass Expanded Powers for EFSF  Spain became the fourth country to approve expanded powers
for the euro-region’s rescue fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, when the lower house of parliament voted on
the plan in  Madrid  yesterday.  Spain joins France, Italy and Belgium in authorizing the
enhanced powers for the 440 billion-euro ($604 billion) fund.
Luxembourg was expected to become the next country to ratify
when its parliament voted yesterday.  All euro-region nations, excluding Greece, Portugal and
Ireland, which are already receiving emergency European Union
funds, need to approve the plan adopted by European leaders on
July 21.  European Commission  President Jose Manuel Barroso,
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy have called on governments to ratify the plan by the end
of this month.  Under its expanded power, the EFSF would take over bond
buying responsibilities from the  European Central Bank  and be
able to lend to nations before they need a bailout.  For a table showing the status of the EFSF passage by
country, click here.  Commodity Derivatives May Need More Regulation, IOSCO Says  Global regulators may need to tighten their rulebooks for
commodity derivatives markets to ensure they operate
transparently and free from abuse, the  International
Organization of Securities Commissions  said.  IOSCO recommended supervisors use position limits,
publication of open contracts and reporting of over-the-counter
derivatives to tame commodity markets that operate in
“disorderly conditions,” according to an e-mailed statement.  The Group of 20 Nations commissioned IOSCO to produce
guidelines for commodity supervision last year. The use of
derivatives to manipulate the price of foodstuffs and other raw
materials is of “notable concern,” according to a European
Union impact study on possible rules, as it can lead to
“distorted” prices that harm the real economy.  Madrid-based IOSCO brings together national market
regulators from more than 100 countries to coordinate rules and
share information.  SEC Defeat Leaves Investors a Longer Path to Proxy Access  U.S. shareholders reeling from last month’s rejection of a
measure that would have let them put board candidates on
corporate ballots may find solace in a measure left standing
after the federal court’s decision.  A Securities and Exchange Commission rule that will take
effect in the wake of that legal challenge lets any investor who
has held at least $2,000 of stock for a year submit a proposal
for how a firm should open board elections to shareholder
nominees. That measure, delayed by the court fight, may provide
a two-step path to so-called proxy access.  U.S. lawmakers, responding to complaints that corporate
risk-taking and pay incentives helped spark the 2008 credit
crisis, empowered the SEC to adopt a rule requiring all publicly
traded companies to include shareholder nominees on proxy
ballots. On July 22, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  struck down the
rule, agreeing with business groups that said the SEC didn’t
adequately consider the impact on companies. The ruling didn’t
affect the separate rule allowing investor proposals.  The SEC, which declined to appeal the court’s ruling, said
in a statement that it will publish details on how the remaining
rule takes effect. Advisers to companies and shareholder groups
say the measure’s impact is likely to be felt during next year’s
corporate proxy season.  The rule will be a new tool for activists that may enable
shareholder groups to use the threat of proposals to pressure
boards in unrelated arguments, said Jeff Morgan, president and
chief executive officer of the  National Investor Relations
Institute  in Vienna, Virginia.  For more, click here.  Twitter Gets Leeway From SEC in Issuing Restricted Stock Units  U.S. regulators gave  Twitter Inc.  the go-ahead to issue
restricted stock units without running afoul of a rule that
requires public disclosure of financial information.  The San Francisco-based company won’t have to comply with a
Securities and Exchange Commission rule that compels private
companies with 500 or more shareholders to make certain
disclosures. Twitter  requested  the exemption in August; the
SEC’s decision was posted on its website Sept. 13.  Closely held companies with fewer than 500 shareholders
aren’t required to disclose financial data, such as revenue,
profit,  cash flow  and debt. Before an initial public offering,
that helps them pursue growth without the same degree of
scrutiny directed toward publicly traded companies.  Some startups say the 500-shareholder rule is restrictive,
and lawmakers have proposed raising the threshold to let firms
with less cash expand by compensating employees with stock.  Facebook Inc. received a similar  exemption  in 2008, as did
Zynga Inc.  earlier  this year.  Restricted stock units represent the right to a specified
number of shares of common stock in the future if certain
conditions are met.  Matt Graves , a spokesman for Twitter, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message seeking comment.  Compliance Action  Ex-Investment Adviser, Filmmaker Charged in Trading Scheme  Federal prosecutors in  New York  accused a former investment
adviser and an independent film producer of taking part in a
$2.6 million  insider-trading  scheme involving drug-company
takeovers.  According to a criminal complaint unsealed yesterday in
 Manhattan  federal court, Scott Allen of Atlanta, in his role at
a consulting firm, learned inside information about the April
2008 acquisition of Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. by Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. and about the September 2009 purchase of
Sepracor Inc. by Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co.  Before the deals were announced, Allen disclosed the
information to John Bennett, a producer and a longtime friend,
the U.S. said. Bennett, of Norwalk,  Connecticut , reaped $1.1
million in profits trading on the information, the U.S. said.
Allen and an unidentified person who is cooperating with the
U.S. made $2.6 million, according to prosecutors.  Bennett has acted in several films, including the 1990
courtroom drama “Presumed Innocent,” according to the website
IMDb.com. He cofounded Bennett Robbins Productions in 2008,
according to the company’s website. He worked for “a major Wall
Street investment bank” before forming Bennett Robbins, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a separate lawsuit
against the two men.  Henry Mazurek , a lawyer for Bennett, declined to comment on
the charges. Brian McEvoy, a lawyer for Allen, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the charges.  According to the complaints filed by prosecutors and the
SEC, FBI agents traced the activities of Bennett and Allen as
they met secretly in Manhattan hotels, shared sushi lunches at
the Time Warner Center and held sidewalk rendezvous.  The case is U.S. v. Allen, 11-MAG-2361, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Courts  Musicland Investor Teo Must Pay $21 Million in SEC Case  Alfred Teo Sr., a  New Jersey  plastics manufacturer who went
to prison for insider trading, must give up $21 million in
profit he made while fraudulently concealing his shares of
Musicland Stores Corp., a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton imposed the disgorgement
order on Teo, who lost a jury trial May 25 in federal court in
 Newark , New Jersey, where he contested a civil complaint by the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Teo also is liable for
interest and penalties to be calculated by the SEC, she ruled.  Teo’s attorney, Eric Corngold of  Friedman Kaplan Seiler &
Adelman LLP  in New York, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment on the ruling.  In March 2010, Teo agreed to pay $996,783 to cover the
profits and interest that the SEC alleged he made through
insider trading.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Alfred S. Teo Sr., 04-cv-1815, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Newark). The criminal case is U.S. v. Teo, 04-cr-
00583, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  SABMiller’s Grolsch Wins EU Court Appeal of Antitrust Fine  Grolsch, a unit of  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, won a European Union court appeal of a
31.7 million-euro ($43.8 million) fine levied for colluding on
beer prices in the Netherlands.  Antitrust officials didn’t give sufficient proof to
“establish the direct participation of Grolsch” in the cartel
and “failed to explain” why the company should be held liable
for the conduct of a Dutch subsidiary, the EU General Court, the
region’s second-highest tribunal,  said  in a ruling yesterday.  The commission will “analyze the ruling carefully” and
will then consider whether to appeal the judgment or readopt the
cartel decision, Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the EU
regulator, said in an e-mail.  The case is: T-234/07, Koninklijke Grolsch v. Commission.  BAA Says It Will Seek Court Review of Ordered Airport Sales  BAA Ltd., the owner of London’s Heathrow Airport, said it
will seek a judicial review of a U.K. regulator’s order that it
sell the U.K. capital’s Stansted terminal and a base in either
Edinburgh or Glasgow.  BAA will ask an appeals tribunal tomorrow to review the
March 2009 decision by the U.K.  Competition Commission , the
company said yesterday in a statement. The regulator said in
July that the breakup is “fully justified,” while BAA has said
the decision was based on outdated information.  BAA, based in London, was first ordered to find buyers for
Gatwick and Stansted in March 2009, together with either
Edinburgh or Glasgow in Scotland. While Gatwick was sold to
Global Infrastructure Partners Ltd. for 1.51 billion pounds
($2.39 billion), BAA was able to delay the other disposals when
the Competition Appeal Tribunal upheld claims that an adviser to
the regulator had a conflict of interest.  The Competition Commission has said that any changes since
the decision was issued two years ago have been considered and
customers would still be best served by greater competition.  Interviews/Speeches  EU Still Considering Final Form of Basel Bank Liquidity Rules  The  European Commission  is still determining what minimum
liquidity rules it should impose on its banks as part of a
broader overhaul of financial regulation in the region.  “The definition of the liquidity coverage ratio is still
quite liquid as far as we are concerned,” Mario Nava, an
official in the commission’s financial services department, said
yesterday at the  Eurofi Financial Forum  in Wroclaw, Poland.  The liquidity coverage ratio, which requires banks to hold
enough easily cashable assets to survive a 30-day seizing-up of
credit markets, was published by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  in December 2010 as part of the so-called Basel III
rules for banks. It must be written by nations into their laws
before it can enter into force.  Date Says Consumer Bureau Looking at Need for Overdraft Rules  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is considering
whether to impose rules on bank overdraft programs to ensure
they’re being applied “in an even-handed way,” said Raj Date,
the adviser running the new agency.  U.S. regulators including the  Federal Reserve  have imposed
rules on overdraft programs, and that may lead to inconsistent
supervision of different kinds of financial institutions, Date
said yesterday in a Philadelphia speech.  “We will be monitoring the impact of the recent regulatory
and supervisory interventions,” he said. “If we find that
these interventions are not working as intended, we will adjust.
And if we find that additional action is needed, we will act.”  Date’s speech outlined the agenda for the consumer bureau,
which officially started work on July 21. The agency, created by
the Dodd-Frank Act, is working on issues related to credit
cards, mortgages, student loans and checking accounts, he said.  As part of its work on mortgages, the bureau is developing
a two-page “mortgage shopping sheet” to help homebuyers
determine what a mortgage costs and whether they can afford it.
The agency is also looking at changes to mortgage regulations,
he said. “We want to establish some common-sense safeguards to
prevent bad practices from harming consumers,” Date said.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 