-- 
UBS Rogue Hurts Banks’ War on Rules: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-09-16T15:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/ubs-rogue-shows-folly-of-dimon-s-anti-american-comment-william-d-cohen.html
If Wall Street’s not-so-subtle
efforts to regain the upper hand against regulators soon begin
to lose steam, it will be easy to pinpoint the reason: Kweku Adoboli, the 31-year-old purported rogue trader at  UBS AG (UBSN)  in
 London  who allegedly cost the firm $2 billion on a horribly
wrong bet.  London police arrested Adoboli at his desk at about
3:30 a.m. Thursday. While no doubt UBS will try to pin the huge
loss on Adoboli alone -- just as  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA did to
 Jerome Kerviel  in 2008 and Kidder Peabody & Co. Inc. did to
Joseph Jett in 1993 -- there is likely to be more to the story.  Recall that Jett contended Kidder had audited his trades
during the summer of 1993 and knew everything he did. “When a
trader is audited,” he told “60 Minutes,” “that is the
firm’s stamp of approval on everything the trader does. I cannot
fathom, how, in all these reports that have come out since my
dismissal, [there is] this claim of not knowing what is going
on.”  Why is it that a trader who exceeds his trading limits and
makes a fortune is a hero, but a trader who exceeds his trading
limits and loses a fortune is a rogue?  Failure of Compliance  Whether UBS is shown to have been aware of Adoboli’s
trading is almost beside the point. If the bank was aware of it
and did not stop it, then its failure to do so is
unconscionable. If it was not aware of the trades, then its
compliance and risk management departments’ failure to prevent
them from happening in the first place is equally appalling.  In the post-Lehman,  Dodd-Frank , Basel-III era, it is nearly
unfathomable that a global bank of UBS’s heft, wealth and
importance could allow this kind of loss to occur. Where were
the adults?  There will almost certainly be regulatory consequences for
the rest of  Wall Street  as a result of this ill-timed debacle.
The banks will howl, but tighter rules could actually help
protect the rest of us from their bad behavior.  In the past few months, it seemed, Wall Street was
beginning to regain the upper hand on its regulators. A
coalition of 44 Republican senators vowed to block any nominee -
- not just  Elizabeth Warren  -- proposed head of the new Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau unless the agency is essentially
gutted. (Warren’s replacement,  Richard Cordray , is still
awaiting Senate approval.) There had been much talk in Congress
about  watering down  certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank law to
make them  more palatable  to Wall Street. The banks also seem to
have had some success  influencing  the still-to-be-written
derivatives regulations from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. The drafting of many of the CFTC’s regulations has
been delayed -- whether because of Wall Street’s influence or a
preference for thoroughness is not exactly clear. Until these
new rules are written, disseminated and approved,  Gary Gensler ,
the chairman of the CFTC, told me yesterday, the regulatory
regime on Wall Street hasn’t really changed all that much from
the days before the crisis.  Dimon’s Shortsighted Claim  Now, one suspects, the global regulatory agencies will have
no choice but to come down hard on big banks and demand the
tougher rules that Wall Street abhors. Suddenly, the critical
comments made earlier in the week by  Jamie Dimon , chief
executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , about the Basel III
capital rules seem woefully shortsighted. “I’m very close to
thinking the  United States  shouldn’t be in Basel any more,”
Dimon told the Financial Times. “I would not have agreed to
rules that are blatantly anti-American. Our regulators should go
there and say: ‘If it’s not in the interests of the United
States, were not doing it.’ "  A mere three days later -- on the third anniversary of the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers  no less - it became even clearer
that some Wall Street firms don’t have the slightest clue about
how to manage their businesses to prevent the kind of
unexplainable trading losses that an increasingly fragile world
economy can no longer abide.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 