-- 
UN Calls for Peaceful Resolution to Cyprus Drilling Dispute

-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-09-16T15:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/un-calls-for-peaceful-resolution-to-cyprus-drilling-dispute.html
Parties involved in a dispute over
planned oil and gas drilling by Cyprus off the eastern
Mediterranean island’s south coast should settle the issue
peacefully, the  United Nations  said.  Cyprus will go ahead with drilling in its offshore
territory, defying Turkish objections and threats it will send
warships to the area, Cypriot President Demetris Christofias
said Sept. 13.  Northern Cyprus and  Turkey , the only country to recognize
it as an independent state, may sign a continental-shelf
agreement that would enable Turkish Cypriots to define and drill
for oil and gas in waters they claim off the island if the
Republic of Cyprus starts drilling, Turkey said yesterday.  “The United Nations would appeal to all involved to
resolve this matter in a peaceful manner,” Lisa Buttenheim,
Special Representative of the U.N. Secretary General told
reporters in Nicosia today, according to a  statement  on the
U.N.’s Cypriot web site. “Natural resources, if they are
discovered, would be for the benefit of all Cypriots under the
framework of a federal united Cyprus.”  Cyprus is divided after Turkey invaded the northern third
of the island in 1974 in response to a coup inspired by the
military junta then in power in  Greece . The leaders of the Greek
Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities resumed reunification
talks in 2009 and met again today as part of negotiations.  U.S.-based  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , which has the license to
carry out exploration in Cyprus’s Block 12, is working with
Israel’s  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , which proposed the construction of a
natural  gas pipeline  to Cyprus. The two companies are partners
in exploiting Israel’s offshore gas findings.  Greece said yesterday it will lodge a formal protest with
Turkey over plans by its neighbour to begin exploratory drilling
in waters which, under the Law of the Sea Treaty, are part of
the Greek continental shelf.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  