-- 
UN Drops Sanctions on Libyan Oil Companies, Eases Restrictions on Banks

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-16T21:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/un-drops-sanctions-on-libyan-oil-companies-eases-restrictions-for-banks.html
The  United Nations  Security Council
dropped sanctions today on two Libyan  oil companies  and eased
restrictions on four banks in a move to boost the nation’s
recovery from the war that toppled dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  The  Security Council  voted 15-0 to adopt a resolution that
unfreezes the assets of the Libyan National Oil Corporation and
Zueitina Oil Company. The measure permits the  Central Bank  of
Libya, the Libyan Foreign Bank, the Libyan Investment Authority
and the Libyan Africa Investment Portfolio to purchase
humanitarian aid, fuel, electricity and to back efforts to
strengthen the nation’s government and economy.  “We all stand witness to the birth of a new Libya,” U.S.
Ambassador Susan Rice said after the vote, referring also to the
General Assembly’s decision earlier today to recognize the
National Transitional Council as  Libya ’s representative at the
UN.  The UN members voted 114-17 to permit envoys of the
opposition group to take Libya’s seat at meetings of the world
body, including the General Assembly next week. Venezuela and
Cuba led opposition to the move, and 15 nations abstained from
the vote.  The Qaddafi regime had retained authority to represent
Libya at the UN, though no diplomats have occupied the seat
since February.  Meeting With Abdel Jalil  President Barack Obama is scheduled to meet with the NTC’s
chairman, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, next week. Obama plans to
congratulate Abdel Jalil on the defeat of Qaddafi’s forces and
to discuss transition plans,  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national
security adviser, said today.  Ibrahim Dabbashi , Libya’s deputy UN ambassador before he
defected from the Qaddafi regime in February, represented Libya
at the Security Council table.  “Today is undoubtedly a decisive, historic day in the life
of the Libyan people,” Dabbashi said. “It is an indication
that dictatorship has fallen. A period of terror, of denial of
freedom and of violations of human rights has now come to an end
for the Libyan people. The fact that the NTC today takes Libya’s
seat at the UN indicates that a new page has been opened in the
history of the Libyan people.”  The resolution eases the arms embargo on Libya, allowing
the UN and the NTC to bring in light weapons. It ends the ban on
all flights by Libyan aircraft.  The  Security Council  also established a UN mission to
promote economic recovery, restore public security and services,
protect human rights and coordinate delivery of international
aid. The UN Support Mission in Libya was given an initial
mandate of three months.  The UN-mandated no-fly zone remains in effect, subject to
Security Council review.  Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin , saying the no-fly zone
has been “violated arbitrarily,” said the Security Council
should consider lifting it in the near future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  