-- 
Hungary Rejects Reports Cabinet Diluting Franc Mortgage Plan

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-16T16:41:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/hungary-backtracks-on-franc-mortgage-plan-after-banks-eu-object.html
Hungary rejected reports it was
watering down its proposal to force banks to swallow losses on
foreign-currency mortgages after criticism from lenders, the
European Commission and the Austrian government.  The only restrictions under the program are that mortgages
had to be issued at an  exchange rate  no higher than 180 forint
per franc or 250 forint per euro, the fixed rates being offered
for early repayment in full, government spokesman Andras Giro-
Szasz told reporters in Budapest today. Borrowers must also
apply for the program by Dec. 31, he added.  Hungary, where two-thirds of  mortgage loans  are denominated
in Swiss francs, is struggling to help borrowers after the
Alpine country’s currency rose to a record, boosting defaults
and pushing up monthly payments. The Cabinet this week offered
mortgage holders the chance of early repayment at exchange rates
more than 20 percent below market rates, triggering declines in
banking stocks and the forint.  “Uncertainty could be elevated in terms of the bank
stocks,” Equilor Zrt. brokerage said in an e-mail after the
government rejected reports that eligibility would be subject to
further restrictions.  OTP, Forint, Swaps  OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest lender, rose 0.3 percent
to 3,740 forint at 5:28 p.m. in Budapest. Its shares have fallen
11 percent since Sept. 9, when the plan was announced.  The forint yesterday fell to its weakest level in a year
against the euro and Hungary’s credit default swaps, bought by
investors as insurance against non-payment, rose to their
highest level since April 2009. The forint fell 0.3 percent
against the euro to 286.1, heading for a third week of declines.  The Cabinet may restrict eligibility to loans of less than
5 million forint ($24,000) or 10 million forint, although a
specific limit hasn’t been decided, news website  Origo  reported
today, citing unnamed government sources. Those with arrears on
their repayments may also be excluded, as well as those whose
loans have already been restructured, Origo said. Borrowers who
took out mortgages that “almost reached” or exceeded the value
of their homes may also be barred from the plan, Origo said.  “I can categorically deny those press reports,” Giro-
Szasz said, adding that no further restrictions apply.  ‘Significant Threat’  The government’s plan to fix the franc exchange rate is a
“significant threat” to the financial industry, the Hungarian
Banking Association said. The measures may harm growth and
public finances, Standard and Poor’s, which rates Hungary’s
credit a step above junk, said Sept. 13.  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including Raiffeisen, Erste,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Bayerische
Landesbank .  The mortgage plan is the latest attempt to help borrowers,
many of whom took out loans at about 150 forint per franc.
Hungary is preparing for possible speculative attacks on the
forint from abroad, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said Sept. 12.  The government agreed with lenders in May to offer
household borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the chance
to fix a franc exchange rate of 180 forint for their
installments until the end of 2014. The difference between the
fixed-rate payments and those that would have resulted under
actual exchange rates will be recorded in separate forint
accounts to be settled from 2015.  That proposal only offered a “temporary solution” and the
people’s demand for a “permanent solution” beyond a temporary
one is justified, Orban said Sept. 2.  The forint may weaken if only a few households were able to
participate in the plan, leaving those who were unable to repay
their loans with a larger debt than they had before,  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $3.5 billion in emerging-market assets,
at Aviva Investors Ltd. in  London , said today by phone.  “The plan in essence addresses one of the most pressing
macroeconomic issues that Hungary faces in the coming years and
the government is trying rightly to address the problem of
burden sharing,” he said. “The more people are eligible to
take part in the program, the better off Hungary is.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Edith Balazs at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  