-- 
Muni Tax Move May Cost California $7.7B: Lockyer

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-09-16T18:47:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/muni-tax-change-may-cost-california-7-7-billion-lockyer-says.html
Losing part of the tax
deductibility of municipal-bond interest could cost  California 
as much as $7.7 billion in higher costs to entice investors,
Treasurer Bill Lockyer said today.  President  Barack Obama  proposed reducing the  tax exemption 
to help pay for a $447 billion jobs bill he unveiled last week.
While borrowing costs would increase, Obama’s plan may create
work for 1.2 million people in a state with a 12.1 percent
unemployment rate, Lockyer said.  “I’d rather have the jobs,” Lockyer, 70, said in an
interview after a speech today at the Bond Buyer’s California
Public Finance Conference in Carlsbad.  California, the nation’s largest issuer of municipal debt,
has the lowest long-term credit rating of any state from
 Standard & Poor’s , at A-. Investors demand more yield from
issuers with lower credit ratings.  The $7.7 billion estimate is for the life of the
securities, including future sales of 30-year general-
obligations, 25-year lease-revenue bonds and one-year revenue-
anticipation notes, said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for the
treasurer. It assumes 6 percent long-term interest rates and
expiration of the Bush tax cuts, which would increase the top
bracket to 39.6 percent, Dresslar said in an e-mail response to
questions.  Obama proposed reducing the tax deductibility of municipal
bonds to 28 percent for couples earning more than $250,000 a
year. The exemption is currently worth 35 percent.  Jobs Bill’s Effect  The President’s proposed jobs bill would direct $13.5
billion in spending to California, said Lockyer, a Democrat.
That would include almost $4 billion for infrastructure and $3.6
billion to avoid job losses in public safety and teaching
positions, he said. Additional spending would go to modernizing
schools and community colleges, and to fixing up foreclosed
homes, the treasurer said.  The spending could support 1.2 million jobs in a state that
lost 1.4 million positions in the recession and has 2 million
people out of work, Lockyer said.  “The jobs plan would pick up half of California’s
unemployed,” he said. “It’s a pretty big impact.”  California plans to sell $15 billion of bonds over this and
the next fiscal year, Lockyer said. The state is selling $2.5
billion in general obligation bonds today.  The state will spread its underwriting business between a
large number of firms, giving some preference to California-
based banks, as well as those owned by women or minorities,
Lockyer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Carlsbad, California at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  