-- 
United Technologies Said to Be in Talks to Buy Goodrich; Goodrich Advances

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-09-17T04:09:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/united-technologies-said-to-be-exploring-goodrich-offer-as-funding-sought.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  is in
talks to buy aerospace equipment maker Goodrich Corp. as it
looks to expand through a major acquisition, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter.  A deal may be announced as soon as next week, said one of
the people, who weren’t authorized to speak publicly. Goodrich
is the most likely candidate of takeover targets being studied
by Hartford, Connecticut-based United Technologies, one person
said. Goodrich jumped 23 percent in late trading yesterday,
adding to a market value of $11.6 billion.  United Technologies is seeking to raise financing, the
people said. Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  signaled
his interest in acquisitions in March when he named William Brown as senior vice president of corporate strategy. Brown
completed more than 40 purchases as head of UTC Fire & Security.  “The fit is not bad,” said  Howard Rubel , an analyst with
Jefferies & Co. in New York. “From a distribution channel
basis, from a mentality basis, from a customer focus basis, it’s
all there.”  Talks continue with  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Goodrich, and a deal may not be reached, the people said.  John Moran, a spokesman for United Technologies, declined
to comment. Goodrich’s Andrew Martin didn’t immediately respond
to a voice mail and e-mail request for comment about the
takeover talks.  Helicopters, Nacelles  United Technologies’ aviation businesses include Hamilton
Sundstrand aerospace electric systems, helicopter maker Sikorsky
Aircraft and  Pratt & Whitney , a producer of  jet engines .
Goodrich is the world’s biggest manufacturer of landing gear,
and its products include nacelles, the casings that house jet
engines, and de-icing systems used on planes.  Goodrich rose to $113.89 in late trading yesterday from a
close of $92.89 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
 Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL) ,  Textron Inc. (TXT)  and  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) 
also gained yesterday on speculation they may be targets.  United Technologies fell 11 cents to $75.50 and was little
changed after the end of regular trading. The company closed
with a market value of $68.6 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  An acquisition of Goodrich may be valued at more than $17
billion, including $1.9 billion of net debt, based on previous
deals in the U.S. aerospace and defense industry. That’s about
$122 a share.  Industry Takeovers  Takeovers in the sector greater than $500 million in the
last five years have fetched a median of 12.3 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goodrich had Ebitda of $1.4
billion in the past 12 months.  Goodrich would be the largest acquisition attempted by
United Technologies since 2000, when it sought to buy  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  only to be outbid by  General Electric Co. (GE) 
GE’s $45 billion deal was later rebuffed by the European Union.  Chenevert, 54, hasn’t made a large aerospace purchase since
becoming CEO in 2008 after running Pratt & Whitney. Adding
commercial aerospace revenue would be a boost after the engine
unit’s geared turbofan model failed to win placement on  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s upgraded 737, the world’s most widely flown jetliner.  United Technologies had $5.4 billion in cash and near-cash
items at the end of last quarter, and posted sales of $54.3
billion in 2010. Goodrich reported revenue of $6.97 billion last
year.  Goodrich History  CEO Marshall Larsen, 63, has led Goodrich since April 2003.
He joined the former B.F. Goodrich Co. in 1977 and rose through
the ranks, adding the chairmanship six months after taking the
top spot.  Benjamin Franklin Goodrich founded the rubber maker bearing
his name in 1870. As the company branched into aviation, its
innovations included the first pressure suit in 1934 for pilots
for high-altitude flight and the first gas turbine fuel injector
in 1951 for jet aircraft, according to an online corporate
history.  The company exited the tire industry in 1988, and then
changed its name to  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  after selling its specialty
chemical business to focus on aerospace and industrial products.  Its largest customers include the U.S. government, Airbus
SAS parent European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. and Boeing,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Boosting Production  “When you look at Goodrich and what they do, it’s only 30
percect military or government, and 40 percent-plus aftermarket
revenue,” said Sterne Agee & Leach analyst Ben Elias, who told
his salesforce yesterday Goodrich was the most likely target.
“It’s very good exposure to Airbus as well as Boeing.” He
rates United Technologies a “buy.”  Boeing is boosting production by about 50 percent over the
next three years, and Airbus is raising its output rates as well
as both planemakers work off record order backlogs.  United Technologies’ industrial operations include Otis
Elevator and air conditioner maker Carrier. The company’s most
recent deal was buying J&T Systems Inc., a provider of building-
systems management, on Sept. 1. No terms were disclosed.  The company continued to build its security division last
year with the purchase of GE Security for $1.8 billion. It
bought Kidde Plc and Chubb Plc in the last decade.  United Technologies paid an average premium of 18 percent
in almost 30 deals for which terms were disclosed since 2001,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company paid a
median multiple of 12 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in 10 of the deals, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  