-- 
Huntsman Doubts Perry or Romney Can Win U.S. Presidential Race

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-09-17T04:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/huntsman-sees-new-hampshire-win-questions-electability-of-perry-romney.html
Republican presidential contender
Jon Huntsman Jr. questioned the electability of the two front-
runners for his party’s nomination, saying some of Rick Perry’s
views are out of the mainstream and  Mitt Romney  lacks foreign
policy experience.  Huntsman predicted he could win in New Hampshire, the first
state to hold a primary election, even as the latest polling
shows minimal support for him among Republicans.  “Some people have been at zero today and they’ve gone on
to win the New Hampshire primary,” he said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With Al Hunt” airing
this weekend.  Romney doesn’t have the “hands-on foreign policy experience,”
that’s essential to being president, said Huntsman, who served
as ambassador to  China  for President  Barack Obama  until
resigning earlier this year to seek the Republican nomination.  Huntsman, a former governor of  Utah , also criticized
Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, for raising taxes. “I
prefer having a governor who is Number One in  job creation  as
opposed to Number 47, someone who didn’t raise taxes to the tune
of $750 million a year,” he said, in a comparison of his record
as governor with Romney’s.  Perry, the  Texas  governor who leads in primary polling, has
taken positions on climate science and evolution that will be
rejected by independent and moderate voters, Huntsman said. “On
science, he’s out of the mainstream,” he said.  Poll Results  Perry was the top choice of 26 percent of Republicans and
Republican-leaning independents in a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted Sept. 9-12, followed by Romney at 22 percent. Huntsman
trailed the entire Republican field, which includes
Representatives Michele Bachmann of  Minnesota  and  Ron Paul  of
Texas, at 1 percent.  If elected president, Huntsman said his first action would
be to present a “growth package” to Congress. His bill would
include proposals to change the tax code, cut regulations and
increase the country’s energy independence.  Changes in those areas would give an instant boost to the
stock market, he said. “I believe those three areas are the
most powerful engines of growth that we can consider as a
country,” he said.  Fiscal Panel  On deficit reduction, Huntsman said he supported the
findings of a 2010 fiscal commission led by former Senator  Alan Simpson , a Wyoming Republican, and former Clinton Administration
White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles.  Their panel, created by Obama, recommended raising
government revenue by eliminating or restricting deductions and
credits written into the  tax code  for such items as mortgage
interest and investments in renewable energy.  “I would have voted for it,” he said. “The president
made a huge mistake by not embracing this.”  American solar power technology “isn’t ready for primetime
in the marketplace,” Huntsman said, when asked about a dispute
involving the bankruptcy of a Fremont, California-based solar-
panel maker, Solyndra LLC, after receiving a $535 million
federal loan guarantee. He was asked if the assistance was a
mistake.  “You know, everybody can be a Monday morning quarterback,
and I don’t wish to be,” he said. “But I think the reality
that we’re all coming to grips with is that, in the renewable
energy area, you’ve got to have technologies that are deployable
into the marketplace that meet certain economic criteria, in
terms of cost conversion. We’re not there yet.”  Tax Increase Opposition  Huntsman, along with the rest of the Republican
presidential field, said in an Aug. 11 debate that he wouldn’t
support a debt-reduction plan that includes spending cuts and
tax increases, even at a 10 to one ratio.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has ruled
out using tax increases to trim the deficit.  Huntsman said his economic plan, released on Aug. 31 in  New
Hampshire , borrowed on the findings of the Simpson-Bowles
commission. His proposal cuts tax rates and eliminates all
deductions, including those for home mortgages and charitable
contributions.  “We have a dilapidated, anachronistic, ‘50s tax code,” he
said. “If we’re going to compete in the 21st Century, let’s get
smart, let’s clean out the cobwebs on both the individual side
and on the corporate side.”  Huntsman was asked a question raised in a Sept. 13
Republican candidates’ debate: Who should bear the costs of a
young person lacking health insurance involved in a terrible
accident?  “Those costs are passed on to all of us now because there
are certain commitments” in emergency rooms, he said. “But you
know, you’ve got a lot of humanitarian organizations” that can
take care of some people.  “There will be a segment of the population who, for
whatever reason, have fallen through the cracks and can’t help
themselves,” Huntsman said. “We’ve got to have the capacity
and the wherewithal to help them as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in Washington,
at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  