-- 
Hurricane Maria Nears Tip of Newfoundland With 80 MPH Winds

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-16T12:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/hurricane-maria-gains-strength-prompting-weather-watches-in-newfoundland.html
Hurricane Maria sped toward
 Newfoundland  and is expected to cross the Canadian island later
today with winds of at least 74 miles (119 kilometers) per hour,
the National Hurricane Center said.  Maria, with 80 mph winds, was racing northeast across the
Atlantic at 45 mph, the center said in an advisory at 8 a.m.
Miami time. The storm was 375 miles southwest of Cape Race,
Newfoundland, and is forecast to strike Placentia Bay before
passing north of  St. John’s , an offshore oil and gas hub. Winds
are already picking up on the island, the NHC said.  The center of Maria, a Category 1 storm on the 5-step
Saffir-Simpson scale, “should pass near or over extreme
southeastern Newfoundland this afternoon,” the NHC said.
“Little change in strength is expected before Maria moves over
southeastern Newfoundland.”  Energy companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Hibernia Management & Development Co. have
offshore facilities near the storm’s projected path, according
to Bloomberg data. Hurricane Igor hit the island last year,
killing three people and causing $200 million in damage.  Maria is expected to pass about 170 miles southeast of the
 Sable Offshore Energy Project ’s Thebaud platform, Tanya White, a
Canada-Nova Scotia Offshore Petroleum Board spokeswoman, said
yesterday.  The Sable natural-gas project is owned by a group including
Exxon Mobil Canada Properties Ltd., Shell Canada Ltd., Imperial
Oil Resources, Pengrowth Energy Corp. and Mosbacher Operating
Ltd., according to its website.  Hurricane Warnings  A  hurricane warning  is in place for the coast of
Newfoundland from Arnolds Cove to Brigus South, and a tropical
storm warning, indicating winds of at least 39 mph are expected,
was set from Stones Cove to Arnolds Cove and from Brigus South
to Charlottetown, the center said.  Hurricane-force winds extend 45 miles from Maria’s center.
Tropical storm-strength winds reach 205 miles.  The Canadian Weather Office said on its  website  that
rainfall of 6 to 9 centimeters (2.4 to 3.5 inches) may fall on
Newfoundland’s Avalon Peninsula. The government of the Canadian
province of Newfoundland and Labrador said yesterday that as
much as 2 centimeters of rain an hour may fall, raising the
potential to cause flooding.  Maria is the third hurricane of the Atlantic season, which
runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. It has outlived Nate, which formed
after Maria and dissipated over the weekend after coming ashore
in  Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  