-- 
Velarde Says Peru May Reduce Interest Rates This Year

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-16T21:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/velarde-says-peru-may-cut-interest-rates-this-year.html
Peru ’s central bank may cut its
benchmark lending rate this year if global markets deteriorate,
bank President Julio Velarde said today.  Cutting rates “is not a remote possibility,” Velarde told
reporters in  Lima  today. “What happens in the world will
dictate whether it’s necessary or not.”  The central bank kept its benchmark lending rate at 4.25
percent for a fourth straight month Sept. 8, citing slowing
domestic growth and a deterioration in financial markets.
Concern about a “weak” global economy amid stagnation in
 Europe  and the U.S. led the central bank to cut its growth
forecast for the Peruvian economy this year and next, Velarde
said.  Gross domestic product will probably rise 6.3 percent this
year, down from a June 17 estimate of 6.5 percent, according to
the central bank. GDP may rise 5.7 percent next year, down from
a June forecast of 6.5 percent, and compared with a region-
beating 7.2 percent average annual growth over the last five
years.  “There are situations where we’d have to react quickly and
one of the measures that we could take is to lower the  interest
rate ,” Velarde said during a presentation of the central bank’s
quarterly inflation report.  Peru’s monthly inflation may slow to close to zero before
the end of the year as some prices reverse recent increases,
Velarde said. Consumer prices rose 0.27 percent in August, after
gaining 0.79 percent the month before.  Grain and energy price rises in the first half of this year
and growing domestic demand kept the annual inflation rate at a
two-year high of 3.35 percent in August and outside the central
bank’s target range of 1 percent to 3 percent. The annual rate
will return to the target range next year, Velarde said.  Peru’s sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.7320 per  U.S. dollar 
at 4:38 p.m. in  New York , from 2.7300 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  