-- 
Volcker Rule May Be Extended to Overseas Banks With Operations in the U.S.

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-09-17T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/volcker-rule-may-be-extended-to-overseas-banks-with-operations-in-the-u-s-.html
A rule limiting proprietary trading
by U.S. banks may be extended to overseas firms with operations
in the country, according to four people familiar with the
matter.  Regulators next month will issue a proposal to carry out
provisions of the so-called Volcker Rule, part of the Dodd-Frank
financial-regulation law, that will clarify the types of
offshore trading allowed under the rule, the people said.  The Volcker Rule, designed to reduce the types of risky
investments blamed for triggering the financial crisis, has
prompted U.S. banks such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to close
proprietary-trading operations. Overseas banks say that a strict
interpretation of the rule may also force them to fire or
relocate U.S. employees who are involved in proprietary trading,
even if no American money is at risk.  “There is no question that we would lose jobs,” said
 Wayne Abernathy , vice president of the  American Bankers
Association  in  Washington . “A lot of what the banks have been
doing in recent years to diversify their services are activities
that can easily be done by foreign competitors.”  The rule, named for the former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , includes exemptions for government-guaranteed
investments, hedging, market-making and insurance-company
transactions. It also exempts proprietary trading conducted
“solely” outside of the U.S.  Subject to Interpretation  The language of the bill is subject to interpretation by
regulators at agencies including the  Federal Reserve  and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Dodd-Frank, signed into law by
President  Barack Obama  last year, requires regulators to adopt
rules to carry out the provision by Oct. 18.  Regulators are considering how to define operations
conducted “solely” outside of the country. Trading managed in
the U.S. or involving U.S.-based advisers may be subject to the
rule even if it takes place overseas and has no U.S. investors,
the people said.  “There has been a question how to interpret the phrase in
the Volcker Rule ‘solely outside the United States,’” said
Satish Kini, co-chairman of the banking group at law firm
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP. “There was some hope with respect to
funds, whether they were formed outside the  United States  and
their interests were not offered to U.S. persons, whether that
would be sufficient.”  Five Agencies  The proposal may still change, the people said. Five
regulators, including the Fed, the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency and the Securities and Exchange Commission, must
approve the proposal separately. The Treasury Department is
responsible for coordinating the regulation. The proposed rule
will be released for public comment and can be changed before it
becomes final.  Colleen Murray, a spokeswoman for Treasury, and  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman for the Fed, declined to comment.
 Andrew Gray , a spokesman for the FDIC, also declined to comment.  The Institute of International Bankers, which represents
firms such as London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Paris-based
 Societe Generale  SA, is arguing that the Volcker rule shouldn’t
apply if trading takes place offshore and doesn’t put U.S.
investors or the financial system at risk.  The rule “should focus on where the risk of the activity
is held,” Sally Miller, the institute’s chief executive
officer, wrote in a May 10 letter to the regulators. “The
statutory text focuses on the location of the activities a bank
engages in.”  Moving Jobs Overseas  Foreign banks often employ New York-based investment
advisers and managers to work on offshore proprietary trading.
If such trading were forbidden under the Volcker Rule because
U.S. employees are involved, the banks would simply move those
jobs overseas, Miller said.  “It’s a jobs issue -- if we can’t use a U.S. sub-adviser,
we’re going to use an adviser sitting in London or  Frankfurt , so
that job is not here anymore,” Miller said in an interview.
“Allowing foreign banks to employ U.S. firms as sub-advisers
encourages foreign banks to invest in U.S. securities.”  International banks employ more than 250,000 U.S. citizens
and permanent residents, according to IIB. Credit Suisse Group
AG, Societe Generale and Deutsche Bank AG are among the overseas
banks that manage trades in the U.S. and would be affected by
the rule.  U.S. bank executives, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , argue that the
Volcker Rule places domestic banks at a disadvantage to foreign
rivals that aren’t subject to the same restrictions in their
home countries.  “If America adopts a lot of things very different than the
rest of the world,” U.S. competitiveness will be damaged, Dimon
told investors at a Feb. 15 meeting at JPMorgan’s New York
headquarters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  