-- 
Volkswagen to Invest Record 62.4 Billion Euros Through 2016

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-16T14:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/volkswagen-supervisory-board-said-to-vote-on-five-year-investment-plans.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  will invest a record
62.4 billion euros ($86.1 billion) over the next five years to
underpin its goal of becoming the world’s largest carmaker.  The supervisory board voted today to approve the spending
on plants, vehicles and research and development for the
carmaker’s nine brands, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company
said in a statement. VW’s Chinese joint ventures, which are not
consolidated, will invest another 14 billion euros through 2016.  VW is expanding in  China , its largest market, as part of a
broader plan to leapfrog  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and become the world’s biggest carmaker by 2018. The effort
hit two roadblocks in the past week as a merger with Porsche SE
planned for this year was delayed and  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  said it
wants to dissolve its 20-month-old alliance.  “VW has its sights firmly pegged on future growth,” said
 Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive Management
in Bergisch-Gladbach, Germany. “They’re broadening their
presence in lucrative markets like China and Latin America and
optimizing spending on future technologies. After the latest
setbacks, the message is VW is more determined than ever.”  Volkswagen preferred shares rose as much as 2.20 euros, or
2 percent, to 114.65 euros and were up 1.3 percent as of 4:03
p.m. in  Frankfurt  trading. The stock has dropped 6.2 percent
this year, valuing the carmaker at 49.9 billion euros.  Expanded Model Offerings  Volkswagen will invest 32.7 billion euros of the money to
revamp and extend the model offerings across its brands, which
include Audi, Skoda, Lamborghini, Seat and Bentley. The namesake
VW unit alone currently offers more than 60 different vehicles.  Chief Executive  Martin Winterkorn  said this week that the
German manufacturer, which operates 62 factories globally, is
mulling additional plants in China. VW has already announced
plans to add two more Chinese production facilities, bringing
its total to 11. VW plans to expand the number of factories it
has worldwide to about 70, spokesman Marco Dalan said today.   Volkswagen could sell more than 2.4 million vehicles in
China, the world’s biggest auto market, this year, the CEO told
reporters at the International Motor Show in Frankfurt. “We’re
rather undersupplied there,” he said. The company has forecast
a 5 percent increase in global deliveries this year after
selling 7.2 million cars, SUVs and vans in 2010.  “The Volkswagen group is investing a record amount,”
Winterkorn said in the statement. “Top of the agenda for us is
investments in environmentally friendly, sustainable models and
drives.”  German Investments  VW also opened a plant in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , in April
to supply the U.S. with a midsized sedan specifically developed
for the world’s second-largest car market. Volkswagen is also
expanding capacity in  Russia .  Capital expenditures over the five-year period will be
around 6 percent of revenue, VW said. More than half the money
spent on property, plants and equipment will be in  Germany .  VW will spend 95 million euros on expanding production of
the Golf hatchback and Tiguan SUV models at its main factory in
Wolfsburg, Bernd Osterloh, works council chief told reporters
today. VW at the same time will move the share of production of
those vehicles destined for  North America  to that region,
Osterloh said, adding that assembly of the models in North
America could start as early as 2013.  “We recognize that it makes sense because of foreign-
exchange rate parities to build the products in the dollar area
to earn a reasonable return,” Osterloh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  