-- 
Volkswagen, GM Lead 7.8% Growth in August European Car Sales

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-16T09:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/volkswagen-gm-lead-7-8-increase-in-august-european-car-market.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  led the first increase in European car sales
in four months, helped by new models ordered earlier this year.  Registrations rose 7.8 percent to 787,435 vehicles from
730,646 units a year earlier, the Brussels-based  European
Automobile Manufacturers Association  said today in a  statement .
That narrowed the eight-month sales decline to 1.1 percent for a
total 9.19 million registrations.  VW models introduced in the past year include a new version
of the Passat mid-sized car and a revamped Audi A6 sedan, while
Ford is selling a new Focus car.  Consumer confidence  in Germany,
Europe’s biggest auto market, was higher in the first half of
2011 than a year earlier, according to figures from GfK SE. The
market-research company is predicting a confidence decline as
European leaders struggle to stem a sovereign-debt crisis.  “These cars were ordered months ago, so I wouldn’t expect
a material impact from the new crisis at this stage,” and
“what’s more important is what we see in October and
November,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst at
Credit Suisse. “The consumer was in a far better mood when he
ordered the car earlier this year, so we have to wait to see how
the order momentum, which is clearly slowing down, affects sales
later in the year.”  GM’s Growth  GM’s European registrations gained 5.2 percent to 64,669 in
August, propelling the Detroit-based carmaker’s eight-month
deliveries in the region to a 1.8 percent gain. Orders at the
carmaker, whose new models include the Meriva minivan and Astra
Sports Tourer, have been unaffected by the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis,  Nick Reilly , the head of the company’s European
unit, said on Sept. 13.  Registrations at Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen,
Europe’s largest carmaker, increased 15 percent to 200,296
vehicles, and its market share widened to 25.4 percent from 23.9
percent. Ford’s sales jumped 20 percent to 60,985 cars.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG, the world’s
biggest and third-biggest luxury-vehicle manufacturers, posted
33 percent and 14 percent jumps in European sales, respectively.  Fiat SpA (F)  was the biggest loser among the European mass-
market automakers, with August sales in the region dropping 7.6
percent. Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said on Sept.
13 that Fiat’s home market of Italy is at its weakest since the
1980s.  Sales at Paris-based PSA Peugeot Citroen and Boulogne-
Billancourt, France-based  Renault SA (RNO)  declined 0.5 percent and
2.8 percent, respectively. Peugeot CEO Philippe Varin said at
the International Auto Show in Frankfurt this week that French
small-car manufacturing is experiencing a “competitiveness
problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  