-- 
Star Trader, Beer Week, Clown Class, de Kooning: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-09-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/wall-street-drama-beer-week-pig-clown-class-de-kooning-n-y-weekend.html
A timely drama for  Wall Street  and
its customers, Sharyn Rothstein’s  “The Invested”  aims to
explore the roots of the 2008-2009 financial crisis from the
inside out. The tale of corporate intrigue and amorality is set
at a fictional behemoth ripe with conflicts of interest.  Catherine Murdock (Christina Haag) is a hard-working mom
who runs the wealth-management division of “MetroBank.”  Although a darling of the financial press, she has been
passed over for chief executive in favor of an aggressive,
ethically challenged star trader (Thomas Hildreth).  He persuades her to pimp a risky in-house investment fund
he runs, to goose bank profits and theoretically her career. She
accedes, a decision that backfires and sets in motion corporate
warfare.  The lively, well-crafted play suffers from some factual
missteps. One small example: Following a reorganization,
MetroBank’s research department reports to  investment banking .
That’s a structure  Eliot Spitzer  helped end as New York State
Attorney General years ago. Ron Canada directs.  Through Sept. 24 at 83 E. 4th St. Information:
 http://www.theinvested.com .  Trunk Show  Had it with bulls and bears? Sculptor Miquel Barcelo’s
“Gran Elefandret” is a 26-foot-tall upside-down bronze
elephant balanced on its trunk, on a Union Square traffic island
across the street from a Starbucks. Arrive before it stampedes
away in May 2012.  Two blocks north, Union Square Café remains splendid (and
packed) 26 years after Danny Meyer opened it. The service is
attentive and the wild striped bass hits the spot, as do the
contents of the fresh bread basket.  Beer Week  New York’s fourth Annual Craft Beer Week started Friday at
 Southpaw , a converted 99-cent discount store in Park Slope,
Brooklyn, with the  Freaktoberfest Boutique Beer and Music
Festival . Some 20 breweries pour samples of their best beers,
supplemented by burlesque dancers, sideshow performers and
indie-rock bands.  Revelry continues at 110 bars and restaurants throughout
the week. Avoid the “I’m Lost and I Can’t Find My Beer”
syndrome by downloading the event’s smart phone application,
with a GPS component. Information:  http://www.nycbeerweek.com/ .  Saturday  It’s back to school on the Upper East Side. The  National
Academy Museum and School  reopens after a year of renovations in
its townhouse on 89th Street, with an exhibition of the work of
artist Will Barnet. Free art classes all weekend include
sessions on drawing, painting and printing, a chance to recreate
an old masterpiece and sketch from a live model.  At 1083 Fifth Ave.  http://www.nationalacademy.org .  Clown Class  At 5 p.m. at  59E59  Theaters, half the cast of  Cirque de
Legume  -- Jaimie Carswell -- offers a 90-minute workshop on
European clowning. Both he and his onstage cirque conspirator,
Nancy Trotter Landry, trained in Paris, their clown visages
consisting of red noses and their own rubbery faces.  At 8:30 p.m., they play any number of characters and
several animals. Root vegetables are messily masticated,
particularly when Carswell assumes the role of a horse who loves
to chew on carrots.  At 59 E. 59th St. Information:  http://59e59.org/ .  For imaginatively prepared vegetable dishes, the nearby
Candle 79 on East 79th is a popular choice. The fresh-squeezed
juices are a draw.  Sunday  The Museum of Modern Art  opens “de Kooning: A
Retrospective.” Trace Willem de Kooning’s evolution over about
seven decades of fertile experimentation. (He died in 1997.)
Part of the fun is discovering who owns what and lent these
multimillion-dollar treasures to MoMA. And try to discern what
the titles, such as “Carole Lombard” (1947) and “Merritt
Parkway” (1959) have to do with the pictures.  Through Jan. 9, 2012, 11 W. 53rd St.  http://www.moma.org/ .  Carrie Ahern, a  Brooklyn  performance artist, choreographer
and carnivore, previews her new work, “Borrowed Prey,” at
 Taste Williamsburg Greenpoint .  In pursuit of the question, “what is sustainable meat?”,
she has been hunting, butchering and slaughtering animals. She
plans to appear with a professional butcher and both answer
questions and illuminate humans’ relationship to the animals
they consume.  There will be the butchering of a pig carcass, an event
that could send some scurrying to Candle 79.  From 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. at 5 N. 11th St. at Kent Ave.,
Brooklyn. Information:  http://tastewg.wordpress.com/ .  (Philip Boroff is a writer at Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 