-- 
Protesters Converge on Lower Manhattan, Plan ‘Occupation’

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-09-17T21:21:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/wall-street-protesters-vow-to-occupy-lower-manhattan-for-months.html
Wall Street  firms are the target of
a nonviolent demonstration in which organizers say they want
20,000 people to participate with tents, kitchens and “peaceful
barricades” in lower Manhattan.  Dubbed “#OccupyWallStreet,” the goal of the protest is
to get President Barack Obama to establish a commission to end
“the influence money has over our representatives in
Washington,” according to the  website  of Adbusters, a group
promoting the demonstration. Organizers want participants to
“occupy” the area for “a few months,” according to the
website.  “People have a right to protest, and if they want to
protest, we’ll be happy to make sure they have locations to do
it,” New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said Sept. 15 at a
press conference. “As long as they do it where other people’s
rights are respected, this is the place where people can speak
their minds, and that’s what makes New York, New York.”  As the demonstration began this afternoon, as many as 1,000
people congregated in the Chase  Manhattan  Plaza area and, after
speakers with a bullhorn rallied the crowd, broke into groups to
discuss the event’s goals. Some participants circulated trays of
sliced white and wheat bread while others passed out jars of
creamy Skippy peanut butter, and distributed apples, bananas and
oranges from shopping carts.  Red Flags, Masks  Protesters waved red flags and toted cardboard signs with
statements such as “represent the 99%.” Others donned white,
mustachioed masks of the anti-authoritarian protagonist from the
graphic novel and film “V for Vendetta.” A few people played
instruments, including guitars, ukuleles and maracas. Chants and
applause periodically erupted around the plaza.  Police encircled the plaza and partitioned Wall Street’s
pedestrian walkway.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  are among firms with operations in the area.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among financial firms whose main offices
aren’t on Wall Street.  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for the NYSE,  Duncan King  of
Deutsche Bank, and Bank of New York’s  Ron Gruendl  declined to
comment on the demonstration.  Protests also are planned for financial districts in
Madrid, Milan, London and Paris, according to a bulletin from
the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center
obtained by Bloomberg News. The NCCIC is part of the  Department
of Homeland Security . Chris Ortman, an agency spokesman,
confirmed the bulletin’s authenticity.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 