-- 
White House’s School-Technology Program Aims to Improve Learning

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-09-16T18:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/white-house-s-school-technology-program-aims-to-improve-learning.html
The Obama administration will
create a national center to advance technologies that may
improve teaching and learning in U.S. schools, the White House
announced today.  The board that will oversee the Digital Promise center is
made up of technology and education leaders, and aims to close
the education gap between U.S. and foreign schools, according to
a White House statement.  The Digital Promise is part of Obama’s jobs plan. In a
Sept. 8. speech to a joint session of Congress, Obama said part
of the initiative involves modernizing 35,000 schools, including
installing high-speed Internet connections in classrooms.  “Digital Promise is a unique partnership that will bring
everyone together -- educators, entrepreneurs and researchers --
to use technology to help students learn and teachers teach,”
Obama said in a statement. “There’s no silver bullet when it
comes to education, but technology can be a powerful tool, and
Digital Promise will help us make the most of it.”  The initiative will operate as an independent, nonprofit
organization created by Congress through the 2008 Higher
Education Opportunity Act. Digital Promise will “support a
comprehensive research and development program to harness the
increasing capacity of advanced information and digital
technologies to improve all levels of learning and education,”
according to Digital Promise’s  website .  A primary goal of the initiative will be to reform the
“outdated procurement system” that prevents technology
entrepreneurs from entering the educational market, according to
the statement. Currently, $59.8 billion, or 4.5 percent, of the
total $1.3 trillion annual U.S. education spending is devoted to
technology, including computer-assisted learning and the use of
the Internet.  Valve Corp.  is the type of company Digital Promise will aim
to help, Education Department Secretary Arne Duncan said at a
White House event announcing the initiative today.  The Bellevue, Washington-based video-game creator, which
sells games such as “ Portal ” and “ Left for Dead ,” began
working with educators after it noticed teachers bringing its
products into the classroom, Gabe Newell, co-founder of the
company, said at the event. The company wants to “engage and
excite children” by modifying some of its popular games to help
teach concepts such as physics, he said.  Concepts in the software programming and video-game
industry apply to gaming and learning, Newell said. “We have to
think about progression, we have to think about pacing,” and
the balance between challenging a gamer or student and
frustrating them, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  