-- 
Twitter Directors Fred Wilson, Bijan Sabet Leave Board in Latest Reshuffle

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-16T19:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/twitter-says-board-members-fred-wilson-bijan-sabet-to-depart.html
Twitter Inc.  directors Fred Wilson
and Bijan Sabet, who backed the company as venture capitalists,
are stepping down from the board in the latest reshuffling at
the social-networking service.  The departures follow  an expansion  of the board late last
year, when Twitter added Mike McCue, chief executive officer of
tablet-application company  Flipboard Inc. , and David Rosenblatt,
formerly head of display advertising at  Google Inc. (GOOG)  -- changes
made as part of an investment by  Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers . Wilson is a managing partner of Union Square Ventures,
while Sabet is a general partner at Spark Capital.  “Bijan Sabet and Fred Wilson both played important and
greatly appreciated roles in our success,” Twitter said in an
e-mail. “Both saw what Twitter could become before most anyone
else. We look forward to their continued input as both investors
in the company and passionate users of the product.”  Twitter has rejiggered management in the past year as the
company builds an adverting business and copes with competition
from Facebook Inc. and Google.  Dick Costolo , a former Google
executive, took the CEO job in October, and Jack Dorsey, a
Twitter co-founder and former CEO, assumed the role of executive
chairman this year. In June, co-founder Biz Stone announced that
he’s stepping away from day-to-day duties to join  Evan Williams ,
another co-founder, in a new venture.  Twitter  said in August  it had raised a new round of funding
from DST Global, along with several past investors, without
giving details. The San Francisco-based company aimed to raise
about $800 million and was looking to use half the money to buy
back shares from employees and earlier backers, people with
knowledge of the plan said at the time. The investment values
the short-messaging service at $8 billion, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  