-- 
World’s First Solar Building Exporting Power Shelved by Abu Dhabi’s Masdar

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-09-16T03:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-16/world-s-first-solar-building-exporting-energy-shelved-by-masdar.html
Masdar shelved plans for the
world’s first building that makes more energy than it consumes,
a year after the financial crisis forced the  Abu Dhabi  company
to step back from setting up the first carbon-neutral city.  The Abu Dhabi state-owned company said it’s evaluating a
different design for its headquarters than the one selected in
2008 from Chicago-based  Adrian Smith & Gordon Gill Architecture 
for a 100,000 square-meter (1.1 million square-foot) structure
equipped with enough solar panels to cover four soccer fields.  The headquarters, planned in the capital city, “will now
be built in phases, in line with market demand and economic
conditions at the time,” Abu Dhabi-based Masdar said in an e-
mailed response to questions. Officials declined to say whether
the revised design would still allow for the headquarters to
generate more power than it uses.  Masdar, promoter of the  Middle East ’s most ambitious plan
to develop renewable energy, accepted its latest setback after
the financial crisis curbed Abu Dhabi’s ambitions for its $22
billion government-funded venture. Set up in 2006, it was to
build Masdar City, a carbon-neutral town in which students and
companies pursued renewable energy projects.  Last year, Masdar reviewed its plans and said in October it
was scaling back the zero-carbon ambition. It delayed the city’s
first phase by two years to 2015.  The new headquarters, which was to have formed the
centerpiece of Masdar City, will conform to “the sustainable
construction practices implemented across the city,” the
company said.  ‘Concern About Tenants’  Gordon Gill, a partner at the firm with the winning design,
had said Masdar and its parent company Mubadala Development Co.
were having second thoughts.  “They built the slab in 2009, and then it went on hold,”
Gill said in a Sept. 8 phone interview from  Chicago . “Mubadala
and Masdar are having discussions about the building itself --
either they’ve changed the budget, or the building is too big,
and they are concerned about tenants. I’m expecting to hear from
them within the month about whether they will go ahead.”  Architects began proposing designs in 2006, as the  United
Arab Emirates , holder of 7 percent of global oil reserves, took
advantage of a boom in crude prices. Oil surged from an average
of about $40 a barrel in 2004 to $147.27 in July 2008.  The Persian Gulf nation began developing new industries to
diversify its economy. Abu Dhabi, capital of the U.A.E. and home
to most of its oil, began investing in solar and wind-power
projects to pioneer the use of renewable energy. By 2020, Abu
Dhabi aims to generate at least 7 percent of its power needs
from renewable sources.  “The building had to be ‘positive energy,’ with all power
generated on site,” Gill said. “It was probably about 50
percent more expensive than our typical office building, because
we had to build our own power facilities.”  Wind Cones  The  headquarters  as first designed was to have provided 3
percent more energy than required for its own operation,
generating 5.5 gigawatt-hours of renewable energy annually,
according to Masdar’s  website . It was to have included 11 glass-
enclosed towers, or wind cones, that would have cooled the
building by drawing warm air up to the roof and expelling it.  Its architects had planned for the building to produce
energy while under construction, said Emma Stewart, senior
manager for sustainability at  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) , which provided
software for Smith & Gill’s proposal.  ‘Bottom-up Building’  “They could have done a bottom-up building,” she said in
a June 28 phone interview from  San Francisco . “Instead, they
prioritized the cones, which provide a cooling system, support
the roof and shade the workers from the sun, and then planned to
build around them, which is completely the opposite to how you
would normally do it.”  Masdar said it was now “finalizing” a design, adding that
pictures aren’t available. The building’s first phase will be
ready by the fourth quarter of 2013, it said.  Masdar City currently consists of little more than student
residences and a joint venture research university with the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  The United Arab Emirates plans to seek $100 billion in
outside investment for alternative and sustainable energy
projects by 2020, rather than pay for them itself.  A presentation aimed at potential investors in countries
including  Brazil ,  Argentina ,  South Korea ,  China ,  Japan ,  Italy 
and  Spain  is to begin in November, the Ministry of Economy said
in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  