-- ‘Salesman’ Revives Forgotten Composer North: Rainer File
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-05-25T13:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/-salesman-revives-forgotten-composer-north-rainer-file.html
Two decades after his death, the
great film composer Alex North has a hit on Broadway.  North’s plaintive, haunting music underscores Mike Nichols’s superb revival of “Death of a Salesman.” It’s the
same music North composed for the original 1949 Elia Kazan
production.  Coincidentally, “Ghost the Musical” features “Unchained
Melody,” the song that graced the 1990 Demi Moore-Patrick Swayze weepie. The melody was composed by North for the 1954
prison movie  “Unchained,”  where it was nominated for an Oscar.
(The lyrics were by Hy Zaret.)  North’s music gets good mileage.  Born Isador Soifer in 1910 to Russian-Jewish immigrant
parents, North won a scholarship to the Juilliard School in 1929
and later studied at the Moscow Conservatory. He was the first
American to become a member of the Union of Soviet Composers.  In an interview replayed on a marvelous 2010 public radio
centennial tribute to North by music scholar Jon Burlingame,
North described how his time in Moscow was “morose and sad”
because he “wasn’t writing like me.” His hero was Duke Ellington, not the Soviets.  Langston Hughes  North studied with  Aaron Copland , spent time in  Mexico , and
began composing for documentaries, modern dance (Martha Graham,
Agnes DeMille) and the concert hall. His “Negro Mother”
cantata, based on a Langston Hughes poem, is a stirring and
soulful choral piece. Unlike many composers of his generation,
especially those who ended up in Hollywood, North’s musical
influences were light on the Germanic and heavy on jazz and
other distinctly American genres.  Benny Goodman commissioned him to write a jaunty three-
movement jazz concerto. He wrote several symphonies. All this
got him noticed by Kazan, who hired him for “Death of a
Salesman.” Responding to the play’s dark themes, North scored
for only four instruments -- alto flute, trumpet, cello and
clarinet. Years later playwright  Arthur Miller  inscribed North’s
program with words of thanks for his “blessed flutes” that
turned “Willy’s dreams into music.”  (Some of the music was used for  Laslo Benedek ’s 1951 film
adaptation, starring  Frederic March .)  ‘Too Carnal’  North continued his collaboration with Kazan on the film of
 “A Streetcar Named Desire,”  where his music, influenced by
time he spent sopping up sounds in  New Orleans , was deemed “too
carnal” by the Legion of Decency. The toned-down score on the
final version of the film, with its suggestive clarinets, is
still plenty carnal.  North’s early experiences in Mexico proved useful for his
score for Kazan’s  “Viva Zapata!,”  which features a peasants’
anthem heavy on the percussion.  In 1952, at the height of the McCarthy era, Kazan named
names at a House Un-American Activities Committee hearing.
North, who had flirted with Communism in the ‘30s, never spoke
to him again.  In Hollywood, North was regarded as the go-to composer for
a “sophisticated” sound, as in the ballet music he composed
for Leslie Caron in  “Daddy Long Legs.”  (In 1954 North composed
a mock ballet score for a skit on Sid Caesar’s  “Your Show of
Shows” ). He wrote music for literary adaptations of works by
Carson McCullers and William Faulkner.  Martial Grandeur  North also specialized in scoring epics. His music for
Stanley Kubrick’s  “Spartacus,”  which was arranged for over 100
players, is perhaps his best film work, equally powerful in its
martial grandeur and its lyricism. (The love theme became a jazz
standard by pianist  Bill Evans .) Less successful were his scores
for the Taylor/Burton lovefest  “Cleopatra”  and  “The Agony and
the Ecstasy.”   His shimmering score for  “2001: A Space Odyssey,” 
available on CD, was dropped by Kubrick in favor of Gyorgy Ligeti and  Richard Strauss .  North reunited with the Liz and Dick show on Nichols’s film
debut,  “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf,”  where he jettisoned
his original jazzy approach for something, as he said, “simple,
melancholy, quasi-baroque.”  The last great long-term collaboration of North’s career
came with director John Huston, for whom he scored  “The
Misfits”  (reuniting him with its screenwriter, playwright
Miller),  “Wise Blood,”   “Under the Volcano,”   “Prizzi’s
Honor,”  and  “The Dead,”  Huston’s valedictory.  North was nominated 15 times for an Oscar. In 1986, the
Motion Picture Academy awarded him an honorary lifetime
achievement Oscar, one of only two film composers (the other is
Ennio Morricone) to have been so honored.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture and
 Richard Vines  on restaurants.  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com ._  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  