-- 3M Settles Lawsuit Over Cogent Purchase for $1.9 Million
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-22T20:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/3m-settles-lawsuit-over-cogent-purchase-for-1-9-million.html
3M Co. (MMM)  agreed to pay $1.9 million to
settle a lawsuit by shareholders who challenged the price it
paid for Cogent Inc., a maker of fingerprint scanners.  The companies both denied any wrongdoing and will share the
cost of settling the case, according to documents made public
today in Delaware Chancery Court. 3M, whose  products  include
Post-It notes, flu tests and sanding tools, paid about $943
million in 2010 for Cogent, now called 3M Cogent.  “Defendants are entering into this settlement solely in
order to eliminate the uncertainty, distraction, burden and
expense of further litigation,” 3M and Cogent said in court
papers.  Mergers and acquisitions lawsuits are the fastest-growing
type of securities litigation, according to  Cornerstone
Research . Among deals of $100 million or more announced in the
past two years, 91 percent were challenged in court, the legal
research firm said in a report.  The settlement needs the approval of Judge Donald F. Parsons of  Delaware  Chancery Court, who will also decide how
much of the $1.9 million goes to attorneys and how much to
shareholders.  Investors claimed in the suit that Cogent Chief Executive
Officer  Ming Hsieh  was biased in favor of 3M because he wanted
to collect a $153,000 retention bonus.  Hsieh didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
requesting comment on the settlement. Jacqueline Berry, a
spokeswoman for 3M, said she couldn’t immediately comment.  3M, based in  St. Paul , Minnesota, agreed to buy Cogent for
$10.50 a share. The sale closed in December 2010 after Parsons
refused to halt the transaction.  The case is In Re Cogent Inc. Shareholders Litigation,
Consolidated CA 5780-VCP, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 