-- A Greek Exit Could Make the Euro Area Stronger
-- B y   J a c o b   K i r k e g a a r d
-- 2012-05-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/a-greek-exit-could-make-the-euro-area-stronger.html
A Greek exit from the euro area would
inflict heavy damage in Greece and throughout Europe. It could
also be one of the best things that ever happened to the
currency union.  Greece’s repeat parliamentary election next month will
serve as a referendum on whether the country should end its 12-
year membership in the common currency. An affirmative answer
would trigger a cardiac arrest of the  Greek economy , as the
banking system collapsed and foreign suppliers refused payment
in drachmas. The financial system of the euro area, by far
Greece’s biggest international creditor, would suffer hundreds
of billions of euros in losses.  For the European economy as a whole, the primary danger
would be the reintroduction of  currency risk  into what has been
billed as an irrevocable monetary union. When Greek banks
collapse, or have to be closed for a prolonged holiday to
facilitate a forced conversion of deposits into new drachmas,
one cannot predict whether citizens and firms across the
periphery of Europe will  pull their money  out of their banks
just in case. The result could be financially disastrous.  The potentially dire repercussions have led many to assume
that no responsible European policy maker would allow a Greek
exit to take place. By this view, all the talk about letting
Greece leave is merely a scare tactic.  Europe ’s leaders will
blink first in their game of chicken with Greece and ease the
terms of the country’s austerity program.  Moral Hazard  This logic underestimates a crucial element of the euro
area’s political economy: In a union of partially sovereign
members without a supranational authority, concerns about moral
hazard -- the possibility that lenience toward Greece will
encourage other countries to misbehave -- still carry a lot of
weight. Euro-area leaders are not bluffing when they threaten to
cut off  support from the European Central Bank  and let the Greek
government run out of money, leaving it to decide whether to
dump the euro or remain as merely a euro-ized country such as
Montenegro.  What Europe’s leaders will not countenance is a breakup of
the euro. Therein lies the silver lining of a Greek exit. To
protect the currency union from the fallout, the remaining
members will have to move very quickly toward the economic and
financial integration that has always been necessary for the
euro’s long-term survival.  Such is the nature of the European Union and the history of
regional integration: It is propelled by bouts of acute crisis.
Make-or-break moments are what shape the boundaries of the
politically possible and inspire leaders to do whatever it takes
to save the euro.  Consider, for example, how Europe might respond to the
threat of bank runs. Only some kind of pan-euro deposit-
guarantee program would be authoritative enough to persuade
people to keep their money in the banks of peripheral countries
such as Portugal, Spain and  Italy . Initially, German Chancellor
Angela Merkel and ECB President  Mario Draghi  could make the
commitment orally. Putting the program in place, though, would
require a quantum leap in the integration of euro-area banking
supervision and regulation. Control over banks in the area would
have to be transferred to the supranational level. In other
words, a euro-area banking union could emerge as the direct
result of a Greek exit.  Consolidating Effect  The catastrophic economic repercussions in Greece -- which
would be very visible for electorates in other countries --
would have a consolidating effect on the euro area. It would
demonstrate the limits of bailouts and the consequences of
irresponsible behavior, alleviating the risk of moral hazard in
the remaining member states. No peripheral electorates would
want to emulate  Greece ’s experiences. Northern taxpayers would
be satisfied that their financial support was neither unlimited
nor unconditional. As a result, the thorny politics of fiscal-
integration projects, such as the introduction of euro-area
bonds, would become much easier to handle.  Beyond that, losing Greece would relieve one of the euro
area’s biggest problems: Its member economies have been too out
of sync to share a common monetary policy. The departure of the
most economically and politically challenged member would allow
the remaining 16 members to act much more like a unit.  Ultimately, only deeper integration among the remaining
euro-area members could re-establish the notion that the
currency union was irrevocable after a Greek exit. Fortunately,
that’s precisely the response Greece’s departure would be most
likely to produce.  (Jacob Kirkegaard is a research fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  the future of
affirmative action  and  breaking up the big banks ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  private equity and Democrats ;  Peter Orszag  on 
 combining stimulus and budget cuts ;  Enrique Krauze  on 
 dangerous journalism in Latin America ; James Copland on the 
 Justice Department and accounting firms .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jacob Kirkegaard at  JKirkegaard@piie.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  