-- Magnitude-5.8 Earthquake Srikes Bulgaria, No Casualties
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-05-22T14:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/magnitude-5-8-earthquake-srikes-bulgaria-no-casualties.html
An earthquake of a magnitude of 5.7
to 5.9 struck the Bulgarian city of Pernik, 25 kilometers (15.5
miles) northwest of the capital Sofia.  The quake, the worst in the Sofia area since 1917, shook
the country at 2:58 a.m. local time, causing walls and roofs to
collapse in Pernik and chimneys and plaster to fall in Sofia,
Interior Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov said on the ministry’s
website today. There were no casualties, Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  said in an interview with Nova Television station.  The capital city’s airport, railways and subway are working
and no damage to infrastructure in the country has been
reported, Construction Minister Liliana Pavlova told reporters
in Sofia. In Pernik, which was worst affected by the quake, the
heating utility was shut down and schools were closed for today
and tomorrow.  “I am grateful there are no serious damages and the
country’s infrastructure withstood an earthquake of such a
magnitude,” Borissov said in the television interview in Sofia.  The quake was registered throughout the Balkan nation of
7.5 million and in neighboring Serbia, the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia,  Greece  and  Romania . Many people in Sofia,
Pernik and other cities left their houses and spent the rest of
the night on the streets, in parks and other open areas, fearing
stronger aftershocks.  Aftershocks  “The high number of aftershocks with subsiding magnitude
indicate a gradual release of terrestrial tension and hopefully
there won’t be another strong earthquake soon,” Nikolai
Miloshev, director of the National Geophysics Institute, told
reporters in Sofia. The quake was followed by about 80
aftershocks in the next six hours, he said.  The  power grid  in the Pernik area was damaged, cutting off
electricity for about 2,700 households, the Bulgarian unit of
 CEZ AS (CEZ) , which is the power distributor in western  Bulgaria , said
in an e-mail. Emergency units are working to restore supplies,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  