-- Alabama Lawmakers’ Inaction Merits Downgrade, Fabian Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-05-22T17:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/alabama-lawmakers-inaction-merits-state-downgrade-fabian-says.html
The  Alabama  Legislature’s failure to
pass a measure to assist bankrupt Jefferson County means the
state’s credit rating should be cut, said Matt Fabian, a
managing director of Municipal Market Advisors.  Lawmakers’ inaction shows “a culture of unwillingness to
pay,” Fabian said today in a telephone interview. “If trouble
were to occur elsewhere with other bonds, even those sold by the
state, it’s really not clear that the Legislature or the
governor would do the right thing by bondholders.”  The Legislature’s annual session ended on May 16 without
House action on a bill to help close a budget shortfall facing
Jefferson County, which six months ago filed a $4.2 billion
municipal bankruptcy, the biggest in the U.S. Governor Robert Bentley, 69, stayed out of the public debate on a measure to
allow the county to raise taxes.  The county of 660,000 has already missed a $15 million
general-obligation bond payment and said it will miss another in
October.  “If the rating agencies say they include willingness as a
factor in their ratings, they have to include what happened last
week,” said Fabian, whose firm is based in Concord,
 Massachusetts . “If you ignore that, you’re really ignoring
willingness.”  Governor’s Response  Asked about Fabian’s comments,  Jeremy King , a spokesman for
Bentley, pointed to an earlier statement from the governor’s
office.  “The Jefferson County situation is unique in its
underlying causes, and we do not believe those factors should
reflect on other locations in the state,” King said in the
statement, issued in March. “The state of Alabama maintains
strong credit ratings and a conservative balance sheet.”  Moody’s Investors Service rates the state Aa1, the second-
highest investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  grades the debt AA,
third-highest, and  Fitch Ratings  has the securities at AA+, its
second-highest level. The state hasn’t sold general-obligation
bonds since May 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our rating reflects the ability and willingness of the
state government to meet its own obligations, and not the
obligations of any underlying municipalities,” said Horacio Aldrete, an analyst of the state at S&P. “Any action that the
Legislature has taken with respect to Jefferson County is not
material as to the state’s ability to meet its own
obligations.”  Rating Companies  David Jacobson , a Moody’s spokesman, declined to comment.
Elizabeth Fogerty, a Fitch spokeswoman, said she was looking
into the matter.  Alabama’s municipalities are already paying  interest rates 
0.25 percentage point higher because of Jefferson County’s
Chapter 9 filing, according to Tom Barnett, finance director of
Birmingham, the county seat.  For a 30-year issue of $16 million paying a 3 percent
coupon, a 0.25 percentage point increase would require an extra
$792,500 in debt service, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 Bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  