-- Alcatel-Lucent Challenges Cisco With Router for Network Cores
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-22T15:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/alcatel-lucent-challenges-cisco-with-router-for-network-cores.html
Alcatel-Lucent, the Paris-based maker
of telecommunications gear, has designed a router to be used at
the center of Internet providers’ networks, a market dominated
by  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)   Alcatel-Lucent is scheduled to introduce today its 7950 XRS
router, a device to speed packets of data along networks. The
so-called core router, which operates at large-network junction
points, took three years to develop and is designed to support
as much as 6.4 terabits -- or 6.4 trillion bits -- per second of
data traffic, making it suitable for the largest potential
customers such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  BT Group Plc. (BT/A)   Phone companies have slowed spending, pressuring network-
equipment makers to take moves to rejuvenate revenue. Cisco and
Juniper control about 90 percent of core-router sales, said Shin Umeda, vice president in charge of router-market research for
Redwood City, California-based Dell’Oro Group. Alcatel-Lucent’s
core routers face “a long process” of gaining a foothold in
the market, he said.  “I would be surprised if they displaced one of the
incumbents at a big carrier,” Umeda said in a telephone
interview.  Alcatel-Lucent has been selling smaller-scale routers
designed for the perimeter of the Internet, as distinct from the
core. The company is entering the core market with the help of a
processor that keeps power consumption down while handling more
data traffic, said Basil Alwan, president of Alcatel-Lucent’s
Internet protocol division. An announcement of the routers was
scheduled to be made today in  Santa Clara ,  California .  ‘Significant Difference’  “We are revolutionizing the network core, just as we did
over the past 10 years at the network edge with service
routing,” Alwan said in a statement prepared for the
announcement. In an interview, he declined to disclose the price
of the new product.  Alcatel-Lucent’s new routers are designed to cut the amount
of hardware that a telecommunications-service provider needs,
Umeda said.  “If it pans out to what they are claiming, it will be a
significant difference to what the competitors have,” he said.  Alcatel-Lucent Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen is
struggling to keep the company profitable amid market-share
challenges and tightness in customer spending. Philippe Saint-
Aubin, a representative of the European workers’ council for the
company, said in February that Alcatel-Lucent intended to
eliminate as many as 1,800 additional jobs in  Europe  through
firings and relocation. At the time, an Alcatel-Lucent
spokesman, Simon Poulter, said costs were being cut, and
declined to comment on the number of positions affected.  Cisco Squeeze  Cisco, the world’s largest maker of computer-networking
equipment, has been squeezed. The company, based in  San Jose ,
California, offered a fiscal fourth-quarter forecast on May 9
that fell short of analysts’ estimates for sales and profit.
Chief Executive Officer John Chambers said demand had weakened
in Europe,  India  and among large companies in general.  One potential bright spot in the spending picture is an
industry upgrade to 100-gigabit network technology. With data
traffic growing 30 percent to 40 percent a year for the next
five years, carriers are moving to 100-gigabit to accommodate
higher volume, Umeda said. One gigabit means 1 billion bits.  “There’s an ebb and flow in the core-router spending
cycle, and this 100-gigabit technology might help it pick up,”
the researcher said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  