-- Aldar Lifts Abu Dhabi Stocks on Merger Progress; Saudi Rallies
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-05-22T12:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/aldar-sorouh-lift-abu-dhabi-stocks-on-potential-merger-progress.html
Abu Dhabi shares rose to a one-week
high, led by  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH) ,
as the emirate’s biggest developers were said to be considering
appointing advisers for a possible merger. Saudi shares rallied.  Aldar and Sorouh rose to the highest levels in two weeks.
The stocks pushed the  ADX Real Estate Index (ADRE)  up 3.5 percent. The
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.1 percent to 2,471.05, the highest
since May 15, at the 2 p.m. close in Abu Dhabi.  Saudi Arabia (SABIC) ’s
Tadawul All Share Index advanced 1.1 percent, the most in a
month. Emerging-market stocks rose the most in eight weeks.  “Investors have interpreted the appointment of advisers as
positive as it shows the merger talks are progressing well,”
said Waleed Al Khateeb, the senior finance manager at Daman
Securities in Dubai. “A merger would be extremely positive for
the real estate sector in  Abu Dhabi .”  The developers, which have played an integral part in Abu
Dhabi’s drive to turn itself into a tourism and business hub,
said in March they are studying a possible merger with the
“blessing” of the emirate’s government. Property companies’
profits are picking up after  house prices  in Abu Dhabi slumped
50 percent in the aftermath of the 2008 global credit crisis.  Aldar may appoint  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss bank, while Sorouh may give the advisory mandate
to  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s largest retail
brokerage, a person familiar with the matter said yesterday,
declining to be identified because the matter is private.  Profit Recovery  Aldar rose 3.7 percent to 1.11 dirhams, the highest since
May 8, and Sorouh gained 3.9 percent to 1.07 dirhams, also the
highest since May 8. Shares of Aldar and Sorouh have rallied 21
percent and 26 percent this year, respectively, after Abu Dhabi,
holder of most of the United Arab Emirates’ oil reserves, said
it plans to resume stalled projects including branches of the
Louvre and Guggenheim museums.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose as much as 1.1
percent, the most since March 27, as investors speculated  China 
will accelerate spending in infrastructure to counter an
economic slowdown and Germany vowed to spur growth among euro
member states. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 1.1 percent.  Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul jumped the most since April 21,
advancing to 7,103.52. The advance was led by Al-Rajhi Bank, the
country’s largest lender by market value.  Saudi Growth  The economic outlook for Saudi Arabia is “positive” after
gross domestic product expanded 6.8 percent last year, Finance
Minister Ibrahim Al-Assaf said. The non-oil industry will drive
growth this year, he said at a conference in Riyadh today.
Separately, Al-Assaf said the kingdom expects more corporate
bond and sukuk sales in the future.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  gained 0.9
percent, while Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 0.6 percent.
Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  rallied 2.3 percent, the most in more than a
year. Kuwait’s  gauge  slipped 0.5 percent and Bahrain’s  measure 
fell 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  