-- Allstate Investors Approve Executive Pay After ‘Listening Tour’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-22T20:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/allstate-investors-approve-executive-pay-after-listening-tour-.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL)  shareholders approved
the insurer’s executive pay plan after Chief Executive Officer
Tom Wilson addressed concerns from investors following the
proposal’s near defeat last year.  More than 90 percent of investors who cast ballots approved
management’s proposal on compensation of executive officers,
Allstate said today in a statement on its  website . The non-
binding resolution was rejected by more than 40 percent of
Allstate’s shareholders voting last year.  Executives including Citigroup Inc. CEO Vikram Pandit are
facing pressure from shareholders on pay. Allstate embarked on a
“listening tour” to hear investor concerns and had more
conversations after last year’s results, Wilson, 54, said in a
phone interview today following the Northbrook, Illinois-based
company’s annual meeting. The company also made changes to its
executive compensation plan, some of which took effect this
year.  The increased level of conversation with shareholders “has
been a good thing for us,” Wilson said. “It helps us
understand what our owners want.”  Wilson, who presided over his fourth annual  stock decline 
in five years as CEO, was given total compensation of $11.2
million for 2011, up 20 percent from the previous year, the
company said in a March 9 regulatory filing. His pay included
$1.1 million of salary, $2.31 million of stock awards and $4.29
million of option awards.  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, slipped 1.1 percent to close at $32.84 in  New York . The
shares have rallied 20 percent this year, compared with the 4.7
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  