-- Anglo, Codelco Agree to Talks on Resolving Chile Dispute
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-05-22T17:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/anglo-codelco-agree-to-talks-on-resolving-chile-copper-dispute.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  agreed to seek an
out-of-court settlement with  Chile ’s state-owned copper company
in a dispute over the world’s fifth-largest copper mine.  Anglo and Chile’s Codelco requested the suspension of legal
proceedings at the 14th Civil Court of Santiago until June 22
while they explore a possible resolution, the London-based
company said in a statement. Anglo Chief Executive Officer
 Cynthia Carroll  welcomed the opportunity to “re-engage.”  Anglo agreed in November to sell 24.5 percent of its Sur
unit to  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  for $5.39 billion in a transaction that
Codelco says aims to block its option to buy 49 percent of the
unit at a below-market price. Anglo shares rose the most in a
month in  London  today, advancing 3.1 percent to 2,087.50 pence.  “Anything that avoids a two- or three-year court dispute
has got to be positive,” Des Kilalea, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  said by phone from London. “The key is, just because
they’re talking, we shouldn’t necessarily believe that there
will be an agreement. They are very far apart.”  Sur includes Los Bronces, where Anglo completed last year a
$2.8 billion expansion, and two of the world’s best undeveloped
copper deposits, according to  John MacKenzie , head of copper at
Anglo. Codelco owns the Andina copper mine adjacent to Los
Bronces in the Andean foothills near Chilean capital Santiago.  Mitsui Financing  Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer, is entitled
to buy 49 percent of Sur for about $6 billion under terms of a
2002 contract and has a loan facility in place with Mitsui & Co.
to finance the acquisition, according to the company’s website.  Anglo’s risk profile would be weakened if it’s forced to
sell an additional stake in its key copper asset,  Standard &
Poor’s  said in a statement today.  The state-owned company rejected an offer from Anglo last
year to tear up the option contract for a $1 billion payment,
Hernandez said in an April 18 interview. Further talks to reach
an agreement broke down earlier this year, he said.  Anglo said it had “from the outset, been consistently in
favor of discussing a commercial solution that takes into
account the interests of both parties.”  A Chilean court rejected a petition by Codelco last month
to freeze 49 percent of dividends paid by the division.  “We will explore once again if we can find areas of
consensus with Anglo American to overcome this controversy,”
Codelco Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said in a
separate e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  