-- Anwar Charged With Taking Part in Malaysia Street Protest
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2012-05-22T04:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/anwar-to-be-charged-today-for-participation-in-malaysia-rally.html
Malaysian opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  was charged with participating in an illegal street
demonstration, potentially hindering efforts to prepare for
elections that could come this year.  Prosecutors accused Anwar, leader of the People’s Justice
Party, and two deputies of violating the Peaceful Assembly Act
by taking part in an April 28 demonstration in  Kuala Lumpur  that
sought faster changes to the country’s election rules. The
charge carries a maximum sentence of six months and a fine of
12,000 ringgit ($3,845), Anwar’s lawyer Sivarasa Rasiah said.  A conviction could disqualify Anwar from running in
national elections due to be held by early 2013. The charges
come four months after he was acquitted of sodomy, enabling him
concentrate on leading the opposition against Prime Minister
Najib Razak’s ruling coalition which has ruled the Southeast
Asian country for five decades.  “It will take away time from the campaigning that he has
already started,” said  Ibrahim Suffian , a political analyst at
the Merdeka Center, an independent research institute near Kuala
Lumpur. “If they pursue him too vigorously it would appear as
though they are trying to single him out.”  Also charged were the party’s deputy president Azmin Ali
and its youth leader Badrul Hisham Shaharin. All three pleaded
not guilty and were released.  “It’s clearly political in nature as the election is
around the corner,” Anwar told reporters at the Kuala Lumpur
court house.  Police used water cannons last month against demonstrators
throwing shoes, bottles and chairs while trying to break through
barricades to enter a square where the Coalition for Clean and
Fair Elections, known as  Bersih , wanted to hold a sit-in. The
government passed legislation banning such protests after police
detained more than 1,600 people during a similar rally in July.  Preparing for Polls  Preparations for an election have begun, Najib said in
December and his National Front coalition may call a vote as
early as June, according to four officials who spoke in March.
Growth in the region’s third-largest economy has slowed and the
prime minister is boosting spending on roads and railways to a
record to sustain the expansion.  Prosecutors in January filed an appeal against Anwar’s
acquittal of claims by a former aide of a sexual encounter in
2008. Sodomy is illegal in Muslim-majority  Malaysia  even between
two consenting men and carries a maximum sentence of as much as
20 years in prison.  A report tomorrow will show Malaysia’s gross domestic
product rose 4.6 percent in the three months through March after
increasing 5.2 percent in the quarter earlier, according to the
median forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  