-- Arava Closes Funding for $204 Million Israeli Solar Plants
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-05-22T13:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/arava-closes-funding-for-204-million-israeli-solar-plants-1-.html
Arava Power Co., an Israeli
renewable-energy developer, obtained financing for eight solar
power projects valued at 780 million shekels ($204 million).  The company, part-owned by  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE) , closed two
separate agreements for photovoltaic plants in the Negev region
with 58 megawatts of combined capacity, it said in an e-mailed
statement.  Arava completed Israel’s largest solar park last June and
is aiming to develop more than 400 megawatts of large-scale
projects domestically. The country, which wants to source 10
percent of its power from renewables by 2020, had about 140
megawatts in photovoltaic capacity by last September, according
to the power regulator PUA.  The developer obtained 400 million shekels in financing for
five solar parks with 35 megawatts from  Migdal Insurance and
Financial Holding Ltd. ,  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI)  and Amitim. Noy Fund
and Keren Kayemth Leisrael, an investor in the company, will
provide equity for the 500 million-shekel projects.  Siemens, EDF  The deal was possible after the projects received a
provisional license and signed a power purchase agreement with
 Israel  Electric Corp., Arava said. Siemens will start building
the plants within a few months.  Under a second agreement, the developer secured a 224
million-shekel loan from Bank Hapoalim for three solar plants
developed in partnership with  France ’s  Electricite de France SA .
The 23-megawatt projects will cost 280 million shekels, it said.  Arava, based in Kibbutz Ketura, signed Israel’s first
project financing for a photovoltaic plant in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  