-- Stocks Gain on U.S. Home Sales Growth; Yen Weakens
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-22T19:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/asian-stocks-oil-won-gain-on-german-growth-pledge.html
Stocks (MXWO)  rose for a second day as U.S.
home sales increased and speculation grew that leaders in China
and Europe will do more to support economic growth. Spanish
bonds rallied, while Treasuries, German bunds and the yen fell.  The MSCI All-Country World Index added 0.8 percent at 3:03
p.m. in  New York  and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4
percent, adding to its biggest gain in two months. The yen
depreciated 1 percent against the dollar after Fitch Ratings
downgraded Japan’s debt. Crops led commodities lower while oil
retreated as Iran agreed to let Western nuclear inspectors into
the country. Ten-year Treasury yields rose for a third day.  U.S. equities extended gains after the National Association
of Realtors said sales of existing homes increased in April for
the first time in three months, adding to signs the housing
market is recovering.  China  plans to speed up approval of
infrastructure projects and allocate construction funding faster
to improve growth, the China Securities Journal reported. Fitch
cut Japan’s rating to A+ with a negative outlook.  “We’re getting some refocus back on economic news,” said
 Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about $27 billion of assets
as the chief investment strategist at Commonfund in Wilton,
Connecticut. “There’s a real turn happening in the U.S. housing
sector. It seems to be a done deal that China will stimulate
growth. There’s also some hope regarding the meeting taking
place in Europe tomorrow.”  ‘Everything Necessary’  The S&P 500 surged 1.6 percent  yesterday , the biggest gain
since March 13, after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said yesterday that European leaders will do “everything
necessary” to keep Greece in the 17-nation euro and focus on
steps to aid economic expansion.  An S&P index of 12  homebuilders  rallied 3 percent and is up
6 percent in two days. PulteGroup Inc. and  Lennar Corp . rallied
more than 3 percent to pace gains today. Purchases of previously
owned homes increased 3.4 percent to a 4.62 million annual rate,
according to figures from the Realtors association, adding to
signs the industry is stabilizing.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  jumped 6.2 percent, rebounding from a
20 percent plunge following its May 10 disclosure of at least $2
billion in trading losses from credit derivatives.  Wells Fargo &
Co ., Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. also rose at least
1.9 percent, sending financial shares to the biggest advance
among 10 industries in the S&P 500.  Facebook Slips  Facebook Inc. (FB)  lost 6.9 percent to $31.70, extending
yesterday’s 11 percent plunge, in the social network’s third day
of trading after selling shares at $38 in the biggest initial
public offering for an Internet company.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 1.9 percent. Rio Tinto
Group and  Renault SA (RNSDF)  led gains in mining companies and
automakers, rising at least 4 percent.  Homeserve Plc (HSV) , the U.K.
provider of emergency-repair services that suspended telephone
sales and marketing in October after a review showed they didn’t
meet its standards, plunged 29 percent after saying the
Financial Services Authority will investigate “certain historic
issues.”  European stocks held gains after the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said Europe’s debt crisis
risks spiraling and seriously damaging the world economy.  European Meetings  European leaders are scheduled to meet in Brussels
tomorrow. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she won’t shy
away from disagreeing with French President  Francois Hollande ,
saying good cooperation “doesn’t exclude differing positions.”
France isn’t out to create conflict and will welcome “all the
tools, all the proposals” at the meeting, Hollande said.  The German 10-year bund yield added four basis points to
1.47 percent, while similar-maturity Spanish bond yields slid 20
basis points after the government beat its maximum target at an
auction today.  Spain’s two-year note yield slid 17 basis points, and the
cost of insuring the country’s debt against default dropped 28
basis points to 527. Spain sold 2.53 billion euros ($3.2
billion) of bills, more than its maximum target of 2.5 billion
euros. The Italian two-year note yield tumbled 17 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments declined 5.4 basis points to
310.5. In addition to Spain, the Netherlands sold 3 billion
euros of 2015 notes today, and the European Financial Stability
Facility sold 1.478 billion euros of 182-day bills as borrowing
costs fell.  The yen weakened against all 16 of its most-traded peers,
extending declines after Fitch cut Japan’s rating by one step
because of the nation’s “leisurely” efforts to tackle the
world’s biggest public debt burden.  BOJ Meeting  The Bank of Japan started a two-day meeting, with seven out
of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News saying they expect
the central bank to bolster monetary stimulus by July and none
predicting action at the end of the meeting tomorrow. The Bank
of Japan increased planned bond purchases a month ago.  The euro weakened 0.8 percent to $1.2720, declining against
all but three of its 16 major counterparts. The  Dollar Index (DXY) 
rose for the first time in three days, adding 0.5 percent. The
pound fell 0.4 percent versus the dollar as U.K. inflation
slowed and the  International Monetary Fund  said more stimulus
such as quantitative easing is needed to boost the economy.  The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield rose five basis points to
1.79 percent. The 30-year yield jumped as much as nine basis
points to 2.895 percent. Treasuries remained lower after the
U.S. sold $35 billion in two-year notes. The securities drew a
yield of 0.30 percent, matching the average forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21
primary dealers.  Faster Growth  Norway’s krone appreciated 0.5 percent versus the euro
after a report showed the nation’s economy grew more than
economists forecast in the first quarter as investments in
offshore oil and gas fields allowed Europe’s second-largest
crude exporter to evade the region’s debt crisis.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities retreated 0.9 percent
as corn, cotton, sugar and cocoa fell more than 2.6 percent to
lead declines. Oil slipped 1 percent to $91.66 a barrel as Iran
agreed to let Western nuclear inspectors into the country,
easing concern that the conflict over its atomic energy program
will disrupt supplies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.5 percent. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese stocks listed in  Hong
Kong  advanced 1.2 percent and the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
increased 1.1 percent. Industrial  stocks  led the advance with
Anhui Conch Cement Co., the biggest Chinese cement producer,
jumping 3.5 percent. Benchmark gauges in  South Korea , Taiwan and
Hungary climbed at least 0.9 percent while India’s Sensex lost 1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  