-- Asian Currencies Extend Rebound, Led by Ringgit, on Europe Talks
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-05-22T08:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/asian-currencies-extend-rebound-led-by-ringgit-on-europe-talks.html
Asian currencies rose for a second
day, led by  Malaysia ’s ringgit and South Korea’s won, as a
global stocks rally and optimism Europe will tackle its debt
crisis spurred risk-taking.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index and the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of shares extended rebounds from five-month lows
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had its biggest rally in
more than two months in  New York  yesterday. Germany’s Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said after a meeting with his French
counterpart  Pierre Moscovici  that the two nations will do
“everything necessary” to ensure Greece remains in the euro.
European Union leaders meet tomorrow for a summit in Brussels.  “With the French and German leaders’ meeting and
expectations ahead of the EU summit, we are seeing some reversal
of recent declines in stocks and currencies,” said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency analyst at Woori Futures Co.  The ringgit appreciated 0.6 percent to 3.1155 per dollar as
of 4:31 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won strengthened 0.5 percent to 1,163.40, the
Singapore dollar rose 0.4 percent to S$1.2662 and the  Philippine
peso  advanced 0.2 percent to 43.127.  The won rose the most in more than a month as the  Kospi
index (KOSPI)  of Korean shares climbed 1.6 percent, its biggest gain
since Jan. 20.  Lingering Uncertainties  “Still, gains in the won may not be big as, with
uncertainties lingering in the market, overseas investors are
ready to buy the dollar once the won strengthens,” Byeon said.  The ringgit strengthened for a second day ahead of data
tomorrow that analysts predict will show Malaysia’s economy
expanded for a 10th consecutive quarter. Gross domestic product
rose 4.6 percent from a year earlier in the three months through
March after gaining 5.2 percent in the previous quarter,
according to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  Thailand ’s baht appreciated before government data tomorrow
that may show exports climbed 6.4 percent in April after falling
6.5 percent in March, a Bloomberg survey showed. The currency
rose 0.1 percent to 31.31 per dollar, near a one-week high of
31.18 reached yesterday.  “Sentiment for risky assets is better,” said Norawit
Suparinayok, a foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl.
“Good economic data for Thailand is also positive for the baht.
We can also expect some baht demand from exporters as the export
sector is recovering from last year’s floods.”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.1 percent to NT$29.546
versus the U.S. currency. China’s  yuan  strengthened 0.08 percent
to 6.3231, while Indonesia’s rupiah slid 0.2 percent to 9,268.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  