-- Asia Stocks Rise as Germany, China Vow to Spur Growth
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-05-22T10:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/asian-stocks-rise-2nd-day-as-germany-france-tame-crisis-concern.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a second day on
speculation China and Europe will do more to bolster economic
growth, boosting the outlook for the region’s exporters.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , a South Korean electronics maker that
depends on Europe for 16 percent of its sales, rose 7.6 percent.
Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. led Chinese developers higher as a
leading index rose and after a report the country will speed
infrastructure investment. Woori Finance Holdings Co. jumped 6.5
percent in Seoul as South Korea’s top financial regulator said
the government needs to cut its stake in the company.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1 percent to 113.85 as
of 7:10 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than three stocks rising for
each that fell. The measure, which hit a five-month low on May
18, has risen the last two days after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
over the weekend that  China  will focus more on spurring economic
growth.  “Obviously the markets were extremely weak last week, this
is just a little bit of a relief rally given the situation in
Europe hasn’t deteriorated further,” said  Stephen Halmarick ,
Sydney-based head of investment markets research at Colonial
First State Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150
billion. “In the absence of more bad news out of Europe, pro-
growth comments out of China are supporting the markets.”  China, Europe  Asian stocks pared gains after Japan’s sovereign-credit
rating was cut by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the nation’s
“liesurely” efforts to tackle the world’s public debt burden.
The downgrade was announced after close of market in Japan.  The  Asia-Pacific gauge  dropped 13 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 29 through May 18 amid concern China’s growth is
losing momentum and as the political impasse in Greece revived
fears the nation will abandon bailout conditions and exit the
 euro zone . The 14-day relative strength index on the measure has
been below 30, a threshold that some traders think signal a
rebound is due, for the last eight trading days.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.1 percent as the
 Bank of Japan  started a two-day policy meeting today.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 added 1.2 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
Index advanced 1.6 percent.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index (TWSE)  rose 1.2
percent even after the jobless rate unexpectedly climbed last
month. Singapore’s Straits Times Index rose 1.3 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.6 percent. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies
advanced 1.2 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks
the larger of China’s stock exchanges, rose 1.1 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today after the gauge gained 1.6 percent yesterday, capping its
biggest advance in two months.  Europe Growth  Companies that do business in Europe advanced as German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the nation will
consider all ideas on spurring euro area growth. Policy makers
are preparing for the European Union summit tomorrow.  LG Electronics advanced 7.6 percent to 67,700 won in Seoul.
 Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that depends on Europe for 79
percent of its sales, rose 3.4 percent to HK$12.72 in Hong Kong.
 Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s No. 1 exporter of consumer electronics,
gained 1 percent to 1,119 yen in Tokyo.  Companies tied to China advanced. A leading index for the
mainland increased 0.8 percent in April, the New York-based
Conference Board said in an e-mailed statement today, citing a
preliminary reading. That compares with a 0.8 percent gain in
March and 1 percent in February.  Wen Jiabao’s government may announce stimulus measures in
the near term, the official China Securities Journal said
yesterday, a day after the premier pledged to focus more on
bolstering growth. The newspaper reported today, citing an
unidentified person, that the nation plans to speed up the
approval of infrastructure construction projects to boost
economic growth.  ‘More Optimistic’  “We’ve turned quite a bit more optimistic on China in the
last few months,” Arnout Van Rijn, chief investment officer for
Robeco Groep NV’s  Hong Kong  division, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. The firm oversees $200 billion globally.
“From here on you’ll get some better numbers” on the Chinese
economy. “It’s quite safe to buy stocks.”  Chinese developers gained. Guangzhou R&F Properties added 6
percent to HK$9.68, and  Renhe Commercial Holdings Co. (1387) , a Chinese
developer of shopping centers in disused bomb shelters, advanced
11 percent to 50 Hong Kong cents. The company has gained about
50 percent in the last four trading days.  Companies that sell to the world’s second-largest economy
also advanced.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , a construction machinery maker that
gets 14 percent of its revenue in China, rose 5.3 percent to
1,954 yen in Tokyo.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the South Korean
consumer electronics company that gets 28 percent of revenue
from China, climbed 2.6 percent to 1,240,000 won.  Among other stocks that rose, Woori Finance Holdings
climbed 6.5 percent to 10,700 won. Kim Seok Dong, South Korea’s
top financial regulator, said the government needs to cut its 57
percent stake in the company to recoup taxpayer money and keep
its value from falling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  