-- Latin America Clean Power Generation to Grow, BNEF Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-05-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/latin-america-clean-power-generation-to-grow-bnef-says.html
Latin America ’s renewable-energy boom
will drive up the use of solar and wind-power equipment, adding
the equivalent of Germany’s annual demand by 2015, according to
consulting firm  Climate Strategy .  Solar-panel installations in the region will jump to 2,156
megawatts a year by 2015 from 75 megawatts last year, while new
 wind turbines  will more than triple to 4,323 megawatts a year,
Chief Executive Officer Peter Sweatman said today in Madrid.  Wind and solar developers are shifting focus to Latin
America from the U.S. and  Europe , where debt-saddled governments
have reined in clean-power subsidies. Countries from  Mexico  to
Brazil are adding renewable-energy projects as economic growth
accelerates, financing curbs ease and equipment costs come down.  “The region is going through a very strong period where
finance is easier to come by than it has been in the past,”
Sweatman said at a conference. “The whole of Latin America is
going to add more demand than  Germany  does in an average year.”  In Brazil, the price of wind power under the country’s
auction system declined 75 percent by the end of 2011 from 2006,
Sweatman said. Installing solar panels in Brazil, Mexico and
 Chile  is cheaper than buying power from the grid, he said.  “In 2014 and 2015 there will be a substantial move toward
non-subsidized grid-parity systems,” Sweatman said, referring to
the point at which power generation from renewable sources costs
the same or less than purchases from the transmission network.
“In parts of Chile, large manufacturers will find it more
economic to develop their own wind than to take grid power.”  Brazil’s use of wind auctions, rather than the above-market
rates system adopted in Germany and  Spain , has proved so
competitive that half of all winning bids generate returns of
less than 10 percent, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance,
the London-based partner of Climate Strategy.  “The cost of capital is already under extreme pressure,”
Sweatman said. “The auction mechanism is most clearly getting
the lowest cost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  