-- Latin American Reporters Find Democracy Is Perilous
-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 2012-05-22T23:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/latin-american-reporters-find-democracy-is-perilous.html
On the last day of April, the body of
Regina Martinez, a 49-year-old journalist who had been beaten
and strangled to death,  was found  on the floor of her apartment
in Xalapa, the capital of the Mexican state of Veracruz.  She had written on local affairs for  Proceso ,  Mexico ’s
leading news magazine, for the past 10 years, and had recently
published reports on the drug war in Veracruz between two rival
and murderous cartels. Her writing included accusations of
local-government corruption.  A few days after her death, the lower house of the Mexican
Congress called for a moment of silence in Martinez’s memory and
passed legislation meant to protect journalists against assault
or intimidation.  More than 80  other Mexican journalists  have been murdered
since 2000, for reasons largely connected with their reporting
on the drug wars. Very few -- almost none -- of these murders
have been solved to anyone’s satisfaction.  Journalism in Mexico has become a dangerous and almost
impossible occupation when reporters in some areas of the
country dare to write about details of organized crime and
corruption.  The drug trade has a long history in Mexico, but its
menace, power and impunity have surged to an unheard-of level.
It is a force that acts from the shadows, and it has neither
ideas nor ideals -- only interests and instincts.  Far Beyond Mexico  Its impact and the dangers of confronting it extend far
beyond Mexico. In the old days of hegemony by the  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , a portion of the news media chose self-
censorship, for fear of government displeasure or merely to
serve its own interests. Now we have the sad paradox that in a
Mexico that has become a democracy, journalists must choose
between silence or the threat of death. Yet many of them
continue to report on the reality faced by the country, like
reporters sent to cover events in hell.  The danger to the press and other media from organized
crime in Mexico, Central America and some countries of Latin
America is an especially fierce stage of a long history of
struggle for freedom of expression in the region. Its 19th
century military dictatorships hated such freedoms. From their
point of view they had good reason. The liberal Latin American
press was their constant critic, with ferocious cartoons,
satirical sonnets, incendiary articles and excellent writers.
Many journalists had to endure ostracism, imprisonment and
exile. Some would die for their persistent commitment to
political and journalistic freedom.  In the early decades of the 20th century, countries that
demonstrated a strong inclination toward democracy --  Chile ,
 Colombia ,  Costa Rica  and Uruguay -- established newspapers that
have lasted more than a century. And the new media of radio, in
a time of social convulsion, opened up fresh opportunities for
free speech -- but also for domination.  On the right, the government of Juan and Eva Peron in
 Argentina  was probably the first to apply the full propaganda
force of radio toward the preservation of power. Later in the
century, the totalitarian regime of Cuba would use radio and
television for its own purposes and eliminate freedom of
expression and the once extremely broad spectrum of the Cuban
media.  The region’s brutally repressive military regimes during
the 20th century were also enemies of a free press. In Argentina
and Chile, the generals, who had seized power in military coups,
closed newspapers and tortured and murdered journalists.  Intolerant of Criticism  Assaults on freedom of the press in  Latin America  still
occur across the political spectrum. (Among right-of-center
governments,  Panama  has been especially guilty.) The new
democratically elected populist regimes in Latin America
emphasize social change and generally have charismatic leaders.
They have been intolerant of criticism, justified or
unjustified, from their opponents.  Hugo Chavez  of  Venezuela  has been the worst offender,
through such actions as the expropriation of the independent
 news agency , RCTV, and a barrage of propaganda pushing his own
messianic image. But he has not closed some historically
important newspapers, and freedom of expression still struggles
to make itself heard in papers such as El Nacional and journals
such as  Tal Cual .  Many Latin American countries have severe libel laws that
have been used to persecute journalistic opponents. President
 Rafael Correa  of  Ecuador  secured a judgment for libel of $40
million and three years in prison against a writer and three
directors of the newspaper El Universo. (In February, he
withdrew the charges against the convicted-but-not-yet-
imprisoned journalists.)  In Argentina, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has
been at odds with much of the media, especially the conglomerate
Grupo Clarin SA, and she has favored legislation limiting press
freedom. In 2009, though, the Argentine Congress eliminated the
charge of criminal defamation, and similar laws imposing prison
sentences for libel were overturned in recent years in  Brazil ,
Chile, Colombia and Costa Rica.  Mexico’s  Supreme Court  now stands firmly in favor of
freedom of expression, supporting the argument that the public
need to know is the most important issue and that information
and criticism, whether severe or even unjust, must be heard. But
in Mexico, the struggle on the ground continues. There is
freedom of expression, but the heavy footfalls of intimidation
trail after too many of journalists. How many more martyrs like
Regina Martinez must pay with their lives for their bravery?  Whatever the issues and conflicts, the goal of democracy
demands a free press. It should also be unbiased, but that
cannot be achieved in all individual cases. It is the unimpeded
and entire range of free expression that offers us access to
what is true, real and relevant to our countries and ourselves.  ( Enrique Krauze  is a historian and author of “Mexico: A
Biography of Power” and of “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in Latin
America.” The opinions expressed are his own. This article was
translated from the Spanish by Hank Heifetz.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  the future of
affirmative action  and  breaking up the big banks ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  private equity and Democrats ;  Peter Orszag  on
 combining stimulus and budget cuts ;  Jacob Kirkegaard  on why  a
Greek exit would help the euro area ; James Copland on the
 Justice Department and accounting firms .  To contact the writer of this article:
Enrique Krauze at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 