-- Australia Tops OECD Better Life Index, Leading Norway, U.S.
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-23T02:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/australia-tops-oecd-better-life-index-leading-norway-and-u-s-.html
Australia  is the world’s happiest
nation based on criteria including income, jobs, housing and
health, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said.  Australia led Norway and the U.S., the Paris-based group’s
 Better Life Index  showed, when each of 11 categories surveyed in
36 nations is given equal weight.  Life expectancy  at birth in Australia is almost 82 years,
two years higher than the OECD average, the survey showed. More
than 72 percent of people aged 15 to 64 in Australia have a paid
job, above the OECD average of 66 percent.  Australia was the only major developed nation to avoid the
2009 worldwide recession and the government is aiming to return
its budget to surplus in the fiscal year beginning July 1. A
mining investment boom has spurred hiring and driven the
 unemployment rate  below 5 percent, even as an elevated currency
hurts manufacturing and tourism.  “Australia performs exceptionally well in measures of
well-being, as shown by the fact that it ranks among the top
countries in a large number of topics in the Better Life
Index,” the OECD said.  As  Europe  faces years of fiscal austerity, Australia’s
 budget surplus  would make it one of the first developed nations
to emerge from an era of red ink caused by the worldwide
financial crisis that started in 2008. Even so, the nation’s
Labor-led government trails the opposition in opinion polls.  ‘Dodged That Bullet’  “We’ve all just lived through the biggest economic
meltdown since the Great Depression,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said in a May 9 interview, when asked why her government
has low poll ratings. “While Australia has largely dodged that
bullet -- we didn’t have a recession, for example -- it has had
an impact on people. We’re a government with a big reform agenda.
I’m not surprised there’s some nervousness in the community.”  Australia’s unemployment rate will rise to the highest
level since 2009 as industries outside of mining struggle with
an elevated currency, the OECD said in its economic outlook
released in Paris yesterday.  The nation’s jobless rate will climb to 5.7 percent in 2013
from 5.4 percent this year. That would match a level reached in
September 2009 and be higher than the average in the past decade
of 5.2 percent.  “Mining expansion will continue, but some other sectors
are having to adjust to the high level of the  exchange rate  and
raise their productivity, which can be expected to weigh on the
labor market,” the OECD said in the report. “Faster fiscal
consolidation will also weigh somewhat on demand.”  Budget Surplus  Gillard’s government plans a A$46 billion ($45 billion)
swing to a budget surplus to provide the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia with more scope to lower borrowing costs.  The central bank has cut the benchmark  interest rate  by a
percentage point to 3.75 percent in the past six months to
support demand as a 41 percent gain in the currency since 2008
hurts non-resource exporters, tourism and education.  Australia’s unemployment rate fell last month to 4.9
percent, the lowest level since April 2011, from 5.2 percent in
March, a government report showed this month.  Core inflation 
slowed to a 13-year low in the first quarter as the currency’s
strength contained prices.  “In the absence of inflationary pressures, the
accommodating monetary stance which accompanies this budget-
tightening should help limit the risk of weakening employment,”
the OECD said.  Australia is also one of the world’s safest trade and
foreign investment destinations, ranking alongside Canada,
 Germany ,  Norway  and Sweden, according to an analysis of 131
countries on Dun & Bradstreet Corp’s Global Risk Indicator.  “Solid gross domestic product growth, relative to other
developed economies, contributes to Australia’s status as one of
the world’s safest trade destinations,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  