-- Australia State Debt Lures Investors on Spreads, TCV Says
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-22T02:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/australia-state-debt-lures-investors-on-spreads-tcv-says.html
Investors are looking at buying bonds
issued by Australian states as a way to diversify their holdings
in the nation that has the highest yields among top-rated
sovereigns, Treasury Corp. of Victoria said.  The funding arm of Victoria state met with domestic and
international buyers in recent weeks, said Justin Lofting,
general manager of treasury at TCV.  The extra yields offered by benchmark notes from New South
Wales and Victoria,  Australia ’s biggest state economies, over
similar-dated federal securities climbed to 2 1/2 month highs
yesterday. The premiums offered by semi-government bonds, as
notes by Australia’s six states and two territories, are often
called, have increased as rates on  government securities  fell to
records this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The recent decline in federal bond yields “has highlighted
the attractive spread available for investment in semi-
government sector,” Lofting wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions on May 17. “TCV expects that this will result in
greater investment from international investors in the period
ahead.”  The yield on the Australian government’s 5.75 percent
security due July 2022 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 3.17 percent at 11:49 a.m. in Sydney after reaching
3.058 percent on May 18, the least in data compiled by Bloomberg
that go back to 1969. The rate on the  three-year  note fell to
2.336 percent last week, while the 15-year yield dropped to
3.391 percent, both records.  ‘Attractive Spreads’  The extra yield offered by Victoria’s October 2022 bond
over comparable federal government debt rose to 109 basis points
yesterday, the most since Feb. 3. The premium offered by New
South  Wales ’ May 2020 security over similar-maturity sovereign
notes climbed to 118 basis points yesterday, also the widest gap
since Feb. 3. Both states hold AAA ratings from Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  The combination of New South Wales’ top credit score and
“attractive spreads to Commonwealth government bonds means
investors remain good buyers,” Tim Hext, head of balance sheet
and funding at the state’s Treasury Corporation, wrote in an e-
mail on May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  