-- Australian Billionaires Settle Rio Tinto Royalty Dispute
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-22T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/australian-billionaires-settle-rio-tinto-royalty-dispute.html
Asia ’s richest woman  Gina Rinehart ’s
Hancock Prospecting Pty and Wright Prospecting Pty have settled
a royalty dispute with billionaire Stan Perron, who claimed he’d
been short-changed for a decade on mining royalty payments.  The dispute, which was set to go to trial May 28 in the
Supreme Court of Western  Australia  in Perth, involved four of
Australia’s 20 richest people. Royalties from  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ’s
Brockman 2 mine may be worth tens of millions of dollars, and
Perron, 89, claimed Hancock and Wright withheld money owed him.  “A settlement has been reached,” Ross Robertson, chief
executive officer of the  Perron Group , said by phone from Perth
yesterday. “We’re satisfied with the outcome.” He declined to
give details, saying the settlement was confidential.  Lang Hancock, Gina’s father, and Wright Prospecting founder
Peter Wright discovered iron ore deposits in the Pilbara region
of  Western Australia  in the 1950s. The find now makes Rio Tinto,
which operates mines through Hamersley Iron Pty., the biggest
producer in the country. The prospectors’ companies collect a
2.5 percent royalty from a 1962 agreement with  Rio Tinto  on
sales of iron ore mined at some of the Pilbara properties.  Hancock and Wright, seeking help to pay for prospecting in
the area, approached Perron in 1959, according to “The House of
Hancock: The Rise and Rise of Gina Rinehart,” by  Debi Marshall .  15% Interest  Perron agreed to provide 500 pounds, Marshall wrote.
Hancock and Wright, in 1964, assigned Perron a 15 percent
interest in the royalty agreement, according to the court
documents. Perron had rejected a proposal from Hancock and
Wright to double his royalties for an additional 500 pounds,
Marshall wrote.  The Brockman 2 mine, in the Hamersley mountain range of
Western Australia, produces between 8 million tons and 9 million
tons of  iron ore  annually, said  Gervase Greene , a spokesman at
Rio Tinto.  At a  price  of $131.20 a metric ton, on May 21, 8.5 million
tons of iron ore would be valued at $1.1 billion. The Hancock
and Wright royalty take would be worth $27.9 million, with
Perron entitled to $4.2 million this year, if his claim were
upheld.  “Rio Tinto has no role in the proceeding and will abide by
any order of the court,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  Rinehart Fortune  A woman who answered the phone and declined to identify
herself at Wright Prospecting in  Peppermint Grove , Western
Australia, said the company wouldn’t be commenting on the case.  Rinehart, who inherited the iron-producing properties from
her father, is ranked the 31st richest person in the world, with
a net worth of $18 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Michael Wright and Angela Bennett, Peter Wright’s heirs,
are ranked the 14th richest Australians, with a net worth of
A$2.14 billion ($2.11 billion) in the 2011 BRW Rich 200 list.
Perron is ranked 18th by BRW with a net worth of A$1.88 billion.  Perron used royalties from the iron-ore properties over
almost half a century to help build a real estate business
comprising commercial office buildings, shopping centers and  car
dealerships .  Perron agreed on May 17 to buy a 50 percent stake in  Centro
Retail Australia (CRF) ’s three regional shopping centers for A$690.4
million.  Although Wright and Hancock’s initial royalty agreement
with Rio Tinto is 50 years old, whether the contract covers some
properties remains in dispute.  2009 Lawsuit  Hancock Prospecting and Wright Prospecting sued Rio Tinto
in New South Wales Supreme Court in 2009 claiming they’re owed
royalties on ore sales from the Channar and Eastern Ridge mines.
The parties are exchanging information ahead of a trial, a date
for which hasn’t been set.  Hancock has also sued in the Supreme Court of Western
Australia claiming royalties on other properties. The company
receives no royalties from Rio Tinto’s biggest mine, Yandi, or
its Robe River operations, Mark Bickerton, a Hancock spokesman,
said in a March e-mail. Bickerton didn’t respond to e-mails
requesting comment on the Perron lawsuit.  Hancock and Wright receive royalties from sales of ore at
Mount  Tom Price , Marandoo and Paraburdoo mines, Bickerton said.
Brockman 2 is about 60 kilometers (37 miles) north-west of Tom
Price.  The case is Between S.P. Investments Pty and Hancock
Prospecting Pty. CIV3074/2010.  Supreme Court  of Western
Australia (Perth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  