-- Australia’s Jobless Rate to Reach Highest Since 2009, OECD Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-22T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/australia-s-jobless-rate-to-reach-highest-since-2009-oecd-says.html
Australia ’s unemployment rate will
rise to the highest level since 2009 as industries outside of
mining struggle with an elevated currency, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said.  The nation’s  jobless rate  will climb to 5.7 percent in 2013
from 5.4 percent this year, the OECD said in its economic
outlook released in Paris yesterday. That would match a level
reached in September 2009 and is higher than the average in the
past decade of 5.2 percent.  “Mining expansion will continue, but some other sectors
are having to adjust to the high level of the exchange rate and
raise their productivity, which can be expected to weigh on the
labor market,” the OECD said in the report. “Faster fiscal
consolidation will also weigh somewhat on demand.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government plans a A$46
billion ($45.5 billion) swing to a  budget surplus  in the fiscal
year beginning July 1 to provide the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
with more scope to lower borrowing costs.  The central bank has cut the benchmark  interest rate  by a
percentage point to 3.75 percent in the past six months to
support demand as a 41 percent gain in the currency since 2008
hurts non-resource exporters, tourism and education.  Australia’s unemployment rate fell last month to 4.9
percent, the lowest level since April 2011, from 5.2 percent in
March, a government report showed this month.  Core inflation 
slowed to a 13-year low in the first quarter as the currency’s
strength contained prices.  Accommodative Rates  “In the absence of inflationary pressures, the
accommodating monetary stance which accompanies this budget-
tightening should help limit the risk of weakening employment,”
the OECD said.  The report showed inflation in Australia and neighboring
 New Zealand  staying contained and below the top end of each
central bank’s target range.  Australia’s consumer price index will increase 1.8 percent
this year and 2.8 percent in 2013, while the CPI in New Zealand
will gain 1.7 percent this year and 2.6 percent next, the OECD
said in the report.  The RBA aims to keep the inflation within a 2 percent to 3
percent range, and its counterpart across the Tasman Sea is
required to keep price gains within 1 percent and 3 percent.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  has held its key rate at
2.5 percent for the past 14 months to bolster growth after the
deadliest earthquake in eight decades struck the nation’s
second-biggest city, Christchurch, in February 2011.  The OECD forecasts New Zealand’s economic growth will
improve to 2.8 percent in 2013 from 1.9 percent this year,
bolstered by low interest rates and earthquake rebuilding. The
expansion is being held back by a strong  exchange rate , falling
commodity prices and the withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, it said.  In New Zealand, “delaying monetary tightening is
appropriate in light of the fiscal contraction and risks to
global growth, though as reconstruction accelerates, capacity
pressures will bear close watching,” according to the OECD
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  