-- Bain’s Successes and Obama’s Failure
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-05-22T15:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/bain-s-successes-and-obama-s-failure.html
Words may not make the man, but they sure tell us a lot about the individual
who chooses them. At a  press conference  following the NATO summit in  Chicago  yesterday,
President  Barack Obama  referred to "my one Congress," compared to the euro
zone's 17 different legislative bodies.  My  Congress? Sorry, Mr.
President, it's ours (please don't remind us!). More telling is Obama's defense of a campaign ad attacking presumptive
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  and  Bain Capital , the private-equity firm he ran
in the 1990s. The ad depicts Bain as a "vulture capitalist," swooping in to take
over Kansas City's GST Steel in 1993, picking it clean and profiting handsomely
before shutting it down in 2001. The facts are somewhat different, but that is
not our concern here. Prominent Democrats, such as former car czar Steve Rattner and Newark Mayor
 Cory Booker , criticized the attack on private equity. The Obama campaign must
have taken Booker to the woodshed because the mayor put out a  lame clarification 
on YouTube Sunday. Here's what  Obama had to say  about the ad: "He (Romney) is saying he is a
business guy, and this is his business. And when you're president as opposed to
the head of a private equity firm, then your job is not simply to maximize
profits, your job is to figure out how everybody in the country has a fair
shot." Shades of " Joe the Plumber " and Obama's advice about the need to "spread the
wealth around"? Actually maximizing economywide profits -- a better word would
be output --  is  the president's job. Economic growth generates jobs and
income. Gross domestic income represents the income from gross domestic product.
(GDI equals GDP conceptually; in reality there are statistical discrepancies.)
Profits are one part of GDI, along with wages and salaries, proprietors' income
and rents. Obama dug himself into a hole by approving the ad attacking private equity.
He made it worse by defending it. At this point, with business-savvy Democrats
challenging him, he would be well advised to observe the first law of holes and
stop digging. ( Caroline Baum  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her on Twitter.)  