-- Bank Profit Growth Rises on Business Loans: Corporate Canada
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-05-22T16:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/bank-profit-growth-rises-on-business-loans-corporate-canada.html
Canadian banks, including  Royal Bank
of Canada (RY)  and Bank of Montreal, will post higher profit in the
fiscal second quarter as a firming economy fueled loans to
consumers and businesses, analysts said.  The country’s banks will boost earnings per share before
one-time items by an average of 5 percent in the period ended
April 30, said Sumit Malhotra, an analyst at Macquarie Capital
Markets in Toronto. That’s up from a 1 percent increase on that
basis in the first quarter.  Bank of Montreal , the fourth-biggest
bank by assets, reports results tomorrow.  Even as policy makers warned against the dangers of too
much household debt, Canadians took advantage of record-low
 interest rates  to increase borrowing, bolstered by the largest
two-month  employment  increase in more than 30 years.  “Lending isn’t slowing down; lending is actually
accelerating,”  Barry Schwartz , a portfolio manager at Baskin
Financial Services Inc. in Toronto, said in an interview. Baskin
manages C$400 million ($392 million), including bank shares. “I
think that’s going to be a theme and a trend that’s going to
continue.”  Canada ’s banks, ranked the world’s soundest for the past
four years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum , reduced
 mortgage rates  to historic lows between January and March,
prompting some consumers to take out fixed-rate loans at lower
rates. Overall bank lending increased at an annualized pace of
3.1 percent for the three months ended March 31, according to
Brad Smith, an analyst at Stonecap Securities. That compares
with a trailing 12-month increase of 7 percent, he said.  Slowing But Growing  “The banks are slowing, but still growing,”  Robert Sedran , an analyst at CIBC World Markets in Toronto, said in an
interview. “While the growth rates are not eye-poppingly large,
there still is some progress being made.”  Household debt driven by mortgage credit expansion is the
“main threat” to risk profiles of Canadian banks,  Fitch
Ratings  said yesterday in a report. The six largest banks had
C$912 billion of exposure to residential mortgages and home
equity lines of credit at the end of January, the ratings
company said.  Net interest margin, the difference between what a bank
charges for loans and pays in deposits, will be flat to down for
most of the banks this quarter, according to a research note by
 Mario Mendonca , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity.  “I don’t think margins are going to collapse,” Mendonca
said in an interview. “But if there’s one area I’m afraid I’m
wrong, it’s that the mortgage competition had a greater effect
than I expected.”  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce 
are among lenders that have said they will slow the rate of
expense growth this year, expecting a decline from record levels
of domestic consumer-bank earnings.  Bank of Montreal  “That’s what the banks do,” said  John Kinsey , who helps
manage about C$1 billion at Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto,
in an interview. “Other than raising fees, they cut costs
through staffing in times like this.”  Mendonca said the banks will also cut projects that don’t
“really involve anyone who meets clients,” such as
administrative systems and cross-selling projects.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Commercial Banks
Industry Index (STCBNK)  that tracks Canada’s eight traded banks has risen
less than one percent this year, compared with a 3.8 percent
decline for the benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  is expected to post profit before items of
C$1.35 a share, an 8 percent increase from a year earlier,
according to Malhotra.  RBC, TD  Royal Bank of Canada and Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s
two largest banks, are scheduled to report May 24. Royal Bank
may have profit of C$1.20 a share, up from C$1.12 a year
earlier, Malhotra said. Toronto-Dominion is expected to report
profit of C$1.82 a share, up from a year-earlier C$1.63.  Bank of Nova Scotia , the third-largest bank, is expected by
Malhotra to have profit of C$1.16 a share when it releases
results May 29. That’s down 4.9 percent from C$1.22 a year
earlier.  CIBC and  National Bank of Canada , the fifth- and sixth-
largest banks, are scheduled to report results May 31. CIBC will
post adjusted profit of C$1.88 a share, a 2.7 percent increase,
while Montreal-based National Bank will post C$1.90 a share, a
6.7 percent increase, according to Malhotra’s estimates.  Laurentian Bank of Canada  and  Canadian Western Bank (CWB) , the
two smallest banks of the group, are scheduled to report results
June 6 and 7. The two banks, as well as National Bank, are
projected to raise their quarterly dividends, according to
Bloomberg Dividend Forecasts.  “They feel that this year is going to be good enough that
they could raise the dividend and return that money to the
shareholders,” said Caldwell’s Kinsey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 