-- Bank Retreat on Shipping Seen Filled by Private Equity: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-05-22T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/bank-retreat-on-shipping-seen-filled-by-private-equity-freight.html
The world’s shipping companies are
turning to private equity to help fill a $249 billion funding
gap left by European banks pulling out of ship financing.  About $65 billion is needed in new debt and equity this
year alone to cover orders for new ships and sales and purchases
of existing vessels, according to shipping fund manager Tufton
Oceanic Ltd. In 2013 and 2014, the gap will be $101 billion and
$83 billion respectively, managing director Andrew Hampson said
in a Jan. 26 presentation in  London .  Triton Partners and Oaktree Capital Group LLC, in
anticipation of a future turnaround, are among private equity
firms striking funding deals with shipping companies after
European banks quit lending to the industry or scaled back
operations. Insufficient financing may lead to a rise in
insolvencies, causing higher credit losses at shipping banks
already hurt by the crisis in the maritime transport industry
and tighter capital rules for lenders.  “Capital will be scarce over the next couple of years, and
that is a gap that needs to be bridged,” said Hans Christian Kjelsrud, head of shipping at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the world’s No. 4
shipping lender. “Private equity funds want to position
themselves for an upturn and a better market in a year or two.”  Germany’s HSH Nordbank AG and  Commerzbank (CBK)  AG, the world’s
No. 1 and No. 3 ship financiers, respectively, are cutting the
size of their shipping portfolios amid the industry crisis. In
the first quarter, more than half of Commerzbank’s loan-loss
provisions of 212 million euros ($270 million) were booked at
its ship-finance unit. Provisions probably will rise this year,
according to a May 9 conference call with the bank’s management.
The lender’s shares are down 52 percent in the past 12 months.  Chemical Tankers  Triton Partners, an investment firm managing more than 4
billion euros, in March  acquired  the chemical tanker operations
of  Nordic Shipholding A/S (DTQ)  for $30 million. Triton is now
combining the activities with those of Herning Shipping A/S,
which it acquired in August last year, to create a fleet of 122
chemical-product tankers under the name Nordic Tankers.  Triton , which has an investment horizon of as much as 10
years, estimates that it needs five to seven years to improve
Nordic Tankers, Bjoern Nilsson, a partner at Triton, said in a
phone interview from London. The firm targets a return of about
25 percent, similar to other private equity firms, he said.  “The dynamics in terms of supply and demand within the
smaller chemical tanker segment were attractive, as demand is
seemingly improving whereas the supply of ships is more limited
than in other segments,” Nilsson said. “The small tanker
segment is in need of consolidation as it is very fragmented.”  Crude Oil  Oaktree on November 17 agreed to  invest $175 million  in
General Maritime Corp., owner of 30  crude oil  and petroleum
product tankers, and convert its senior secured debt into
equity, as part of the shipping company’s restructuring.  Still, private equity investing in shipping has been slow
to take off, partly because of a lack of knowledge and because
there have been attractive deals elsewhere, Nilsson said.  “In many cases private equity funds know little about
shipping but a lot about the structuring of financial deals and
high returns of investments,” said Peter Sand, an analyst at
the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Baltic and International Maritime
Council, which represents 65 percent of the world’s ship owners.  They are being lured by a decline in ship valuations. The
value of a new so-called VLCC, or very large crude carrier,
 dropped 44 percent  to $90 million between 2008 and 2012, while
the value of a five-year-old VLCC decreased 61 percent to $65
million in the same period, according to  Norway ’s  DNB ASA (DNB) , the
world’s second-largest shipping financier.  Loan Losses  The slump in asset values has caused insolvencies among
ship companies and an increase in loan losses at banks, after
the decline made shipping loans a larger fraction of the value
of the ship used as collateral. That caused many banks to raise
 interest rates  on loans, leaving many smaller and medium-sized
shipping lines unable to service their debt.  Net shipping loan losses at Stockholm-based Nordea, the
world’s No. 4 shipping lender, tripled to 135 million euros last
year because of “weak market conditions” and “a general
decline in vessel values,” it said on Jan. 24. Loan losses more
than quadrupled to 60 million euros in the first quarter of
2012, from 14 million euros a year earlier.  Any failure to bridge the financing gap is likely to
further depress ship values, according to a  presentation  on
Greek ship finance investment boutique Eurofin SA’s website. It
will also leave even “top drawer” shipping lines struggling to
renew and modernize their fleets, meaning older, unsafe vessels
will continue operating beyond safe operating limits, it said.  Capital Adequacy  “Capital adequacy pressures on banks may mean they cannot
continue to support owners through the cycle,” Eurofin said in
the presentation. “More distressed, unfunded assets will
increase and prolong downward pressure on ship values.”  In a  survey by KPMG  of German shipping firms representing
42 percent of vessels in the country’s fleet and published on
May 3, about 17 percent of respondents said private equity would
have “high” relevance as a financing model in the future,
while 56 percent said it would have “medium” significance.  American private equity firms have showed interest in the
container shipping industry in  Germany , home to the world’s
largest container fleet,  KPMG  said in its survey. Still, the
prospect of “this alternative financing for German shipping
companies may prove difficult to realize given the requirement
for yields of up to 15 percent,” it said.  Rock Bottom?  Investments may also fail because investors are demanding
too much of a discount. While KfW IPEX-Bank GmbH, the world’s
No. 7 shipping lender, has been contacted by investors who want
to buy ships, they are looking to pay “rock-bottom prices,”
below the market value of the ships, said Christian K. Murach,
head of transportation finance at the Frankfurt-based bank.  While lenders such as KfW, Nordea and  ING Groep NV (INGA)  have
said they plan to keep the size of their shipping portfolios
relatively intact, other European banks are scaling back their
ship-finance operations.  Hamburg-based HSH Nordbank is cutting the size of its so-
called core shipping portfolio to 15 billion euros by 2014
compared with 19 billion euros at the end of 2011 to comply with
conditions set by the European Union for approval of state aid
it received during the global financial crisis. Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank reduced the size of its so-called shipping exposure
at default by 6.6 percent to 21.2 billion euros last year.  “There definitely is a shift away from bank lending,”
Rory Hussey, managing director at ING’s shipping finance
division, which also plans to continue lending to the shipping
industry, said in an interview. “Private equity will play far
more of a part than it used to, as will the  bond market .”  Triton’s most recent fund, Triton III, has 60 investors and
capital of 2.4 billion euros. It plans to make more investments
in shipping -- seeing potential transactions also in container,
oil tanker and dry bulk markets -- as well as in consumer,
industrial and business services companies, Nilsson said.  “Valuations are attractive from an historical point of
view,” Nilsson said. “Our perspective is to bridge the funding
gap a little.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  