-- Bank Sales of Interest-Rate Swaps to Be Probed by U.K. FSA
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-05-23T10:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/bank-sales-of-interest-rate-swaps-to-be-probed-by-u-k-regulator.html
The U.K.  Financial Services Authority 
is investigating claims that banks improperly sold  interest-rate 
derivatives to small businesses,  Adair Turner , the agency’s
chairman, said.  The FSA will assess the sales techniques and design of the
products to “assess whether there is a widespread issue” that
requires regulatory action, Turner said in a letter released
today responding to queries from U.K. lawmakers.  Companies made around 605 complaints last year over banks’
bundling of  interest-rate swaps  with loans, according to
Turner’s letter. The London-based FSA initially didn’t see any
“widespread, underlying issues” with the practice and
instructed firms to review their sales systems, Turner said.  “It is now up to the FSA to get to the truth,”  Andrew Tyrie , chairman of the Treasury Select Committee, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We will do what we can to ensure that they
do.”  Rate swaps are contracts that convert floating-rate debt
into fixed-rate debt, or vice versa. They are supposed to keep
payments within a specific range. When interest rates fall, for
example, customers might pay less interest on a loan to balance
out the higher cost of the swap.  The  Bank of England  has kept its  benchmark interest rate  at
a record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009.  The owners of Guardian Care Homes Ltd. sued  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
for about 12 million pounds in a Bristol Court over swaps sold
on two loans in 2007 and 2008 last month in one of the biggest
swaps lawsuits yet filed in the U.K.  Municipal governments from Milan in Italy to Jefferson
County, Alabama, bought swaps from firms such as JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Deutsche Bank AG. Such derivatives have cost Italian
taxpayers more than $1.5 billion, according to the country’s
central bank, and U.S. taxpayers about $4 billion by 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  