-- Barclays to Sell Entire BlackRock Stake For $5.5 Billion
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-05-23T06:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/barclays-to-sell-entire-blackrock-stake-for-5-5-billion.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest bank by assets, said it will receive net proceeds of
$5.5 billion from the sale of its entire stake in  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   The lender sold about 26.2 million shares to money managers
for $160 each, London-based Barclays said in a statement
yesterday. Underwriters have the option to purchase an
additional 2.6 million. New York-based BlackRock will buy back a
further 6.38 million shares at $156.80 per share, about 8.8
percent less than the stock’s $171.91 close on May 18, the last
trading day before the deal was announced.  The British bank took the 19.6 percent holding when it sold
 Barclays Global Investors  to BlackRock in December 2009 for
about $15.2 billion. Barclays is selling as the latest rules
from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision will force the
lender to set aside capital against the stake to cushion itself
against any decline in the value of the holding.  “After careful consideration, we have decided that now is
an appropriate time to release capital from this investment  and
reinvest it in our core businesses,” Barclays Finance Director
Chris Lucas said in a statement today. The sale will boost the
bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio by about five basis points.  Barclays sold its shares for 2.1 percent less than
BlackRock’s $163.37 close in  New York  yesterday.  “Barclays’s rating exhibits little credit for owning the
BlackRock stake,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec in
London who rates Barclays a buy. “The Basel III regime is less
capital-friendly for retaining such a stake.”  Barclays Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond is selling
assets and focusing on the lender’s most profitable operations
to help him meet his 13 percent target for return on equity, a
measure of profitability.  Barclays, Morgan Stanley and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  managed
the stock offering, the British bank said on May 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  