-- Bartender’s Charity Helps World’s Thirsty With Wells
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-05-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/bartender-s-charity-helps-world-s-thirsty-with-wells.html
During his college years in Raleigh,
 North Carolina , Doc Hendley’s big priorities were playing the
guitar, bartending and thundering through the city’s streets on
his Harley Davidson.  “Everything was just about me and what I was doing that
night,” said the blue-eyed, bearded Hendley, 33, with a slight
southern drawl during an interview at Bloomberg News global
headquarters in New York.  After a close friend nudged him to do something meaningful
with his life, Hendley began focusing on the water crisis in
 Africa , researching news reports to educate himself.  “I learned that the crisis was killing more children in
our world than anything else,” said Hendley. “It seemed like
not many people were doing much about it.”  He came up with an idea for a charity,  Wine to Water.org ,
which he started in Boone, North Carolina, in 2004 with a
fundraiser, taking in small gifts from private donors, friends
and locals.  Now it has a budget of about $500,000, with programs for
well repair and water filtration in countries including  Uganda ,
 India ,  Cambodia ,  Peru  and  Haiti .  Next month,  Guatemala  will join the list when his nonprofit
begins installing water-filtration systems at three schools and
feeding centers.  ‘A Game Changer’  “Latin American countries have so much potential in going
from underdeveloped to developed status, but they’re stuck
because the world has forgotten to help them with their water
situation,” Hendley said. “If we can add clean water, it will
be a game changer for these people and help get them over the
hump and develop rural areas.”  The nonprofit also inspired his book, published this year,
“Wine to Water: A Bartender’s Quest to Bring Clean Water to the
World” (Avery). It traces his life stages from son of Christian
missionary parents to aimless rebel and finally fixer of wells
for the developing world’s thirsty.  On a trip to  Sudan ’s Darfur region six years ago, Hendley
saw shocking images of emaciated bodies, of women and children
dying of thirst. He learned that more than 60 percent of the
wells in some countries need repair before they can provide
water.  He enrolled in a well-repair training program run by the
 United Nations Children’s Fund . He also determined that only
with local participation would his programs have staying power.  “That began the evolution of my nonprofit,” Hendley said.
“I want all the projects I do to have local involvement, to
have the local people getting their hands dirty and doing the
work. That way, it’s more sustainable.”  ‘Worth it’  His book recounts when he was ambushed by the Sudanese
government’s Janjaweed militia while driving the lead vehicle in
a convoy from a UN-protected zone.  “They had men stationed on each side of the road, and I
saw these guys hiding with their guns,” he said. “I stepped on
the gas, and they all started shooting. One bullet went right
past me. It was miraculous that none of us got hit.”  Hendley continues his work in the war-torn area. While he
has given up bartending full-time, he will occasionally whip up
one of his specialties, a spicy Bloody Mary, for friends.  “I kept asking: ‘Is this work worth it?’” he said. “And
I said, ‘Yes.’ To see what happens when you give mothers an
opportunity to give their children clean water so that they
don’t have to bury any more of their babies from diarrheal
disease, is so life-changing to me.”  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture and
 Richard Vines  on restaurants.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 