-- Benihana to Be Bought by Angelo, Gordon for $296 Million
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-05-22T20:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/benihana-to-be-bought-by-angelo-gordon-for-296-million.html
Benihana Inc. (BNHN) , the operator of about
95 Japanese-themed restaurants in the U.S., agreed to be
acquired by Angelo, Gordon & Co.’s Private Equity Group for
about $296 million in cash and be taken private.  The agreement isn’t subject to financing conditions, the
companies said today in a statement. The offer of about $16.30 a
share is 23 percent higher than Benihana’s closing price
yesterday.  The deal brings the value of private-equity transactions in
the restaurant industry in the past two years to $11.7 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Restaurant chains have
been a favorite target of private investors because their cash-
flow makes financing deals easy and brands can benefit from cost
cutting or unit expansion.  Benihana and its RA Sushi chain have “significant
expansion potential,” Anton Brenner, an analyst at  Roth Capital
Partners , said in an interview. “There’s still some growth and
margin improvement at RA and Benihana and I think they can grow
it pretty nicely.”  Brenner, who is based in  Newport Beach ,  California , advises
buying the shares.  Benihana rose 21 percent to $16.12 at the close in  New
York . The Miami-based company’s  shares  have gained 58 percent
this year.  Shrimp-Flipping Chefs  The restaurant chain, known for shrimp-flipping chefs who
cook at customers’ tables, said in March that it would work with
Jefferies & Co. to explore a possible sale for the second time
in two years. Benihana also owns the RA Sushi and Haru eatery
chains.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Stockinger has said he is
looking for ways to unlock value in the company’s real estate,
which was valued at about $44.4 million in 2009, according to a
company filing. Benihana was considering “opportunistic sale
leaseback transactions and pursuing brand licensing,” he said
during a conference call last year.  Revenue at Benihana rose 4.5 percent to $327.6 million in
the fiscal year ended March 27, 2011. Net income was $1.34
million, compared with a net loss of $8.94 million the year
before.  Earlier this month, rival  P.F. Chang’s China Bistro Inc. (PFCB) 
agreed to be taken private by Centerbridge Partners LP in a deal
valuing the company at $1.1 billion. The Scottsdale, Arizona-
based restaurant chain has about 400 locations under the P.F.
Chang’s and Pei Wei brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  