-- Best Buy Profit Tops Estimates on Smartphone Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-05-22T20:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/best-buy-profit-tops-estimates-on-smartphone-demand.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the largest U.S.
consumer-electronics retailer, reported first-quarter profit
that exceeded analysts’ estimates, helped by demand for
smartphones.  Net income fell 25 percent to $158 million, or 46 cents a
share, from $212 million, or 53 cents, a year earlier, the
Richfield, Minnesota-based company said today in a statement.
Profit excluding restructuring costs totaled 72 cents a share.
Analysts projected 59 cents, the average of 22  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Best Buy lured customers with discounts on smartphones,
part of former Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn ’s efforts to
compete with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Lower demand for televisions and
notebook computers reduced comparable-store sales in the quarter
by 5.3 percent as the company seeks Dunn’s replacement following
his resignation last month.  “It would be a stretch to say Best Buy is on trajectory to
beat and raise guidance,”  Brian Sozzi , an independent analyst
in New York, wrote today in a note. He rates the shares as
underperform, equivalent to a sell rating, and said declining
comparable-store sales were “worrying.”  Revenue in the quarter, which included an extra week,
increased 2.1 percent to $11.61 billion, exceeding the $11.5
billion average of 19 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Excluding the extra week, revenue declined 4.3 percent, Best Buy
said.  The company reaffirmed its full-year profit forecast of
$3.50 to $3.80 a share.  Dunn’s Resignation  Best Buy  rose  1.6 percent to $18.46 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 21 percent this year.  Dunn, 52, resigned last month amid a board probe that found
he had an inappropriate relationship with a female employee. The
company said yesterday it selected executive-search firm  Spencer
Stuart  to conduct its hunt for a new CEO after naming director
Mike Mikan as interim chief. The search may take as long as nine
months, Best Buy said in April.  Mikan said on a conference call today that the company
plans to unveil its turnaround plan this summer, adding that the
retailer was “not prepared” for the rise of online competition
in recent years. Best Buy is pursuing steps outlined by Dunn in
March, which includes opening more mobile phone outlets while
accelerating cost cuts and improving its website, he said.  “Best Buy is not performing up to its past standards,”
Mikan said. “It does not mean we are in any danger of going out
of business.”  Cost Cuts  Last week, the company said founder Richard Schulze would
step down as chairman after failing to inform the board of
allegations about Dunn’s conduct.  In March, Dunn announced plans to close 50 big-box stores
in the U.S. and eliminate 400 corporate and support jobs as part
of $800 million in cost cuts in the next three years.  “Ultimately we believe the company needs a greater focus
on cost reductions and returning capital to shareholders and,
strategically, a much greater focus on exclusive products that
can’t be sold by Internet distributors,” Scot Ciccarelli, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York , said in a note May
17. He rates Best Buy as sector perform, which equates to a hold
rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  