-- BlackRock’s Keenan Says High Yield Remains Attractive: Tom Keene
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-22T20:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/blackrock-s-keenan-says-high-yield-remains-attractive-tom-keene.html
Junk bonds  and leveraged loans are
still attractive asset classes, according to James Keenan, head
of BlackRock Inc.’s leveraged finance group, which manages more
than $28 billion.  While some investors may start to seek assets such as cash
and Treasuries that are perceived as safer because of growing
concern that economic growth is faltering, the accommodative
policy of the U.S. central bank is creating an environment where
over the next five to 10 years holders will suffer “a negative
real yield,” New York-based Keenan said in an interview on
“Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.  BlackRock favors leveraged loans, which typically pay
floating rates and are sheltered from rising interest costs.
While the  Federal Reserve  has pledged to keep its benchmark rate
near zero until the end of 2014, investors may be growing
concerned that it will tighten its policy before that.  U.S. floating-rate funds in April had the biggest inflows
in 11 months, according to preliminary data from EPFR Global, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm. Investors put $729
million into the funds, the most since $2 billion in May 2011.  “We like the loan market, with regards to no duration but
real capital protection,” Keenan said. “If a company was to
file bankruptcy, your loan recovers about 80 cents, so there’s a
lot of protection in that.”  While  Europe ’s debt crisis is heating up with  Greece 
struggling through a political crisis that threatens to damage
the region’s economy, BlackRock continues to hold bonds of some
of the continent’s high-yield companies.  “We own some European high-yield companies mostly in the
northern region,” Keenan said. “A lot of the companies in
Germany, the Netherlands, the U.K., especially the more
infrastructure plays around telecom or cable, provide a lot of
value and the cash flows are very, very stable.”  High-yield, high-risk, or junk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  