-- BlackRock Sees Vale as Best Stock in Brazil on Weaker Real
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-05-22T20:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/blackrock-says-vale-is-most-obvious-stock-to-buy-in-brazil.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest  iron-ore 
producer, is the best Brazilian stock for investors as a
weakening real boosts profits and China’s expanding economy
stimulates demand for steel, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   Vale is the “most obvious” stock to buy in the South
American country, Will Landers, who manages $7 billion in Latin
American equities at New York-based BlackRock, said in an
interview today. The falling real is increasing the Rio de
Janeiro-based company’s profit margin and he expects the company
to benefit from Chinese attempts to speed up its economy in the
second half of the year.  The company is the largest stock in Lander’s fund,
accounting for about 10 percent of the weighting at BlackRock’s
Latin America Fund.  Brazil ’s real fell 1.4 percent to 2.07 a
 U.S. dollar  at 5:15 p.m. in Sao Paulo, the weakest intraday
level since May 2009. Vale prices most iron-ore sales in dollars
while most of its costs are in reais.  Vale will sell as much iron ore with the real at 2 at it
would with the real at 1.6, “but they just will make a lot more
money,” Landers said during an interview at the Rio Investors
Day 2012 conference.  New Leadership  Vale Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira, who took over
from  Roger Agnelli  a year ago, says he’s planning to return
capital to investors as difficulties executing the company’s
investment plans frees cash for investors.  The company last year paid a record $9 billion in
dividends, more than double its initial target, and bought back
$3 billion worth of stock. The company said Jan. 16 that it will
pay at least $6 billion of dividends this year, 50 percent more
than the initial goal established in 2011.  “I expect capital discipline,” said BlackRock’s Landers.
“If there is excess cash, I have no doubt they are going to
return it to shareholders.”  The new CEO’s strategy will please investors, Landers said.
“It’s going to take a while for his footprint to be on the
company but when you see the amount of money he has returned to
shareholders via dividends, the capital discipline that he is
showing around, the investment program, I think that’s all
positive,” he said.  “It was a very good year in a turbulent year for
Ferreira,” Landers said.  Vale, the world’s second-largest mining company, hired Bank
of  Nova Scotia  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  this month to sell its oil and
natural-gas assets in Brazil to focus on metals production as
its profit margin in non iron-ore assets shrink.  Rising Prices  Iron-ore prices will probably recover during the second
half to an average of $150 a ton from current levels of close to
$130 as Chinese steelmakers resume purchases. Prices for the key
raw material to make steel may average $165 a ton in 2013,
Marcelo Aguiar, a mining equity analyst at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , said in an interview yesterday.  Miners are boosting output to meet growing Chinese demand
as the country’s expansion stokes the use of steel in
automobiles, appliances and construction. Chinese steel
production reached a record in March.  China ’s steel demand will grow until at least 2025 and
production will rise to about 1.1 billion tons by 2025 from
about 700 million tons currently, the Australian mining company
 BHP Billiton Ltd (BHP)  said in March. Brazil, which counts iron ore as
a key export product, shipped 330.8 million metric tons last
year.  Infrastructure Approval  The China Securities Journal today reported the country
plans to accelerate approval of infrastructure projects. This
year’s investment plans must be submitted before the end of June
and the government may allocate construction funds earlier than
scheduled, the newspaper said.  China’s crude-steel production declined 1.6 percent in
April to 60.57 million metric tons after soaring to a record
61.58 million tons in March, the World Steel Association said
yesterday.  Vale declined 1.1 percent to close at 36.43 reais today in
 Sao Paulo . The stock has fallen about 17 percent in the past 12
months, more than the 12 percent decline of the Brazilian
benchmark Bovespa Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  