-- Blame Gingrich, Lunatics for D.C.’s Poisonous Atmosphere: Books
-- B y   R o b e r t   D i e t e r i c h
-- 2012-05-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/blame-gingrich-lunatics-for-d-c-s-poisonous-atmosphere-books.html
Thomas E. Mann and Norman J. Ornstein, who together have about 70 years of Washington
punditry on their resumes, make a bold gambit in their latest
book. They drop any pretense that both sides are equally at
fault in the current impasse in American politics.  Their verdict: “One of the two major parties, the
 Republican Party , has become an insurgent outlier.”  It is “awkward and uncomfortable, even seemingly
unprofessional” to heap blame lopsidedly, the authors write. And
then, all hand wringing aside, they go to it with gusto.  They describe the Republican Party circa 2012 as
“ideologically extreme; contemptuous of the inherited social and
economic policy regime; scornful of compromise; unpersuaded by
conventional understanding of facts, evidence and science; and
dismissive of the legitimacy of its political opposition, all
but declaring war on the government.”  These are two down-the-middle observers of American
politics, Mann from the liberal  Brookings Institution  and
Ornstein a resident scholar at the conservative  American
Enterprise Institute . So their vehemence is a bit surprising.  This is not another dry analysis of what’s wrong and what
needs to be done. The authors wrote that book, “The Broken
Branch: How Congress is Failing America and How to Get It Back
on Track,” in 2006. Now they argue that things have
deteriorated, which is justification for calling their new book
“ It’s Even Worse Than It Looks .”  Debt Limit  The title came to them as they watched the fight over the
debt limit in the summer of 2011. Their retelling of what they
characterize as a “hostage-taking” by Republicans forms a big
piece of the book.  Their takeaway? A number of Republicans really were ready
to execute the hostage. That’s how things are different now;
that’s why the political dysfunction in the U.S. is worse than
it looks.  In addition to indicting the Republican Party, the authors
name names, particularly one:  Newt Gingrich .  Back in 1978, Mann and Ornstein began a study of how
Congress operates. They recruited a small group of freshman
representatives, including Gingrich,  Dick Cheney  and Geraldine
Ferraro, to participate in a series of off-the-record dinners
where they might candidly discuss how legislation gets done and
how politics is played.  Destroying the House  In this group, history professor Gingrich stood out as he
described a bold approach meant to break the Democrats’ decades-
long hold on the House.  “The core strategy,” they summarize, “was to destroy the
institution in order to save it.”  Gingrich set out to deliberately intensify the public’s
hatred of Congress, they write, so voters would buy into the
need for sweeping change and throw the bums (the majority
Democrats) out.  “His method? To unite his Republicans in refusing to
cooperate with Democrats in committee and on the floor,” they
write.  Gingrich led the Republicans to take the House in 1994 and
became Speaker. Mann and Ornstein see the wellspring of today’s
poisonous political climate in that election.  Changing Senate Rules  After describing the current political dysfunction, Mann
and Ornstein propose solutions. Many are well-reasoned, such as
their recommendations for changing Senate rules to make it
harder for a minority bloc -- or a single, self-interested
lawmaker -- to keep things from getting done.  A few are downright creative, such as their proposal for a
shadow Congress made up of former lawmakers who have left or
been drummed out of the increasingly polarized political sphere.
They hope this body might help shape a more reasonable public
debate. (Dick Lugar, are you interested?)  What Mann and Ornstein are attempting is tricky. How do you
write frankly about the polarization of  Washington  without
being, well, polarizing? They mostly pull it off, remaining
eminently fair even as they call out those they believe are
responsible.  They do a good job mustering facts and evidence. But they
also make the point that a significant slice of U.S. politics
and the electorate -- they are careful to point out that voters
bear ultimate responsibility -- have grown resistant to facts
and evidence.  If you buy their diagnosis, it’s hard to be optimistic. I
can see their shadow Congress coming together on the proposed
reforms. But the real one?  “It’s Even Worse Than It Looks: How the American
Constitutional System Collided With the New Politics of
Extremism” is published by Basic Books (226 pages, $26). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (Robert Dieterich is a senior editor at Bloomberg Markets
magazine. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture
and  James Pressley  on business books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Dieterich at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 