-- Blighted Bronx Revives With Roof Gardens, Solar Panels
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-05-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/blighted-bronx-revives-with-roof-gardens-solar-panels.html
My tour of the new Via Verde
apartment complex began on a roof that sprouts just-planted
Christmas trees.  Stairs brought me to three higher levels, where I walked
through a grove of cherry trees and vegetables beds, then
entered a fitness room under a porch roofed with solar panels.  This is affordable housing? In the once-blighted Bronx?  It’s a new model serving a range of low to middle incomes,
a huge swath of people that the conventional housing market
doesn’t reach.  The City of  New York ’s  Department of Housing Preservation 
and Development and its  Housing Development Corporation  took an
industrial 1.5-acre wedge of land and packed it with ideas to
improve the quality of housing.  In the course of years of investment, the city helped fill
empty blocks with housing and restore old apartments. Shoppers
now throng the Hub, a retail nexus just blocks from Via Verde.  In a design by  Dattner Architects  and the New York office
of London-based  Grimshaw , a narrow building wraps around the
edges of the site to form a protected inner courtyard. The
roofline rises in jazzy syncopated steps from three-story
townhouses to a 20-story tower.  The low-rise wings guide the winter sun into a landscaped
courtyard that features a children’s play area patterned in a
swirling rubbery play surface.  Block-Long Invitation  Grillwork sun shades spray checkerboards of shadow across
the silvery building panels. Colorful wood-panel accents dot the
surface like an outsized Mondrian.  The whole structure extends a block-long invitation -- a
rarity for a large development.  Via Verde’s most remarkable amenity is its multilevel
roofscape, most of which is open to all residents. I can’t
imagine anyone -- especially children -- who wouldn’t want to
scale the bleachers leading up from the play area to take in the
expansive views among rooftop trees. Or clamber higher to tend
vegetables, helped by the nonprofit GrowNYC. Residents will also
harvest an annual Christmas tree from the grove of firs.  These design elements urge residents into safe play,
exercise, and healthy eating habits -- an antidote to the high
rates of asthma and obesity found in the South Bronx.  Dattner and Grimshaw configured most apartments to cross
ventilate, drawing in fresh air naturally. With the sun shades
and ceiling fans, residents can choose to forgo air conditioning
entirely. Heavy insulation and solar panels cut energy use. The
rooftop gardens recycle rainwater.  Ambitious Goals  Shaun Donovan (who headed the Department of Housing
Preservation and Development and is now the secretary of Housing
and Urban Development in  Washington ) worked with community
groups to define the project’s ambitious goals. He also
collaborated with the New York chapter of the  American Institute
of Architects  on a design competition.  The two architecture firms won the competition in 2007, and
teamed with locally based  Phipps Houses Group  and the  Jonathan
Rose Companies , both experienced developers and owners of
affordable housing.  Rental units in the high-rise side of the project serve a
range of low incomes. More than 7,000 people applied for 151
apartments. The lowrise half is a co-op selling 71 walkups,
duplexes and floor-through live/work units. Households with
incomes as high as $146,000 can apply for the apartments still
for sale.  Mixed-income buildings and neighborhoods tend to be more
resilient. Mixing rented and owned units is rarely done in the
U.S.; the blend at Via Verde should raise residents’ stake in
the long-term success of the project.  Assembling Funds  Unlike market-rate housing, which is heavily subsidized
from federal  tax revenue  -- through deductions for mortgage
interest and property taxes and home-equity loans -- low-income
housing is perennially underfunded. Developers must usually
assemble financing from a minimum of five sources, a costly and
time-consuming process.  “A market-rate project would have required only two,”
said Ari Goldstein, the senior project manager for Jonathan
Rose.  Because of Via Verde’s resident mix and advanced green
features, Phipps and Jonathan Rose had to assemble 13 public and
private financing partners. That helped drive the $240-per-
square-foot construction cost up to $340.  Via Verde shows the power of thoughtful design to transform
low-income housing. Now it’s time to streamline the process and
expand the supply. With housing starts stuck at historic lows,
encouraging the “affordable” market would add desperately
needed jobs while transforming peoples’ lives.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on restaurants.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 