-- Bond Markets Forcing Europe’s Austerity, Pimco’s Clarida Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-05-22T14:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/bond-markets-forcing-europe-s-austerity-pimco-s-clarida-says.html
European leaders debating policies to
increase economic growth are limited by bond markets that have
shut out some borrowers, according  Richard Clarida , global
strategic adviser at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Growth is sort of like mom and apple pie,” Clarida, who
served under President  George W. Bush  as assistant  Treasury
secretary  for economic policy, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “Who’s against a
growth agenda? The challenge is turning that into an operative
policy within the framework of  Europe .”  Greek bonds due in 10 years yield 28.3 percent, compared
with 6.1 percent for similar maturity Spanish debt, 11.8 percent
for Portuguese securities and 1.5 percent for German bunds.
Gross domestic product among the euro member states will shrink
0.1 percent this year and expand 0.9 percent in 2013 instead of
posting growth of 0.2 percent and 1.4 percent as predicted last
November, the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said today.  “In a lot of these countries, austerity isn’t really a
choice -- they can’t borrow in private markets, they have to
have an austere policy,” said Clarida of  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest  bond
fund . “At the margin, you might get some infrastructure funds
here or there, you may phase in some policies. But we’re in for
an austere period in Europe without question.”  Europe’s Choice  European Union leaders are preparing to gather in Brussels
tomorrow to discuss how to revive growth and grapple with a
political impasse in  Greece , where voters rejected austerity
measures in elections on May 6. The euro has dropped more than 3
percent this month on concern that Greece may opt to leave the
17-nation monetary union.  Greece “will either have to exit or Europe will have to
swallow it and essentially allow them to default again,”
Clarida said. “There’s overwhelming political support for them
to default again. And then Europe will have to make a choice --
do we want Greece in, having defaulted on hundreds of billions
of euros of debt, or face the prospect of what would be a very
disorderly exit?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  