-- Bovespa Declines as Homebuilders Tumble on Rate View; OGX Drops
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-05-22T20:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/bovespa-drops-as-homebuilders-tumble-on-rate-outlook-ogx-falls.html
Brazilian stocks fell for the first
time in three days as homebuilders dropped on speculation policy
makers will slow the pace of interest-rate cuts and oil
producers followed crude lower.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the  oil company 
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , retreated from a one-
week high. PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes led
declines by real estate companies as yields on interest-rate
futures contracts advanced after the central bank said it will
reduce the amount of money banks must hold in reserve so lenders
can boost credit for car purchases.  The benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV)  index declined 2.7 percent to
55,038.75 at the close in Sao Paulo. Forty-nine stocks dropped
while 18 advanced. The real weakened 1.7 percent to 2.0778 per
 U.S. dollar  at 5:32 p.m. local time, the lowest in three years.  “With the government acting to stimulate the economy
through measures such as lower  reserve requirements , there may
be less room for further rate cuts,” Joao Pedro Brugger, a
portfolio manager at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,
Brazil, said by phone. “Homebuilders’ sales depend heavily on
credit, so this is negative for them, especially considering
that the market is still reacting to weaker earnings the
industry in general reported in the first quarter.”  PDG Realty Declines  PDG Realty slumped 11 percent to 2.97 reais. Rossi
Residencial SA fell 9.3 percent to 5.16 reais, extending this
month’s slump to 36 percent, the worst performer on the Bovespa
index in the period. In the interest-rate futures market, yields
on most contracts climbed after economic stimulus measures were
announced. The yield on the contract due in January 2014
increased 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 8.44
percent.  As part of a stimulus package announced yesterday, the
central bank will free as much as 18 billion reais ($8.6
billion) for auto financing. Taxes on vehicles will also fall,
and the state development bank will lower  interest rates  on some
loans. The measures will cost the government 2.7 billion reais
between now and Aug. 31, when most of the measures expire.  Banco Santander Brasil SA (BSBR)  added 0.6 percent to 16.50 reais,
leading gains by lenders. OGX lost 9.4 percent to 11.18 reais.
Oil for June delivery fell 1 percent to settle at $91.66 a
barrel after the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said  Europe ’s debt crisis risks spiraling out of
control and damaging the world economy.  ‘Still Worrisome’  “OECD’s remarks show that the state of the world economy
is still worrisome,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, an analyst at Futura
Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The outlook for
stocks is still not very bright.”  Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil
company, dropped 3.4 percent to 19.71 reais. The producer’s
profit is getting squeezed by a weaker real because most of its
debt is in dollars and it also has assets abroad, Chief
Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said in an interview at the Rio
Investors Day event today. The effects of the weaker local
currency on Petrobras’s balance sheet may also affect dividend
payments, Barbassa said.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on May 17 after tumbling
21 percent from this year’s high on March 13 through that day.
The gauge has since pared the drop to 20 percent. Trading volume
was 7.45 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo  today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a daily average
of 7.31 billion reais this year through May 21, according to
data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  