-- Brad Pitt Sneers at Obama, Plays Mob Killer: Cannes Film
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/brad-pitt-sneers-at-obama-plays-mob-killer-cannes-film.html
“America is not a country. It’s just
a business.”  So says Jackie, alias  Brad Pitt , in “Killing Them Softly,”
which premiered at the  Cannes Film Festival  yesterday. Pitt --
who produced the movie -- plays a greedy modern-day hitman hired
by the mob to bump off the culprits in a poker-table holdup. As
the financial crisis permeates organized crime, he refuses to
let bosses use the occasion to lower his fees, and routinely
curses at the powers that be in Washington, D.C.  Sneering along with him is New Zealand-born writer-director
 Andrew Dominik  (whose 2007 “The Assassination of Jesse James by
the Coward  Robert Ford ” also starred Pitt). Dominik mockingly
sprinkles his film with feel-good speeches by Presidents  George W. Bush  and  Barack Obama  and even by former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Alan Greenspan .  “We’re looking for stories that say something about our
time, and who we are,” Pitt said at a Cannes news conference.
“I certainly felt upon reading this that this was making a
commentary.”  “We were certainly at the apex of the mortgage loans
debacle, and people were losing their homes right and left,”
said the actor-producer. He was wearing a beige suit and V-neck
T-shirt, with his dark-blond hair virtually shoulder-length.  Sitting next to Pitt, Dominik said that in his view,
“crime films are about capitalism.” While adapting a 1970s
George V. Higgins novel into the movie’s script, he saw
parallels with the global recession: “an economic crisis in an
economy that was supported by gambling,” happening “because of
a failure of regulation.”  Littered Landscape  Politics pops up right from the start of the film. “The
American promise is alive,” cries an Obama voiceover during the
opening credits, as the camera cuts intermittently to a barren
and littered urban landscape.  Ill-shaven ex-prisoner Frankie (the gifted  Scoot McNairy )
is on his way to meet Russell (Ben Mendelsohn), a grubby
Australian with a fancy dog. Russell, it transpires, makes money
by snatching and selling pure-breds.  Together, they visit a burly Italian-American who hires
them for the poker job, certain it’ll be blamed on the guy who
did it the last time: the gambling supervisor Markie (Ray Liotta). In a flashback, we see Markie ogling dollar bills on
the card table, then getting punched after the heist by hired
hands (including Sam Shepard in a cameo).  The holdup goes through, with Frankie and Russell wearing
flesh-colored nylons over their faces, and a TV set in the
background broadcasting a Bush speech about money-market mutual
funds. Next, in a never-ending scene, Markie gets brutally
punched and kicked, to thumping sound effects.  Scorsese Lite  So far, the film seems just another Italian-American
mobster story -- a kind of Martin Scorsese Lite. The director
deliberately holds back the humor, and his film meanders.  Enter Pitt, a screwball character with deadpan lines. In
the passenger seat of a car, he’s recruited by the mob’s staid
envoy to go after the thieves, and is promised $15,000 -- good
money “in this economy.”  Jackie is frank with his recruiter. He talks about how
victims can get “touchy-feely” and call out for their moms.
Hence his tendency to “kill them softly, from a distance.”  Outperforming Pitt in their scenes together is  James Gandolfini  (from “The Sopranos”), who plays a foul-mouthed
fellow hitman devoted to hookers and booze. “It’s like my
hobby,” he says of prostitutes, bringing real-life rawness to
his cartoonish part.  Humor and political sarcasm save the day, making Dominik’s
picture caustically entertaining and a 2012 festival highlight.
The filming and scoring are also good. When a target is shot at
the wheel of his car, you see each bullet suspended in mid-air
in stylized slow motion. As glass shatters into a constellation
shape, a soulful jazz voice sings “Love Letters Straight From
the Heart.”  Rating: ***1/2.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Scott Reyburn on  auctions  and
Warwick Thompson on  theater .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 