-- Brazil Set to Lose Out as Thailand Meets Chinese Sugar Demand
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a ,   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-05-22T09:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/brazil-set-to-lose-out-as-thailand-meets-chinese-sugar-demand.html
A delay in harvesting the sugar cane
crop in Brazil will see the world’s largest producer lose market
share in  China , set to be one of the season’s biggest importers,
as  Thailand  increases its shipments to the Asian nation.  Thailand is forecast to ship 600,000 metric tons of raw
sugar to China in the first half of the year, according to Thai
Sugar Trading Corp., the country’s largest exporter. That would
be the most since at least 2005 and almost a fifth of all the
sugar China will need to buy this year. Last year, its shipments
to China totaled 277,572 tons of sweeteners, according to
Thailand’s Office of Cane & Sugar Board.  “Thai sugar is quite competitive in Chinese markets thanks
to its proximity, making Thai sugar prices attractive even when
combining cheap freight cost with a high sugar premium,”
Piromsak Sasunee, chief executive officer of Thai Sugar Trading,
said by phone on May 16.  Chinese sugar imports will climb by 1 million tons to 3.1
million tons in the 2011-12 season started in October, the
 International Sugar Organization  in London estimated in a report
this month. Producers in Brazil, where adverse weather damaged
and delayed crops, will have to discount their sugar if they are
to compete with Thailand, Rabobank International said.  “Thailand was helped by the proximity to China and had the
sugar available when the market was falling and the Chinese were
buying,” Keith Flury, an analyst at the bank, said by phone
from London yesterday. “Brazilian producers are having to
discount their sugar to be competitive as traditional importers
like Russia are well-stocked.”  Sugar Premium  China’s increased purchases of Thai sugar may have helped
lift the premium buyers have to pay in the physical market,
according to Rabobank. Thai raw sugar was trading at a premium
of 1.8 cents a pound to the price of the July contract on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York on May 19, according to Rolle,
Switzerland-based Swiss Sugar Brokers. That compares with a
discount of 0.1 cents a pound to obtain raw sugar from  Brazil  on
May 18, according to consultancy SA Commodities in Santos,
Brazil.  Most of the sugar being exported from Thailand to China
will be of the raw variety, Thailand’s Piromsak said. Delays to
the start of the crop in Brazil also contributed to an increase
in Thai imports, he said. The sugar cane crop in Brazil’s main
growing region was delayed by about a month because of rains and
the pace of harvesting continues to lag behind last year’s,
according to Juliano Ferreira, a broker at ICAP do Brasil Ctvm.  China and  Indonesia  are set to overtake Russia as the
world’s largest raw sugar importers this season, according to
Peter de Klerk, an analyst at Czarnikow Group Ltd., a London-
based company which traded sugar in over 90 countries last year.
Indonesian imports of all kinds of sugar will total 2.98 million
tons, up from 2.9 million tons in 2010-11, data from the ISO
show.  Russian Imports  Russia  imported 2.5 million tons of raw sugar in 2010-11,
according to the Moscow-based Institute for Agricultural Market
Studies, or Ikar. Almost 90 percent of the sweetener came from
Brazil. The country’s imports this season will fall to 600,000
tons, the lowest in at least 50 years, as production there
jumped due to favorable weather, Ikar estimates. That will leave
producers in the South American nation looking for new buyers.  “Ample Russian sugar beet supplies have surprised to the
upside and an abundance of beet sugar will dramatically reduce
the call on imports from Brazil to satisfy Russia’s domestic
refining industry,”  Hussein Allidina , the head of commodities
research at Morgan Stanley in  New York , wrote in a report e-
mailed yesterday.  Imports Capped  Sugar output in Russia will climb to 4.8 million tons in
2011-12, up 60 percent from 3 million tons a year earlier,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Production may
be about the same level next season, with imports of the raw
sweetener capped at 700,000 tons to 730,000 tons, Ikar
estimates.  Brazil will still supply more sugar than Thailand to China
this season, but the Thai share will increase “a lot,” Sasunee
said. Sugar can be shipped from Thailand to China within two to
three weeks, while it takes eight to 10 weeks from Brazil,
according to Mitr Phol Sugar Corp., the largest miller in
Thailand and the second largest shipper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  