-- Brazil Rate Futures Yields Rise on Stimulus; Real Extends Drop
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-05-22T21:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/brazil-rate-futures-yields-rise-on-stimulus-real-extends-drop.html
Brazilian interest-rate futures
contract yields rose the most in 18 months as government
measures to stimulate car lending fueled speculation the central
bank will slow the pace of cuts in borrowing costs.  The real fell to a new three-year low after briefly erasing
its decline as the central bank sold currency swap contracts for
the second time in three trading sessions, holding two auctions
today. New rules announced yesterday will free as much as 18
billion reais ($8.8 billion) for auto financing to revive  Latin
America ’s biggest economy.  “The measures will not revive the economy to the point
that the central bank will have to reverse its rate cuts, but
they reinforce the idea that the bank will make more moderate
reductions,”  Newton Rosa , chief economist at SulAmerica
Investimentos, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The yield on the futures contract due in January 2014
increased 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 8.44
percent at 6 p.m. in Sao Paulo for the biggest increase since
November 2010. The real fell 2.3 percent to 2.0907 per dollar.  Brazil’s central bank said in statements today it sold
30,300 out of 49,400 currency swap contracts at an auction and
13,600 out of 19,100 currency swap contracts in a second
offering. The real pared its drop after touching a three-year
low on May 18 as the central bank found buyers for all of the
13,000 swap contracts offered.  Exchange-Rate Target  The central bank may be targeting an  exchange rate  rather
than just “volatility” in the market, according to Ilan Solot,
a London-based strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  “Today’s move seems to point in that direction, and if
that’s the case, that’s a big deal,” he said by phone. “It
could generally change the psychology of the market.  The swaps auctions indicate ‘‘2.05 is where they’re
comfortable and maybe they’ll get to the point of drawing a line
in the sand at this level,” Solot said.  The exchange rate is “worrying” for importers and
positive for companies that export, Brazil’s Trade Minister
Fernando Pimentel told reporters today in Brasilia. “It is
beginning to be attractive again to export cars,” he said.  Brazil ’s consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index
rose 0.51 percent in the month through mid-May, the national
statistics agency said. Economists had expected an increase of
0.56 percent, according to the median of 45 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  GDP Proxy  The seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a proxy
for gross domestic product, fell for a third month in March,
dropping 0.35 percent, the central bank said May 18.  Analysts expect GDP to expand 3.09 percent in 2012,
compared with 3.20 percent a week earlier, according to the
median estimate in a central bank survey published yesterday.  Brazil’s currency dropped last week past 2 per dollar for
the first time since 2009 after the central bank purchased
dollars to keep it weak and cut borrowing costs. The real
extended its decline today on concern  Greece  was making
preparations to exit the euro.  “We are facing an escalation of the international
crisis,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in
Brasilia yesterday. “This demands that we redouble our efforts
to maintain economic growth at a reasonable rate.”  The central bank has reduced Brazil’s target lending rate
by 3.5 percentage points since Aug. 31 to 9 percent, the most
among the world’s 25 largest economies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Policy makers may reduce the benchmark by
50 basis points to 8.5 percent at next week’s monetary policy
meeting, trading in interest-rate futures shows.  The bank bought $7.2 billion in the  spot market  last month,
the most since $8.4 billion purchased in March 2011, to help
exporters by keeping the real weak.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  