-- U.K. Residential Property Shortage to Persist: Shapps
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-05-22T13:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/britain-may-never-fix-residential-property-shortage-shapps-says.html
The U.K. is unlikely to ever develop
enough houses and apartments to meet the demand of its
population, Housing Minister Grant Shapps said.  Britain needs to build around 245,000 residential
properties annually in the decade through 2023 to meet demand,
according to the Department for Communities and Local
Government. That would leave a shortfall of at least 43,000
homes a year for the next five,  Savills Plc (SVS)  estimates.  “There isn’t one thing you can do to solve this,” Shapps
said in an interview yesterday. “In the really best possible
imaginable circumstances, the boom in the housing market, we
were still only building 170,000,” he said. “If you couldn’t
do it then, it’s even harder now.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is overhauling Britain’s
housing market after the amount of homes built in England and
 Wales  in 2010 was the lowest during peace time since 1924. The
coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are easing
planning laws, releasing public land and underwriting part of a
loan to buyers of new properties to spur construction.  With unemployment rising and home values falling, lenders
are less willing to provide new credit or refinance existing
loans. Last year, 141 billion pounds of mortgages were
originated in the U.K. compared with 363 billion pounds in 2007,
according to the  Council of Mortgage Lenders .  ‘Tough Economy’  “We won’t get to the total unless we’re living in a much
better economy,” said Shapps, a Conservative lawmaker, in his
office. “Today, we’re facing an incredibly tough global
economy, euro-zone crisis, problems with mortgages, household
incomes.”  The government introduced a state-backed mortgage program
in March allowing buyers with small cash deposits to get loans
for as much as 95 percent of the value of a newly built home.
About 400 people have reserved properties through the program
called NewBuy, the Home Builders Federation said on May 17.  The average asking price for a home in  London  rose 0.9
percent in May from a month earlier to 469,314 pounds
($741,000), Rightmove Plc said yesterday. That’s the most since
the operator of Britain’s biggest property website started
keeping the data in 2002. Nationally, values were little changed
in May from the previous month.  The U.K. economy fell into its second recession since 2009
in the first quarter amid Cameron’s spending cuts, the deepest
fiscal squeeze since World War II. The double-dip contraction is
the first since 1975.  Lack of Mortgages  “It’s still a challenging climate,” said Steve Turner, a
spokesman for the Home Builders Federation, by phone. “The main
constraints are a lack of mortgage availability, having enough
developable land coming through the planning system and
regulation.”  Britain began construction on 139,430 homes last year
compared with 124,460 properties the year before, according to
the department. Homebuilders including  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) 
and  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  moved their focus away from high volume
development toward single family homes with wider margins after
facing hundreds of millions of pounds of writedowns and falling
sales in the aftermath of the housing collapse in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 