-- Broad U.S.-EU Trade Agreement Ties to Growth, Trade Chief Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-05-22T14:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/broad-u-s-eu-trade-agreement-ties-to-growth-trade-chief-says.html
U.S. and European Union negotiators
should focus on issues where economic relations can be improved
immediately before they begin talks on a broad trade agreement,
the U.S. trade ambassador said.  “Our mutual, urgent needs to enhance growth and employment
compel us to identify a short path to success before we launch
these negotiations,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said
today in a speech in  London .  The U.S. and 27-nation EU, which have the world’s largest
bilateral economic relationship, are considering ways to lower
trade barriers after the worst economic crisis since the Great
Depression. Negotiators led by Kirk and EU Trade Commissioner
Karel De Gucht are set to issue a progress report next month.  De Gucht has proposed that negotiations for a U.S.-EU trade
accord be complete by the middle of 2014.  “Many in Europe have already voiced very strong support
for a comprehensive free-trade agreement as a single
undertaking,” Kirk said. The U.S. wants “to ensure that its
outcomes will be at least as broad and ambitious as those
contained in our existing trade agreements.”  While trade flows between the U.S. and EU are about $4.4
trillion annually, according to the German Marshall Fund, the
two sides are unable to reach agreement in areas such as
agriculture, health and safety standards and regulations. Kirk
said the trading partners can work to reduce subsidies for large
commercial aircraft, which pit  Boeing Co. (BA)  of Chicago against a
European competitor, Airbus SAS.  ‘Full Liberalization’  “From the perspective of the United States, an ambitious
transatlantic negotiation -- should we choose to pursue that
course -- would need to achieve full liberalization of  market
access  across all categories of goods, and expand Atlantic flows
of services and investment as well,” Kirk said. It should also
seek to lower non-tariff barriers, he said.  Kirk and U.S. Commerce Secretary  John Bryson  are in Europe
this week to discuss improving economic relations between the
U.S. and EU, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a Washington-
based industry group that represents business interests, has
pushed for a transatlantic trade accord. Helping  Europe  recover
from a sovereign-debt crisis was a major theme of the G-8 summit
of world leaders in Camp David,  Maryland , last weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  