-- California Teachers Fund to Vote Against Wal-Mart Board
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-05-22T18:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/california-teachers-fund-to-vote-against-wal-mart-board.html
The  California  State Teachers’
Retirement System will vote its 5.3 million  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
shares against the entire board’s re-election amid a probe into
 alleged bribery  in Mexican operations.  The board failed to respond to indications of unethical
conduct, and Wal-Mart’s leadership may have “actively
suppressed” an internal investigation, Calstrs Chief Executive
Officer Jack Ehnes said today in a statement disclosing how the
shares will be voted.  “Calstrs does not have confidence that the current board
has the independence and leadership needed to address these
difficult issues,” Ehnes said in the statement.  The move shows mounting pressure against Wal-Mart, the
world’s largest retailer, over its corporate-governance
practices in advance of the company’s annual meeting on June 1
in Fayetteville, Arkansas. The New York City Pension Fund and a
major adviser to investors have also urged investors to vote
against some directors in the wake of bribery allegations.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , has said it is
probing allegations reported by the New York Times last month
that executives paid more than $24 million in bribes to clear
the way for expansion in  Mexico . A company spokesman,  David
Tovar , didn’t return a phone call seeking comment today.  Lawsuit Filed  Calstrs on May 4 said it sued current and former Wal-Mart
directors, alleging bribery and a cover-up. Wal-Mart directors
and executives responsible for overseeing the company’s Mexican
unit should reimburse the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer
for damages the chain suffered as a result of the bribery
scheme, lawyers for Calstrs said in the lawsuit,
filed in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Calstrs holds  less than 1 percent  of Wal-Mart shares, a
stake valued at about $313.5 million. The total holdings of
Calstrs were worth about $153.7 billion on April 30. The
retirement system, based in West Sacramento, California, serves
856,000 public-school educators.  The  pension plan  is the third shareholder-related group
this month to come out against Wal-Mart directors. On May 19,
 Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. , an adviser based in
Rockville, Maryland, recommended that Wal-Mart stockholders vote
against Chairman Rob Walton, CEO  Mike Duke , retired CEO  Lee
Scott  and  Chris Williams , who heads the  audit committee .  Board Members  Institutional Shareholder Services is concerned that
bribery allegations arose and that Wal-Mart’s board may not be
structured to handle the investigation properly, Pat McGurn,
special counsel to the advisory firm, said in a telephone
interview today. Some of same board members who are involved in
the investigation were executives or on the board when the
alleged bribes took place, he said.  A senior Wal-Mart lawyer received bribery allegations in
September 2005 and a cover-up may have occurred later, according
to the Times article. Scott was CEO from 2000 to 2009. Duke
became vice chairman, overseeing Wal-Mart’s international
operations, in September 2005. Williams has been on the board
since 2004 and Walton has been chairman since 1992.  “You don’t want the same people serving as witness and
juror,” McGurn said. “You want to make sure you have
independent directors. We are really concerned with board
oversight vis a vis senior management.”  Wal-Mart was founded in by  Sam Walton . His heirs control
Walton Enterprises Inc., which owns 47 percent of Wal-Mart
stock, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Voting Power  Calstrs is concerned that the Walton family has effective
voting control of proxy issues, Mike Sicilia, a Calstrs
spokesman, said in an interview.  “That makes it difficult for unaffiliated shareholders to
nominate directors to the board,” Sicilia said.  On May 1,  New York City Comptroller   John Liu  said the  New
York  City Pension Fund would vote against five Wal-Mart
directors because of the bribery allegations.  Liu said the funds will vote against Rob Walton, Duke,
Scott, Williams and Arne Sorenson, president and CEO of Marriott
International Inc.  New York Pension Funds said in a statement that Marriott
“has a multimillion dollar vendor relationship with Wal-Mart,”
so Sorenson shouldn’t be on a board overseeing the allegations.  Wal-Mart rose 1.2 percent to $63.82 at 2:15 p.m. in New
York. The shares gained 5.5 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  