-- Canadian Stocks Rebound on Chinese, Europe Stimulus Bets
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-05-22T21:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/canadian-stocks-rebound-on-chinese-europe-stimulus-bets.html
Canadian stocks  rallied, rebounding
from last week’s slide, as U.S. home sales increased and
investors speculated China and Europe will stimulate economic
growth.  Royal Bank of Canada,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and Bank of
 Nova Scotia  increased more than 0.9 percent. Oil and gas
producers  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) 
climbed at least 3.3 percent as natural gas futures rose.
 Westport Innovations Inc. (WPT)  surged 10 percent.  Niko Resources Ltd. (NKO) 
sank 1.4 percent after saying it will relinquish its interest in
an Indian gas production block.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 171.14
points, or 1.5 percent, to 11,451.78 in Toronto, its biggest
increase in over a month. The Canadian market was closed
yesterday for the Victoria Day holiday.  “We’re seeing a snapback from oversold conditions,” Irwin Michael, a portfolio manager at ABC Funds in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. Michael’s firm oversees C$1 billion ($1
billion). “Things may not be as bad as what the market once
thought. Any bit of good news can get a rally going.”  The benchmark gauge on May 18 completed a third straight
weekly decline as concerns mounted that the Greek debt crisis,
European elections and a slowing Chinese economy may curb demand
for commodities. Energy and raw-materials companies account for
43 percent of Canadian stocks by market value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Energy companies advanced today as natural gas rose near a
four-month high on speculation that warmer-than-normal weather
heading into June will help drive demand from power plants and
trim a supply surplus.  Oil Producers Gain  Suncor Energy, Canada’s largest oil and gas producer,
climbed 3.3 percent to C$28.30. Canadian Natural Resources, the
country’s third-biggest energy company, increased 3.5 percent to
C$31.  Encana Corp. (ECA) , Canada’s largest natural gas producer by
volume, rose 4.8 percent to C$20.97.  Westport Innovations, a Vancouver-based maker of cryogenic
fuel tanks, surged 10 percent, the second-biggest increase in
the S&P/TSX, to C$26.88. The company said Volvo Group will begin
North American sales in 2014 of a heavy-duty engine built with
Westport technology.  Niko Resources, which produces oil and gas in South Asia,
declined 1.4 percent to C$33.58 after sinking as much as 18
percent. The company said it will give up its portion of the D4
production block in the Orissa Basin offshore India, citing the
size and risk associated with the project, as well as the
current commercial environment in India.  Banks Rise  Banks in the S&P/TSX snapped a five-day skid after the
National Association of Realtors said sales of existing homes
increased in April for the first time in three months, adding to
signs the housing market is recovering. The China Securities
Journal reported that the nation plans to speed up approval of
infrastructure projects and allocate construction funding faster
to improve growth.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the nation’s biggest lender, gained
0.9 percent to C$52.17. Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-
largest lender, rose 1.2 percent to C$77.83.  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , the country’s third-largest lender, climbed 1 percent to
C$51.62.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  