-- CP Commuter Trains to Run as Government Resists Strike
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-22T21:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/canada-s-raitt-to-meet-cp-railway-and-workers.html
Canadian Pacific  Railway Ltd. and the
Teamsters agreed during talks with Labor Minister Lisa Raitt to
keep operating commuter trains even if union workers walk off
their jobs on the freight network, disrupting shipments of grain
and coal.  The railroad, which refused an earlier offer by the
Teamsters to keep operating the commuter trains, said the change
was requested by Raitt and described it as a “demonstration of
goodwill.” The Labor Minister is meeting with the railroad and
the Teamsters in an attempt to avert a strike that may begin as
soon as 12:01 a.m.  Canadian Pacific “continues to negotiate this afternoon
and is cooperating in an effort to enable an agreement,”  Ed
Greenberg , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. The railroad
is willing to participate in binding arbitration or extension of
the negotiation period for the Teamsters contract, both of which
would require union consent or government action, he said.  Raitt, who has previously intervened to prevent or end work
stoppages at Air Canada, the country’s largest airline, and
Canada Post, said today that a strike would hurt the country’s
economy. The work stoppage would also complicate operations for
Canadian Pacific, which is seeking a new chief executive officer
after a months-long proxy fight.  Strike Notice  The Teamsters Canada Rail Conference, representing 4,800
engineers, conductors and rail-traffic controllers, gave the
Calgary-based company a three-day strike notice on May 19 after
contract talks failed to resolve issues including what the union
described as proposed 40 percent cuts to the  pension plan .  The Teamsters and management have been in negotiations
since October and the Teamsters first threatened to strike in
April. Today’s talks are expected to continue through a midnight
deadline, the Labor Minister’s office said.  Canadian Pacific climbed 1.1 percent to C$74.92 at the
close of trading in Toronto. Before today, the shares advanced
7.4 percent this year amid investor  William Ackman ’s proxy fight
to replace CEO  Fred Green .  During the campaign, which led to the departure of Green
and five other board members last week, Ackman criticized the
company’s high cost margins relative to its peers. Canadian
Pacific blamed the disparity partly on its pension expenses.  The company has contributed C$1.9 billion ($1.86 billion)
to its pension plans in the past three years to correct funding
shortfalls, according to a May 19 statement. The rail carrier
has said its costs excluding pension expenses are in line with
those of larger rival  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)   Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP is
Canadian Pacific’s  largest investor , promised after last week’s
shareholder vote to deliver on commitments to boost returns,
while cautioning that improvement won’t happen overnight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  