-- Canadian Solar Interested in Gulf Amid Saudi’s $109 Billion Plan
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-05-22T15:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/canadian-solar-interested-in-gulf-amid-saudi-s-109-billion-plan.html
Canadian Solar Inc., a panel producer
generating almost 90 percent of its revenue from Europe and the
Americas, is interested in expanding in the Middle East amid a
$109 billion plan by  Saudi Arabia  to develop renewable capacity.  “Last year we made a significant sale into  Abu Dhabi  so I
am quite interested in the Middle Eastern market,” Chief
Executive Officer Shawn Qu said in an interview. “People in the
Middle East realize that if they use all their oil and gas to
produce electricity then they actually lose. The best way is to
install solar so that they can export more oil.”  Saudi Arabia is seeking investors for its plan to create a
solar industry generating a third of its electricity by 2032.
The largest crude-oil exporter plans 41,000 megawatts of solar
capacity in 20 years, said Maher al-Oda from the King Abdullah
City for Atomic and  Renewable Energy . At the same time Germany,
the largest solar market, is cutting industry subsidies.  “There’s more demand and more requests from the Middle
East,” Qu said. “More people in that region realize that gives
them a better economy.” His Ontario-based company already has
some sales in Saudi Arabia and supplies modules to Abu Dhabi.  Saudi Arabia has about 3 megawatts of solar installations,
trailing  Egypt ,  Morocco , Tunisia, Algeria and the United Arab
Emirates, according to data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “As the Middle East evolves their regulatory frameworks
for solar, there’s really a bottomless resource to exploit,”
Hannes Reinisch, senior manager of energy, utilities and mining
at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said by phone. Saudi Arabia has
the biggest power market in the region with growth in demand of
more than 8 percent a year, Reinisch said.  Canadian Solar got 88 percent of first-quarter sales from
the Americas and  Europe , according to data Bloomberg compiled.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  