-- Cathay Pacific Sues World Fuel Over Claim of Tainted Fuel
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-05-22T10:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/cathay-pacific-sues-world-fuel-over-claim-of-tainted-fuel.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. sued
 World Fuel Services Corp. (INT) ’s  Singapore  unit over claims tainted
fuel led to an emergency landing by  one of  its Airbus SAS A330
jets, hurting the Hong Kong carrier’s reputation and passengers.  Cathay,  Asia ’s biggest international carrier, is seeking
unspecified damages from World Fuel for supplying tainted fuel
to two of its aircraft, according to the lawsuit filed in
Singapore’s High Court. The first closed hearing was held
yesterday.  The A330, on a route from Surabaya,  Indonesia , where it was
fueled, to Hong Kong, suffered “serious engine problems,”
forcing the emergency landing on April 13, 2010, while another
plane, on the same route, had engine pressure fluctuations a day
earlier, according to the complaint.  Hong Kong ’s airport,  Asia’s third-busiest , shut a runway
for more than two hours, 35 flights were delayed and at least
eight passengers were injured in the Cathay plane’s emergency
landing. The incident prompted a probe by Hong Kong’s civil
aviation authority, which found “fuel contamination to be a
cause of the accident,” and recommended airports have safety
oversight requirements on fuel quality control.  “The parties are seeking to resolve the matter on an
amicable basis,” Cathay Pacific said in an e-mailed statement
today. Glenn Klevitz, director of corporate finance at Miami-
based World Fuel, said the company doesn’t comment on pending
litigation.  Breached Contract  World Fuel’s Singapore unit, which has  supplied   jet fuel  to
Cathay since May 2003, breached the contract by supplying
defective fuel, was negligent and failed in its duty of care to
the airline, according to the complaint.  “The cause of such problems experienced by the two
aircraft was the  fuel  supplied,” Cathay said in its complaint.
The fuel was contaminated and wasn’t of “merchantable
quality.”  Cathay is seeking compensation from World Fuel including
for damage to the aircraft, costs for storage, alternative fuel
arrangements, loss from flight delays and cancellations and loss
of use of aircraft. The carrier is also seeking damages from
World Fuel for loss of reputation and goodwill and costs related
to the emergency landing, according to court papers.  Tires on the A330 burst into flames after the plane landed
at quicker speed than normal in the April 2010 incident because
its Rolls-Royce Group Plc engines failed to respond, Hong Kong’s
Civil Aviation Department  found . The flight was carrying 309
passengers and 13 crew, according to the report. The other
aircraft, affected on a flight a day earlier, managed to land
safely, according to the complaint.  The Hong Kong-based carrier said earlier this month it
expects “disappointing” first-half earnings as it cuts fares
amid competition and contends with fuel prices that have risen
40 percent in two years. The airline has suspended hiring  ground
staff , offered cabin crew voluntary unpaid leave and pared
growth.  The case is  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  v. World Fuel
Services (Singapore) Pte S296/2012. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  