-- Central U.S. May Bake in 90-Degree Temperatures This Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-22T13:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/central-u-s-may-bake-in-90-degree-temperatures-this-week.html
A heat wave moving into the central
U.S., including  St. Louis , will send temperatures into the 90s
Fahrenheit (mid-30s Celsius) through the end of the week.  The high in St. Louis tomorrow may reach 85 and then break
90 for the rest of the week, according to the  National Weather
Service . Three days at 90 degrees or higher is the definition of
a heat wave.  Hot weather, especially in the large population centers of
the Northeast, increases electric use as people turn to air
conditioning to cool homes and businesses. Natural gas futures
rose for a second day today on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
on speculation of warmer-than-normal weather that would boost
power-plant demand.  Temperatures from Nebraska into  Quebec  are expected to
reach 8 to 14 degrees above normal through the weekend,
according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  The heat may linger across the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley
and reach the U.S. Northeast by next week, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  Temperatures may also reach into the 90s for the last three
days of the week in Topeka, Kansas; Little Rock, Arkansas; and
Memphis, Tennessee.  Across the upper Midwest and southern Canada, temperatures
will be warm, though not as severe. Chicago may reach 88 by May
24, according to the weather service. Toronto is forecast to be
in the mid-80s, according to Environment Canada.  NYC Rain  New York  will be in the 70s with rain most of this week.  By next week, temperatures may be 6 degrees above normal
across much of the Northeast from the Ohio Valley to southern
 Maine , said  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in
Belton, Missouri. Salmon expects temperatures to reach as much
as 10 degrees above normal in the Washington-Baltimore area and
in upstate New York from May 28 to June 1.  There may be a cooldown after the U.S. Memorial Day holiday
on May 28, Rogers said. “Any cooling looks relatively brief,”
he said.  The normal average temperature in New York on May 29 is 67
degrees, according to MDA. It’s 61 in  Boston , 69 in  Washington ,
74 in Atlanta, 79 in Houston, 77 in Dallas, 58 in Seattle and 67
in Burbank, California.  Later in the growing season, sustained periods of hot dry
weather can affect agricultural yields.  “It is still too early for notable impact,” said Joel Widenor, vice president at Commodity Weather. “The crops are
just not far enough along.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  