-- JPMorgan's Losses Become Tool in Dodd-Frank Rules Debate
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-05-22T23:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/cftc-to-release-clearing-proposal-for-index-swaps-gensler-says.html
U.S. lawmakers and regulators are
seizing on the more than $2 billion in losses disclosed by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to bolster their positions in the nearly
two-year-old debate over Wall Street’s rules.  The Senate Banking Committee was the flash point for the
debate yesterday, as Democrats and the chairman of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission used the losses to argue for the
strict implementation of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act rules,
including a ban on proprietary trading by banks. That argument
may shift to lawmakers and regulators pushing to go beyond
President  Barack Obama ’s financial regulatory overhaul.  “In the short run, pressure is on regulators to at least
look tough in implementing the Volcker Rule,”  Brian Gardner ,
senior vice president at investment bank Keefe Bruyette & Woods
Inc., said. “Over longer run, I believe the bigger impact will
be on the move to break up or downsize the largest banks.”  JPMorgan’s May 10 disclosure of losses tied to structured
derivatives products came at a key point in the debate over the
future of the Dodd-Frank Act. Agencies including the CFTC and
Securities and Exchange Commission are still in the process of
writing and implementing some of the most controversial rules
required by the law.  Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson said the
losses bolster the case for the regulations included in the
Dodd-Frank Act and serves as a “wake up call for many
opponents” of the law’s provisions.  ‘Stark Reminder’  “The company’s massive trading loss is a stark reminder of
the financial crisis of 2008 and the necessity of Wall Street
reform,” said Johnson, who also said he had been briefed by
regulators and the bank about the losses.  The types of derivative swaps said to have led to a loss of
at least $2 billion at JPMorgan Chase & Co. may be the first for
which CFTC would require guarantees by clearinghouses under the
Dodd-Frank Act, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in his written
testimony.  The commission, the main U.S. derivatives regulator, would
seek comments this summer on the requirement for swaps of
 interest rates  and credit-default indexes, according to Gensler.  “Standard swaps between financial firms will move into
central clearing, which will significantly lower the risks of
the highly interconnected financial system,” Gensler said.  Calling on Dimon  JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ,
a vocal critic of some of the provisions included in Dodd-Frank,
will make an appearance in front of the committee in the months
ahead and Johnson, the panel’s chairman, said that he expects
the executive to explain the details of “a very complex
trade.” That trade has drawn the scrutiny of federal regulators
and the  Department of Justice .  Republicans, most of whom opposed the Dodd-Frank Act on the
Senate floor, questioned the law’s effectiveness -- and asked
regulators not to bow to pressure to tighten some rules in the
wake of the high profile JPMorgan losses.  “What you’re going to do is end up causing the Volcker
rule to end up being something it was never supposed to be,”
Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, said.  Securities and Exchange Commission chairman  Mary Schapiro 
said her agency is currently focused on what JPMorgan knew and
when the bank learned about the details of the losing trades.  “Our focus right now is on whether the company’s financial
disclosure and reporting is accurate,” Schapiro said.  CFTC Acting  Gensler, who in his remarks again confirmed the agency’s
enforcement division had opened an investigation into the
losses, said there is a “great deal of consistency” between
the CFTC’s timeline on clearing rules and the time frame of
regulators in Europe and  Japan .  Gensler also said that the CFTC has “clear anti-fraud and
anti-manipulation power” over credit derivatives indexes.  JPMorgan trader Bruno Iksil may have amassed a $100 billion
position in contracts on Series 9 of the Markit CDX North
American Investment Grade Index, counterparts at  hedge funds  and
rival banks said in April.  JPMorgan said on May 10 that it has lost at least $2
billion on derivatives trades. In his testimony Gensler said the
Markit CDX and iTraxx credit default swap indexes would be among
the first to fall under the proposed guarantee requirements.
Lawmakers are probing the role of regulators in the losses --
including when they knew of the losses and what changes, if any,
to regulations would prevent similar losses from Wall Street
firms in the future.  Overseas Reverberations  “We’ve had another stark reminder of how trades overseas
can quickly reverberate with losses coming back into the  United
States ,” Gensler said.  Those losses have thrown uncertainty into the future of a
derivatives measure in the House aimed at restraining the reach
of U.S. regulators into foreign swaps markets that was scheduled
to be considered last week.  Senator  Jeff Merkley  an Oregon Democrat who led much of
yesterday’s hearing, continued his push to use the JPMorgan
losses to support the case for tighter restrictions in the so-
called Volcker rule that is currently moving through the rule-
writing process. Five regulators, including the SEC and CFTC,
are in the midst of crafting the final rule that would ban
proprietary trading by banks.  Merkley and Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who co-
wrote the provision in Dodd-Frank, said the trading losses
underline why hedging on a portfolio basis should be barred in
the final rule. Gensler and Schapiro both acknowledged the
difficulty regulators face in allowing some risk mitigating
hedging.  “I think this is one of the more challenging tasks that
regulators have been given,” said Gensler. Congress was
“pretty clear” that hedges had to be tied specifically to
individual and aggregate positions, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  