-- Didier Drogba to Leave Chelsea After Champions League Victory
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-05-22T15:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/chelsea-says-didier-drogba-to-leave-soccer-club-at-end-of-june.html
Didier Drogba , who scored the winning
penalty in Chelsea’s  Champions League  final victory over  Bayern
Munich , will leave the soccer club at the end of June when his
contract expires.  The Ivory Coast national team player spent eight years at
Chelsea, getting 157 goals in 341 appearances. His 88th-minute
score last weekend leveled the game at 1-1 in Bayern’s Allianz
Arena before he got the crucial penalty in a 4-3 shootout after
extra time. It was the Blues’ first European Cup title.  Speculation has surrounded the future of the 34-year-old
striker, who joined from Marseille in July 2004, a year after
Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich bought the club. He’s been
linked in media reports with a move to China’s Shanghai Shenhua,
on a salary of 250,000 pounds ($395,000) a week according to
today’s  Daily Mail .  Drogba helped the London club to Premier League title wins
in his first two seasons.  The Blues also won the league in 2010, and the F.A. Cup
four times during his time in west London as he scored in each
final. He also helped secure two League Cup victories.  On the first occasion Chelsea reached the Champions League
final, in 2008, Drogba was red-carded before his teammates lost
on penalties to  Manchester United .  He said it was a “very difficult decision” to leave, and
Chelsea would “always be in my heart.”  “The time is right for a new challenge for me,” he told
the club website. “I would like to take this opportunity to
thank everyone at the club, especially Roman and my team-mates,
many of whom have become very close friends and will be my
friends for life. I would also like to say a very special thank
you to the Chelsea fans who have shown me so much love and
support over the years.”  Chelsea ‘Legend’  Chelsea Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay called Drogba a
“legend” at the club.  “He has been a consummate professional during his entire
time here and as one of the natural leaders in our squad he has
been an inspiration to a lot of our younger players,” Gourlay
said.  Drogba may not be the only Chelsea player to leave in the
offseason.  Salomon Kalou  and  Jose Bosingwa  could depart,
according to U.K. media reports. Interim coach Roberto Di Matteo
hasn’t been confirmed in his post, and there’s speculation he
could also be replaced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  