-- Chile Yields Rise as Growth Optimism Bolsters Risk Appetite
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-22T17:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/chile-yields-rise-as-growth-optimism-bolsters-risk-appetite.html
Chilean bonds fell, pushing yields up
the most in two months, as better-than-estimated U.S. home sales
and  China ’s pledge to speed up infrastructure spending eroded
demand for haven investments.  The yield on  five-year  central bank bonds in pesos rose
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 5.37 percent at
1:20 p.m. in Santiago. The increase was the biggest on a closing
basis since March 14. The yield fell 30 basis points last week.
The 10-year bond yield climbed six basis points to 5.47 percent.  Yields rose from a three-month low last week as global
stocks surged after U.S. home sales increased more than forecast
and China Securities Journal reported that authorities plan to
speed up approval of infrastructure projects and allocate
construction funding faster to improve growth. Chilean markets
were closed yesterday for a public holiday.  “This isn’t a trend change,” said Andres de la Cerda, a
money-markets trader at Bice Inversiones in Santiago. “It’s a
response to calmer international markets yesterday and today. If
we get any negative news yields will drop again.”  China is the biggest customer for Chilean exports, more
than half of which are made up of copper.  The Chilean peso was little changed at 505.38 per  U.S.
dollar  after touching 506.70 on May 17, the weakest level since
Jan. 11.  Chilean pension funds may need to unwind $1.25 billion of
long peso positions under rules proposed by the industry
regulator, according to estimates from economists at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  New York . The proposed changes would go into
effect in September following a consultation period.  Peso Forwards  Offshore investors increased net short position in the peso
forwards market to $9.5 billion on May 17, the most since
September 2009. Offshore investors have cut bets on the peso by
$10 billion in 10 months and by $2.5 billion in the past month.  Local investors increased their long position in pesos to
$17 billion, the highest since April 2. The local forwards peso
position is dominated by pension funds hedging the currency
risks of investing abroad, so rising peso forwards bets may
indicate the mark-to-market value of offshore investments is
increasing.  Interest-rate swaps  rose. The two-year swap increased four
basis points to 4.86 percent while the two-year break-even
inflation rate rose four basis points to 2.98 percent.  The gap between swap rates and bond yields widened. The
five-year swap at 5.08 percent is 29 basis points lower than the
5.37 percent five-year bond yield, the  biggest spread  this year.  Chile ’s central bank auctioned today $135 million of bonds
due in two and five years. The bank sold 33 billion pesos
($65 million) of fixed-rate peso bonds due in two and five years
and $69 million of inflation-linked five-year bonds. It set a
yield of 5.21 percent on the two-year bonds, 5.42 percent on the
five-year fixed notes and 2.34 percent on the inflation bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  