-- China Swaps Extend Rebound From 2012 Low as More Funds Drained
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-05-22T09:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/china-swaps-extend-rebound-from-2012-low-as-more-funds-drained.html
China’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
rose, extending a rebound from a 2012 low reached last week, as
the central bank absorbed funds from the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China sold 60 billion  yuan  ($9.5
billion) of 28-day  repurchase agreements  at a yield of 2.8
percent today, according to a statement posted on the central
bank’s website. The monetary authority is likely to continue to
 drain  liquidity via repo agreements to offset the injection from
last week’s cut in banks’ reserve requirements,  Ju Wang , a
Barclays Capital strategist in  Singapore , wrote in a note today.  “We believe a very gradual recovery and easier monetary
policy will keep rates low,” Ju said, adding that investors
should “take advantage of the rates pullback as an opportunity
to receive” fixed payments in the swaps market on expectations
that policy easing will keep the trend of lower rates intact.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, increased five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.84 percent in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The rate reached 2.67 percent on May 17, the lowest
level this year.  “We think the PBOC will halt reverse-repurchase agreements
this week after conducting such operations in the preceding two
weeks, given current flush liquidity conditions,” Ju wrote.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, climbed two basis points
to 2.69 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. The rate fell 107 basis
points this month. The yield on 3.51 percent government bonds
due February 2022 rose four basis points to 3.4 percent.  The Conference Board  China  Center for Economics and
Business’s leading index rose at the same pace in April from the
month before as it did in March, offering investors some comfort
the world’s second-biggest economy may avoid a sharp slowdown.
The gauge increased 0.8 percent to 232.4, the board said in an
e-mailed statement today, citing a preliminary reading.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  