-- China to Allow Smaller-Company Bond Issues From June
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-23T03:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/china-to-allow-smaller-company-bond-issues-from-june.html
China  will allow small and medium-
sized companies to sell bonds through private placements
starting next month as part of measures to broaden financing
channels for businesses struggling for funds.  The first batch of bonds under a trial program will be
introduced in mid-June, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange said in a
 statement  on its website yesterday. Property and finance-related
companies are barred from the trial, it said. The bonds will be
sold through Shenzhen’s exchange, with no more than 200
investors allowed to take part in any placement, according to
the statement.  China’s efforts last year to cool inflation and rein in
home price with lending curbs and higher  interest rates  also
reduced the availability of financing for smaller businesses,
leading to a spate of bankruptcies and suicides in the city of
Wenzhou. The nation is also encouraging companies to raise more
funds through stock and bond sales to reduce their dependence on
bank loans and increase the transparency of their finances.  “Banks are reluctant to lend after they switched from
aggressively seeking lending to aggressively seeking risk
control this year,” Zhang Zhiming, head of China research at
HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong , said. “This opens up a new
venue of borrowing and mostly these are the SMEs that will tap
this market.”  Smaller companies seeking to sell debt as part of the
trials won’t have to meet net asset or profit requirements, the
Shenzhen exchange said. The maturity of bonds issued under the
plan must be one year or longer and the coupon shouldn’t exceed
three times the central bank’s benchmark interest rate, the
Shenzhen exchange said in its statement. The benchmark rate for
a 12-month bank loan is currently 6.56 percent.  Coupon Cap  Without this cap on the coupon, “chances are that it could
go way above that and that will increase the odds of default,
and they don’t want that to happen,” Zhang said.  Three times the benchmark rate is still less than what
private lenders in Wenzhou charged in April, according to the
first private-loan survey published by the central bank’s branch
in the eastern city that’s a hub for smaller producers of eye
glasses, lighters and shoes. That rate was 21.6 percent.  Smaller companies already pay more than larger state-owned
enterprises to borrow from the  bond market . Leshi Internet
Information & Technology (Beijing) Co., a video website
operator, sold three-year bonds this month priced to yield 9.99
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China Guodian
Corp., the nation’s third-biggest power producer, sold three-
year bonds at 4.24 percent this month, the data show.  Bond Default  China has also yet to have a default in its bond market.
Shandong Helon Co., a fiber maker in eastern China, paid off its
400 million  yuan  bond in April despite overdue loans of  956.7
million yuan. It was unable to pay 60.45 million yuan in loans
and interest owed to a branch of China Construction Bank, the
company said May 20.  China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing 
said in March that the nation may start trials allowing
companies to sell high-yield bonds as soon as the first half.
Guo has been an advocate of expanding China’s corporate debt
market, saying in a March interview with the official People’s
Daily that the country’s equity and bond markets “seriously”
lag behind the demands of the real economy.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  