-- China Stocks Rise for 2nd Day on Infrastructure Spending Report
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-22T07:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-spending-report-european-outlook.html
China ’s stocks rose for a second day
on speculation the government will accelerate infrastructure
spending to counter an economic slowdown and after German and
French officials said they will work to keep Greece in the euro.  Anhui Conch Cement Co., the biggest Chinese cement
producer, gained the most in a month after the China Securities
Journal reported the government plans to speed up approval of
infrastructure construction projects. China Vanke Co. and  Poly
Real Estate  Group Co. advanced at least 3.9 percent as Macquarie
Securities Ltd. said China may loosen property restrictions by
the end of the year and the 21st Century Business Herald said
China is unlikely to expand property tax trials nationwide.  “Investors are comforted by developments in  Europe  and
expectations of more spending and policy easing,” said Chen Liqiu, a strategist at Jianghai Securities Co. in  Shanghai .  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, rose 1.1 percent to 2,373.31 at the
close, adding to a 0.2 percent gain yesterday after Premier  Wen
Jiabao  said the government will focus more on bolstering
economic growth. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  advanced 1.6 percent to
2,627.53. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. jumped 2.8 percent at the close in
New York.  The Shanghai index has climbed 7.9 percent this year on
expectations the government will relax monetary policy to
support growth and take more measures to bolster equities. The
measure fell a combined 33 percent in 2010 and 2011 as the
government increased  interest rates  to tame inflation.  Leading Indicator  Premier Wen said more efforts should be made to maintain
relatively fast economic expansion. While current economic
operations are generally stable and growth is still within the
expected range, the domestic and external environments are
becoming more complex, Wen said, according to a report from the
the official Xinhua News Agency on May 20.  A leading index for China rose at the same pace in April as
the prior month, offering investors some comfort that the
world’s second-biggest economy may avoid a deeper slowdown.  The gauge increased 0.8 percent from March to 232.4, the
New York-based Conference Board said in an e-mailed statement
today, citing a preliminary reading. That compares with a 0.8
percent gain in March and 1 percent in February.  Stocks in the Shanghai gauge are valued at 10.2 times
estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on
Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg. About
7.5 billion shares changed hands yesterday, 5.5 percent lower
than the daily average this year. Thirty-day volatility in the
gauge was at 15.09 today.  ‘Everything Necessary’  Anhui Conch climbed 3.4 percent to 16.67  yuan , the biggest
gain since April 5. Sany Heavy Industry Co., the biggest maker
of excavators, jumped 5.3 percent to 14.43 yuan.  This year’s infrastructure investment plans must be
submitted before the end of June, the China Securities Journal
reported, citing an unidentified person. The government may
allocate construction funds earlier than planned, it said.  China Vanke, the nation’s biggest developer, gained 3.9
percent to 9.01 yuan while Poly Real Estate, the second largest,
climbed 5.4 percent to 13.41 yuan. The gauge of property stocks
in the Shanghai Composite advanced 2.9 percent, the most among
five industry groups.  China is unlikely to expand a property tax trial to more
cities in the near term and the government will continue home
purchase restrictions, the 21st Century Business Herald reported
today, citing Chen Guoqiang, vice chairman of the China Real
Estate Society. Shanghai and Chongqing are the only two cities
to have started property tax trials.  Property Outlook  China will loosen property policies by the end of the year,
Jiong Shao, head of China strategy at Macquarie in  Hong Kong ,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. Macquarie is
“increasingly positive” on the Chinese property industry, he
said.  China Shenhua Energy Co., the biggest coal producer, gained
1 percent to 26.26 yuan. China International Capital Corp. said
the coal industry may rally as early as the third quarter as the
economy stabilizes.  Developments in  France  and Greece are having a direct
impact on emerging-market stocks, including China, as Europe is
the biggest buyer of exports from these economies, Michael
Gayed, chief investment strategist in New York at Pension
Partners LLC, which advises on over $150 million in assets, said
yesterday by phone.  Germany and France agree that they will do “everything
necessary” to ensure  Greece  remains in Europe’s currency union,
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday in Berlin
after a meeting with France’s  Pierre Moscovici .  Rebound Won’t Last  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  “This rebound is likely to be short-lived,” said Chen at
Jianghai Securities. “The fundamental issues in Europe remain,
easing in China is not going to accelerate and Chinese company
earnings will still be bad this quarter so this is not a good
time to enter the market.”  Morgan Stanley yesterday lowered its forecast for China’s
growth this year to 8.5 percent from 9 percent, while the
government aims for a 7.5 percent expansion this year.
Economists led by Helen Qiao said in a report to clients they
expect two interest-rate cuts this year, “zero” appreciation
by the yuan against the dollar and expanded capital spending by
the government and state-owned companies.  Chinese stocks trading in  New York  rose the most in four
months, led by Tudou Holdings Ltd. Tudou’s American depositary
receipts jumped 12 percent to $33.44, the biggest advance since
March 12. Its acquisition by larger rival Youku is expected to
close in the third quarter, Shanghai-based Tudou said in a
statement yesterday.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced for the first time
since May 1, gaining 2.6 percent to $33.86, the biggest rally in
five weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  