-- CIC’s Jin Says Others May Follow If Greece Leaves Euro
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/cic-s-jin-says-other-countries-may-follow-if-greece-exits-euro.html
Jin Liqun, chairman of  China 
Investment Corp.’s supervisory board, said European authorities
have shown a “lack of leadership” on the euro area’s debt
crisis and other countries may leave if Greece exits the single
currency bloc.  “Ever since the debt crisis broke out, there has never
been a master plan for a resolution,” Jin said at an event
hosted by the Centre for Policy Studies in London late
yesterday. “The core members of the monetary union certainly
have to keep an eye out for possible copycats should the Greeks
be allowed to escape from the crisis unscathed.”  Greece is set to hold a second national ballot next month
after inconclusive elections on May 6 increased speculation that
the nation may leave the 17-nation euro area. CIC President Gao Xiqing said on May 9 that the sovereign wealth fund has stopped
buying European government debt on concerns about the region’s
financial turmoil.  “Too much time has been wasted on endless bargaining on
terms and conditions for piecemeal bailouts,” Jin said. “You
cannot say there is no strategy altogether, but short-termism
features prominently in the process for negotiations for
bailout.”  Long-Term Solution  Answering questions after the speech, Jin said a longer-
term solution is needed as previous negotiations on bailouts
have only eroded investor confidence.  “The Greeks should be encouraged to work harder, but they
should also be given a respite for much longer,” he said.
European leaders “should say, ‘okay, we give you 10 years to
work off your debt,’ then the market would be confident because
this is realistic. If the Germans or some other core countries
would tell their people, ‘we’ll give  Greece  a 10-year respite,’
probably everything would be sorted out.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said yesterday that  Europe ’s crisis risks spiraling and
seriously damaging the world economy. The warning came as
European Union leaders prepare to gather in Brussels to discuss
how to revive growth and grapple with the Greek impasse.  “I do not think that all possibilities have been exhausted
for keeping Greece in the monetary union,” Jin said.  Fair Treatment  CIC, with an estimated $440 billion in assets, is the
world’s fifth-largest country fund, according to Sovereign
Wealth Fund Institute. Jin said cooperation with Europe is
important for China and “some invisible impediments” to
Chinese investments should be removed.  “European countries should treat Chinese companies fairly
and equitably,” he said, “This is the time when liquidity is
crucially needed in this part of the world, particularly in
distressed parts of the  euro zone .”  On the outlook for Europe, he said that while spending cuts
are “necessary to keep the national balance sheet in order,”
they should be coupled with “spending to jumpstart growth.”  Asked about  yuan , Jin said it is on “its way to become an
international reserve currency,” though “full convertibility”
will take “some time.”  “ Renminbi , probably for the next 10 or 20 years, will play
a more important role, but compared to euro, dollar, it will
still be very insignificant,” he said. International
transactions in the currency “could go up to 10 percent or 15
percent over the next 10 to 20 years,” up from less than 1
percent currently, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  