-- Citigroup to Pay $3.5 Million Over Faulty Subprime Data
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-05-22T17:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/citigroup-to-pay-3-5-million-over-faulty-subprime-data.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , agreed to pay $3.5 million to resolve regulatory
claims that it gave investors inaccurate data for subprime
mortgage-backed securities as the housing market collapsed.  The bank posted incorrect information for three residential
mortgage-backed securities, or RMBS, from January 2006 through
October 2007, and it remained on Citigroup’s website until this
month, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said today in
a statement. The firm failed to correct the data even after the
errors were brought to its attention, said Finra, the brokerage
industry’s self-regulator.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is dealing with
mounting costs from Citigroup’s conduct in the U.S. mortgage
market. The lender agreed to pay $158.3 million in February
after regulators alleged the firm had falsely declared some
loans fit for a federal insurance program. The bank must also
pay $2.2 billion as part of a $25 billion, 49-state settlement
between  attorneys general  and the biggest mortgage lenders,
after a nationwide probe into shoddy foreclosure practices.  “Citigroup posted data for its RMBS deals that it should
have known was inaccurate; and even after they learned the data
was inaccurate, Citigroup did not correct the problem until
years later,” Brad Bennett, Finra’s enforcement chief, said in
the statement. “For over six years, investors potentially used
faulty data to assess the value of the RMBS.”  Lacked Procedures  RMBS issuers are required to disclose historical
performance data for securities similar to those they are
offering. That information is critical for investors to assess
whether future returns may be disrupted by mortgage holders
failing to make loan payments, Finra said in its statement.  The brokerage lacked procedures to verify the pricing of
the securities and didn’t sufficiently document steps taken to
assess whether the traders’ prices were reasonable, Finra said.
The unit also failed to keep proper records following margin
calls that prompted revisions in the prices, according to the
Washington-based regulator.  Citigroup settled the claims without admitting or denying
wrongdoing, Finra said. “We are pleased to put this matter
behind us,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New
York-based Citigroup, said in a statement.  Securitized Markets  Jeffrey Perlowitz and Mark Tsesarsky run Citigroup’s
securitized markets business. They report to Francisco “Paco” Ybarra, who oversees the bank’s trading businesses.  Other financial firms have paid penalties for similar
alleged offenses. Finra fined  Barclays Plc (BARC)  $3 million in
December for  “misrepresenting”  the delinquency rates for three
RMBS between March 2007 and December 2010. The watchdog fined
Credit Suisse Group AG $4.5 million and Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit $3 million in  May 2011  for also using flawed
delinquency data, records show.  Finra fined Deutsche Bank AG $7.5 million in July 2010 for
“negligently misrepresenting delinquency data” tied to six
subprime RMBS issued in 2006, the records  show .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  