-- CME to Allow Brokers to Trade Futures, Swaps on One Screen
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-05-22T16:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/cme-group-to-allow-brokers-to-trade-futures-swaps-on-one-screen.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, will allow traders who arrange transactions
between banks to buy and sell futures and swaps through one
electronic screen.  CME Direct will allow so-called inter-dealer brokers to use
one system for trading futures and swaps based on oil, natural
gas, gasoline and heating oil, rather than the two systems now
in place, the Chicago-based company said in a statement today.
CME Group’s Globex electronic trading system is now used for
futures while its Clearport system accepts swaps for clearing.  The new system may be a blueprint for how CME Group designs
a swap-execution facility, which is required under the Dodd-
Frank Act financial reform, though it’s too early to know
because those rules aren’t finalized, said Michel Everaert, a
managing director in the company’s OTC Solutions unit.  “Having said that, a lot of the elements in the proposals
for swap-execution facilities are in CME Direct,” he said.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , owner of Europe’s largest
energy market and a CME Group competitor, offers one-screen
trading for futures and swaps through its WebICE system.  Better Competition  “It will help our customers trade CME,” Everaert said.
“Will it help us compete? Sure.” The integration will
eventually apply to all the exchange’s products, including
 interest rates  and currencies, he said.  Inter-dealer brokers Marex Spectron Group Ltd., Compagnie
Financiere Tradition SA and  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  have received
licenses from CME Group to use the new system, the company said
in the statement. For the swaps trading part, brokers will be
able to buy and sell the contracts using electronic trading or
transactions arranged over the phone, what’s known as a hybrid
model, CME Group said.  There will be no fee for brokers to use CME Direct, though
execution and clearing fees will apply to any trades, Everaert
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 