-- Colombia Sees Oil Output of 1 Million Barrels by Year-End
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-05-22T20:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/colombia-sees-oil-output-of-1-million-barrels-by-year-end.html
Colombia , South America’s third-
largest oil supplier, will reach 1 million barrels of crude
production before year-end, pending environmental permits for
fields.  “We are just waiting for some environmental licenses that
will allow us to increase production at one or two of our major
fields,” Mines and Energy Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in an
interview today in  New York , without identifying the fields.  Sabotage and social protests have prevented Colombia from
reaching 1 million barrels a day, a target that was set for last
year. Attacks on electricity transmission towers, pipelines,
roads and bridges increased last year for the first time since
2008, according to government statistics.  Colombian oil production fell 4.8 percent in February to
896,000 barrels a day after rebels attacked pipelines. It
climbed to 951,000 barrels a day in March and 955,000 barrels a
day in April as sabotage declined.  Colombia will produce an average of 970,000 to 980,000
barrels a day in May and June, Cardenas said. The nation is
looking to add reserves through a government auction of
exploration and production rights this year. The 109 blocks
include unconventional fuels that have drawn interest from U.S.
companies, he said.  “We have to make this sustainable,” Cardenas said.  State-run oil company  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  and  Pacific Rubiales
Energy Corp. (PRE) , owners of the Rubiales oil field, are the nation’s
largest producers.  Brazil and Venezuela are South America’s largest oil
producing nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  