-- Comcast to Let Phone Customers Make Calls on Mobile Devices
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-22T20:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/comcast-to-let-phone-customers-make-calls-on-mobile-devices-1-.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the biggest U.S. cable
carrier, will let home-phone customers make calls using iPads,
smartphones and other mobile devices anywhere they have  Internet
access , intensifying competition with wireless carriers.  Using a Comcast application, customers can make and receive
calls from those devices when they’re connected to the Web via a
Wi-Fi hot spot or a wireless data plan, Philadelphia-based
Comcast said today in a statement. There is no extra charge for
the calls, which are connected to the customer’s home-phone
number. The service is only available to subscribers buying
Comcast voice and broadband.  Comcast, which provides TV, land-line phone and Internet
service, is expanding beyond the home to fend off phone
companies such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
which are offering broadband and wireless-Internet service that
could replace the need for a cable subscription.  “We’re bringing customers features they otherwise would
have thought they’d only get from their mobile providers,”
Comcast Executive Vice President Cathy Avgiris said.  The new Comcast feature, called Voice 2go, will allow
customers to make calls using free Wi-Fi networks in parks and
cafes or a wireless-data connection from a phone company. The
service competes against wireless carriers’ voice plans, which
typically start at $39.99 a month, as well as Internet-calling
services such as Skype.  Comcast  rose  0.9 percent to $28.96 at the close in New York
and has advanced 22 percent this year. AT&T fell 0.3 percent to
$33.54 and Verizon gained 0.1 percent to $41.39.  Home-Phone Extension  The application lets Comcast phone customers forward calls
from their home numbers to mobile devices, and calls can be
received as long as the device is connected to the Internet.
Subscribers can limit incoming calls by accepting only those
from specific phone numbers, Avgiris said.  Comcast added a net of 164,000 phone customers in the first
quarter, less than analysts’ average estimate of 187,000. The
new mobility features show how customers can benefit from
Comcast’s voice product even if the popularity of land-line
phone service slows, Avgiris said.  Yesterday, Comcast said it is teaming up with other large
U.S. cable companies to create a nationwide network of more than
50,000 Wi-Fi hot spots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  