-- ConnectEast Said to Attract 9 Lenders to A$1.2 Billion Loan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-05-22T09:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/connecteast-said-to-attract-9-lenders-to-a-1-2-billion-loan-1-.html
ConnectEast Group, the owner and
operator of the EastLink motorway in  Melbourne , has attracted
nine lenders to its A$1.2 billion ($1.2 billion) loan facility,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The company sought commitments for three-, five- and seven-
year term loan portions earlier this year, and will use the
proceeds to refinance existing debt, the person said, asking not
to be identified because the details are private. Final
documents for the facility are being organized and the loan is
expected to be completed next month, the person said.  Peter De Luca, a Melbourne-based spokesman for ConnectEast,
declined to comment on the financing when contacted by e-mail
today.  ConnectEast has a A$1.2 billion debt facility with portions
due in November this year and November 2014, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , Societe
Generale SA, United Overseas Bank Ltd. and Lloyds Banking Group
Plc’s Australian unit BOS International arranged the loans in
2004, the data show.  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Commonwealth
Bank, National Australia Bank Ltd., Westpac Banking Corp. and
BOS International, along with a Japanese and a Canadian lender,
have committed funds to the new facility, the person said today,
declining to elaborate.  Institutional fund managers Industry Funds Management Pty
and  Westbourne Credit Management Ltd.  have also pledged funds,
the person said. BNP Paribas SA and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, lenders to the previous facility, haven’t committed money
this time, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  