-- Contraceptive Mandate Suit Should Be Thrown Out, U.S. Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-22T21:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/contraceptive-coverage-mandate-suit-dismissal-sought-by-u-s-1-.html
The U.S. asked a federal judge to
dismiss a  St. Louis  business owner’s lawsuit challenging a
requirement that businesses offer employees contraception
coverage through health-care insurance.  Catholic businessman Frank O’Brien and his St. Louis-based
O’Brien Industrial Holdings LLC sued the U.S. in March, arguing
the mandate unconstitutionally violates his religious beliefs
and the principals he applies to his company.  Lawyers for the government, in papers filed yesterday with
U.S. District Judge Carol E. Jackson in St. Louis, said O’Brien
failed to allege the mandate “substantially” burdened his
religious freedom.  “Even if there is a substantial burden, the preventive
services coverage regulations serve a compelling governmental
interest,” according to the U.S., and “are the least
restrictive means to achieve that interest.”  Forty-three Catholic organizations, including the
archdioceses of  New York  and  Washington , as well as the
University of  Notre Dame  and the  Catholic University of America ,
filed 12 lawsuits yesterday in courts across the country, also
arguing the mandate violates the freedom of religion guaranteed
in the U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment.  Initial Mandate  The contraception requirement is part of President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,
intended to create almost-universal health-care insurance
coverage.  While the mandate initially compelled religious
institutions and secular employers to pay for the coverage,
after encountering opposition the president in February said
he’d relieve religious groups of that responsibility by
requiring insurers to provide the coverage free of charge.
Republican lawmakers have said they seek repeal of the policy.  “We don’t think there’s any merit to their argument,”
Edward L. White of the Washington-based American Center for  Law
and Justice , one of O’Brien’s lawyers, said in a telephone
interview from  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , today. “We hope to proceed
on the merits.”  The group will file opposition papers with the court, White
said.  ‘Pleasing Offering’  O’Brien employs 87 people at his businesses, which mine
clays and silicates, and manufacture products such as insulation
and the clay used for baseball infields, according to the
complaint and the corporate  website .  “Our mission is to make our labor a pleasing offering to
the Lord while enriching our families and society,” according
to the company’s site.  O’Brien “believes that he cannot pay for and provide
coverage for contraceptives, sterilization, abortion or related
education and counseling without violating his religious
beliefs,” his lawyers said in the complaint filed on March 15.  In seeking dismissal of O’Brien’s challenge, the U.S.
argues that its “preventive services coverage regulations”
don’t require any health plan “cover abortion as a preventive
service or that they cover abortion at all.”  They require group health plans cover all U.S. Food and
Drug Administration-approved “contraceptive methods,
sterilization procedures, and patient education and
counseling,” lawyers for the U.S. said.  The archdiocese lawsuits filed yesterday seek court orders
barring the mandate’s application to religious institutions or
overturning it altogether.  The case is O’Brien v. U.S.  Department of Health and Human
Services, 12-cv-476, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Missouri  (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  