-- Crude Falls on OECD Forecast Cut, Iran Inspection Accord
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-22T12:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/crude-falls-on-oecd-forecast-cut-iran-inspection-accord.html
Crude in  New York  slipped after the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development trimmed
economic growth forecasts in the euro area and Iran agreed to
let western nuclear inspectors into the country.  The OECD said Europe’s debt crisis risks spiraling and
seriously damaging the world economy, which would hamper demand
for fuels. Iran and the International Atomic Energy Agency
reached an agreement on nuclear inspections, which they will
sign in the next days in the Islamic republic, the IAEA’s
Secretary-General Yukiya Amano said today in Vienna.  “The macro environment has clearly worsened and we’d
expect energy prices to be broadly lower over the next month.”
said Guy Wolf, a macro strategist at Marex Spectron Group Ltd.,
a London-based broker. “ Europe  is the main factor that can
drive oil prices, and a euro-zone breakup would mean a short
sharp drop in economic activity.”  Oil for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
which expires today, was 22 cents lower at $92.35 a barrel in
electronic trading as of 1:31 p.m. London time. The more-
actively traded July contract fell 16 cents to $92.68. Front-
month futures climbed 1.2 percent yesterday and are down 6.6
percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement dropped as much as 71 cents
to $108.10 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange and was last at $108.98. The European benchmark
contract was at a $16.32 a barrel premium to West Texas
Intermediate crude, up from $15.95 yesterday.  Gross domestic product in the euro region will shrink 0.1
percent this year and expand 0.9 percent in 2013 instead of
posting growth of 0.2 percent and 1.4 percent as predicted last
November, the Paris-based OECD said today.  Structured Inspections  Oil prices  rose earlier this year as tightening sanctions
on Iran curtailed the country’s exports to Europe and raised the
threat of a possible interruption of oil tanker traffic in the
Persian Gulf.  The  United Nations ’ nuclear watchdog and the Gulf state
will sign a deal on “structured inspections,” the IAEA’s Amano
said on his return from talks in Iran.  The U.S., U.K., France,  China ,  Russia  and  Germany  will hold
talks tomorrow with Iran, the second-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, as Western
sanctions hamper Iran’s ability to export and get paid for
crude. The U.S. won’t support relaxing sanctions when
negotiators meet in Baghdad tomorrow, according to officials who
declined to be identified because of the issue’s sensitivity.  Optimism Creeping  “We’ve still got problems in the  Middle East ,”  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-
markets newsletter in Sydney, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “I can start to see a little level of optimism
creeping into the market, and that should support the price. We
are at the lower end, and I think we’re heading back through to
$100 a barrel” for New York crude, he said.  U.S. crude inventories probably rose  1.5 million barrels 
last week, a separate Bloomberg News survey showed before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. It will be the ninth week of
gains. Gasoline supplies may have climbed 500,000 barrels,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release separate stockpile data today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  