-- Cutting Ratings Reliance, CDS Probe, FDIC Suit: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-22T12:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/cutting-ratings-reliance-cds-probe-fdic-suit-compliance.html
Denmark, which holds the rotating
European Union presidency, said it won backing from member
states in the 27-member bloc to reduce the dominance of rating
companies in financial markets.  The new rules will mean ratings better reflect credit risks
and will cut reliance on ratings for both investors and as a
part of financial regulation, according to a statement on the
website of the Business Ministry in Copenhagen yesterday. The
agreement will also make it easier for investors and issuers to
demand compensation from ratings companies that have breached
the rules, the ministry said.  In Denmark, banks have started firing Moody’s Investors
Service, after winning assurances from some of the country’s
biggest investors that the opinions of ratings companies hold
limited value. Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage lender
and Europe’s largest issuer of covered bonds backed by home
loans, terminated its contract with Moody’s last month, citing
its “volatile” views.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  Chief Executive Officer
Eivind Kolding in an interview this month criticized Moody’s
view on systemic support, less than a year after the bank’s
mortgage arm fired the company.  The Danish EU presidency will now start talks with the
 European Parliament  on the matter, the ministry said.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Working With U.S. on Bank Crisis Plans, BoE’s Gracie Says  U.K. regulators are working on bank crisis plans with U.S.
counterparts, said Andrew Gracie, the director of the Bank of
England’s special resolution unit.  The plans, which may include enforced losses for
bondholders in the event of a banking crisis, “span many
markets jurisdictions and currencies,” Gracie said in an e-
mailed statement.  Mandatory losses for creditors of failing banks “may
provide a viable strategy for the resolution of complex
groups,” Gracie said.  The European Union is seeking to harmonize legal structures
for resolving crisis-hit banks across its 27 jurisdictions.
Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, has said that
he will publish plans at “the beginning of June” to empower
regulators to writedown unsecured senior creditors at failing
banks  The Financial Times reported on the Gracie comments May 20.  Compliance Action  Swaps Clearinghouses Said Set for Systemic Designation  A panel of U.S. regulators plans to designate some swaps
clearinghouses as systemically important as soon as today,
putting them under heightened supervision, according to two
people familiar with the officials’ work.  Clearinghouses  are required to process most swaps in the
$708 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market under
provisions of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. The designation will be
the  Financial Stability Oversight Council ’s first delineation of
which companies aside from banks would threaten the financial
system in the event of a failure. The panel is next scheduled to
meet today.  The panel of regulators, known as FSOC, also is in the
process of determining which non-bank financial companies are
systemic. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is the panel’s
chairman. U.S. bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion
or more are automatically deemed systemically important.  An administration official told reporters at a briefing
that at today’s meeting FSOC will discuss designation of
financial market utilities such as swaps clearinghouses, as well
as the JPMorgan Chase & Co. trading loss of $2 billion and the
proposed Volcker rule.  For more, click here.  Nasdaq CEO Blames Software for Delayed Facebook IPO Trading  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., under scrutiny after shares of
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  were plagued by delays and mishandled orders on
its first day of  trading , blamed “poor design” in the software
it uses for driving auctions in initial public offerings.  Computer systems used to establish the opening price were
overwhelmed by order cancellations and updates during the
“biggest IPO cross in the history of mankind,” Nasdaq Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld , 54, said May 20 in a
conference call with reporters. Nasdaq’s systems fell into a
“loop” that prevented the second-largest U.S. stock venue
operator from opening the  shares  on schedule following the $16
billion deal.  While the errors were resolved and Facebook completed its
offering, the day was another setback for equity exchanges
trying to erase the memory of the botched IPO in March by Bats
Global Markets Inc., another bourse owner. Nasdaq’s issues
contributed to disappointment among investors as Facebook’s
stock closed up 0.6 percent after rising 18 percent earlier.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it will
review the trading. Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Menlo Park,
 California-based Facebook , declined to comment.  Nasdaq will use an “accommodation pool” to pay back
investors that should have received executions in the opening
auction, based on the decisions of a third-party reviewer,
Greifeld said. It may total $13 million, he said.  For more, click here.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  said it will no longer accept
modifications to orders during the final stages of initial
public offering auctions, according to an e-mailed statement.  King’s Crisis Response to Face Scrutiny After U.K. Lawmaker Push  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King’s response to the
financial crisis will be scrutinized after lawmakers pushed for
an inquiry as the central bank prepares to take over financial
regulation.  The Court, the Bank of England’s governing body, ordered a
review of some central bank actions, including its conduct after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The investigation
will cover the Emergency Liquidity Assistance program in 2008
and 2009, the framework for providing liquidity to banks, and
the Monetary Policy Committee’s forecasting capability, the
Court in London said yesterday.  The move follows a push by a cross-party committee of
lawmakers for an examination of the central bank’s performance
as Parliament debates a bill to give it new powers. The panel’s
inquiry into accountability at the central bank included calls
for lawmakers to have veto power over the appointment or
dismissal of the governor. Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne, who will appoint King’s successor when he retires in
June 2013, rejected the recommendation.  For more, click here.  Credit-Default Swaps Antitrust Probe Into Markit Said to Widen  A U.S. Justice Department antitrust investigation into data
provider Markit Group Ltd. is expanding to include other
companies in the credit-default swap market, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  Investigators are asking market participants about firms
that are owned by Wall Street’s largest banks and whether that
presents conflicts of interest, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity. The Justice Department is also asking
about Tradeweb LLC and The Clearing Corp., which was bought by
Atlanta-based  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , or ICE, in 2009.  The Justice Department probe of potentially anticompetitive
practices at Markit began in 2009.  “We continue to cooperate and assist the Department of
Justice in its review of the credit derivatives and related
markets,” Alex Paidas, a spokesman for London-based Markit
Group, said in an e-mailed statement. Clayton McGratty, a
Tradeweb spokesman, declined to comment.  Lee Underwood , an ICE
spokesman, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Markit provides derivative and bond data to its customers.
Its owners include JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of America Corp. ,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The recent Justice Department questions focused on Markit’s
influence in providing services to the credit-swaps market,
according to two people interviewed by investigators.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
competes with Tradeweb, Markit and  Thomson Reuters  in providing
some services.  For more, click here.  Chipotle May Be Fined After SEC Worker Probe, Miller Tabak Says  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  may incur legal fees or fines
related to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission probe
regarding work authorizations, said Stephen Anderson, an analyst
at Miller Tabak & Co.  Chipotle last week received a subpoena “requesting that we
provide information regarding our compliance with employee work
authorization requirements, our related public statements and
other disclosures, and related information,” the Denver-based
company said in a May 18 SEC filing.  The SEC hasn’t informed Chipotle as to the focus of its
investigation, Chris Arnold, a company spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  While the immigration investigation began in Minnesota in
2010, it has since spread to stores in Virginia and Washington,
D.C. Last year, Chipotle said it was working with the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Washington, in addition to U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, to provide certain documents as part of
a review.  The 1,260-store burrito chain fired about 450 Minnesota
workers who couldn’t confirm the validity of their work
documents, according to a filing. The additional labor expenses
hurt 2011 profit by about 8 cents a share, Anderson said.  For more, click here.  Four Charged in De Beira Goldfields Stock-Manipulation Case  Four men face charges of manipulating  De Beira Goldfields
Inc. (DBGF) ’s stock price to make 38 million euros ($48.5 million) in
profits, German prosecutors said yesterday.  The men recommended the stock in publications 62 times
between May and June 2006 without disclosing that they also
owned it, Claudia Krauth, a spokeswoman for prosecutors in
Stuttgart said in an e-mailed statement. Within four weeks, the
price rose from 1.40 euros to 18.50 euros and the men sold their
stakes, she said. The suspects weren’t identified.  German prosecutors have been cracking down on fraud with
so-called penny stocks.  Krauth said the plot for pushing up the price of the De
Beira Goldfields stock came from a 32-year-old Austria-based
public relations manager and a 33-year-old Canadian accomplice;
they enlisted two other people to help them. Austria has so far
denied a request to extradite the public-relations manager,
Krauth said.  De Beira Goldfields changed its name to  Panex Resources
Inc. (D1Q)  in September 2010.  Courts  FDIC Sues on Mortgage-Backed Securities Sold to Failed Banks  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. sued a group of banks
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America 
Securities and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in two actions over mortgage-
backed securities.  The FDIC, acting as receiver for two failed banks, filed
the suits in  New York  federal court yesterday seeking $77
million the banks allegedly lost on securities backed by
residential mortgages.  The FDIC filed an $11 million claim as receiver for
Strategic Capital Bank, a Champaign, Illinois, commercial bank
that was closed by regulators in 2009. It filed a separate $66
million claim on behalf of Strategic Capital and Citizens
National Bank.  The defendants misled investors in the registration
statements for the securities, according to the FDIC.  The cases are Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. v. Bear
Stearns Asset Backed Securities I LLC, 12-cv-4000; Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. v. JPMorgan Securities LLC, 12-cv-4001,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Baker & McKenzie Lawyer Pleads Guilty in Client Theft  Martin Weisberg, a former partner at law firm Baker &
McKenzie LLP, pleaded guilty to stealing from a client’s account
and taking part in a $55 million securities fraud scheme.  Weisberg, 61, entered his plea to money laundering and
conspiracy charges yesterday in federal court in Brooklyn, New
York. He was indicted in 2008 on wire fraud and money laundering
charges for taking money from an escrow account established on
behalf of a corporate client.  Weisberg, who resigned from Baker in October 2007, was
accused of placing $30 million in an interest-bearing account
and wiring out about $1.3 million without the client’s
knowledge, according to U.S. prosecutors.  The theft-related charges were filed after Weisberg was
charged with conspiracy in 2007 over his role in a stock fraud.  The government said that Weisberg conspired with Xybernaut
Corp. and Ramp Corp. executives in a conspiracy involving short-
selling. Weisberg faces maximum sentences of 10 years on the
money-laundering count and five years on the conspiracy charge.  The case is U.S. v. Saltsman, 07-cr-641, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Rubicon Hedge Fund Sues Ex-Traders at ‘War’ to Control Firm  Rubicon Fund Management LLP said two former traders tried
to overthrow the hedge fund’s management after its founder was
badly injured in a horse-riding accident, according to a U.K.
lawsuit.  Rubicon is seeking as much as 105 million pounds ($166
million) from Timothy Attias and Santiago Alarco, who had been
interim co-chief investment officers before leaving to set up
their own company in 2011. Their conduct and subsequent
departure led investors to take more than $1 billion out of
Rubicon’s master fund, the company said.  Attias and Alarco temporarily took control of Rubicon’s
master fund after Rubicon founder and Chief Executive Officer
Paul Brewer fell from a horse in August 2009, the company’s
lawyer Paul Downes said yesterday on the first day of trial in
London. Attias was “incandescent with rage” when he realized
Brewer would return to work instead of selling his stake to the
pair, as they had discussed.  Attias and Alarco founded SATA Asset Management Ltd. and
SATA Partners LLP in 2011.  They are accused of soliciting Rubicon’s clients, leading
the fund’s largest investor to withdraw its money.  Attias and the other defendants are scheduled to begin
their defense on May 23. Alan Watts, a lawyer representing
Attias and Alarco, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
asking for comment.  The case is: Rubicon Fund Management LLP v. Timothy Levy
Attias, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, HC11C02751.  For more, click here.  Interviews  CFTC’s Chilton Discusses Delayed Facebook Nasdaq Trades  Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the U.S. Commodity  Futures
Trading (RTSIX)  Commission, talked about delays in Facebook Inc.’s first
day of trading and the impact of high-frequency transactions on
stock exchanges.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., under scrutiny after shares of
Facebook were hit by delays and mishandled orders on its first
day, blamed “poor design” in the software it uses for driving
auctions in initial public offerings. Chilton spoke with Cory
Johnson on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg West.”  For the video, click here.  Angelides Says Banks Don’t Belong in Risky Derivatives  Phil Angelides, former chairman of the  Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission , talked about JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2
billion trading loss and the outlook for further financial
regulation.  Angelides spoke with Trish Regan on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness.”  For the video, click here.  Gensler to Seek Comment on Guarantees for Derivative Swaps  The types of derivative swaps said to have led to a loss of
at least $2 billion at JPMorgan Chase & Co. may be the first for
which the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission would
require guarantees by clearinghouses under the Dodd-Frank Act,
according to the CFTC chairman.  The commission, the main U.S. derivatives regulator, would
seek comments this summer on the requirement for swaps of
 interest rates  and credit-default indexes, said its chairman,
 Gary Gensler , in testimony prepared for a Senate Banking
Committee hearing today, scheduled to oversee implementation of
the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial-regulation overhaul.  “Standard swaps between financial firms will move into
central clearing, which will significantly lower the risks of
the highly interconnected financial system,” Gensler said in
the testimony. Securities and Exchange Commission chairman Mary
Schapiro is also scheduled to testify at the hearing.  For more, click here.  Separately, in a speech in Washington, Gensler addressed
the topic of regulation in foreign jurisdictions.  Derivatives losses of at least $2 billion at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. show the need for extending Dodd-Frank Act swap
regulations to overseas trades, said Gary Gensler, chairman of
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “We’ve had another stark reminder of how trades overseas
can quickly reverberate with losses coming back to the United
States,” Gensler said yesterday in a speech at a Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority conference in Washington. “The
bank here in the U.S. is absorbing these losses” on trades
conducted at JPMorgan in London, he said.  JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other U.S. banks
have said Dodd-Frank rules designed to bolster oversight of the
derivatives market will hurt their ability to compete with
foreign-based rivals if the rules are applied to overseas
offices. The debate over the reach of Dodd-Frank overseas is
among the most controversial elements of the 2010 financial-
overhaul.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Jaczko Quits as NRC Chief Amid Allegations of Staff Bullying  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko
said he is resigning, as lawmakers, colleagues and an
independent watchdog criticize what they said is a bullying
style and mistreatment of female employees.  “I have decided this is the appropriate time to continue
my efforts to ensure public safety in a different forum,”
Jaczko said yesterday in a statement. “My responsibility and
commitment to safety will continue to be my paramount priority
after I leave the commission and until my successor is
confirmed.”  Jaczko, 41, whose term expires in June 2013, has been
faulted for his management by other commissioners and in a
report by the agency inspector general last year. President
Barack Obama intends to nominate a successor soon, Clark
Stevens, a White House spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 