-- CVC Sells 21% Stake in Formula One Racing to BlackRock
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-05-22T15:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/cvc-sells-21-stake-in-formula-one-racing-to-blackrock.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. said today
it agreed to sell 21 percent of Formula One to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
and two other investors for $1.6 billion as it prepares an
initial public offering of the auto racing series.  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. (WDR)  and Norges Bank Investment
Management are the other buyers, the private equity firm said.  CVC, based in London, is reducing its stake in the series
it took control of in 2006 as it moves ahead with plans to raise
as much as $3 billion in an IPO next month in  Singapore , the
racing series’ chief executive,  Bernie Ecclestone , said.  “It looks like it’s on track with no dramas,” Ecclestone
said in a phone interview from London. “It’s cheap compared to
Facebook,” he said, referring to the social networking site
that raised $16 billion in an IPO last week.  Ecclestone, 81, said he will travel to Singapore in the
week after the Monaco Grand Prix on May 27 to speak to investors
as part of a road show in the Asian city state.  CVC bought 63.4 percent of Formula One in 2005 and 2006
using $2.5 billion of loans. The private equity firm is cashing
in on its stake after leading racing teams Ferrari, Red Bull and
McLaren agreed to new terms through 2020, according to  Mark
Jenkins , a professor of business strategy at the U.K.’s
Cranfield University who has written a book about Formula One.  “It’s the optimal time to sell the business,” Jenkins
said by telephone.  Retaining a Stake  Ecclestone said CVC would retain a stake in the business
after the IPO, without saying how much. Other shareholders
include the administrators of bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., which holds 15.3 percent, and Ecclestone’s former wife
Slavica, who holds 8.5 percent through Bambino Holdings Ltd.
Ecclestone owns 5.3 percent.  Ecclestone, who says he doesn’t expect his role to change
as CVC sells equity, said he has championed the financial
stability of Formula One to investors at a meeting in  London  and
in phone conversations.  “It’s a proper business with proper contracts,”
Ecclestone said. The series has a contract backlog of more than
$7 billion with broadcasters and race promoters, according to an
April 18 report from  Standard & Poor’s .  Ecclestone is seeking to boost the 20-race championship’s
popularity in  China  and the U.S., he said.  Ratings on China’s CCTV network fell from 13 million at the
first Chinese Grand Prix in 2004 to 1.5 million for last year’s
race, according to Ma Guoli, the former managing director of
CTV’s sports channel who now works for Infront Sports & Media,
based in Zug, Switzerland.  A race in Austin,  Texas , scheduled for Nov. 18 would end
Formula One’s five-year absence from the U.S., where Nascar is
more popular.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  