-- TCW Beats 97% of Rivals Led by Gundlach With Housing: Mortgages
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-05-22T14:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/tcw-beats-97-of-rivals-led-by-gundlach-with-housing-mortgages.html
TCW Group Inc.’s wager on risky
mortgage bonds, which last year caused the  money manager  to
trail 87 percent of competitors, is paying off now as investors
in the securities shrug off Europe’s debt crisis amid signs U.S.
housing is stabilizing.  TCW’s $5.6 billion Total Return Bond Fund gained 5.2
percent through May 18, beating more than 97 percent of rivals,
Morningstar Inc. data show. The fund has 37 percent of its
holdings in home-loan debt that isn’t backed by the U.S.
government, including 11 percent in subprime-mortgage bonds, the
type of debt that contributed to the 2008 financial crisis.  The focus on less creditworthy borrowers this year helped
TCW outperform rivals including Pacific Investment Management
Co. and DoubleLine Capital LP. The $1.1 trillion market for so-
called non-agency mortgage debt rebounded as housing starts
climbed,  foreclosures  slowed and home-price declines eased,
signaling a six-year property slump is bottoming. While TCW
isn’t banking on a housing recovery, investors are too
pessimistic on mortgage defaults and recoveries, said Bryan Whalen, its co-head of mortgage bonds.  “You don’t have to be bullish on housing to be bullish on
non-agency mortgages,” said Whalen, who’s based in  Los Angeles 
and manages the fund with TCW’s  Tad Rivelle , chief investment
officer for fixed income. “Of all the credit assets out there,
this one still has the worst outlook embedded in its pricing,
which gives us a lot of cushion.”  Reversal From 2011  Returns on subprime mortgage bonds issued in 2005 through
2007, the years with the worst loans, have averaged 11.2 percent
this year through May 18, compared with 1.4 percent for
government backed home-loan securities, according to Barclays
Plc index data.  That’s a reversal from the final 10 months of 2011 when
subprime debt lost 8.4 percent as investors fled risky assets
after  Standard & Poor’s  in August stripped the U.S. of its top
credit grade and  Europe ’s fiscal crisis intensified. Agency
securities gained 5.9 percent during the period.  Non-agency debt, which encompasses subprime, Alt-A, a type
of home loan that typically didn’t require as much documentation
such as proof of income, and prime mortgages, climbed about 8
percent this year, Whalen estimated.  Gains have narrowed as Spanish 10-year bond yields exceeded
6.2 percent last week, approaching levels that prompted bailouts
for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal. The rate fell 19 basis points
today to 6.09 percent.  Regulatory Scrutiny  The potential for increased regulatory scrutiny after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said this month it lost $2 billion by
trading in indexes tied to credit-default swaps has also
“weighed on investors,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch
strategists led by  Chris Flanagan  wrote in a May 18 report.  “The non-agency market has until this week held in despite
the sell-off in the broader markets,” the strategists wrote.
“However, we believe this relative strong performance instead
makes the sector more vulnerable to selling as investors lock in
gains and move up in quality.”  While TCW has opted to add subprime mortgages, the $25
billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund has focused its non-
agency mortgage-backed debt purchases in prime debt. Run by
former TCW fixed-income head  Jeffrey Gundlach , the fund had 33
percent of its money in non-agency mortgages as of April 30,
with 50 percent of that in prime, 42 percent in Alt-A and 7.3
percent in subprime, according to DoubleLine’s website.  ‘Did the Opposite’  The fund has risen 4.1 percent this year, ahead of 90
percent of peers, after beating 98 percent of rivals in 2011.
 Pimco Total Return (PTTRX)  Fund, managed by  Bill Gross , gained 4.78
percent through May 18, better than 96 percent of rivals,
Morningstar data show.  “Most investors loaded up on credit last year and
underweighted  government bonds ,” Gundlach said in a March
interview with Bloomberg. “We did the opposite.”  Non-agency debt holdings in the TCW  Total Return Bond Fund (TGLMX) 
include 37 percent in Alt-A, 30 percent in subprime and 21
percent in prime mortgages, data from its website shows. The
firm manages $131 billion.  Current prices for Alt-A debt imply that 50 percent of the
mortgages will ultimately default and investors will recoup 35
percent of their money, Whalen said. TCW’s analysis of the
market suggests the default rate will be closer to 40 percent
and recovery rates more like 45 percent.  Non-agency can do well if the economy grows at a moderate 2
percent to 2.5 percent pace and the housing market doesn’t
improve, said Whalen. The U.S. will expand 2.3 percent this
year, compared with 1.7 percent in 2011, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  ‘Rose-Colored Glasses’  “We don’t have rose-colored glasses when it comes to
housing,” he said.  Home prices  could show “no material
recovery” for a few years because at any sign of improvement,
sellers will jump into the market and push prices back down, he
said.  Economists including Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s  Chris Rupkey , Bank of America Corp.’s Michelle Meyer and Mark Fleming
of CoreLogic Inc. are predicting home prices are close to a
trough after an S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities fell 3.5 percent in February, the smallest 12-month drop
since February 2011. The index has declined 35 percent since
peaking in 2006.  Sales of  existing  U.S. homes rose in April for the first
time in three months, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . Purchases of previously
owned houses, tabulated when a contract closes, increased 3.4
percent to a 4.62 million annual rate. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a rise to a
4.61 million rate.  Gundlach Avoids  Gundlach has said he avoids most subprime, in part, because
the mortgages are poor credits and are less likely to be
refinanced. The prime and Alt-A mortgages in the portfolio,
purchased at deep discounts to par, may produce a windfall if
there is a wave of refinancing, he said.  The “bounce back phase in junky assets,” including
mortgages, may be over, he said.  The U.S. housing market will “bumble along,” and bond
markets will mark time, he said. In speeches and conference
calls, Gundlach has emphasized the U.S. debt burden and
questioned the strength of the recovery. “Surprises are likely
to be on the negative side,” he said in an April interview with
Bloomberg.  That attitude shapes his investment decisions. “We are
staying on the safer side when it comes to credit,” he said.
“If the market explodes we will be more protected.”  Attracting Deposits  Gundlach created the flagship  DoubleLine Total Return Bond
Fund (DBLTX)  in April 2010, four months after he was ousted as chief
investment officer at TCW. It attracted $6.4 billion in investor
deposits in the first quarter of this year, more than any other
U.S. mutual fund. The Los Angeles-based firm has $34 billion of
assets.  Since the fund was created it’s returned 33 percent through
May 18, compared with 19 percent for TCW Total Return.  Rivelle, previously chief investment officer for
Metropolitan West Asset Management, took over Gundlach’s old
fund in December 2009 when TCW bought the money manager.  While TCW’s Whalen said non-agency mortgage debt could
return as much as 15 percent for 2012 if Europe’s fiscal
challenges are addressed and global stock markets move higher,
gains will be more modest if the economy weakens or the U.S.
fails to deal with its budget problems.  “Non-agency can’t get too far ahead of the rest of the
credit market,” he said.  One plus for the securities is that the supply of bonds is
shrinking as loans are refinanced, go into default or are paid
off.  “The mortgages are harder to find and that supports
prices,” said Paul Jablansky, who heads structured products at
 Pasadena , California-based Western Asset Management Co., the
bond unit of Legg Mason Inc. The non-agency market has shrunk to
less than $1.1 trillion, from the 2007 peak of $2.3 trillion,
according to data compiled by the  Federal Reserve .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  