-- Czech Premier Faces Growing Unions Protests on Austerity
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-05-22T13:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/czech-premier-faces-growing-unions-protests-on-austerity.html
Czech trade unions agreed to expand
protest rallies in front of ministries and warned of a possible
nationwide strike as Premier Petr Necas faces growing public
discontent against austerity plans that have pushed borrowing
costs to record lows.  The unions will hold demonstrations in front of five
ministries and kept open the possibility of calling a nationwide
strike in the second half of the year, Jaroslav Zavadil, the
head of the umbrella trade union organization, told reporters in
 Prague  today.  “So far, we decided about not holding the strike in the
first half of the year,” Zavadil said. “That doesn’t mean that
it won’t take place after the holidays, in September or
October.”  Governments in  Europe  are falling in a wave of anger over
austerity prompted by the debt crisis in the euro region.
Earlier this month French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  was ousted
and a parliamentary vote in  Greece  ended in a gridlock. Necas is
pushing for  spending  cuts even as the Czech economic recession
deepened in the first quarter of 2012.  Protest March  Union leaders led a march today of about 4,000 people
through Prague, blocking the streets in front of the government
building, Czech Television reported, citing police estimates.
The action followed an April 21 rally of as many as 90,000
people, which the trade unions called the largest public protest
since the fall of communism in 1989.  While the economy has contracted in three consecutive
quarters, Necas’s Cabinet plans to push through 57 billion
koruna ($2.9 billion) worth of budget measures, including a
second increase in the  sales tax  in as many years. The Cabinet
wants to narrow the deficit to 2.9 percent of economic output in
2013 from the targeted 3 percent this year.  The yield on the Czech Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell to an
all-time low 3.162 percent May 15, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield was 3.168 percent today.  Public discontent over austerity measures has worsened amid
allegations of corruption in top-level politics. Some 89 percent
of Czechs don’t perceive the government as fighting graft,
according to a poll by the Stem company, taken among 1,084
people from April 18 to April 29.  In  Transparency International ’s Corruption Index measuring
the perceptions of the degree of corruption as seen by business
people and country analysts, the  Czech Republic  ranked 57th in
2011, tied with  Saudi Arabia  and  Namibia . The Czech index was
4.4 points, according to Transparency International, worse than
the 3.9 points in a 2001 survey.  Vit Barta, a senior member of the former ruling-coalition
party, Public Affairs, was convicted of bribery on April 13.
Barta, who owned a detective and security company before he was
elected to parliament, rejected the charges and appealed the
verdict.  More Cases  Pavel Bem, a former deputy chairman of Necas’s Civic
Democrats and former mayor of Prague, suspended his membership
in the party after the newspaper Mlada Fronta Dnes published
transcripts of phone calls he had with a businessman in which
they discussed the management of city property. Bem said he
didn’t do anything illegal.  In the most recent case, police last week arrested David Rath, the former head of the central Czech administrative region
and a member of parliament for the largest opposition party, the
Social Democrats, accusing him of corruption linked to the use
of public funds.  Rath, a frequent critic of Necas’s Cabinet, rejected the
charges and said his arrest was politically motivated, the
newswire CTK reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  