-- D’Antoni Tells SI He Decided to Leave Knicks on Way to Practice
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/d-antoni-tells-si-he-decided-to-leave-knicks-on-way-to-practice.html
Mike D’Antoni  decided to resign as
coach of the  New York Knicks  as he drove to practice two months
ago, without having discussed the matter with his wife or
brother, who was an assistant on the Knicks’ coaching staff.  “I was in my car driving to shootaround and it just came
to me,” D’Antoni said in an interview with  Sports Illustrated .
“‘That’s it. It’s inevitable. I have to resign. We’re not going
anywhere.’ I made the decision then and there.”  D’Antoni, 61, stepped away from the Knicks on March 14 amid
locker-room bickering and a six-game losing streak that had left
the Knicks with an 18-24 record. He was in the final season of
his four-year, $24 million contract with New York.  D’Antoni’s brother, Dan, said he heard about the
resignation from Knicks General Manager Glen Grunwald and was
fired shortly afterward because he was too close to Mike.  As coach of the  Phoenix Suns  for five seasons, Mike
D’Antoni was known for a high-powered offense that asked players
to get off a shot within seven seconds of gaining possession.
The Suns led the  National Basketball Association  in scoring
three straight seasons beginning in 2004-05 and reached the
Western Conference finals in 2005 and 2007.  D’Antoni’s offensive philosophy didn’t take root with the
Knicks. He told SI.com he wouldn’t get into specifics about
whether he had issues with Carmelo Anthony or any other players
regarding style of play.  “Look, I’ve coached players who post up,” D’Antoni said.
“We used to post up Boris Diaw a lot in Phoenix. There are
always things that can be done by mixing it up. Now, was it the
best situation for my coaching philosophy? No. But there’s never
one answer for why things don’t work out.”  D’Antoni’s Future  D’Antoni, who also coached the  Denver Nuggets , has a 388-
339 record in 10 NBA seasons. While he declined to comment on
specific jobs, D’Antoni said he hopes to return to coaching in
the NBA.  “I’m not making a secret about that, I want to get back,”
D’Antoni told SI. “But nothing is going on now, and the smart
money says that I will hang out here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  