-- Default Swaps in U.S. Fall Before EU Leaders Meet to Stem Crisis
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-22T17:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/default-swaps-in-u-s-fall-before-eu-leaders-meet-to-stem-crisis.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk fell
for the second day amid optimism European leaders will step up
efforts to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis and as
home sales in the U.S. increased more than estimates.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, dropped 2.8 basis points to a mid-price of
115.1 basis points at 12:50 p.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index fell 5.5 basis points
yesterday from a five-month high of 123.4 basis points.  The gauge is declining as German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday European leaders will do “everything
necessary” to prevent  Greece ’s exit from the region’s single
currency. European leaders are scheduled to meet in Brussels
tomorrow to discuss measures for growth in  Europe  and ways to
stem the crisis. Sales of existing U.S. homes increased to a
4.62 million annual rate in April, the highest in three months.  “The Europeans have been on board with having Greece as
part of the  euro zone  and there is no reason for them to change
their line,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at
Susquehanna International Group LLP in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “We are in a period of volatility where
one headline is moving the market in one direction and another
headline is moving it the other way.”  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  