-- Dell Falls Most Since 2000 After Missing Estimates on PCs
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-05-23T20:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/dell-profit-forecast-miss-estimates-on-slumping-pc-sales.html
Dell Inc. tumbled the most in more
than a decade after the company forecast fiscal second-quarter
revenue that missed analysts’ estimates.  Dell  slumped  17 percent to $12.49 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest one-day decline since November 2000. The stock,
which is down 15 percent this year, was the worst  performer  in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Revenue for the period ending in July will be $14.7 billion
to $15 billion,  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell said in a statement
yesterday, compared with the average $15.4 billion analyst
estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  The forecast, paired with a first-quarter sales and
earnings miss, pointed to problems endemic to Dell, Steve Felice, Dell’s president, said in a conference call. The sales
team focused on individual products instead of packages of
hardware and software, he said. A reorganization is underway
aimed at lining up staff that can sell a complement of Dell
products, instead of specializing in individual ones.  “In my own interactions with larger customers, we are
seeing a delay and pause in spending activity,” Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Dell  said during the call yesterday with
analysts. PC sales will remain sluggish because businesses won’t
move immediately to Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8 operating system
when it’s introduced later this year. “Corporations are still
adopting Windows 7.”  Demand for Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad and other mobile
devices are eating into Dell’s notebook sales. The world’s
third-largest personal computer maker lost share in the global
PC market in the first three months of the year, according to
market researcher Gartner Inc.  ‘Double-Edged Sword’  Fiscal first-quarter net income was $635 million, or 36
cents a share, compared with $945 million, or 49 cents, a year
earlier. Sales fell 4 percent to $14.4 billion, compared with an
average $14.9 billion estimate. Profit excluding some items was
43 cents a share, while the average projection was 46 cents.  Gross margin , or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting costs of production, was 21.3 percent in the first
quarter, compared with a 22 percent estimate. A year earlier,
gross margin was 22.9 percent.  “They’re focused on profitability,” said Shaw Wu, an
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  San Francisco . “That’s a
double-edged sword. Sure it can help your margins somewhat, but
you’re also shrinking your installed base.”  While Dell didn’t change its earnings-per-share forecast
for the year, Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden told
analysts on the call there’s “clearly pressure on the total
year outlook.”  Waiting for Windows  Global PC shipments in the first quarter increased about
1.9 percent, according to Gartner. Hewlett-Packard Co. remained
the market leader, accounting for 17.2 percent of worldwide PC
shipments, Gartner said. Lenovo Group Ltd., Dell, Acer Inc. and
Asustek Computer Inc. rounded out the top five. Apple ranked
third in the U.S., behind Hewlett-Packard and Dell.  Shipments of business PCs slumped in April and consumers
are holding off on buying machines until Microsoft releases its
Windows 8 operating system, expected in the last quarter of this
year, Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty said in a May 17
research note.  To diversify beyond PCs, Dell is selling more of its own
data-storage and networking gear, instead of relying on products
made by companies such as EMC Corp.  Dell and rival Hewlett-Packard are also counting on sales
of thin, lightweight laptops called ultrabooks to spur  revenue. (DELL) 
Dell’s newest ultrabook, called the  XPS 13 , sells for $999 on
the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  