-- Democrats Push for Chemical-Law Overhaul Opposed by Industry
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-22T19:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/democrats-push-for-chemical-law-overhaul-opposed-by-industry.html
Three Democratic U.S. senators said
they are seeking support from Republicans in a push for to
overhaul regulations of toxic chemicals amid complaints from
industry about the legislative proposals.  The Democrats’  measure  would require safety testing of all
industrial chemicals and force chemical makers to show that new
compounds are safe. Under current law, the Environmental
Protection Agency can only call for safety testing after
evidence is presented showing that a chemical is dangerous.  “What we need to do is get more support,” Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat, said today at a Washington
news conference with a group of mothers and children backing the
measure, which is co-sponsored by 16 other Democrats and no
Republicans. “We have the beginnings of a great issue.”  Under the  Toxic Substances Control Act , the EPA requires
companies to provide analyses of certain chemicals they make or
use. Lautenberg, chairman of the  toxics  panel of the Senate
 Environment and  Public Works Committee, said rules in place
since 1976 need updating.  Dozens of mothers and children headed to congressional
offices today where they were scheduled to meet with lawmakers
and staff members. They said they were carrying 125,000
signatures in support of the Lautenberg measure.  Advocates for the bill formed in response to an
 investigation  by the  Chicago Tribune  this month about health
dangers from flame retardants in products such as couches,
mattresses and pillows.  The American Chemistry Council, a Washington-based group
for companies such as  Ashland Inc. (ASH) , Dow Corning Corp. and Shell
Chemical LP,  opposes  Lautenberg’s bill, said Scott Jensen, a
spokesman. The bill imposes an unworkable safety standard and
mandate the disclosure of confidential business information,
according to the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  