-- Detroit Board Didn’t Violate Meetings Law, Court Rules
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-22T15:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/detroit-board-didn-t-violate-meetings-law-court-rules.html
The  Detroit  financial review board
isn’t required to hold open meetings under Michigan law, an
appeals court ruled in a case growing out of the city’s budget
crisis.  The board was appointed by Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  in
December to determine whether Detroit needed an emergency
manager. After a union official sued, Judge William Collette of
Ingham County Circuit Court found the board violated the state’s
Open Meetings Act and barred it from holding closed sessions.
The appeals court reversed that decision today.  “A financial review team -- and therefore the Detroit
Financial Review Team -- is not a public body, because it is not
a ‘governing body’ as the Open Meetings Act uses that term,” a
three-judge panel of the  Michigan Court of Appeals  ruled.  The appeals court rejected the claims brought by  Robert
Davis , an official with a union that represents city employees,
who sued Snyder, the treasurer and the review team, saying the
group is required by state law to hold meetings open to the
public.  Detroit officials last month agreed to a state plan to
reduce the city’s $265 million deficit by empowering an
oversight board to review spending cuts and efforts to force
concessions from municipal unions.  Similar Claim  The appeals court also rejected a similar claim against a
review team appointed to study the city of Flint, north of
Detroit, and a separate suit brought by another union official
over the Detroit panel.  The court’s ruling “supports the Department of Treasury’s
long-standing position that Financial Review Teams are not
public bodies and are not subject to the Open Meetings Act,”
 Terry Stanton , a spokesman for the Treasury Department, said in
an e-mail today.  The decision is “a radical change to the Open Meetings
law,” Andrew Paterson, Davis’s attorney, said in an interview.
“It will muck up the law for the next 40 years.” Paterson said
he was still reviewing the ruling and hadn’t determined whether
to appeal.  Review Team  Michigan’s Emergency Financial Manager Act, which became
effective in March 2011, allows the state treasurer to review
the financial problems of a municipality under certain
conditions. The governor appoints a review team if the state
treasurer finds probable financial stress.  If the panel declares a financial emergency, the governor
may appoint a manager with sweeping powers to fire people, sell
assets, void union contracts and assume authority over city
officials.  Michigan  Treasurer Andy Dillon made a finding of “probable
financial stress” for Detroit Dec. 21 and six days later Snyder
appointed the review team for the city.  The case is Davis v. City of Detroit Financial Review Team,
309218, Michigan Court of Appeals (Lansing).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  