-- Devils Beat Rangers 4-1 to Tie NHL Eastern Conference Series 2-2
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-05-22T04:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/devils-defeat-rangers-4-1-tie-nhl-eastern-conference-series-2-2.html
The  New Jersey  Devils defeated the
New York Rangers 4-1 to tie the  National Hockey League ’s Eastern
Conference finals at two games apiece as goalie  Martin Brodeur 
got his 109th playoff win, withstood a third-period punch and
even collected an assist.  Bryce Salvador and  Travis Zajac  scored for the Devils in a
four-minute span midway through the first period last night at
the Prudential Center in  Newark , New Jersey. Zach Parise then
added a pair of goals in the third period, one on a power play
and the latter into an empty net with one minute, 29 seconds
remaining. Brodeur got an assist on the final goal.  The 40-year-old Brodeur, who led the Devils to  Stanley Cup 
titles in 1995, 2000 and 2003, saw his bid for a record-
extending 25th career playoff shutout end with 5:05 left when
Ruslan Fedotenko scored the Rangers’ lone goal. Brodeur also
took a jab in the chest during the third period from former
Devils winger Mike Rupp, who had 14 of the Rangers’ 34 penalty
minutes over the final 20 minutes.  “We were able to get to them somehow and that’s how they
took some penalties in the third and took themselves out of the
game,” Brodeur, who had 28 saves, said in a televised interview.
“We have to try to keep doing the same thing.”  Game 5 in the best-of-seven series is scheduled for
tomorrow at New York’s Madison Square Garden.  “It’s a three-game series now and this team has been here
before,” Rangers coach  John Tortorella  said at a news
conference. “When you get in these situations -- and we’ve been
training all playoff season -- they always find a way to find a
good game. So I’m truly confident we’ll answer it the proper
way.”  Remaining Schedule  The teams will return to Newark on May 25 for Game 6 and a
decisive seventh game, if necessary, would be May 27 at Madison
Square Garden.  The winner of the series will play the  Los Angeles Kings  or
the  Phoenix Coyotes  for the Stanley Cup. The Kings lead the
Western Conference finals 3-1, with Game 5 tonight in Phoenix.  The Devils, after being shut out 3-0 in Game 3, jumped out
to a quick lead last night as Salvador beat Rangers goaltender
 Henrik Lundqvist  at 8:10 of the first period and Zajac followed
3:49 later with his sixth goal of the playoffs.  “The first one was a big one,” Devils coach Peter DeBoer
said. “It kind of lifted a weight off us and I thought we
played a little bit looser and freer from then on.”  Parise extended the lead with a power-play goal 2:41 into
the third period, a score that came four seconds after the
Rangers’ Derek Stepan was sent off for a high-sticking penalty.
It was the first of  New York ’s nine penalties in the period.  Rangers’ Streak Ends  When Parise added an empty-net goal, it marked the first
time this postseason that the Rangers have allowed more than
three goals. They’d tied an NHL record by holding opponents to
three goals or fewer in the first 17 games of the postseason.  There were 48 penalty minutes handed out after the incident
in which Rupp took a shot at Brodeur and then got into a scuffle
with the Devils’ Peter Harrold. Tensions also escalated off the
ice, where DeBoer and Tortorella shouted at each other from the
end of their benches. Both coaches declined to discuss the
incident after the game.  “It was a struggle for a number of our guys, but we have
to move by it,” Tortorella said. “We have to have a short-term
memory. We go back home, we regroup and we play another game.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  