-- Dewey, Cooley, Proskauer, Davis Polk: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-22T16:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/dewey-cooley-proskauer-davis-polk-morrison-business-of-law.html
As public expectation that Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP will file for bankruptcy as soon as this week
increases, four firms made announcements about eight partner
hires from the failing firm.  The firm has had more than 234 partners of about 300 jump
to other firms since the start of the year. At least 533 non-
union workers at its Manhattan building were laid off last week.  The firm no longer lists its lawyers on its website and a
spokesman didn’t return a request for departure confirmations or
the status of its lawyers. Below are yesterday’s firm
announcements.  Antitrust Partners Schildkraut and Grise Join Cooley  Former Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP antitrust partners Marc G. Schildkraut and Jacqueline I. Grise have joined Cooley LLP’s
national antitrust and trade regulation practice in the
 Washington  office.  Schildkraut, a former assistant director of the Federal
Trade Commission’s Bureau of Competition, has handled the
antitrust clearance aspects of high profile mergers such as
Chevron-Texaco, Exxon-Mobil, PepsiCo-Quaker and Boeing-McDonnell
Douglas, the firm said in a statement.  Grise’s practice focuses on the defense of corporate
clients in connection with domestic and international mergers
and acquisition work, as well as antitrust counseling and other
non-merger matters. She represents clients before the FTC, the
 Justice Department  and other foreign antitrust enforcement
agencies. Grise was involved in the antitrust clearances
obtained in the Novartis AG-Alcon, Sony Music-BMG, Whirlpool-
Maytag, Hewlett-Packard-EDS and InBev NV-Anheuser-Busch merger
transactions, the firm said.  Cooley has 650 attorneys in nine U.S. offices as well as an
office in  Shanghai .  Executive Compensation Partner Joins Morrison & Foerster  Morrison & Foerster LLP announced that Domnick Bozzetti, an
executive compensation and employee benefits partner, has joined
the tax department in the firm’s  New York  office. Bozzetti was
previously a partner in the compensation, benefits and
employment department of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.  Bozzetti will advise the firm’s clients on the federal tax
aspects of executive compensation and employee benefits issues
in mergers and acquisitions. He also has experience counseling
public companies on other executive compensation issues,
including disclosure issues in annual proxy statements and other
filings.  Bozzetti’s representations have included Energy East Corp.
in its $8.1 billion merger with Iberdola SA and Lincoln National
in its $7.4 billion merger with Jefferson-Pilot, the firm said
in a statement.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers at 15
offices in the U.S.,  Asia  and  Europe .  Proskauer Adds Dewey Partners in New York, Washington, London  Proskauer Rose announced that Ralph C. Ferrara, a
securities and corporate governance litigator who was vice
chairman of Dewey & LeBoeuf, has joined the firm, along with a
team of three litigation partners.  Ann M. Ashton and Jonathan E. Richman, former co-heads of
the securities, mergers and acquisitions and corporate
governance litigation practice group, will be joining, as will
Tanya J. Dmitronow. Ashton and Ferrara will be in the firm’s
Washington office while Richman and Dmitronow will be in New
York.  Ferrara’s clients have included Royal Dutch/Shell, Global
Crossing, Zurich Financial Services and New York Life Insurance,
the firm said in a statement. Ferrara is a former general
counsel of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The American Lawyer reports that  London  restructuring
partners Mark Fennessy and Hazel Miller are joining Proskauer.  Proskauer has lawyers in offices in the U.S., Europe, Asia
and  South America .  Energy Partner and Counsel Join King & Spalding from Dewey  King & Spalding has recruited energy partner James F. Bowe Jr. and another lawyer to its Washington office, the firm said
yesterday.  Bowe’s practice spans energy, regulatory, transactional and
finance matters, including extensive experience before the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. He counsels energy project
developers and natural gas pipeline and storage operators as
well as oil and natural gas pipeline shippers and investors in
energy projects.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the  Middle East  and Asia.  Deals  Eaton to Buy Cooper for $11.8 Billion to Expand Power Unit  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  agreed to buy  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE) , a maker of
electric-distribution equipment, in an $11.8 billion transaction
to expand its power-management business and tap more into a U.S.
housing recovery.  A team of New York lawyers from Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP
is advising both Citibank NA and Morgan Stanley as joint
financial advisers to Eaton. The Davis Polk corporate team
advising Citibank includes New York partners Leonard Kreynin and
Michael Mollerus providing tax advice. The Davis Polk corporate
team advising Morgan Stanley includes New York partners Phillip R. Mills and Neil Barr providing tax advice.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP represented Eaton in the
transaction. New York corporate partners Casey Cogut, Mario Ponce and Marni Lerner led the team.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz’s team on behalf of Cooper
was led by New York corporate partner Daniel A. Neff. The team
includes New York corporate partner Gregory E. Ostling,
antitrust partner Nelson O. Fitts, restructuring and finance
partner Eric M. Rosof, tax partners Jodi J. Schwartz and Adam J.
Shapiro, all in New York.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is advising Goldman
Sachs, financial adviser to Cooper. The Cleary Gottlieb team
includes partners Ethan Klingsberg and Simon Jay. Klingsberg is
based in New York and Jay is based in London.  Eaton’s purchase is the largest in at least a decade in
miscellaneous manufacturing, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. It is paying about 14 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, exceeding the median of
about 8 times in more than 100 similar takeovers since 2002.  For more, click here.  DaVita Agrees to Pay $4.42 Billion for HealthCare Partners  DaVita Inc. (DVA) , whose biggest shareholder is billionaire
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , agreed to pay about
$4.42 billion in cash and stock to acquire HealthCare Partners,
continuing an international spending spree on providers of
medical care.  Morrison & Forrester LLP served as lead counsel on the
transaction for Davita, while Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton
LLP worked as regulatory counsel. JP Morgan Securities LLC
served as financial adviser. Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP and
Nossaman LLP served as legal advisers to HealthCare Partners.  Leading the team for Morrison & Forester was New York
corporate partner Spencer Klein, who is co-head of the firm’s
global mergers and acquisition practice. On corporate and
securities matters, partners David Lynn in Washington, Michael O’Bryan in  San Francisco , Chip Lion in Palo Alto, Hendrik
Jordaan in Denver and Jeff Bell in New York assisted. Tax
matters were handled by Denver partner David Strong and New York
partner Steve Feldman. Compensation and benefits matters were
handled by Mike Frank in Palo Alto and Paul Borden in San
Francisco. San Francisco partner Eric Tate and Palo Alto partner
Christine Lyon worked on employment matters. Intellectual
property matters were handled by New York partner John Delaney.  Sheppard Mullin partners included Century City,  California ,
health-care/corporate partners Jeryl Bowers, Eric Klein and Ken Yood.  Munger Tolles lawyers included Los Angeles corporate
partners Robert E. Denham and Mark H. Kim and corporate and tax
partner Stephen D. Rose.  Nossaman team was comprised of Los Angeles corporate lawyer
Bob Mosher,  Irvine  litigation partner George Joseph and Los
Angeles litigation partner Henry Weinstock.  DaVita, a U.S. provider of kidney dialysis services, will
pay about $3.66 billion in cash, plus 9.38 million shares of its
stock, which had a value of $758 million as of May 18, for
closely held HealthCare Partners, the companies said yesterday
in a statement.  DaVita, based in Denver, has purchased companies in the
U.S.,  Germany  and  India  to meet rising demand for dialysis
services as the number of people with diabetes increases.
HealthCare Partners of Torrance, California, manages medical
groups and physician networks, providing services to more than
667,000 patients through a team of 700 physicians employed by
the company or its affiliates. The company, whose key operations
are in southern California, central Florida and southern Nevada,
had revenue last year of about $2.4 billion.  The transaction probably will close early in the fourth
quarter and the combined entity will be known as DaVita
HealthCare Partners Inc., the companies said. The cash portion
of the purchase price will be funded through available cash,
credit and debt financing, they said. Once merged with DaVita,
HealthCare Partners will operate as a separate subsidiary of the
new company.  For more, click here.  Trials  Gupta ‘Threw Away His Duties,’ Prosecutor Says in Opening  Gary Naftalis  lived up to his reputation as an affable and
chatty defense attorney even before jury selection began
yesterday in the criminal trial of his client Rajat Gupta.  As Naftalis and the prosecutors waited for U.S. District
Judge Jed S. Rakoff to take the bench, Naftalis turned to the 15
or so reporters in the gallery and flashed an eight-by-ten
glossy.  It was a photo of his newborn grandson, and Naftalis, 70,
beamed.  “Exhibit one,” he joked.  That was just the first quip in what may be a stream of
them inside courtroom 14B in Manhattan federal court.  Rakoff took the bench and initiated a discussion of
preliminary matters such as opening statements and trial
logistics. When the prosecutor rose to speak, Rakoff immediately
cut him off.  “You look so much taller than Napoleon,” he told
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , the subject of two glowing
media profiles this weekend. Both stories mentioned the
sobriquet that Brodsky earned in the Rajaratnam trial, when
deliberating jurors bestowed the nickname upon him.  Gupta, who was a director at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
“threw away his duties” when he tipped hedge-fund co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam to news that the bank would get a $5 billion
investment, Brodsky told jurors at the start of the insider-
trading trial.  Brodsky told jurors that Gupta broke the law when,
immediately after a Goldman Sachs board meeting concluded on
Sept. 23, 2008, he told Rajaratnam that Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. would invest in the firm. Rajaratnam,
Gupta’s friend and co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, traded on
the tip, Brodsky said.  Gupta, who ran consulting firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to
2003 and also sat on the  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  board, is charged
with conspiracy and securities fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  News Corp. Hacking Lawyer Wants Jury in Police Defamation Case  Mark Lewis, the British lawyer who was instrumental in
putting  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s phone-hacking scandal in the public eye,
asked a judge for a jury trial of his related defamation lawsuit
against London police.  Judge Michael Tugendhat, who will oversee a five-day trial
in London in July, said he would rule later on Lewis’s request
and ordered the media not to report what was said at a hearing
on the matter yesterday. The Metropolitan Police Service is
opposed to a jury and wants a judge to issue a verdict.  The case relates to Lewis’s testimony to lawmakers probing
phone-hacking in 2009, in which he claimed a detective had told
him privately that phone hacking by News Corp.’s News of the
World tabloid was far more widespread than police had revealed
at the time. Lewis, who has represented celebrity victims of
phone hacking, sued over claims the police wrongfully implied he
was a liar by contradicting his testimony.  Lewis has said the case underscores the extent to which
police sought to portray the hacking scandal as being contained
even though they had evidence showing otherwise. While the
police opened a new investigation into phone hacking in January
2011, probes in 2006 and 2009 failed to reveal the extent of the
illegal practice.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  shuttered the News of
the World in July, after revelations that the scandal was more
widespread than previously known. Police, who have arrested
about 50 people in three parallel probes, said in April there
were 1,174 “likely” victims, and about 4,800 potential
victims.  For more, click here.  News  Ex-Baker & McKenzie Lawyer Pleads Guilty in Client Theft  Martin Weisberg, a former partner at law firm Baker &
McKenzie LLP, pleaded guilty to stealing from a client’s account
and taking part in a $55 million securities fraud scheme.  Weisberg, 61, entered his plea to money laundering and
conspiracy charges yesterday in federal court in Brooklyn, New
York. He was indicted in 2008 on wire fraud and money laundering
charges for taking money from an escrow account established on
behalf of a corporate client.  Weisberg, who resigned from Baker in October 2007, was
accused of placing $30 million in an interest-bearing account
and wiring out about $1.3 million without the client’s
knowledge, according to U.S. prosecutors. He concealed the theft
by telling the unidentified client that the bank holding the
account didn’t produce monthly statements, while sending letters
to the client with false balances, the U.S. said.  The theft-related charges were filed after Weisberg was
charged with conspiracy in 2007 over his role in a stock fraud.  Weisberg faces maximum sentences of 10 years on the money-
laundering count and five years on the conspiracy charge.
Weisberg, who earned his law degree from Northwestern University
Law School in  Chicago , also may have to forfeit proceeds and
lose his law license, according to prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Saltsman, 07-cr-641, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  