-- Diamond-Seller Choksi Takes on World With Bollywood: Commodities
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-05-22T16:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/diamond-seller-choksi-takes-on-world-with-bollywood-commodities.html
Mehul Choksi sees his jewelry
business one day joining  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and
Cartier among the biggest names in luxury goods.  Choksi is chairman and managing director of  Gitanjali Gems
Ltd. (GITG) , India’s biggest diamond and gold-jewelry retailer by
sales. He has accumulated 70 brands and more than 4,000 retail
outlets worldwide as rising incomes in  China  and India, the two
fastest-growing major economies, spur consumer demand.  “The largest luxury player will emerge to be in India and
China in five to 10 years’ time, and certainly we will attempt
to be one,” Choksi, 53, said in an interview at his
headquarters in Mumbai’s Bandra-Kurla Complex, where he has an
open-air fashion show ramp to display the company’s collections.  Tiffany & Co., (TIF)  the biggest U.S. luxury jewelry retailer,
Graff Diamonds Ltd. and Hong Kong-based  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery
Group Ltd. (1929)  are among those seeking to boost sales in  Asia . China
and India represent about 55 percent of global demand for gold
jewelry, the World Gold Council estimates. Diamonds will beat
gold as an investment, said Choksi, who owns both as well as
real estate in the U.S., Dubai and India.  The number of billionaires rose to 351 in Asia last year
from 245 in 2010, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. That
compares with 251 in  Europe  and 332 in  North America . China will
topple India as the biggest gold consumer in 2012, the London-
based WGC predicts. The nation of 1.34 billion people may
surpass the U.S. as the biggest diamond market by 2015, the
Antwerp World Diamond Center said in February.  Luxury Goods  Millionaires in China may represent about 50 percent of the
total across 10 major Asian economies by 2015, according to a
study by CLSA Asia Pacific Markets, a brokerage and investment
group. Sales of  luxury goods  in China will reach about 180
billion  yuan  ($28.5 billion) in 2015, more than double the
amount in 2010, McKinsey & Co. estimates.  Gitanjali Gems is endorsed by almost 25 Bollywood actors
including Shah Rukh Khan and Kareena Kapoor and their pictures
and television commercials promote the latest in wedding rings
and necklaces. The company makes about 50 percent of its sales
in India and the rest in the U.S., China,  Hong Kong ,  Japan ,
Europe and the  Middle East , Choksi said.  The company name means “an offering of songs” in Sanskrit
and combines the names of Choksi’s sisters, Gita and Anjali.
Gitanjali owns the  Nakshatra , Gili and  D’Damas  brands in  India ,
Samuels Jewelers and Rogers Jewelers in the U.S. and the  Aston
Luxury Group , which has the Stefan Hafner and Giantti brands.  Lost Stones  Gitanjali was founded in 1966 by Choksi’s grandfather in
the western city of Surat, India’s diamond-cutting and polishing
hub. Choksi would hunt for mislaid gems on the floor of his
family’s house as a child, getting rewarded with a few rupees by
his merchant father. He joined the company straight from school
at 17 as a polisher.  “Jewelry is like alcohol,” said Choksi, who likes to
unwind at weekends on his yacht, which is docked in front of the
Taj Mahal Palace hotel in south  Mumbai . “In good times it works
because it’s a celebration. In bad times it works because it’s a
hedge against inflation; it’s a hedge against bad times.”  Slowing economic expansion in China and India may curb
jewelry demand. China’s growth, hurt by a property-market slump
and weaker exports, declined to 8.1 percent in the first
quarter, the slowest pace in almost three years. The Indian
economy probably grew 6.9 percent in the year through March 31,
the least since 2009, according to government estimates.  Non-Branded Jewelry  Gold-demand growth in China may stagnate as declining
prices deter investors, Xin Zhihong, vice president of Lao Feng
Xiang Co., the mainland’s biggest gold-jewelry maker, said in an
interview this month. Bullion dropped 18 percent since reaching
a record $1,921.15 an ounce in September to $1,582.05 today.  Consumption in India was curbed when jewelers shut their
shops for three weeks after the government doubled the tax on
imports of gold bars and coins to 4 percent on March 16 and
imposed a 1 percent excise duty on non-branded jewelry. While
the excise duty was later removed, the stoppage cost the
industry about 200 billion rupees ($3.6 billion) in revenue,
according to the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation.  Worldwide luxury-sales growth may slow this year before
accelerating in 2013 as Europe’s debt crisis hurts demand and
China’s economy cools, Bain & Co., a Boston-based adviser to
companies on everything from marketing to mergers, said in a
report May 7.  Van Cleef & Arpels  Spending on luxury apparel, accessories, watches, jewelry,
perfume and other personal items may climb by 6 percent to 7
percent to as much as 203 billion euros ($260 billion), compared
with growth of 13 percent in 2011, Bain estimates. Sales will
expand 7 percent to 8 percent in 2013 and 8 percent to 10
percent in 2014, the consultant said.  Gitanjali’s  sales  of $2.52 billion in the 12 months to
December are less than Tiffany’s $3.64 billion in the year to
January and compare with LVMH’S 23.7 billion euros, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The jewelry unit of Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, which includes Cartier and Van Cleef & Arpels, had
sales of 4.59 billion euros in the year to March 31. Gitanjali
announced yesterday a 33 percent increase in revenue to 125
billion rupees in the year to March 31.  The Indian jeweler’s market value of $511 million compares
with Tiffany’s $7.7 billion and LVMH’s 62.3 billion euros,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Choksi owns 49.7
percent, or 45.29 million  shares . The value of his stake is now
about 14.1 billion rupees after the shares declined 23 percent
from their highest close in four years on Feb. 22. The chairman
raised his holding by almost 25 percent since March 2010, most
recently adding 100,000 shares on May 11, Bloomberg data show.  Rising Sales  Gitanjali’s sales increased more than fivefold in the past
six years since its listing in Mumbai in 2006. Choksi says he is
seeking “some very top-end brands” and more stores in China
and India. Shares of the  company  gained 3 percent in Mumbai this
year as Tiffany dropped 7.7 percent in  New York  and Chow Tai
Fook fell 27 percent in Hong Kong.  Graff Diamonds, the London jewelry retailer planning a $1
billion Hong Kong initial public offering, will open five new
stores in Asia this year. Chow Tai Fook said in March it expects
sales of gold rings and bracelets to rise as it opens more than
500 stores in the next four years in  Greater China . Tiffany is
also seeking to expand its stores, Chief Executive Officer
Michael Kowalski said on a conference call in April.  Choksi’s bullish stance on diamonds contrasts with the
producers of the gems.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and London-based Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s biggest and third-largest mining
companies, said this year they are seeking to sell their assets.  Diamond Demand  Diamonds are more attractive for investors because they
don’t take up much space and demand is outstripping supply,
Choksi said. Prices of top-quality gems climbed 22 percent in
2011, the biggest advance since at least 2006, according to the
Rapaport Diamond Trade Index. The index calculates the average
price for the top 25 best-quality 1-carat diamonds. A carat is
equal to a fifth of a gram. Gold rose 10 percent last year.  Global demand for diamonds will increase by an average of
6.4 percent a year to almost 247 million carats by 2020, while
output may rise an annual 2.8 percent to 175 million carats,
Bain said in a report in December.  OAO Alrosa, the world’s largest diamond mining company by
output, increased first-quarter sales by 26 percent to $1.2
billion as demand in India, China and the U.S. expanded, the
Russian state-owned miner said April 9.  De Beers , the supplier
of about a third of the world’s unpolished diamonds, reported a
27 percent increase in sales last year.  Choksi introduced the country to branded jewelry in 1994 by
establishing its first jewelry brand, Gili, and has since
increased his tally to 70 brands worldwide.  “If you sit on a fast horse, you win the race,” said
Martin Rapaport, the chairman of Rapaport Group, which operates
the diamond pricing service. “As long as consumer demand
continues to flourish in India and the government doesn’t create
problems, Choksi will sit on a fast horse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  