-- Dimon Adds Talent to New York Fed Board, Allstate’s Wilson Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-22T18:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/dimon-adds-talent-to-new-york-fed-board-allstate-s-wilson-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  adds insight to the Federal Reserve Bank of
 New York  board, said Tom Wilson, the Allstate Corp. CEO who
previously was a director at the Chicago district bank.  “Jamie Dimon is a talented executive who knows a
tremendous amount about financial services,” Wilson said today
in a phone interview after the annual meeting of Allstate, the
largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto insurer. “If it met
his objectives and the objectives of the New York Fed board,
then they should continue the relationship.”  Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat running for  U.S. Senate  from
Massachusetts, has called for Dimon’s removal from the New York
Fed board after he disclosed a $2 billion trading loss by his
bank on May 10. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said
having bankers on the board of the New York Fed creates a
“perception” problem.  There are 12 regional reserve banks that oversee financial
institutions in their districts and whose presidents serve on
the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee . The New York
Fed chief has a permanent role on the panel, and other district
bank presidents vote on a rotating basis. Wilson said the
Chicago Fed benefited from the perspective of bankers.  “It creates a better dialogue and decision-making
process,” Wilson said. “I found that the input and insight of
the bankers were helpful to our dialogue as a Fed board, in
terms of what we voted on.”  Trading Loss  Dimon is one of three bankers sitting on the board of the
New York Fed, as required by the Federal Reserve Act of 1913.
The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act ended the practice of banker directors
having a vote in electing regional presidents, a move that New
York Fed President William C. Dudley said in a September
interview that he supported.  Dimon announced his bank’s trading loss two months after
New York-based JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. lender by assets,
passed a Fed stress test that put its loans and securities
through a scenario of economic turmoil.  Wilson stepped down from the Chicago Fed last year as a
result of Northbrook, Illinois-based  Allstate (ALL)  owning a thrift
holding company at the time. His departure was to avoid issues
that might arise as the regulator assumed responsibility for
such thrifts, according to the Chicago Fed’s website. Wilson was
one the Chicago Fed’s three so-called Class C directors,
selected by the board to represent the public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  