-- DTCC Plans Study on Faster Settlement for U.S. Securities
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-22T18:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/dtcc-plans-study-on-faster-settlement-for-u-s-securities-1-.html
The Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
is commissioning a study on whether the U.S. securities industry
should cut the time it takes to process transactions, a shift
that may reduce risk and compel brokers and asset managers to
spend more on further updating their systems.  The New York-based company that handles and guarantees
trades in U.S. stocks, corporate bonds and municipal securities
hired the Boston Consulting Group Inc. to assess the costs and
benefits of settling trades in fewer than three days, the
current standard, Elena Staloff, a vice president at  DTCC , said
in a phone interview. A shorter cycle would mean firms could
post less capital to the clearing fund run by DTCC subsidiary
 National Securities Clearing Corp.  to cover a defaulting
broker’s obligations and pay less to meet the organization’s
liquidity needs to handle a problem, she said.  A 2000 industry  report  about completing transactions in a
day said the one-time cost of moving to a so-called T+1
settlement would be $8 billion for the securities industry and
could be implemented within four years. The savings would be
$2.7 billion annually, the study found. More trading-related
processes have been automated since then and it’s unclear
whether the costs now would be higher or lower, Staloff said.  ‘Independent Read’  “I’m hoping we get an independent read on where the
industry is now in terms of its readiness to shorten the
settlement cycle,” Staloff said. DTCC is working with the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association to
evaluate the case for a shorter cycle. “Shortening the
settlement cycle should help our member firms with their capital
and liquidity needs but we don’t know what the costs would be.”  The 2000 industry plan was put on hold as market conditions
deteriorated after the 2001 terrorist attacks. Instead, the
focus turned to automating post-trading systems and processes.  “We want to revisit the building blocks or obstacles
identified in the 2000 study that may need to be tackled in
order to evaluate how cost effective and efficient it may be to
shorten the settlement cycle,”  Tom Price , head of operations,
technology and business continuity planning at Sifma, said in a
phone interview. He said no decision has been made about whether
to preserve the current  T+3 environment  or move to a two-day or
one-day cycle, or “T+2 as a first step toward T+1.”  Exploring the Issues  While compressing the timeframe may reduce the risk that
DTCC and member firms face in the event of a broker’s default,
the change could increase the number of failed trades or
transactions that aren’t completed on time, boosting risk, Price
said. Sifma wants to explore these issues and help determine
what the impact would be of an abbreviated cycle, he said.  This issue has surfaced in part because of European  plans 
to harmonize the settlement cycles across most countries in the
region to T+2 and efforts by regulators to bolster the “basic
plumbing of the industry,” Price said.  “It would force changes in borrowing and lending, the
financing of securities and loans and it would force the process
to squeeze out more human interaction and have that happen by
default by computers,” James Leman, a managing director at New
York-based management and technology consulting firm  Westwater
Corp. , said in a phone interview. “T+2 is probably one step the
industry could find a way to cope with. For T+1, someone would
really have to define what the benefit is and what problem is
being eliminated.”  Back-Office Costs  Portfolio trading groups, or those who buy and sell baskets
of securities for customers, have long complained they don’t
have enough time to process transactions, said Leman, who  helped 
develop the FIX messaging protocol in the 1990s that enables
securities firms and other participants to communicate
electronically. Asset managers also need time to manage their
so-called allocations, or instructions about the accounts to
which trades should be delivered, he said.  “The costs to shorten the cycle will fall on back offices
at brokers and asset managers,” or units that deal with
confirming and processing transactions after they occur,  Paul
Rowady , a senior analyst at research firm Tabb Group LLC in New
York, said in a phone interview. “The worst case is if you’re
an active asset management shop and you don’t have sufficiently
automated and detailed processes. Manual intervention is what
ultimately slows this down.”  Clearing firms that are starting to accept more types of
securities as collateral to support the processing of over-the-
counter derivatives will benefit from a shorter settlement
cycle, Rowady said. Brokers can’t use securities that haven’t
cleared and settled as collateral, limiting the ability of those
products “to move around fluidly” to support new requirements
from regulations prompted by the financial crisis, he said.  ‘Like a Flywheel’  “It’s like a flywheel that’s speeding up,” Rowady said.
“If the settlement process doesn’t speed up, it will act as a
weak link in the process.”  The evaluation of a shorter settlement timeframe comes as
the securities industry prepares to build an audit trail for all
orders and transactions. The Securities and Exchange Commission
said the so-called consolidated audit trail, which would improve
surveillance and help regulators analyze market plunges, may
cost $4 billion to build and $2.1 billion a year to maintain.  Settlement  refers to the transfer of cash from the buyer to
the seller and securities from the seller to the buyer. Clearing
encompasses the netting of trades and novation, or the
replacement of contractual obligations by the clearinghouse
which then becomes the buyer to the seller and the seller to the
buyer, eliminating the risk each party faces in the event of a
default by the other.  Process Changes  The study DTCC is commissioning will identify the processes
that would have to change to speed up settlement to the trade
date itself, DTCC said in a  statement  today. DTCC must also
examine how a shorter cycle would affect foreign buyers or
sellers of U.S. securities, Staloff said.  NSCC’s average daily clearing fund requirements would
decline 15 percent to $3.42 billion if the settlement cycle
shrinks to two days after trades occur and 25 percent to $2.99
billion for T+1, a December  report  from DTCC estimated, based on
data from Oct. 19, 2010, to Aug. 31, 2011. In periods of higher
volatility when clearing fund requirements increase, a T+1
timeframe would reduce that amount 37 percent to $4.62 billion,
the report showed.  $1.7 Quadrillion  DTCC subsidiaries settled nearly $1.7 quadrillion in
securities transactions last year, the company said. NSCC
cleared trades with an average daily value of $450 billion last
year, with participants’ exposure at $900 billion a day since
there are two parties to each transaction. NSCC has proposed to
guarantee sales and purchases soon after they’re made instead of
at midnight at the end of the first day following the
transaction, Staloff said.  That plan, which needs regulatory approval, will reduce the
risks parties face in the event of a broker default, she said.
It’s likely to be implemented this year, she said.  The Boston Consulting Group study, which will include
interviews with brokers, banks, asset managers, custodians,
retail securities firms and other participants, will be
completed in September, Staloff said. Sifma’s operations and
technology steering committee will help decide whether the
industry should decrease the timeframe for settlement, or leave
it at the current deadline of three days after the trade occurs.  “The process will be transparent and open,” Price said.
“We want to have an eyes-wide-open approach, have an open mind
and not come to this with a preconceived notion about what the
outcome should be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 