-- Heart-Failure Patients’ Cells May Be Used for Repair
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-05-22T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/heart-failure-patients-cells-may-be-used-for-repair.html
Israeli scientists for the first time
succeeded in transforming the skin cells of heart-failure
patients into healthy  heart-muscle  cells, suggesting that it may
be possible to repair the organ with a person’s own tissue.  The cells from two men with the disease, once genetically
reprogrammed, were able to blend in with healthy heart tissue in
rats, scientists from the  Technion-Israel Institute of
Technology  and Rambam Medical Center in Haifa, wrote today in
the  European Heart Journal , a publication of the European
Society of Cardiology. Testing the cells in human hearts may be
as long as a decade away, as scientists hone the technique in
animal studies, they said.  The finding points to a novel potential source of stem
cells, the building blocks of life which can grow into any type
of tissue in the body. Using skin cells from the patient would
avoid the difficulty of obtaining  stem cells  from embryos and
may limit the risk that the patient’s immune system would reject
the transplant, which can occur with cells taken from healthy
people and given to the sick, the researchers said.  “We have shown that it’s possible to take skin cells from
an elderly patient with advanced heart failure and end up with
his own beating cells in a laboratory dish that are healthy and
young, the equivalent to the stage of his heart cells when he
was just born,” said Lior Gepstein, a professor of medicine and
physiology who led the research, in a statement.  Weak Hearts  Heart failure is a weakening of the heart muscle that can
cause fatigue and ultimately death. About 5.8 million people in
the U.S. have the condition, according to the  National
Institutes of Health . More people are surviving heart attacks
and, as a result, the number of people living with a damaged
heart is increasing, said Nicholas Mills, an intermediate
clinical research fellow at the  British Heart Foundation  and a
cardiologist at the  University of Edinburgh .  “Unfortunately, the body has only very limited capacity to
repair the heart following a heart attack,” Mills said in a
statement. “There is therefore an urgent need to develop
effective and safe treatments to regenerate the heart.”  The study published today was funded by the Israel Science
Foundation, the European Research Council, the Nancy and Stephen
Grand philanthropic fund, and the J&J-Technion research grant.  More research is needed to determine whether the cells can
be produced in enough quantity for effective treatment and to
develop transplantation strategies that reduce the risk of the
body rejecting the cells, the scientists said. Refining the
procedure will probably require funding from the pharmaceutical
and biotechnology industries, said Gepstein, whose team is
conducting additional experiments in animals.  “I assume it will take at least five to 10 years to
clinical trials if one can overcome these problems,” Gepstein
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  