-- Eastern Australia Needs Rain to Boost Wheat Production
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-22T04:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/eastern-australia-needs-rain-to-boost-plantings-graincorp-says.html
Eastern parts of  Australia , the
world’s second-biggest wheat exporter, need more rain to spur
plantings and boost the production outlook, according to
 GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) , the region’s largest handler.  “We’re well advanced on planting on the east coast but
definitely still looking for rain in most parts,” Chief
Executive Officer Alison Watkins said on a conference call
today. “Everyone’s looking for those planting rains.”  Most of eastern New South Wales, the second-biggest grower,
may get 15 millimeters (0.6 inches) to 50 millimeters of  rain  in
the eight days to May 29, with some areas set to receive as much
as 100 millimeters, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.
Showers may help Australia meet its official forecast of 25.7
million metric tons this season, increasing global supplies.  “Some good planting rains happening over the next few
weeks, we hope, should augur for another good crop out of
Australia,” Watkins said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
The company may ship 10 million tons of grain in the year to
Sept. 30 with stockpiles totaling 4.5 million tons, she said.  “Planting progress has slowed, yet it remains far too
early in the season to become materially concerned,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , wrote in a note on May 18.  The wheat harvest is set to drop 13 percent from a year
earlier to 25.7 million tons as the area declines, the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and
Sciences said March 6. Output was a record 29.5 million tons
last season, it said.  In  Western Australia , below-average rainfall in April and a
forecast for further dry conditions may curb crop planting in
the nation’s biggest wheat and canola grower, CBH Group, the
state’s largest grain handler, said May 14. No rain is forecast
for Western Australia’s main grain-growing region in the eight
days to May 29, according to the weather bureau.  Australia is the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter
after the U.S., according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  