-- Miami Heat Would Be NBA Finals Underdog Against Spurs or Thunder
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-23T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/heat-would-be-underdogs-in-nba-finals-against-spurs-or-thunder.html
Even if  LeBron James  and  Dwyane Wade 
carry Miami to the National Basketball Association Finals, the
Heat probably would be underdogs against the  San Antonio  Spurs
or Oklahoma City Thunder,  Las Vegas  oddsmakers said.  The Heat, who entered the postseason favored to win the NBA
title, lead the  Indiana  Pacers three games to two in the best-
of-seven Eastern Conference semifinals after a 115-83 win last
night in Miami.  Miami, which is missing starting power forward Chris Bosh
because of an abdominal strain, still has to get past Indiana
and then the Boston Celtics or Philadelphia 76ers in the
conference finals to earn a matchup against the team that wins
the West. The Spurs have won 18 straight games dating back to
the regular season. The Thunder are 8-1 in the playoffs and
coming off a five-game series win against  Kobe Bryant  and the
 Los Angeles Lakers .  “That Western Conference final is going to pit the two
best teams against each other,” Las Vegas Sports Consultants
oddsmaker Andrew Patterson said in a telephone interview. “I
just don’t think the Heat are playing their best basketball
right now and you can’t say that for the Spurs and Thunder.”  Patterson said LVSC, which helps Nevada’s sports books set
betting lines, still has the Heat as the slight favorite to win
the title because they have an “easier road” to the final.
Miami last season reached the championship round out of the East
before losing to the Dallas Mavericks.  At the MGM Mirage in Las Vegas, the Spurs are even-money
favorites to win the NBA Finals while the Heat are now the
second choice at 7-5, meaning a winning $10 bet on Miami would
return $14 on top of the initial wager. Jeff Stoneback, the
sports book manager at the  MGM Mirage (MGM) , said there are currently
more questions about Miami than San Antonio.  Questions About Heat  “You have the Chris Bosh injury, Wade had a terrible Game
3 and had his knee injury, so you have that lingering, and
LeBron James hasn’t had the most success in his past playoff
history even though he had a breakout game (in Game 4 against
the Pacers),” Stoneback said. “Let’s see if he can continue
that.”  As for the West final, LVSC lists the Spurs as a -175 money
line favorite, meaning a bettor would have to risk $175 to win
$100. San Antonio has homecourt advantage and could host four of
the possible seven games against the Thunder, who are +150
underdogs, meaning a winning $100 bet would return $150.  The West finals begin May 27 in San Antonio, where  Tim Duncan , Tony Parker and the Spurs are 32-5 this season,
including the playoffs.  Bosh’s Return  “If the Thunder win as an underdog, their power rating is
going to be right up there with the Spurs and they will have
homecourt advantage over the Heat,” Patterson said. “The Heat
have to do something spectacular besides getting  Chris Bosh  back
to move towards being a favorite in the finals.”  Jeff Sherman , assistant manager at the Las Vegas Hotel and
Casino’s Super Book, said the odds could change depending on
when Bosh returns and how the teams look leading up to the NBA
Finals. If Miami is able to return to the finals for a second
straight year, Sherman currently has the Heat as underdogs
against San Antonio or Oklahoma City.  “The way the two teams out West are playing, especially
with San Antonio riding an 18-game winning streak, they are
deserved favorites,” Sherman said. “And if Oklahoma City
derails the red-hot Spurs, people would look to support them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  