-- EDF to Decide on Whether to Extend U.K. Reactors’ Lives by 2013
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-05-22T10:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/edf-to-decide-on-whether-to-extend-u-k-reactors-lives-by-2013.html
Electricite de France SA ,  Europe ’s
largest nuclear-reactor operator, will decide whether to extend
the lives of its U.K. Hunterston B and Hinkley B plants by 2013
as the government plans to boost clean-energy power generation.  The decision will hinge on the commercial viability of the
plants and successful reviews by Britain’s nuclear watchdog, a
spokeswoman at EDF said today in response to queries.  “Extending the lives of our nuclear power stations makes
absolute sense in terms of filling a short-term energy need
while the country rightly continues toward aggressive
decarbonization targets,” EDF said in an e-mailed statement.
“Life extension helps with the very short-term risk but doesn’t
change the need or urgency of the new nuclear program.”  The U.K. today proposed an electricity-market overhaul to
increase investment in low-carbon power generation, including
nuclear power. The draft law includes price guarantees first
outlined last July that are designed to shield producers from
swings in market prices and spur investors to build capacity.  All of the country’s nuclear reactors are due to close by
2035, leaving it short of more than 10,000 megawatts of base-
load generation. EDF said this year it may extend the lives of
its 14 advanced gas-cooled reactors as much as seven years on
average and the life of Sizewell B plant by 20 years.  The U.K.’s Office for Nuclear Regulation completes 10-year
safety reviews of all of the U.K.’s nuclear installation in the
country. If plants are considered safe, they can continue
operating as long as the owner deems them commercially viable.  EDF owns  eight  out of nine of the U.K.’s operating nuclear
plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  