-- Medtronic Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on New Stent Demand
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-22T20:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/medtronic-s-profit-rises-on-strong-demand-for-drug-coated-stent.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s biggest
maker of heart-rhythm devices, reported fourth-quarter profit
that beat analyst estimates and said 2013 earnings will be as
much as $3.70 a share.  Profit excluding one-time items in the three months ended
April 27 beat by 1 cent the 98 cent  average of 24 analyst
estimate s  compiled by Bloomberg. Profit for this year will be
$3.62 to $3.70 a share, the Minneapolis-based company said in a
statement today. Analysts had estimated $3.66 for the year.  U.S. revenue from the cardiovascular business rose 24
percent after February’s introduction of the company’s Resolute
Integrity drug-eluting stent, Medtronic said. The doubling of
the U.S. market for the devices bolstered the results, wrote
Michael Matson, an analyst with Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in
 New York , in a note to investors.  “All in, organic sales growth was 3.3 percent in the
quarter, a meaningful improvement from 1.1 percent growth during
the first nine months of the year,” said  Michael Weinstein , a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in New York. “Earnings quality was
light, however, as operating income actually missed Street
consensus by $52 million.”  Tax Benefit  A lower-than-expected  tax rate  and stabilizing demand for
heart-rhythm devices like defibrillators also helped the
quarter’s results, Matson said.  Fourth-quarter  net income  increased 28 percent to $991
million, or 94 cents a share, from $776 million, or 72 cents, a
year earlier, the company said in the statement. Revenue rose
3.1 percent to $4.3 billion as cardiovascular sales gained 9
percent to $958 million.  The company is emerging from a rough patch as sales become
steady in markets that struggled since the recession, Chief
Executive Officer Omar Ishrak said. The success of the Resolute
stent and RestoreSensor, a spinal cord stimulator, show the
company is benefiting from its innovation, while demand in
 emerging markets  bodes well for growth, he said.  “Some of the markets have been under pressure are showing
clear signs of stabilization,” including defibrillators and
spinal products, Ishrak said in a telephone interview.  The company is developing less-expensive products for
emerging markets, and they will make their way to the U.S. and
 Europe  as hospitals look to lower costs, said Chief Financial
Officer Gary Ellis. Medtronic is also talking with health
insurer  Aetna Inc. (AET)  about programs that will highlight the value
of devices for heart failure and diabetes, he said.  Medtronic  fell  2 percent to $36.96 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 12 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  