-- Putin Adviser Sechin Renews Dealmaker Role Beyond Kremlin
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-05-23T14:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/medvedev-names-sechin-energy-chief-under-putin-to-head-rosneft.html
Vladimir Putin ’s energy czar  Igor Sechin , who laid the groundwork for $500 billion in potential
investments with Western oil companies, is set to push ahead
with the plans even after changing jobs under a new government.  Sechin, 51, was named yesterday to head OAO Rosneft,
Russia’s largest oil producer and a gateway for international
companies from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  to  Statoil
ASA (STL)  of Norway that seek to invest in virgin Russian oil fields.  Foreign executives were watching where Sechin would land
after Putin returned to the presidency this month. While this
week’s shake-up by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  replaced
Sechin as deputy premier in charge of energy with  Arkady Dvorkovich , and named Alexander Novak as energy minister,
neither will challenge Sechin’s stature as Putin’s architect for
new oil investments, according to Cliff Kupchan, a Russia
analyst at Eurasia Group.  “Sechin will likely remain the kingmaker in the energy
sector,” Kupchan said by telephone from  Washington . No one else
“has Putin’s confidence, and the knowledge and political heft
to play the role that Putin wants played.”  Putin and Sechin have made breakthroughs designing tax
policies for the industry and attracting investment, according
to Vlad Konovalov, head of the Petroleum Advisory Forum, a
Moscow-based lobby for foreign  oil companies .  Pioneering Deals  “Initially I had the sense that opportunities for
foreigners would become more narrow over time,” Konovalov said.
“In the past year or two he has swung around, pioneered a bunch
of deals, and this whole resource nationalism paradigm has
become more nuanced.”  Rosneft shares fell 2.7 percent to 193.06 rubles the close
Moscow, erasing yesterday’s gains. The 30-stock Micex Index
dropped 3.4 percent to its lowest since July 2010.  Sechin has been Putin’s front man for energy since his
first stint in the Kremlin, when the state reasserted control
over the industry, building state-run Rosneft into the country’s
largest oil producer using the carcass of bankrupt Yukos Oil Co.  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the jailed former chief executive
officer of Yukos, accused senior state officials of
orchestrating the demise of his company. The government has
denied the charge.  Winning Investors  The cross-border alliances Rosneft signed this year with
Exxon, Eni and Statoil to explore  Russia ’s Arctic and Black Seas
were overseen by Sechin. They include plans to tap
unconventional oil resources that will be critical to Russia
maintaining record crude output and geopolitical clout.  The three foreign oil majors together may invest $7.7
billion in initial exploration of their offshore ventures with
Rosneft, their Russian partner has said. Those deals came after
Putin on April 12 proposed legislation to cut initial tax
payments for offshore developments to win investors. The Russian
shelf may attract $500 billion over 30 years, Putin said.  Medvedev bolstered the optimism of potential partners in
Rosneft with the appointment of Sechin.  “A raft of breakthrough projects with foreign investments
have appeared in the past few years, especially recently,”
Medvedev said, according to a transcript of his meeting with
Sechin on the government  website . “I am sure the projects will
rapidly progress.”  ‘Battle for Supremacy’  Sechin has worked with Putin since the 1990s, when the now
president was deputy mayor of  St. Petersburg , and has stood out
bringing investment pitches to Putin in recent years to help
reestablish Russia’s crude output growth. He was one of Putin’s
few key deputies who didn’t move to the Kremlin after the
Russian leader’s inauguration on May 7 after four years as prime
minister.  The appointment of Dvorkovich, who had been Medvedev’s
economic adviser, “could set up an interesting battle for
supremacy for the last word in energy policy making if Sechin
retains real power with the backing of the Kremlin,” Lilit
Gevorgyan, Russia and CIS analyst at IHS Global Insight, said in
a note. Dvorkovich and Sechin had sparred over the state’s
planned asset sales and its role in the  energy industry .  Eduard Khudainatov, who had been head of Rosneft, was
appointed first vice president, the oil producer said today.  Medvedev forced Sechin to step down as Rosneft’s board
chairman in 2011, after seven years, ordering a sweep of
government officials from the boards of state companies in
industries they help oversee.  Sechin will continue to play a role in Russia’s new policy
making, Putin spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  said yesterday.  “If anybody had any doubts about Sechin’s control over
Rosneft this puts it to rest,”  Ronald Smith , a Moscow-based oil
and gas analyst at Citigroup Inc., said by e-mail. “He’s right
back where he’s been for a long time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  