-- Egypt Starts Vote as Investors Doubt Crisis Over: Arab Cr
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a ,   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-05-23T05:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/egypt-starts-vote-as-investors-doubt-crisis-over-arab-credit.html
Egypt  starts presidential elections
today with its debt-risk premium almost double the level when
 Hosni Mubarak  was ousted, evidence that investors doubt the vote
alone can pull the country out of an economic slump.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Egyptian debt over
U.S. Treasuries rose 94 basis points this quarter to 583 on May
21, outpacing a 57 basis-point gain in the Middle East spread,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show. The rate was 299 on Feb. 10,
2011, the day before Mubarak’s three-decade rule came to an end.  Investors may avoid Egyptian assets until the nation
secures a $3.2 billion loan it’s seeking from the  International
Monetary Fund  to shore up public finances and the new
president’s powers are clearly defined said analysts, including
Michael Cirami of  Eaton Vance Corp. (EV)  With opinion polls showing
none of the 13 candidates commanding a clear lead, results may
not be known before June 21, following a second round of voting.  “There is a lot that we need to see happening to put Egypt
on a positive course,” Richard Fox, London-based head of Middle
East and Africa sovereign ratings at Fitch Ratings Ltd., said by
phone on May 21. “The hope is that there will be an IMF
agreement that will be a catalyst for more external support.”  Foreign investors dumped Egyptian assets last year amid
political upheaval in the country of 80 million, leaving local
banks to bear the burden of helping the government finance its
 budget deficit .  ‘Downside Risk’  The government forecasts the budget gap will exceed 9
percent of gross domestic product for a second fiscal year,
making it the highest in the  Middle East , according to IMF
forecasts.  The country’s foreign-currency debt spread over U.S.
Treasuries is near a four-month high and is 127 basis points
above the  Middle East average spread  of 456 on May 21.  “A spread of almost 600 is relatively high when you
compare it with other countries around the world, but when you
think about the specific risks related to Egypt, there seems to
be a lot of downside risk ahead,” Cirami, who helps manage $12
billion at Boston-based Eaton Vance, said by phone May 21. Eaton
Vance sold the last of its Egyptian government-security holdings
in early 2011, he said.  Investors from abroad cut their holdings of  treasury bills 
to 1.6 billion pounds ($265 million) in February from 59.4
billion at the end of 2010, central bank data show.  Soaring Yields  The retreat helped drive local-currency borrowing costs to
a record 15.19 percent at an auction of  six-month treasury bills 
last week, according to central bank data. Similar securities
pay 0.46 percent in  Saudi Arabia  and 4.69 percent in  Greece .  Egypt has been waiting for foreign aid to arrive to stem a
fall in  foreign reserves , which tumbled almost 60 percent since
before the uprising. The country officially requested the IMF
loan in January after the ruling military council rejected a
similar deal last summer.  Former Arab League chief Amre Moussa, who served as foreign
minister in the 1990s under Mubarak, is frontrunner in the
presidential race, according to the latest weekly survey by the
semi-official Ahram Center for Strategic and Political Studies.  Other polls have given the lead to Abdel-Moneim Aboul- Fotouh, a moderate Islamist, or to Ahmed Shafik, who briefly
served as Mubarak’s last premier. With no candidate scoring
above 50 percent in any poll, the winner may be decided in a
run-off in mid-June.  New President  The new president will be in charge of a country whose
credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service four times
since the start of 2011 to B2, five levels below investment
grade.  Economic growth slowed to less than 1 percent in the final
quarter of 2011 as tourist visits, which were Egypt’s second-
biggest source of hard currency before the uprising, slumped,
official data show. Unemployment in the country, where more than
one in five people live  below the poverty line  according the
 United Nations , was 12.6 percent at the end of March, the
statistics office said this month.  The economy is improving. GDP growth accelerated to 5.2
percent in the first three months of 2012, compared with a 4.3
percent contraction a year earlier, Planning Minister Fayza
Aboulnaga said on May 21. Tourist visits rose 32 percent over
the period, according to tourism ministry data last month.  ‘Pockets’ of Value  After the growth data were published, the cost of
protecting Egyptian debt for five years against non-payment
tumbled 20 basis points yesterday to 623, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations. Egypt also signed an
agreement this week to sell $500 million of treasury bonds to
Saudi Arabia in June, and the Persian Gulf country deposited $1
billion in Egypt’s central bank.  “There is still value in the Egyptian market, but in
pockets rather than across the board,” London-based Sven Richter, managing director and head of frontier markets at
Renaissance Asset Managers, which oversees more than $2 billion,
said in a May 17 e-mail in response to questions.  Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30 Index (EGX30)  has surged 34 percent this
year, the world’s second-best performer among 96 indexes tracked
by Bloomberg. “Elections are a risk for the short term as they
can lead to instability, but in the long term they are necessary
to provide the country with a stable government that can move
ahead to grow the economy,” Richter said.  The nation’s credit default swaps are still the highest in
the Middle East and among the top-10 riskiest credits in the
world, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group and
compiles prices from the privately negotiated market.  What the country needs after elections is clarity on the
parliament’s status, a constitution-drafting process with broad
support and economic policies that “make sense and are geared
toward improving the fiscal position of the country and
productivity,” said Eaton Vance’s Cirami. “International
financial support without coherent policy isn’t enough to create
a best-case scenario.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  