-- Egyptians Vote for First Post-Mubarak Leader in Election
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-05-23T14:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/egyptians-choose-first-president-since-mubarak-in-landmark-vote.html
Millions of Egyptians headed to the
polls today in the first presidential election since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster, a landmark race pitting rival Islamists
against secularists after more than 15 months of turmoil.  Polls opened at 8 a.m., with lines forming long before at
voting stations across the capital. The election has been billed
as the freest and fairest in Egypt’s history, with the state-run
Al-Akhbar newspaper’s banner headline reading: “Your
Vote=Egypt’s Future.” In a country where Mubarak ran largely
unopposed for three decades, the roughly 50 million eligible
Egyptian voters have an unprecedented choice between 13
candidates.  Supporters of last year’s revolt and Mubarak-era ministers
are competing in the election, which follows more than a year of
instability and violence between security forces and protestors
demanding an end to military rule. The fallout from the unrest
created  Egypt ’s worst economic slowdown in at least a decade,
prompting the government to apply for a $3.2 billion
 International Monetary Fund  loan that has yet to materialize.  In the upscale district of Heliopolis, where Mubarak used
to live, 18-year-old Saif Awad said that in a contest between
religiously motivated candidates and those with ties to Mubarak-
era governments, he favors the latter. “I don’t want to be
ruled by Islamists, but I can live with those affiliated with
the past regime,” he said. “They now know that there are red
lines, and that people will revolt and protest if they cross
them.”  Close Race  No clear favorite has emerged in opinion polls, raising the
likelihood that after the first round ends tomorrow the two
leading candidates will compete in run-offs on June 16 and 17,
with final results to follow on June 21. The army council that
took power after Mubarak’s fall has vowed to hand over power by
the end of June.  A weekly survey published in the state-run Al-Ahram
newspaper has put former Arab League chief Amre Moussa, who also
served as foreign minister under Mubarak, in first place. Other
polls have given the top spot to moderate Islamist and former
Muslim Brotherhood member Abdel-Moneim Aboul-Fotouh and to Ahmed Shafik, who served as Mubarak’s last premier. Another leading
contender is Mohamed Mursi, the Muslim Brotherhood’s candidate.  Egyptian telecommunication mogul Naguib Sawiris, a member
of the Coptic Christian community that makes up an estimated 10
percent of the population, said he voted for Moussa.  Voters Divided  “The Christians are divided between Moussa and Shafik,”
Sawiris said in a telephone interview.  The Brotherhood and many of the youths who led the anti-
Mubarak uprising accuse Moussa and Shafik of seeking to revive
the former regime. The two present their bids as a bulwark
against political domination by Islamists and tout their years
of experience. Moussa has said he would immediately use his
international contacts to secure foreign funding for Egypt.  More than a year of political unrest has scared off
investors. Foreign holdings of Egyptian treasury bills plunged
97 percent in the 14 months through February, to 1.64 billion
Egyptian pounds ($272 million), according to central bank data.  The vote may not spell an end to political tensions, said
Ashraf el-Sherif, adjunct lecturer in political science at the
 American University in Cairo .  Voting Choices  “If the winner is a candidate who believes in change, then
he will run into the powers that have been dominating the system
and the state apparatuses,” el-Sherif said. “If he wants to
reproduce the old system then we’ll be back to square one and
popular anger will continue.”  For Azza Kamel, 29, the choice boiled down to either Aboul-
Fotouh or Mursi. In the end, Mursi was the natural choice, she
said as she sat in a minibus featuring a portrait of the
Brotherhood candidate on the back.  “We can’t afford divisions at such a time,” said Kamel,
who was wearing the niqab, or Islamic face-veil. “We need to
rally behind the one with the largest support base.”  Nearby, some Mursi supporters had set up a desk and laptops
to help voters find out where they could cast their ballots.
Ahmed Salem, one of the volunteers, said they were trying to
help, not influence the vote.  The Brotherhood’s well-oiled campaign machine has worried
secularists already concerned by the Islamist domination of
parliament and what they see as a further attempt to monopolize
power in the Arab world’s most populous nation.  Election Monitors  “Vote rigging is a thing of the past,” Mursi told
reporters in comments aired on Al-Arabiya satellite channel. “I
hope I can live up to your expectations, the expectations of
Egyptians at home and abroad to establish a state with freedom,
democracy, constitution and stability.”  Information Minister Ahmed Anis told reporters he expected
turnout of between 60 to 75 percent. It hasn’t yet reached those
levels, with between 20 and 40 percent of registered voters
casting ballots in some provinces, Interior Minister Mohamed
Ibrahim said at the same news conference. Neither minister
provided details.  The election has refocused the spotlight on Egypt, this
time for something other than the violence that marked the 18-
day uprising last year and left around 850 dead. Hundreds of
monitors from scores of groups, including the Atlanta, Georgia-
based  Carter Center , were observing the vote.  Campaign Complaints  A coalition of Egyptian monitors noted that representatives
of several candidates were campaigning near polling stations
across the country, in an apparent violation of electoral laws,
according to a statement posted on the Egyptian Organization for
Human Rights’ website.  The election commission has referred complaints against
Mursi, Aboul-Fotouh and Shafik to the public prosecutor on
grounds of illegal campaigning, commission head Farouk Sultan
told reporters.  The race comes a little over a week before a court will
decide the fate of Mubarak in a case that has divided Egyptians.
On streets once dominated by the face of the former president,
the main candidates now peer down from banners strung from power
poles and tree trunks and posters tacked to walls.  Heavy security ringed the thousands of polling stations
around the country, with the military saying it had deployed
150,000 troops to ensure the vote went smoothly amid fears of
outbreaks of violence that have contributed to the overall
security concerns weighing on many voters.  ‘Feel Safe’  In Heliopolis, Laila Naguib, 65, recalled how she had been
mugged during broad daylight in December. The incident was
representative to her of the decaying security which Egyptians
have complained about in the past year.  Standing a few paces away from the polling station, she
debated whether to vote for Moussa, Nasserist candidate Hamdeen
Sabahi or Shafik. “I’m a Christian, and I need to feel safe,”
she said. “This is my country. Where am I supposed to go?”  In Cairo’s sprawling Shoubra neighborhood, 51-year-old
technician Mustafa Abdullah stood in line, waiting to cast his
vote for Shafik. In the parliamentary elections months earlier,
he had voted for the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
Party, which went on to win nearly half of the seats in the
legislature’s lower hose.  “I’m going to steer clear of Islamists this time,”
Abdullah said, adding that he had hoped they would help the
country. “Instead, they ignored all the problems that mattered,
and focused on achieving personal gains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 