-- Egypt Convicts Five Policemen for Mubarak Protester Deaths
-- B y   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-05-22T16:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/egypt-convicts-five-policemen-for-anti-mubarak-protester-deaths.html
An Egyptian criminal court sentenced
five policemen to 10 years in prison in a rare judgment against
security forces accused of killing protesters during the 18-day
mass uprising that led to former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
ouster last year.  Two others accused in the deaths of five protesters were
given one-year suspended sentences, the court said in a faxed
statement. The court also acquitted 10 of the 17 officers who
had been charged in connection with the violence in the Greater
Cairo district of Giza. Another 17 people were injured in the
fighting.  The verdict, a day before the start of landmark
presidential elections in  Egypt , follows a series of recent
court verdicts acquitting police officers accused of involvement
in the deaths of some of the 846 people known to have died
during the protests. A ruling in the case of Mubarak, charged
with complicity in the killings, is due on June 2.  In another case, an appeals court upheld the sentence
imposed on Lieutenant Yasser El-Shinawy, the head of criminal
investigations in a Cairo police station. El-Shinawy was
sentenced to 10 years in prison for his role in the torture and
subsequent death of a man in custody, according to a faxed
statement to journalists.  Christians Convicted  Separately, the head of the Egyptian Union of Human Rights
Organizations said in a telephone interview that 12 Christians
sentenced to life terms yesterday for their involvement in last
year’s sectarian clashes in the southern village of Abu Qurqas
cannot appeal against their sentences except to the country’s
military ruler.  Eight Muslims who were also charged in the case were
acquitted, Nabil Gibrail, the organization’s head, said today.  The clashes, which took place in April 2010 following a
dispute between Muslims and Christians in village in the
province of Minya, left four people dead and heightened
sectarian tensions in the country at a time when officials were
struggling to restore security and order after Mubarak’s ouster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  