-- Leighton Jumps Most in Nine Months on Forecast: Sydney Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-05-22T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/leighton-jumps-most-in-nine-months-on-forecast-sydney-mover.html
Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , Australia’s
largest construction company, rose the most in four months after
reiterating its profit forecast and announcing plans to
restructure a Middle East venture.  The  builder , controlled by  Hochtief AG (HOT)  which is in turn
controlled by  ACS Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA ,
climbed 3.8 percent, the biggest gain since Jan. 17, to A$17.94
at the close in Sydney.  Leighton stuck by its forecast for profit of A$400 million
($396 million) to A$450 million this year as construction demand
in Australia and  Asia  withstands the European financial crisis
hitting the markets in which Hochtief and ACS are dominant.  “Hochtief and ACS need Leighton’s dividends as much as
anyone else,” Dean Paatsch, co-founder of shareholder advisory
group Ownership Matters, said by phone from  Melbourne  before the
announcement. “It’s nice to have a controlling shareholder
who’s got aligned incentives.”  The company also said it plans to divide Middle East
venture Al Habtoor Leighton Group into two, with one company
focusing on ongoing projects and the other chasing debts. The
company plans to have the ongoing business “IPO ready” by
2016, he said, without saying whether it will hold a share sale.  Chairman Stephen Johns said weakness in the European
economy would not affect the Australian company directly.  “Our operations in Australia are completely quarantined
from  Europe ,” he told media after the company’s annual
shareholder meeting in Sydney today.  “Whilst obviously Europe is going to effect the whole
world economy, the world financial systems, and our own share
markets, we do not have operations there.”  Leighton also intends to increase cooperation between its
operating units in  Australia  and to ensure they focus more on
their main businesses.  The company is working to improve the businesses after
delays and cost overruns at a Brisbane Airport road and a
desalination plant in Victoria state caused the company to
reduce its profit guidance by A$254 million in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 