-- Temasek Says Markets Entering Period of Stress in Next 2 Years
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-22T02:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/temasek-says-markets-entering-period-of-stress-in-next-2-years.html
Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s
state-owned  investment company , said it expects the markets to
enter a “period of stress” for the next one to two years amid
the European debt crisis, adding risks to investments.  European leaders will do “everything necessary” to keep
 Greece  in the 17-nation euro, German Finance Minister Wolfgang
Schaeuble said yesterday. Group of Eight leaders on May 19 urged
Greece to stay within the euro area as polls in the country
showed a close race between parties supporting and opposing the
European Union bailout deal.  “Notwithstanding our assessment of long term value,
markets may be entering a period of stress in the next 12 to 24
months due to the Euro zone crisis,” Tan Chong Lee, Temasek’s
chief investment officer, said in a statement on its website.
“There will be some near-term risks as well as opportunities
for Temasek as we continue to invest and divest steadily.”  Temasek, which managed S$193 billion ($152 billion) at the
end of March 2011, may be seeking more investments at a time
when global markets are set for their biggest losses in eight
months. Citigroup Inc. lowered its recommendation on the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index at the end of last week to neutral
because the gauge is no longer likely to outperform global
equities amid concerns about the European debt turmoil.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  has fallen 7.7 percent since the start
of May, set for worst monthly declines since September, while
the measure tracking developing markets has fallen for nine
straight weeks, the longest string of weekly losses since 1994.  North America Head  “We have been at the mercy of news flows from Greek debt
and this will continue,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of
Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management Asia Ltd.,
which oversees about $10 billion.  Temasek last week named Boon Sim, former global head of
mergers and acquisitions at Credit Suisse Group AG, as its
president for North America. It added that Sim will also work
closely with teams to support its interests in  Latin America  and
 Europe .  The state-owned investor also sold $2.48 billion of shares
in  Bank of China Ltd.  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  at the
start of May, less than a month after investing in their larger
competitor  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. The
investment company has 5.3 percent of ICBC’s Hong Kong-traded
shares after the purchase, Tan said. The company still holds 7.4
percent of China Construction Bank and 3.7 percent of Bank of
China’s stock traded in  Hong Kong  after the stake sales, he said.  Balanced China Growth  “Our investment decisions are based on our fundamental
assessment of long term value,” Tan said in response to a Today
newspaper reader asking Temasek to clarify its holdings on
Chinese banks. He added that  China  is “in a transition towards
a more balanced and sustainable growth path.”  China’s economy  expanded last quarter at the slowest pace
in almost three years. The country’s gross domestic product
expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months of 2012 from a
year earlier in the fifth straight quarterly deceleration, as
authorities cracked down on property speculation and exports
were hurt by Europe’s debt crisis.  “The mega infrastructure projects and the boom in net
exports have decelerated quite significantly,” Baring’s Do said.
“In the past, China’s growth is between 10 and 12 percent. Over
the next few years, it has to be between 7 to 9 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  