-- Emerging Stocks Extend Rally on China Spending, Europe Stimulus
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-05-22T22:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/emerging-stocks-gain-most-in-eight-weeks-on-china-spending-boost.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second day on speculation  China  will boost infrastructure
spending, European leaders will take action to stimulate
economic growth and sales of U.S. homes rose.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.6 percent to
919.28 by 4:33 p.m. in  New York , extending yesterday’s 0.7
percent rebound from the lowest close in five months.  Russia ’s
Micex Index rose as OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , the nation’s largest producer of
coal for steelmakers, climbed 5.3 percent.  Brazil ’s Bovespa
tumbled 2.7 percent as homebuilder PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos
& Participacoes plunged 11 percent.  China plans to speed up approval of infrastructure projects
and allocate construction funding faster to improve growth, the
China Securities Journal reported. European leaders will do
“everything necessary” to keep  Greece  in the 17-nation euro
and focus on steps to aid economic expansion, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday.  “Investors are comforted by developments in  Europe  and
expectations of more spending and policy easing” in China, said
Chen Liqiu, a strategist at Jianghai Securities Co. in  Shanghai .  Sales of existing U.S. homes rose 3.4 percent to a 4.62
million annual rate in April, figures from the National
Association of Realtors  showed  today in  Washington .  Emerging-market equities have added 0.3 percent in 2012 and
trade at a multiple of 9.8 times estimated earnings, compared
with the average of 11.7 for developed nations, which have
advanced 1.5 percent this year.  Russia Gains  The IShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  most-traded ETF  tracking developing-nation shares,
lost 1 percent to $37.78 today.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 0.9 percent to 33.56.  The Micex Index rose 0.2 percent as OAO Mechel added the
most since May 10. OAO Lukoil, Russia’s biggest non-state oil
producer, retreated 0.5 percent as crude oil slid as much as 1.3
percent in New York.  The  BUX Index (BUX)  advanced 0.9 percent in Budapest, posting its
longest winning streak in two months.  Magyar Telekom Nyrt. (MTELEKOM) , the
Hungarian unit of Deutsche Telekom AG, rose 2.9 percent, the
most since Feb. 17.  Brazil’s Bovespa retreated as homebuilders dropped on
speculation policy makers will slow the pace of interest-rate
cuts. PDG Realty slipped the most since November 2008 while
Gafisa S.A., a real estate developer, plunged 9.9 percent.  ‘Panic’  The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  added 0.2 percent in Warsaw today. The
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  rose 1.2 percent in
Johannesburg.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  climbed 1.6 percent and
the  Czech Republic ’s gauge added 1 percent.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, dropped 1
percent, the most among major benchmark indexes in  Asia . Concern
India’s outlook has worsened because of trade and fiscal
shortfalls, policy gridlock and elevated  consumer prices  has
made the rupee Asia’s worst-performer since April 1.  Sentiment among investors in emerging-market equities has
reached “panic” levels, Citigroup Inc. said. The developing-
nations gauge has slid 15 percent from its year-high on March 2.  Emerging-market stocks have advanced an average 7.5 percent
in a six-month period and 23 percent in a year on past occasions
when Citigroup’s “Whether Vane” has been at such levels, New-
York-based analysts Geoffrey Dennis, Howard Park and Christina
Wood wrote in an e-mailed note to clients dated yesterday.  China Funds  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to adopt a “proactive fiscal
policy and a prudent monetary policy” to shore up the world’s
second-largest economy. A leading index for China rose 0.8
percent in April, the same pace as the prior month, the New
York-based Conference Board said in a statement today.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks
listed in  Hong Kong  rose 1.2 percent, the most since April 30.
 Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) , the biggest Chinese cement producer,
gained 3.5 percent in Hong Kong, on speculation China will boost
infrastructure spending.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (1157)  jumped 6.9 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slid 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 395, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  