-- Ten Charged in Long Island Rail Road Pension Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-23T00:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/ten-charged-in-long-island-rail-road-pension-fraud.html
Ten  Long Island  Rail Road retirees
were charged in a probe of pension fraud as the U.S. announced a
program offering immunity to hundreds of other former workers at
the suburban New York railway if they admit lying on disability
applications and disclaim future benefits.  The indictment unsealed today in  Manhattan  brings to 21 the
number of people charged in the case. In October, U.S.
prosecutors charged 11, including two doctors and a former union
president, with taking part in a scheme in which retired LIRR
workers falsely claim disability benefits from the Railroad
Retirement Board.  “The LIRR is a commuter railroad, not a gravy train,”
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said in a statement.
“Today we have criminally charged 10 more LIRR workers who
planned padded retirements built on lies and greed.”  Under the voluntary disclosure plan, retirees who admit
having made false statements to get disability benefits and give
up their right to future payments may avoid being prosecuted or
sued by the government. The program may save the Railroad
Retirement Board tens of millions of dollars, according to the
U.S. Attorney’s statement.  The board is an independent federal agency that administers
unemployment and retirement benefit programs for U.S. railroad
workers. In fiscal 2011, the board paid $10.9 billion in
retirement and survivor benefits to about 578,000 people, it
said on its website.  Six former LIRR workers were arrested in Queens and Long
Island today, said J.  Peter Donald , a spokesman for the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation in  New York . One was arrested in
 Florida . Three others surrendered to authorities.  The case is U.S. v. Ajemian, 11-CR-1091, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  