-- EnBW Wins Court Challenge Over Access to EU Cartel Documents
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-22T16:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/enbw-wins-court-challenge-over-access-to-eu-cartel-documents.html
EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) 
won a court challenge over access to confidential information
held by the European Commission that could be used for lawsuits
against a cartel of electrical equipment manufacturers.  The European Union’s General Court said EU antitrust
regulators may have to re-examine its decision to prevent EnBW
from seeing documents related to a cartel investigation,
including a formal antitrust complaint and documents seized from
the offices of companies involved.  EnBW bought gas-insulated switchgear from companies that
were fined by the European Commission in 2007 for price-fixing.
The Karlsruhe, Germany-based utility is seeking information from
regulators’ files that it could use to bring lawsuits seeking
damages from the equipment manufactures. The antitrust agency
has resisted such requests because it says it must protect
business secrets and an amnesty program for whistle-blowers.  “The contested decision must be annulled in its entirety”
because the commission didn’t sufficiently justify its refusal
to grant access to the information, the Luxembourg-based
tribunal said in a ruling today.  The Brussels-based commission “will carefully examine this
judgment and remains fully determined to protect its leniency
program while at the same time ensuring an effective right to
claim damages,” Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the
regulator, said in an e-mail.  EnBW didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  EU Fines  The EU fined 10 companies, including  Areva SA (AREVA)  and  Alstom
SA (ALO) , a total of 750.7 million euros ($957 million) in January
2007 for colluding on prices and carving up the market for gas-
insulated switchgear, used to control electrical flow, from 1988
to 2004.  National Grid Plc, which manages Britain’s power
transmission network, is also seeking more than 200 million
pounds ($315 million) in damages as a result of overcharging for
power equipment sold by  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , Areva, VA
Technologie AG and Alstom.  The General Court’s rulings can be appealed to the EU’s
highest tribunal, the  European Court  of Justice.  The case is:  T-344/08  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG v
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 