-- Merkel Faces Hollande Pleas to Shed Taboos at Crisis Summit
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-05-23T08:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/merkel-faces-hollande-pleas-to-shed-taboos-at-18th-crisis-summit.html
A plea to shed “taboos” may put
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in a corner today as she digs in
against joint debt sales to counter  Europe ’s financial crisis.  Merkel, the dominant figure in more than two years of
crisis-fighting, heads to a Brussels summit unable to stifle
calls for measures she opposes, including euro bonds, the use of
European money to recapitalize banks, a bigger rescue fund and
extra time for debt-swamped countries to cut spending.  “Policy makers across the euro area continue to act in
their own interest,” said David Song, a currency analyst in  New
York  at DailyFX.com, the research unit of  FXCM Inc. (FXCM)  “We may see
a growing rift between  France  and Germany as the anti-austerity
movement gathers pace.”  The summit, the 18th since Greece was convulsed by debt and
the first since an anti-austerity campaign carried  Francois Hollande  to France’s presidency, takes place with market
indicators showing mounting stress on banks.  European Union officials damped expectations for the 27-
nation summit starting at 7 p.m., eying the next meeting on June
28-29 as the time to take pro-growth steps. The crisis in the 17
euro countries will come up tonight only “at the very end,” EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a  pre-summit letter .  Shifting Dynamic  Merkel is on the defensive at home after her party was
routed in May 13 elections in Germany’s most-populous state and
internationally after her hard line on budgets was drowned out
by pro-growth appeals at last week’s Group of Eight meeting.
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc dropped four percentage
points to 31 percent, the lowest level since October, while the
main opposition  Social Democrats  gained a point to 27 percent, a
weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine showed today.  The election of Hollande shifted the dynamic within Europe,
putting France in the pro-euro bond camp along with  Italy ,
 Belgium , Luxembourg and peripheral countries relying on European
aid or at risk of needing it.  Merkel will stand her ground, a German official told
reporters in Berlin yesterday. Finland, the Netherlands and
 Austria  also oppose common bond sales, which would require
better-off countries to guarantee the borrowing of financially
shakier ones.  “I won’t sacrifice the Austrian  credit rating ,” Austrian
Finance Minister Maria Fekter said in Vienna yesterday. “I’m
not willing to see Austria potentially pay double the  interest
rates  we currently do.”  German Demands  The polemics leave the  European Central Bank  as the first
line of defense in a market panic, though a German-led faction
on the ECB is against adding to the 212 billion-euro ($270
billion) stockpile of  government bonds  it has amassed during the
crisis.  Backers of joint borrowing want the end-of-June summit to
sketch out a roadmap to euro bonds while respecting German
demands that only fiscally sound nations will qualify, an
official from one of the countries said.  Such a timetable would chime with Van Rompuy’s plea for
“no taboos concerning the longer-term perspective.” In the
invitation letter, he said “the perspective of moving toward a
more integrated system would increase confidence in the euro.”  The euro approached a four-month low against the dollar
amid doubts the summit would mark a breakthrough toward such a
system or address more immediate concerns about  Greece ’s fealty
to its bailout program or the health of  Spain ’s banks. The
common currency fell 0.4 percent to $1.2638 at 10:14 a.m. in
Brussels.  Growth Initiative  One growth initiative made headway yesterday when
representatives of governments and the European Parliament
agreed on a pilot phase for “project bonds” to back private
infrastructure construction. Some 230 million euros of EU
guarantees will be available to mobilize 4.6 billion euros in
investment in 2012 and 2013.  Spain, meantime, is embarking on its fourth attempt in
three years to shore up lenders saddled with about 184 billion
euros of what the Bank of Spain calls “problematic” real
estate-linked assets.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has ruled out tapping the euro
area’s rescue funds since that would put Spain under the same
sort of supervision as Greece, Ireland and Portugal, the three
countries drawing on official aid.  Euro governments are divided over whether to circumvent
those conditions by allowing the planned permanent rescue fund
to lend to banks directly, an EU official told reporters in
Brussels yesterday.  Greek Challenge  Greece is gearing up for new elections on June 17 after an
anti-bailout party surged to second place in balloting on May 6,
denying a parliamentary majority to the two parties that have
dominated the country since the 1970s.  The head of the anti-capitalist Syriza party, Alexis Tsipras, visited Paris and Berlin this week to broadcast his
determination to halt the  budget cuts  demanded by Greece’s
international creditors. He didn’t meet anyone from Hollande’s
or Merkel’s government.  Austerity is the problem, not the answer, Tsipras said. He
challenged  Germany  to throw Greece out of the euro, telling
reporters that “no political leadership would want to take
responsibility” for the ensuing cascade of departures.  Next month’s revote looms as a referendum on whether Greece
stays in the euro, since an Athens government that goes back on
austerity would be cut off from the next installments of the 240
billion euros in aid pledged since 2010.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
lashed out against loose talk of Greece quitting a currency
meant to be unbreakable, questioning whether European leaders
have done enough to stabilize the system.  “Are we offering the necessary safety net and therefore a
way not out of the euro but out of the crisis?” OECD Secretary-
General Jose Angel Gurria told reporters in Paris yesterday. “I
think we can do better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  