-- Merkel’s Market Battle Call Echoed by Tsipras of Greece’s Syriza
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-05-22T10:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/merkel-s-market-battle-call-echoed-by-tsipras-of-greece-s-syriza.html
Greek anti-bailout leader Alexis Tsipras may share more common ground with German Chancellor
Angela Merkel when it comes to financial markets than suggested
by his attacks on the austerity she demands.  Tsipras, meeting opposition politicians in Berlin today,
sees  Europe ’s financial crisis as “a war between peoples and
capitalism, and Greece is on the frontline of that war,” he
told the  Guardian newspaper  in an  interview  published May 18.  Contrast that with Merkel, who said in a speech on Nov. 18,
2010, that “it’s true there is a kind of battle over what power
the financial markets have and how much room for policy making
the politicians have.” At stake is “what we call the primacy
of politics,” she said.  Merkel and Tsipras are two opposing faces of the sovereign
debt crisis that has raged for more than two years as policy
makers failed to enact measures deemed sufficient by markets.  Still, Merkel has shown herself willing to change tack as
events dictated. She no longer talks about a battle with markets
for supremacy. She cites bond spreads as a reason for countries
to cut debt. She also abandoned a call for investors to bear
compulsory writedowns in any future bailouts.  Tsipras, whose Syriza party was leading in a poll released
May 19 of voting intentions for June 17 elections, has pledged
to rip up the terms of  Greece ’s rescue and halt the austerity
measures already agreed with international creditors. He is due
to have talks with members of  Germany ’s anti-capitalist Left
Party, then hold a press conference at 3 p.m. in Berlin. He
won’t meet any members of the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  