-- MetLife Seen Scaling Back Annuities as CEO Narrows Focus
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-22T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/metlife-seen-scaling-back-annuities-as-kandarian-narrows-focus.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  may target annuities and
U.S. retail life insurance for cost cuts as Chief Executive
Officer  Steven Kandarian  unveils his plan to improve returns.  “I think they’re going to announce some expense-reduction
initiatives in those lines of business and maybe announce that
they’re cutting back on sales,” Sean Dargan, an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., said in an interview. “The products there
are commoditized, the environment there is very competitive and
the company can probably achieve higher returns elsewhere.”  Kandarian 60, is seeking to reverse a  stock slide  after the
New York-based company declined 30 percent in 12 months through
yesterday. Kandarian, who became CEO last May, has said that his
firm, the largest U.S. life insurer, will announce its strategy
tomorrow. The insurer already has started scaling back annuity
sales and is exiting banking to limit U.S. oversight as it seeks
to expand in  emerging markets .  “We will fix or exit businesses that cannot consistently
clear their hurdle rates,” Kandarian wrote in a March letter to
shareholders.  Christopher Breslin , a company spokesman, declined
to comment.  MetLife may target as much as $400 million in expense
reductions, a goal that could be reached by eliminating jobs and
advertising less at units it’s scaling back, said  Randy Binner ,
an analyst at FBR Capital Markets.  MetLife reduced expenses by $700 million annually in an
initiative announced in 2008, William Wheeler, who was then
chief financial officer, said in 2010. The company expanded
outside the U.S. with the purchase of American Life Insurance
Co. from bailed-out  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  for about
$16 billion in November of that year.  ‘More Complex’  “We now have Alico, which makes more complex something we
just simplified, and we’re going through another exercise in our
review,” Kandarian said Feb. 15.  Dargan said the focus on  emerging markets  may persuade the
company to cut expenses in the U.S. Industrywide, individual
life insurance  policy sales  increased in just four of the past
30 years, according to trade group Limra. They climbed 2 percent
in 2011. MetLife has said it’s working to  sell more insurance  to
households making less than $100,000 a year by offering quotes
on its website, which may lower costs.  MetLife is planning for variable annuity sales of about $18
billion this year, after exceeding $28 billion in 2011, when it
was the largest seller of the equity-linked products. The head
of U.S. distribution was reassigned as Kandarian sought to cut
risk tied to stock market declines. Industrywide, total annuity
sales slid 8 percent in the first quarter to $54.8 billion,
Limra said.  Emerging Markets  Revenue from emerging markets will grow by about 20 percent
a year through 2015, the insurer said in December. Kandarian
hired Christopher Townsend from AIG this month to lead
operations in  Asia .  MetLife generated more than a quarter of its  revenue 
outside the U.S. last year, compared with less than 15 percent
in 2008. International operating profit almost tripled last year
to $2.2 billion.  MetLife is among the bidders for ING Groep NV’s Asian life
insurance business, people familiar with the matter said. ING
planned to sell the business in one piece, though some bidders
are seeking to acquire certain operations, the people said.  “My personal impression is that they don’t want more
exposure to  Japan , but that the Southeast Asia portion of that
business would be attractive” to MetLife, Dargan said. He  rates 
MetLife the equivalent of buy.  Mortgage Unit  MetLife freed up $1 billion in capital by striking deals to
sell operations in nations including  Venezuela , Kandarian has
said. The firm said in January it would shut its home mortgage
origination operation and cut most of the 4,300 workers.  The insurer had about 67,000  employees  as of Dec. 31. That
compares with 66,000 at the end of 2010 and 54,000 a year
earlier, before the Alico deal.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  has narrowed its
focus by agreeing to sell its individual annuities-distribution
business. It’s also seeking to sell Woodbury Financial Services
and its retirement-plan and individual-life units to focus on
property-casualty coverage.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the No. 2 U.S. life insurer, is
also expanding in Asia after the purchase of a business from
AIG. The  Newark , New Jersey-based insurer struck deals in 2011
to sell a commodities business and its real estate brokerage and
relocation unit.  Kandarian has been unable to say exactly when MetLife will
resume share  buybacks  and increase its dividend after the
 Federal Reserve  twice rejected the company’s capital plans. He
declined last month to reiterate an earlier prediction that the
insurer would no longer have bank status by June 30, after he
agreed to sell deposits to  General Electric Co. (GE)   “The driver of the stock is not going to be what happens
with expense savings,” Binner said. “The driver of the stock
is what happens with capital deployment and the macroeconomic
environment.”  MetLife will make an announcement on its  dividend  in
October, Kandarian said April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  