-- European Banks Unprepared for Greek Exit From Euro
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a ,   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-05-23T12:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/european-banks-unprepared-for-pandora-s-box-of-greek-exit.html
Europe’s banks, sitting on $1.19
trillion of debt to Spain, Portugal, Italy and Ireland, are
facing a wave of losses if Greece abandons the euro.  While lenders have increased capital buffers, written down
Greek bonds and used central-bank loans to help refinance units
in southern Europe, they remain vulnerable to the contagion that
might follow a withdrawal, investors say. Even with more than
two years of preparation, banks still are at risk of deposit
flight and rising defaults in other indebted euro nations.  “A Greek exit would be a Pandora’s box,” said Jacques- Pascal Porta, who helps manage $570 million at Ofi Gestion
Privee in Paris, including shares in  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP
Paribas SA. (BNP)  “It’s a disaster that would leave the door open to
other disasters. The euro’s credibility will be weakened, and it
would set a precedent: Why couldn’t an exit happen for Spain,
for Italy, and even for France?”  The prospect of Greece leaving the 17-nation euro region
increased after parties opposed to the terms of the nation’s
second bailout by the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  won most of the votes in May 6 elections. A fresh
round of voting will be held June 17 after politicians failed to
form a government. For the first time since the crisis began in
November 2009, European leaders and central bankers are speaking
openly of Greece abandoning the currency union.  Deposit Flight  The immediate risk for Europe’s banks, and for the euro
region, would be a deposit flight from indebted nations such as
Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy on speculation those
countries also might quit the currency. Lenders in Germany,
France and the U.K. had $1.19 trillion of claims on those four
nations at the end of 2011, Bank for International Settlements
data show.  Should Greece go, its new currency probably would suffer an
immediate devaluation of as much as 75 percent against the euro,
forcing individuals and companies to default on foreign loans,
economists at  UBS AG (UBSN)  said. Unless European leaders could make a
credible case that a Greek exit was an exceptional and isolated
incident, depositors in other nations might decide to withdraw
euros from banks or shift them to countries seen as safer.  “The highest risk facing the banks at the moment is the
possibility of deposit runs,” said  Andrew Stimpson , a banking
analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. in London. “The more
policy makers continue to openly discuss an exit, the more
likely that people in Spain, Ireland and Portugal pull money out
of their local banks.”  Greek Withdrawals  That already may be happening. Banks in Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Portugal and Spain saw a decline of 80.6 billion euros
($103 billion), or 3.2 percent, in household and corporate
deposits from the end of 2010 through the end of March, European
Central Bank data show. Lenders in Germany and France saw an
increase in deposits of 217.4 billion euros, or 6.3 percent, in
the same period.  Greek central bank head George Provopoulos told President
Karolos Papoulias last week that savers have withdrawn as much
as 700 million euros and the situation may worsen, according to
the transcript of the president’s meeting with party leaders
published May 15. Greece had 160 billion euros of  bank deposits 
on March 30, down almost 75 billion euros from the peak in 2009,
according to the latest data from the central bank.  Greece’s pledge to inject 18 billion euros of capital in
the nation’s banks may help staunch the outflow in deposits. The
Hellenic Financial Stability Fund said late yesterday it
approved terms of the recapitalization and the contract would be
sent today to the lenders and the European Financial Stability
Facility for final approval.  Rising Odds  The infusion will enable Greece’s four biggest banks to
return to the ECB for funding -- after being cut off when
capital ratios fell too low -- and provide an additional 18
billion euros of collateral in the form of EFSF bonds.  UBS, the third-biggest manager of money for the wealthy,
sees a 20 percent chance of Greece leaving the euro within six
months, the bank’s chief investment office, led by  Alexander Friedman , told client advisers in an internal note last week.  To prevent contagion, countries in the euro area would have
to form a full-fledged political and fiscal union immediately
and implement uniform guarantees on bank deposits throughout the
region, Thomas Wacker and Juerg de Spindler, economists at
Zurich-based UBS, said in a separate note. They said such a
response can be ruled out.  The odds of a Greek exit are seen rising over time.
Citigroup Inc. analysts this month raised the likelihood of such
an event to between 50 percent and 75 percent over the next 18
months after Greece’s inconclusive elections.  ECB Lifelines  “Banks’ risk-management departments have probably taken
into account a Greek exit and most would likely have a plan on
how to proceed,” said Robert Liljequist, a Helsinki-based
fixed-income strategist at Swedbank AB. “The big problem is
that nobody really knows what would happen in the markets if the
country leaves the currency, so there is a significant amount of
risk with that scenario.”  The ECB’s unprecedented provision of 1.02 trillion euros in
three-year cash in December and February helped calm financial
markets in the first quarter by removing concern that banks
unwilling to lend to one another would run out of cash. Lenders
in Spain and Italy also used the funds to buy sovereign debt,
reducing government borrowing costs.  Euro Decline  The rebound was short-lived as doubts about the health of
Spain’s banks and questions over Greece’s future returned. On
May 9, the  Euro Stoxx Banks (SX7E)  index dropped beneath the lows of
March 2009. The 30-company index of euro-region banking stocks
fell 2.4 percent by 2:45 p.m. Frankfurt time today. The Markit
iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps on the senior
debt of 25 European banks and insurers reached 308.398 on May
18, the highest since Dec. 19, two days before the ECB’s first
offering of long-term funds. The euro fell today to a 21-month
low against the dollar.  Lenders probably would need another 800 billion-euro
liquidity lifeline from the ECB to help stem contagion from a
Greek exit, Citigroup analysts estimated in a May 17 note.  ECB President Mario Draghi said last week that Greece could
leave the euro area and signaled policy makers won’t compromise
on their key principles to prevent an exit.  Spanish Banks  The fresh doubts about Greece coincide with struggles by
Spain, the euro region’s fourth-largest economy, to shore up its
banks following the bursting of a property bubble. The
government of  Mariano Rajoy  announced this month a fourth effort
in less than three years to rebuild confidence in the industry
as bad loans soar. The state took control of  Bankia (BKIA)  group, the
lender with the most Spanish assets, and ordered banks to set
aside an additional 30 billion euros on property loans.  With Spain’s economy in a recession and unemployment at
more than 24 percent, more borrowers are defaulting. Bad loans
as a proportion of total lending in Spain jumped to 8.37 percent
in March, the highest since August 1994, data published last
week by the Bank of Spain show. As much as 8.21 billion euros of
loans soured in the first quarter, 90 percent more than in the
same period of last year.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 16 Spanish banks last
week, including the two largest,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , citing the nation’s economy,
reduced funding access for lenders and a deterioration in loan
quality. The rating company also cut 26 Italian banks, including
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   Moody’s Downgrades  In all, Moody’s said in February it would review the
ratings on 114 banks in Europe, as well as eight non-European
firms with large capital-markets businesses, to assess the
impact of the debt crisis.  Spanish, Italian, French and U.K. banks were the biggest
borrowers in the ECB’s long-term refinancing operations, or
LTROs, according to data compiled by analysts at Credit Suisse
Group AG. While the cash injections temporarily soothed markets,
they led to a retrenchment from countries on the periphery of
the euro region, undermining the EU’s “solidarity incentive,”
said Christine Schmid, a Zurich-based analyst with the bank.  That may explain the recent wave of comments contemplating
what was once unthinkable. While German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  last week urged the Greek government to stay
in the monetary union, he signaled that a departure would be
manageable as European authorities “react in such a way as to
ensure that the consequences are as contained as possible.”
Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer told journalists in
Paris last week that “whatever happens in Greece” won’t place
any French financial institution in difficulty.  Different Tack  A year ago Schaeuble said a Greek exit would create an
“exceptionally difficult” situation that would be “hard to
control,” while Noyer called the possibility of a Greek default
a “nightmare” and a “catastrophe.”  What’s changed is that banks in the so-called core EU
countries of Germany, France and the U.K. used funds from the
ECB in December and February to insulate their southern European
units against losses should one or more country exit the euro.  “If you’re a U.K. lender and you’ve lent 10 billion euros
to your Spanish subsidiary and Spain exits, you’re suddenly only
going to get paid back in 50 percent devalued pesetas and you’re
on the hook for 5 billion euros,” said Philippe Bodereau,
London-based head of European credit research at Pacific
Investment Management Co., the world’s largest bond investor.  Insulating Units  One way multinational banking groups are mitigating that
risk is by replacing their own funding lines to subsidiaries in
the region with ECB loans. Deutsche Bank, Europe’s biggest bank
by assets, tapped “a small amount” of ECB cash to help fund
corporate and retail business in continental Europe, where it
has sizeable operations in Italy and Spain. BNP Paribas,
Europe’s third-biggest bank, used the programs to help fund its
Italian unit as it reduces intergroup backing.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by assets,
took 8.2 billion euros of three-year loans from the ECB to
provide “funding stability” for its units in Spain and
Portugal.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said it’s using central bank
money to “ring-fence” its Spanish operation.  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) , which is using 1.6 billion euros of ECB funding for Athens-
based Emporiki, reduced refinancing exposure to its Greek unit
by half in the nine months through March to 4.6 billion euros.  Sovereign Debt  European banks also have cut their sovereign-debt holdings
and exposures to Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal. Lenders in
Germany, France and the U.K. reduced exposure to Greece by more
than half in the two years through the end of 2011 to $68.2
billion, BIS data show. Their claims on the other four countries
are down 36 percent in the same period.  The average core Tier 1 capital ratio of the 10 biggest
European banks by assets rose to 10.7 percent as of Sept. 30
under Basel 2 rules from 9.3 percent at the end of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Most lenders changed at
the end of last year to stricter, so-called Basel 2.5 capital
rules, making comparison with prior periods meaningless.  The cash and near-cash holdings of the 10 biggest banks
jumped 77 percent on average in the two years through the end of
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Christian Clausen , president of the European Banking
Federation and CEO of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest bank in
Scandinavia, said a Greek exit from the euro zone is unlikely
and won’t be disastrous for the region’s banks if it does occur.  ‘Chain Reaction’  “We’ve come to a level in Europe where that can happen
without any major repercussions for the rest of Europe,”
Clausen said in an interview in Copenhagen on May 11. “Every
bank in Europe will prepare for this, but to think it will
impact the European economy and banks in general, that will not
happen.”  Still, the efforts may not shield banks from contagion. The
1.1 trillion-euro liquidity buffers Europe’s eight biggest banks
have to guard against deposit flight and funding-market
dislocations will be insufficient if there’s a systemic loss of
confidence across the region, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
wrote in a note yesterday. The buffers include cash, deposits
with central banks and unencumbered assets.  Loan and currency losses in the event of a euro breakup may
reach $1.1 trillion across German, French, U.K., U.S., Swedish,
Swiss, Dutch, Austrian and Belgian banking systems, analysts at
Paris-based Societe Generale SA estimated in a note last week.  UBS economists Wacker and de Spindler see a “significant”
likelihood of a Greek exit “triggering a chain reaction of bank
runs and soaring risk premiums on government bonds of weaker
countries, and that ultimately breaks up the entire euro zone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  