-- European Stocks Rise the Most in a Month; Vodafone Climbs
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-22T15:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/european-stocks-advance-for-a-second-day-vodafone-climbs.html
European stocks  climbed the most in a
month amid speculation that China and the euro area will do more
to stimulate global economic growth.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  gained 4.2 percent after posting
quarterly service revenue that exceeded analysts’ estimates.
 Accor SA (AC)  surged after saying it will sell its budget Motel 6
chain for $1.9 billion.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  plunged 9.9 percent,
its biggest decline in more than a year, after reporting full-
year earnings that fell short of analysts’ forecasts.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 1.9 percent to 244.7 at
the close, its biggest rally since April 17. The gauge has still
 fallen 10 percent  from this year’s high on March 16 amid
mounting concern that Greece will elect a government opposed to
implementing pledged austerity measures.  “The rally is mostly technically driven after we became
quite oversold last week,” said Raimund Saxinger, a  fund
manager  at Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees about
$22 billion. “The worries that we have seen, they still
persist. The next thing that the markets are really focusing on
are the Greek elections and in essence if Greek voters will vote
to stay in the euro or not.”  The Stoxx 600 increased 0.5 percent yesterday as China
pledged to boost growth, outweighing concern that Greece will
have to leave the euro area following its new election.  European Union Meeting  Germany’s Chancellor,  Angela Merkel , said she may disagree
with France’s President,  Francois Hollande , on how to tackle the
sovereign-debt crisis at a meeting on May 23.  Cooperation “doesn’t exclude differing positions,” Merkel
told reporters yesterday in Chicago during a meeting of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization. “These may very well arise
in the context of the European discussions.”  Germany will consider all ideas on bolstering euro-area
growth, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said as he and his
French counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , met.  “We will engage all ideas constructively and find
solutions in order to strengthen sustainable growth,” Schaeuble
said after meeting Moscovici for the first time yesterday in
Berlin. Moscovici, who became finance minister last week, said
Hollande wants “everything on the table,” including joint
euro-area bonds, at a meeting of European leaders tomorrow.
Hollande has proposed that the 17 members of the euro area issue
joint bonds, allowing the most-indebted countries to cut their
borrowing costs.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 16 of the 18 western-
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 and France’s CAC 40
advanced 1.9 percent. Germany’s DAX increased 1.7 percent.  OECD Report  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said the debt crisis may spiral, damaging the world economy.  “The risk is increasing of a vicious circle, involving
high and rising sovereign indebtedness, weak banking systems,
excessive fiscal consolidation and lower growth,” OECD Chief
Economist Pier Carlo Padoan wrote in the organization’s semi-
annual report on the global economy.  In the U.S., a report showed that  sales of existing houses 
increased in April for the first time in three months. Purchases
gained 3.4 percent to a 4.62 million annual rate last month.
That beat the  median forecast  of 73 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News for sales to climb 2.9 percent.  China’s Infrastructure Spending  China  plans to speed up approval of infrastructure projects
and allocate construction funding faster to aid growth, the
China Securities Journal reported.  Japan’s sovereign-credit rating was lowered by Fitch
Ratings today because of the nation’s limited progress in
tackling the world’s biggest public-debt burden.  Vodafone gained 4.2 percent to 172 pence. Europe’s largest
mobile-phone company said fourth-quarter service revenue
excluding currency swings and acquisitions increased 2.3
percent. It rose 0.9 percent in the previous quarter. Analysts
had estimated growth of 1.7 percent.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization  in the 12 months through March dropped to 14.5
billion pounds ($23 billion) from 14.7 billion pounds a year
earlier, the company said. The  average estimate  of analysts in a
Bloomberg survey had called for 14.5 billion pounds.  Accor surged 5.8 percent to 26.03 euros, its biggest
advance since November. Europe’s largest hotel operator said it
will sell its budget chain to a fund managed by Blackstone Group
LP for $1.9 billion to pay down debt.  Lafarge, Renault, Fiat  Lafarge SA (LG) ,  the world’s biggest cement maker , rose 5.3
percent to 30.15 euros on speculation that the Chinese
government will accelerate its infrastructure projects. Holcim
SA, the  second-largest cement maker , gained 1.6 percent to 54.90
Swiss francs.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-biggest
maker of cement, added 4.7 percent to 36.87 euros.  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Fiat SpA (F)  rose 6.3 percent to 34.04 euros and
6.4 percent to 3.87 euros, respectively. A gauge of carmakers
posted the biggest rally of the 19 industries in the Stoxx 600.  Rio Tinto Group, the  world’s third-biggest mining company ,
climbed 4 percent to 2,936.5 pence. Copper producer  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED)  gained 3.9 percent to 1,047 pence.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a metal producer in
Kazakhstan, rose 3.2 percent to 476.3 pence. The company plans
to increase iron-ore sales to China by 20 percent this year,
 Alexander Machkevitch , one of the company’s three founders,
said. Sales may climb to more than 6 million metric tons from
about 5 million tons last year, Machkevitch said at a conference
in Astana today.  Banca Carige Jumps  Italy’s  Banca Carige SpA (CRG)  surged 13 percent to 74 euro
cents. The Italian lender said it will create a subsidiary to
manage 353 branches outside the Liguria region. Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA jumped 5.6 percent to 23.02 cents.  CRH Plc (CRH) , the world’s second-biggest building-materials
maker, rose 3.8 percent to 14.35 euros. Credit Suisse Group AG
upgraded the shares to neutral from underperform.  Intermediate Capital Group Plc soared 17 percent to 265.1
pence, its largest gain since 2009 and the biggest rally on the
Stoxx 600. The financier of leveraged buyouts said net income
rose to 188.3 million pounds for the fiscal year ending March 31
from 128.2 million pounds a year earlier.  PostNL NV (PNL)  jumped 12 percent to 2.90 euros after the Dutch
antitrust regulator said the company hasn’t abused its dominant
position in the postal market.  Sonova tumbled 9.9 percent to 84.10 francs. The maker of
Phonak hearing aids reported full-year earnings that missed
 analysts’ estimates  as the strength of the Swiss franc reduced
the  value of sales  from outside its domestic market.  Homeserve Plc (HSV)  plunged 29 percent to 160.9 pence after
saying the Financial Services Authority will investigate
“certain historic issues.” The U.K. provider of emergency-
repair services suspended telephone sales and marketing in
October after a review showed they didn’t meet its standards.  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was
6.4 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  