-- Ex-Egypt Banker Should Pay $350,000 in Assault, Judge Recommends
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-22T00:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/ex-egypt-banker-should-pay-350-000-in-assault-judge-recommends.html
Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar, the former
chairman of  Egypt ’s  Bank of Alexandria  who pleaded guilty to a
misdemeanor charge that he sexually abused a New York hotel
maid, should pay the woman $350,000 in her lawsuit against him,
a federal magistrate judge recommended.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael Dolinger said in a May 18
court filing that Omar is liable for an unprovoked sexual
assault that caused “serious psychological harm” and “long-
term psychic injuries” and should pay $250,000 in compensatory
damages and $100,000 in punitive damages to Doris Offei.  Offei, a native of Ghana and Brooklyn resident, sued Omar
last year in  Manhattan  federal court, alleging he groped her in
his room at the  Pierre Hotel  on May 29. She sought $5 million in
the lawsuit. A default judgment was entered for Offei July 27
after Omar failed to respond to the complaint.  Omar’s conduct “was directed at someone whom he
undoubtedly perceived as vulnerable and hence perhaps compliant
to his wishes or at least fearful of complaining,” Dolinger
said. Omar and Offei have 14 days to object to his report and
recommendation.  Lori Cohen, an attorney for Omar, didn’t immediately return
a voice-mail message seeking comment on Dolinger’s filing after
regular business hours.  Omar was charged with sexual assault and pleaded guilty in
 New York  State court to sexual abuse in the third degree, a
class b misdemeanor. He performed a sentence of five days of
community service at a soup kitchen, Cohen said in June.  The case is Offei v. Omar, 11-4283, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net . 