-- Mexico’s Pena Nieto Keeps Lead as Second Place Undefined: Poll
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-05-22T19:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/mexico-s-pena-nieto-keeps-lead-as-second-place-undefined-poll.html
Mexican presidential candidate
Enrique Pena Nieto maintained his two-digit lead as his two
rivals fought for second place in the latest opinion poll before
the July 1 vote.  Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , known
as PRI, had 37.9 percent of voter preferences, from 38.4 percent
a week ago, according to the poll released today by Consulta
Mitofsky. Support for  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the Party
of the Democratic Revolution rose to 20.5 percent from 19.1
percent, while Josefina Vazquez Mota of the ruling  National
Action Party  had 20.1 percent backing, down from 20.8 percent,
according to the Mexico City-based polling company.  Pena Nieto has maintained his lead even after making public
blunders in early campaigning and after thousands of students
marched against him in Mexico City last weekend. He has
benefited from the fact that there is no clear second-place
candidate to pick up all the votes of people who don’t want the
once-dominant PRI to win, said Roy Campos, who heads Mitofsky.  “When you cannot define second place, there is no
strategic vote,” Campos said in a phone interview in Mexico
City. “The strategic vote is not a vote for whom you want, but
a vote against someone you don’t want.”  Campos said the strategic vote helped President  Felipe Calderon  win the 2006 election because PRI voters who no longer
thought their party would win picked him to prevent Lopez
Obrador gaining the presidency.  The Mitofsky poll of 1,000 people was taken May 18 to May
20 and has a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 