-- Facebook Analysts Who Shunned Herd Now Look Like Heroes
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-05-22T16:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/facebook-existential-moment-begins-with-analysts-30-50-spread.html
Analysts who broke away from the herd
and told investors to avoid  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the biggest initial
public offering ever by a technology company, are looking like
heroes after the stock plunged.  The social networking site lost 19 percent through
yesterday to $34.03 after opening at $42 on May 18. That’s
consistent with warnings from Richard Greenfield of BTIG LLC and
 Brian Wieser  of Pivotal Research Group LLC, who says the stock
will slip as low as $30. It left five firms with bullish calls
predicting an average rally of 36 percent and one,  Tom Forte  of
Telsey Advisory Group, saying shares may rise 47 percent to $50.  Sentiment toward the offering worsened yesterday after
Facebook fell below the $38 price set by underwriters, burning
investors who speculated the Menlo Park, California-based
company would mimic IPOs such as  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , which doubled
on its first day. While bulls forecast benefits as companies
shift advertising to the Internet, Wieser said Facebook’s price
is too high and the path to growth unclear.  “There’s always a risk of buying into excessive hype,
using rules of thumb for valuation that are divorced from
fundamentals,” Wieser, a New York-based analyst at Pivotal,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “There are many things
that really speak to the uncertainty investors should be
incorporating when they’re thinking about Facebook.”  Analyst Disagreement  The range of price estimates compiled by Bloomberg as of
yesterday is wider than normal. At $20, the difference between
the lowest and highest is 59 percent of Facebook’s stock price,
compared with an average of 36 percent for the companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The biggest gap is in Tempe,
Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , an energy technology provider,
at 376 percent of its price, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The wider gap in analysts’ estimates “reflects uncertainty
about a new entity but also that their business model is one
that’s in continual development,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps
manage about $2.9 billion at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,
Illinois, said in a telephone interview. “They own and have
access to a lot of information, but they’re still struggling
with finding an effective way of monetizing that information.”  Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley set an IPO price that
valued the company at 107 times reported  earnings  in the last 12
months, more than every  S&P 500 (SPX)  stock except Seattle-based
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Equity Residential (EQR) , a real estate investment
trust in Chicago. The valuation made Facebook, co-founded in
2004 by Harvard University student  Mark Zuckerberg , the largest
technology IPO of all time.  Nasdaq Barometer  The  Nasdaq 100 Index (NDX) , a barometer for the biggest non-
financial companies in the U.S., trades for 15.5 times reported
earnings, while the S&P 500 has an average  valuation  of 13.3
times profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wieser advises clients to sell and projects Facebook will
fall 12 percent. Greenfield, co-head of fundamental equity
research at New York-based BTIG, says investors should hold.
Five other analysts providing data to Bloomberg rate the stock a
buy, with the highest price estimate from Forte, a director at
Telsey in  New York .  Facebook  increased less than 1 percent to $38.23 on May 18
in a day marred by delays, cancellations and mishandled orders.
 Robert Greifeld , the chief executive officer of New York-based
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , said a “poor design” in software
driving IPO auctions caused the mishaps. The shares fell 11
percent to $34.03 yesterday.  Share Swings  LinkedIn, the Mountain View, California-based professional
networking website, surged 109 percent in its first day on May
19, 2011. Chicago-based  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the largest online coupon
site, rallied 31 percent and  Yelp Inc. (YELP) , a user-generated review
site in San Francisco, climbed 64 percent.  While Facebook’s shares will swing as products are
introduced, the company will gain a bigger share of advertisers’
spending as software that targets customers improves, according
to  Herman Leung , an analyst at Susquehanna International Group
in San Francisco.  Facebook has tried to lessen its dependence on advertising
by dipping into the payments market, which made up 15 percent of
sales last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Whether it’s on the desktop or mobile, people are
spending time on Facebook,” Leung said in a phone interview
yesterday. “As analytics start to get better, advertisers will
start to massively increase the spend.”  Google Competition  Facebook could make more money from charging advertisers
when users click on a video or a song shared by a friend, or
“like” a certain brand, he said. The company’s display-
advertising growth surpassed that of any other website in 2011,
soaring 52 percent, compared with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s 42 percent
increase, according to research firm  Emarketer Inc.  It also had
the  largest share  of that market at 14 percent. Google was in
second place with 13.8 percent.  Facebook may trade at an enterprise value of about 30 times
its 2013 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, based on an estimated $4.1 billion in Ebitda, said
Forte. The company will probably end up with a valuation between
Amazon.com, the world’s largest online retailer, and technology
companies such as LinkedIn, he said.  “We recognized that this would be a richly valued stock
from day one but our view was that there are a handful of other
market leaders in their space that are trading at premium
valuations,” Forte said in a phone interview. He estimates the
stock will climb to $48 or $50 in 12 months. “While it’s been
very exciting and chaotic, it’s way too early to determine.
Ultimately, we believe this will be a successful stock.”  Operating Expenses  Wieser said there’s no way to tell how much spending
advertisers will shift to Facebook. At the same time, operating
expenses have increased as the company orients itself to larger
marketers and brands. So have capital expenditures, which
totaled $606 million last year, compared with $293 million the
year before, and  acquisitions  such as Instagram Inc., which cost
Facebook $1 billion.  “The upside is not meaningful enough to validate a buy
rating,” Greenfield said in a telephone interview. “Investors
should be cautious above $35.”  Facebook’s earnings in the 12 months through March 31 were
$974 million, with sales of more than $4 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Revenue may rise 37 percent to $5.1 billion
this year, according to the average analyst estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. That would be the third straight year of slowing
sales growth.  Dwarfed Sale  The initial share sale dwarfed the 2004 IPO of Google,
which raised $1.9 billion and valued the company then at about
$23 billion. The Mountain View, California-based search-engine
operator now has a market value of more than $200 billion.  Sales at Facebook, which makes most of its money from
graphically based online ads, totaled $3.71 billion last year.
That puts it below the top 50 U.S.  technology companies  by
revenue. Google, with a market value almost twice as high as
Facebook, reported $37.9 billion in revenue last year. Google
jumped 18 percent on its first day of trading in 2004.  With more than 900 million users, Facebook still faces
hurdles in traditional Web advertising. Detroit-based  General
Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s biggest automaker by vehicles sold, said
last week it was halting display ads on Facebook, while
maintaining brand-promotion pages.  Facebook was the 11th U.S. consumer Internet company to go
public in the past year, a stretch that began with LinkedIn.
With a valuation of $104.8 billion at the May 18 close, Facebook
is worth more than three times the other 10 combined. LinkedIn,
a social network for professionals, is second, valued at $10.3
billion.  “It was priced for perfection and we argued that you had
to account for more risks,” Wieser said. “It wasn’t surprising
to us that the stock is coming back to earth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net 
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  