-- Facebook Investor Sues Nasdaq Over Delays in Offering
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/facebook-investor-sues-nasdaq-over-delays-in-offering.html
A  Facebook Inc. (FB)  investor said in a
lawsuit that Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. “badly mishandled” trades
following Facebook’s initial public offering, delaying and
failing to complete customer orders.  Phillip Goldberg, a Maryland investor, said in a complaint
filed yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court that he tried to both
order and cancel requests for Facebook shares through an online
 Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  account the morning after the May 17 IPO.
He is seeking to represent a class of investors who lost money
because their buy, sell or cancellation orders for Facebook
stock weren’t properly processed, according to the filing.  “Orders placed by investors seeking to purchase Facebook
shares during the first trading day often took hours to
execute,” Goldberg said in the complaint. “In the meantime,
the investors seeking to purchase those shares had no idea if
their trades had executed, and, accordingly, had no idea if they
owned Facebook shares at all.”  Goldberg, who claims  Nasdaq  acted negligently, is seeking
unspecified damages. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
has said it will review the opening day of trading in Facebook
shares on Nasdaq. The exchange has blamed poor design in the
software used to drive auctions in IPOs.  ‘Sponsored Stories’  Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq, didn’t return a call
yesterday seeking comment on the suit. Ashley Zandy, a
spokeswoman for Facebook, the world’s biggest social network,
declined to comment on the suit.  Also yesterday, Facebook settled a lawsuit “in principle”
over claims that it used information supplied by users to
advertise products without their consent. Terms of the agreement
weren’t disclosed in a filing in federal court in  San Jose ,
 California .  Facebook was accused in the complaint of appropriating the
names, photographs and identities of users for advertising
endorsements. The company’s “sponsored stories” were a
“misleading advertising scheme” using material posted by
Facebook members on their profile pages, according to the
complaint.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment on the settlement. Jonathan Davis,
a lawyer with the San Francisco-based Arns Law Firm representing
the plaintiffs, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Cancellation Orders  In the Nasdaq case, Goldberg claims that on May 18, he
tried to make a series of limit buy orders through his online
account. The trades failed to execute and he tried to cancel.
Instead of canceling the trades, Goldberg’s account reflected
the cancellation orders as “pending” throughout the day, he
said.  Goldberg said that even with the cancellation orders, one
trade, at $41.23, was executed about three hours after it was
placed, when  Facebook  shares were trading at about $38.  Some investors lost money when their orders to cancel
trades weren’t processed, as Facebook’s share price declined and
buy orders were executed at the higher, earlier prices, Goldberg
claimed. Others weren’t able to determine whether their orders
had been executed, making it impossible to sell the shares and
avoid losses, he said.  Thousands of Investors  Goldberg cited press reports blaming the delays on New
York-based Nasdaq and claiming that as many as 30 million
Facebook shares were affected. He said there are thousands of
investors in the class he seeks to represent in the suit.  Goldberg alleged that Nasdaq was negligent in failing to
ensure trades were executed quickly and correctly, in not
exercising effective quality control and in failing to oversee
employees and contractors involved in executing the trades.  Facebook, which raised $16 billion in its initial public
offering, fell 8.9 percent to $31 yesterday at 5:20 p.m.  New
York  time. The price was $7 below Facebook’s $38 offer price.  The IPO valued the company company at $104 billion.  The case is Goldberg v.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , 12-CV-04054,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  