-- Fed Regional Bank Directors Saw Improvement in Economy
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-22T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/fed-regional-bank-directors-saw-improvement-in-economy.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s
regional banks saw a pickup in the pace of economic growth last
month as housing, motor vehicle sales and  consumer spending 
gained strength.  “Directors noted further improvement in economic activity,
and they anticipated growth would continue at a moderate pace,”
according to minutes released today in  Washington  summarizing
discussions of meetings in April.  Board members of the 12 banks “saw the incoming data on
consumer spending as a bit more robust than they had expected
but cautioned that these gains might be attributable to
unseasonably warm winter weather,” the minutes said.  The minutes covered meetings on April 2 and April 23 by the
 Fed’s Board of Governors  to discuss the discount rate, which the
central bank charges on emergency loans to banks. The Fed kept
the rate unchanged at 0.75 percent. A different Fed panel, the
 Federal Open Market Committee , met April 24-25 and affirmed a
plan to hold  interest rates  near zero at least through late 2014
to spur growth and reduce unemployment.  The minutes of the FOMC meeting in April were released last
week. Policy makers next gather in Washington on June 19-20.  Many of the directors of the Fed’s regional banks, who are
mostly bankers and business executives, “cited downside risks
that included still significant strains in global financial
markets and ongoing domestic fiscal uncertainty,” according to
the minutes.  ‘Strong Performance’  Directors “reported strong performance in sectors related
to agriculture and motor vehicles” and some directors “noted
improvement, albeit gradual and from low levels, in the housing
sector,” according to the minutes.  Recommendations about changing the discount rate, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were the same as in
meetings since December. Members of the Boston Fed’s board of
directors urged a quarter-percentage point discount-rate
reduction, to 0.5 percent, while the Kansas City Fed repeated
its request for a quarter-point rise. The other 10 banks did not
request a change.  Each of the Fed’s 12 regional banks has a nine-member board
of directors that requests discount-rate changes. The requests
are subject to final review and determination by the  Fed Board ,
which consists of the central bank’s five Washington-based
governors. They review requests about every two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  