-- Ford Reclaims ‘Heritage’ With Investment-Grade Rating
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-05-23T20:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/ford-raised-to-investment-grade-by-moody-s-regains-icon.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  was raised to
investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service, enabling
Executive Chairman Bill Ford, great-grandson of the founder, to
reclaim the blue oval logo he put up as collateral for a loan.  “When we pledged the blue oval it was enormously emotional
for me personally and for my family, because we weren’t just
pledging an asset, we were pledging our heritage,” Ford told
reporters yesterday on a conference call. “To get that back
feels wonderful and this is one of the best days I can
remember.”  Moody’s boosted Ford’s senior unsecured ratings two levels
to Baa3 from Ba2 and raised its finance arm, Ford Motor Credit,
to Baa3 from Ba1. Moody’s followed  Fitch Ratings  in assigning an
investment-grade status. With two such ratings, Ford regains
control of the logo and other assets pledged as collateral to
obtain a $23.4 billion loan to keep the business going in 2006.  When the upgrade came,  Bill Ford  said he announced it to
employees on the public-address system normally used for fire
drills in Ford’s Dearborn, Michigan, headquarters. Moody’s had
ranked the second-largest U.S. automaker’s debt as junk since
August 2005. Fitch returned Ford to investment grade last month
after assigning it junk status in December 2005.  “The upgrade of Ford recognizes the strength of the
company’s position in  North America , its robust liquidity
position, and our expectation that the company will continue to
embrace sound operating and financial disciplines,” Moody’s
said in a statement. “We believe that these strengths will
enable Ford to maintain an investment-grade profile in the face
of the sector’s ongoing cyclicality and weakness in the European
market.”  Mulally’s ‘Milestone’  Moody’s said the  outlook  for Ford and Ford Credit is
stable.  For Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , achieving
investment grade removes a burden he inherited when he assumed
the job in September 2006. While Mulally, 66, called the rating
a “milestone,” he didn’t reveal a timetable for retirement.  “This is way up there on the highlight film, for sure,”
Mulally told reporters yesterday. “But it changes none of my
plans to continue to serve this great corporation.”  Ford’s 6.7 year journey from junk to investment grade is
the second longest among companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 
since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only
 Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN) , which fell to speculative grade July 8,
2002, and returned to investment grade Feb. 22, spent longer
with non-investment grade ratings.  Emotional Value  The upgrade will lower Ford’s borrowing costs and its bonds
will now be more widely traded, said Bob Shanks, Ford’s chief
financial officer.  “Operationally, it doesn’t have too much effect,” Shanks
said on the call. “We had pledged the assets, but it hadn’t
affected our operating flexibility to any significant degree.”  The greatest impact is emotional, Bill Ford said. The
automaker pledged all of its major assets, including factories
and its headquarters, as collateral for the 2006 loans, helping
the company avoid the 2009 bankruptcies and bailouts that befell
the predecessors of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  Moody’s yesterday reiterated its Ba1 rating on GM, one
level below investment grade, and a positive outlook.  Ford has repaid more than $21 billion of the loans, Mulally
said in an April 27 interview on Bloomberg Television.  “When we had to hock the blue oval, that was a very tough
thing,” Bill Ford, 55, said in a May 10 interview. “I will
never forget signing those papers. My heart stopped for a
moment. It will start beating again when we get it back.”  Out of Hock  Getting the logo out of hock will signify that Ford’s
comeback is complete,  Lewis Booth , Ford’s former chief financial
officer, said in a Feb. 28 interview with reporters before his
April 1 retirement.  “The psychological impact will be enormous,” Booth said
of reclaiming the company’s logo. “Wherever I am in the world
that day, I shall be celebrating.”  Booth, at his retirement home in  Florida , said through a
spokesman yesterday: “We’re with friends in Naples, about to
open a bottle of champagne. The Ford oval is back where it
belongs, shining brightly.”  After speaking to reporters, Bill Ford gathered employees
on the front lawn of Ford’s headquarters, where they formed
themselves into the shape of the blue oval logo for a photo.  ‘Positive Surprise’  “The timing is somewhat earlier than expected and thus a
positive surprise,”  Itay Michaeli , a New York-based analyst
with Citigroup Inc. who rates Ford a buy, said in a note to
investors. “That an auto company can be upgraded to investment
grade in today’s choppy macro backdrop only supports our view
that ‘new auto’ fundamentals have indeed been established since
the 2008-09 downturn.”  Moody’s said Ford’s North American “break-even level,”
where it can begin making money after covering its costs, has
fallen 45 percent to 1.8 million vehicles today from 3.4 million
in 2009. Shanks said Ford can now make money when industrywide
 sales  in the U.S. fall as low as 10 million vehicles. The pace
of U.S. auto sales in the year’s first quarter was 14.3 million.  “The key factor in our considering an investment-grade
rating for Ford was whether or not the company would be able to
sustain its strong performance,”  Bruce Clark , Moody’s senior
vice president, said in a statement. “We concluded that the
improvements Ford has made are likely to be lasting.”  Fitch, in its April statement, said its upgrade reflected
“improved financial performance,  balance-sheet  repair, and
product-portfolio improvement that have taken place over the
past several years.”  More Work  Ford still has more work to do to improve its balance
sheet, such as reducing automotive debt to $10 billion by mid-
decade from $13.7 billion on March 31, Shanks said.  “We still have nearly $4 billion to go,” Shanks said
today on “The Hays Advantage” on Bloomberg Radio. “I don’t
think we’ll get there in a linear way, but we’re certainly on
our way.”  The automaker has had 12 consecutive profitable quarters
through 2012’s first three months. Ford earned $29.5 billion in
the last three years after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006
through 2008.  Credit-default swaps on Ford dropped by the most this year
after the upgrade.  Contracts on Ford fell 57.3 basis points to a mid-price of
262 basis points as of 4:28 p.m. yesterday in  New York ,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Bonds Rise  The company’s $1.25 billion of 8.125 percent notes maturing
in January 2020 rose 2.5 cents to 130.5 cents on the dollar
today in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt
has climbed from 123 cents on May 21.  Ford bonds will shift to Barclays Plc’s U.S. Corporate
Investment-Grade index at the end of the month and be reflected
in June returns, Brandon Ashcraft, a New York-based spokesman
for the bank, said today in an e-mail.  Ford common  stock  rose 2.2 percent to $10.41 at the close
in New York. The shares have fallen 3.3 percent this year.  While recovering the collateral for the 2006 loan is a
capstone to Mulally’s tenure, Bill Ford reiterated that he can
remain CEO as long as he wants. Ford was Mulally’s predecessor
as CEO, running the automaker from late 2001 until September
2006. Ford said he isn’t going anywhere, either, and will ensure
the company never has to hock to blue oval again.  “I do plan to be here a long time,” Ford said. “And I
can provide some institutional memory and make sure we never do
slide back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  