-- Fracking Regulations Needed to Protect Gas Workers, AFL-CIO Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-05-22T21:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/fracking-regulations-needed-to-protect-gas-workers-afl-cio-says.html
The  AFL-CIO , the biggest U.S. labor
organization, said that hydraulic fracturing -- drilling to free
natural gas and oil from shale rock -- is harmful to workers and
should be monitored by the federal government.  The oil- and gas-extraction industry has a death rate more
than seven times that for all U.S. workers, the group said in a
letter to the  Occupational Safety and Health Administration  and
the  Mine Safety and Health Administration . The U.S. should
identify occupational concerns related to hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, and require medical surveillance of workers and the
monitoring of their exposure to materials used in the process,
the AFL-CIO said.  “A strong effort by the federal safety and health agencies
is needed to work with the industry and involved unions to
ensure that these controls are properly implemented as
employment in this industry sector rapidly grows,” according to
the letter sent today.  Studies have shown high levels of exposure to crystalline
silica in the fracking industry, putting workers at risk of
silicosis,  lung cancer , and other diseases, the AFL-CIO said in
the letter, citing the National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health.  Fracking involves injecting millions of gallons of water,
chemicals and sand thousands of feet underground into shale
formations. Environmental groups say the practice can pollute
drinking water supplies.  The drilling technology has helped boost gas supplies,
driving prices to $1.902 per million British thermal units on
April 19, the lowest in a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  