-- FreePort Founder Sells Diamonds as Investment, China Bet
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-05-23T10:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/freeport-founder-sells-diamonds-as-investment-china-bet.html
Alain Vandenborre, co-founder of The
Singapore FreePort, said he had partnered with Antwerp Diamond
Bank and other companies to sell diamonds as an investment,
targeting increasing wealth in  China  and  India .  Singapore Diamond Exchange Pte Ltd., or SDX, will offer
polished  diamonds  of one carat and up from July 23, with a
minimum price of $250,000 for each portfolio, Vandenborre, the
majority shareholder, said in an interview yesterday. The
broking company will help clients find buyers one year after
their purchase with a 2 percent commission charge, he said.  Global demand for rough diamonds may climb at an annual
average of more than 6 percent in the 10 years ending 2020,
exceeding growth in supply, according to Bain & Co., a
consulting firm based in  Boston . China may surpass the U.S. as
the world’s largest market by the end of 2015 as consumption
increases by 25 percent a year, according to the Antwerp World
Diamond Center in February.  “There are no new mines being found around the world right
now,” said Vandenborre. “There is a consensus in the market,
predicting a significant growth of the diamond pricing because
of this imbalance between supply and demand.”  Jim Rogers , investor and creator of the Rogers
International Commodity Index, said he is chairing the SDX four-
person advisory board.  Asia Billionaires  The number of billionaires in  Asia  rose to 351 last year
from 245 in 2010, says Credit Suisse Group AG. That compares
with 251 in  Europe  and 332 in  North America . Millionaires in
China may represent about 50 percent of the total across 10
major Asian economies by 2015, according to a study by CLSA Asia
Pacific Markets, a brokerage and investment group.  Producers have struggled to find new large mines to replace
aging assets and the last major mine to enter production was  Rio
Tinto  Group’s Diavik in 2003. Production at some of the world’s
biggest mines is falling as supplies of more accessible diamonds
near the surface are depleted.  Rio Tinto (RIO)  and BHP Billiton Ltd.
are seeking to sell their diamond assets.  Slowing economic expansion in China and India may curb
demand. China’s growth, hurt by a property-market slump and
weaker exports, declined to 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
the slowest pace in almost three years. The Indian economy
probably grew 6.9 percent in the year through March 31, the
least since 2009, according to government estimates.  Internally flawless, one-carat diamonds  have dropped  24
percent since the end of 2011 to $15,270 after rising 26 percent
last year, according to PolishedPrices.com. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities has lost 3.6 percent this
year and the MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  has gained 0.2
percent.  ‘Different Valuations’  No companies have had “meaningful” success to-date in
promoting diamonds as investment because of the difficulties in
valuation, the absence of a spot market and lack of liquidity,
said Bain in its report published in December.  “If you have five different people value a particular
diamond, you’ll get five different valuations,” said Edward Sterck, a London-based analyst at Bank of Montreal. “On top of
that there is not a huge amount of liquidity, so once you make
an investment, it’s very difficult to get out of it.”  SDX, which plans to open in  Hong Kong  later this year,
sells only diamonds certified by the  Gemological Institute of
America  at wholesale prices, said Vandenborre. IDEX Online, a
diamond-selling platform, Malca-Amit Global Ltd. and Antwerp
Diamond Bank are providing services to the company’s clients.  Belgian-born Vandenborre, 51, became a Singaporean citizen
10 years ago, he said. He co-founded The  Singapore  FreePort with
the government and chairman Yves Bouvier. Vandenborre said that
while he has a 10 percent stake in the company operating the
FreePort, he relinquished his executive role and stepped down
from the board earlier this year.  The facilities, near Changi Airport, opened in 2010 as a
free-trade zone and offer maximum-security storage services for
valuables including wines, fine arts and gold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 