-- Gasoline Falls on Concern Europe Debt Crisis May Spread
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-05-22T20:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/gasoline-fluctuates-on-concern-europe-debt-crisis-may-spread.html
Gasoline fell as  Japan ’s sovereign-
credit rating was lowered and the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said  Europe ’s debt crisis risks
damaging the global economy.  Futures declined as  Fitch Ratings  cited limited progress by
Japan in addressing its public debt for the one-step downgrade
to A+ with a negative outlook. The OECD, which advises its 34-
member nations on economic policy, left the group’s 2012
forecast unchanged while reducing its outlook for the euro area.  “The downgrade for Japan was bearish,” said  Phil Flynn ,
vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “June crude
is also going off the board today and contributing to
volatility.”  Gasoline for June delivery fell 0.31 cent to settle at
$2.937 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the first
loss in three days.  A worsening of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis “may
materialize and spill over outside the euro area with very
serious consequences for the global economy,” OECD Chief
Economist Pier Carlo Padoan wrote in the organization’s
semiannual report on the global economy.  “In the back of people’s heads, they’re worried about
Europe and demand destruction,” said Fred Rigolini, vice
president of Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  The remarks come as European Union leaders are preparing to
gather in Brussels tomorrow to discuss how to revive growth and
address a political impasse in Greece, where voters rejected
austerity measures in elections on May 6.  China Growth  Futures rose earlier as a leading economic index for  China 
rose at the same pace in April as the prior month, increasing
optimism that the world’s second-biggest economy may avoid a
deeper slowdown. The gauge climbed 0.8 percent from March to
232.4, the New York-based Conference Board said.  The report comes a day after China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao 
pledged to focus more on bolstering growth, easing concern the
world’s second-largest economy is slowing.  “The China news is supporting,” Flynn said.  In Europe, U.K. inflation slowed more than forecast in
April, with consumer prices rising 3 percent from a year
earlier, down from 3.5 percent in March, the Office for National
Statistics said. European leaders will do “everything
necessary” to keep  Greece  in the 17-nation euro currency system
and focus on steps to aid economic expansion, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday.  “It’s a mixed bag of news out of Europe and the downgrade
of Japan by Fitch and the OECD are negative factors,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford , Connecticut.  Gasoline Demand  Gasoline demand  rose 1.2 percent in the week ended May 11
and  supplies  fell to the lowest since November even as refiners
boosted utilization rates 1.9 percentage points to 88.3 percent,
according to Energy Department data. Gasoline exports averaged
411,000 barrels a day, more than double the 200,000-barrel-a-day
 average  from a year earlier.  The department will probably report tomorrow that
stockpiles fell 650,000 barrels last week, according to the
median estimate of 12 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg news.
Refinery rates increased 0.3 percentage point.  “We’re calling for across-the-board declines in
inventories,” McGillian said. “If they continue to increase
refinery utilization and we continue to see falling product
inventories, it seems there may be stronger export demand than
people had projected.”  Pump Prices  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,  fell  0.9
cent to $3.68 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. It was the
lowest level since Feb. 24. Gasoline is down 6.5 percent since
reaching a 2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  Diesel and heating oil supplies probably sank 500,000
barrels, according to the survey. Demand for heating oil and
diesel shrank 7.8 percent to 3.65 million barrels a day in the
week ended May 11, according to department data. Inventories
slipped 969,000 barrels to 119.8 million, the lowest level since
June 2008.  June-delivery heating oil rose 0.11 cent to settle at
$2.8614 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  