-- Gemalto Sees Doubling of Business in Cards That Beam Cash
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-05-22T09:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/gemalto-sees-doubling-of-business-in-cards-that-beam-cash.html
Gemalto NV (GTO) , the inventor of smart-
card chips, may double its business that lets consumers use
mobile phones and bank cards to beam payments without a touch,
Chief Executive Officer Olivier Piou said.  Gemalto has capacity to add 50 contracts to design smart
cards with near-field communications technology, a way devices
can communicate at short ranges, Piou said in an interview in
Paris. The Amsterdam-based company ended the first quarter with
50 such projects for companies including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Banks, phone network operators and credit companies have
started to introduce payment devices that people can hover over
a cash register instead of swiping. Near-field communications
may rejuvenate the smart card industry, as the prices of chips
have been declining in recent years because the mainstream
technology is based on a standard that’s 20 years old.  “We realized the market was exploding way beyond what we
had expected,” said Piou, who has been CEO for six years.
“We’re headed for a market with potentially thousands of
clients.”  NFC chips, which can also let consumers receive coupons
electronically, are worth as much as 10 times more than the
standard SIM cards that contain mobile-phone data, Piou said.  One in five new smartphones will be NFC-enabled by 2014,
which amounts to about 300 million units, Juniper Research
estimates. Operators will introduce the service in 20 countries
before the end of the year, mostly in western  Europe  and  North
America , according to Juniper.  Carrier Expansion  Gemalto had 20 NFC projects in the third quarter and 45 by
year-end, as carriers plan further expansion. Competitors
include smart-card maker Giesecke & Devrient GmbH, chipmaker  NXP
Semiconductor NV (NXPI) , and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which has mobile-wallet
software for NFC-enabled phones.  Gemalto’s focus on NFC started bearing fruit in the second
half of last year, Piou said. The company’s share price has
followed. Gemalto shares have jumped more than 60 percent since
July. The stock rose as much as 2.6 percent today, and traded
1.6 percent higher at 53.40 euros at 11:25 a.m. in Paris.  Carriers are starting to warm up to NFC after a slow start.
 France ’s largest phone company  France Telecom SA (FTE)  forecast in
March it would sell 3 million NFC mobiles in Europe this year
and 10 million in 2013, compared to 500,000 units last year. In
the U.S.,  AT&T Inc (T) ,  Verizon Communications Inc (VZ)  and T-Mobile USA
Inc. have teamed up through a joint venture dubbed ISIS, which
is also a Gemalto client.  Higher Prices  “For years, carriers tried to squash prices because they
couldn’t figure out how to generate revenue from a SIM card,”
Piou said. “With NFC, they’re rediscovering it can be a
valuable tool, and they’re willing to pay more for it.”  Consumers will buy 1.5 billion mobile phones worldwide this
year and about 3.9 billion were sold over the past three years,
according to consultants at Montpellier, France-based Idate
Digiworld. Each phone needs a SIM card to function.  Gemalto sold a “few million” units of NFC chips last
year. The company introduced a card this year tested by
 Mastercard Inc. (MA) ,  Visa Inc. (V)  and  American Express Co. (AXP)  The card
works like a skeleton key, storing and protecting a user’s
credentials for phoning, banking or taking public transportation
in one place.  Banks are also interested.  Credit Agricole , France’s third-
biggest lender by market value, in January signed up to use
Gemalto’s Optelio contactless banking card in France. The card
can be used with a payment system where users wave or tap it in
front of a contactless reader at the point of sale for purchases
under 20 euros ($25.60).  ‘Really Big Guys’  “We’re picky when it comes to accepting contracts,” Piou
said. “We can afford that luxury. We’ve focused on the biggest
clients and said yes only to the really big guys.”  JPMorgan said in February that Gemalto would manage the
credit and debit card data of its customers for contactless
payments.  Gemalto, which employs more than 10,000 people and holds
6,000 patents, has forecast 300 million euros in operating
profit in 2013, compared with 238.6 million euros in 2011
excluding assets the company is holding for sale.  Analysts estimate 2012 sales will gain 8 percent to 2.17
billion euros and net income will rise 28 percent to 205 million
euros, based on estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company gets about half its sales from its mobile unit,
which makes cards for mobile phones and sells software and
services to network operators. The company also provides digital
security services to banks, governments and transit systems.  Sales of the mobile phone division grew 12 percent in the
first quarter to 235.2 million euros. The unit’s sales had
dropped 2.4 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  