-- Germany to Borrow for Free at Two-Year Sale Amid Crisis
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-22T14:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/germany-to-borrow-for-free-at-two-year-sale-amid-crisis.html
Germany  will borrow for free at a
sale of two-year government notes tomorrow, betting it can lure
buyers seeking a haven from the  European debt crisis .  Germany, the only country in the euro area with a stable
outlook on its AAA rating, will sell as much as 5 billion euros
($6.4 billion) of two-year notes carrying a zero-percent coupon,
a record low, Bundesbank data showed today. That’s down from a
fixed interest payment of 0.25 percent at the previous sale of
similar-maturity notes on April 18.  “This reflects extreme  risk aversion  in the market,” said
Marchel Alexandrovich, a senior economist at Jefferies Group
Inc., one of 39 institutions that deal directly with Germany’s
debt agency. “While investors await a clearer picture of where
the euro project is heading, the main investment criteria in
this region is to get your money back rather than making a
profit. That’s why Germany can borrow at these rates.”  German  borrowing costs  have plunged to the lowest on record
amid mounting concern that  Greece  will exit the currency area
following an inconclusive election on May 6. Yields on German
two-, five-, 10- and 30-year securities slid to records at the
end of last week after Moody’s Investors Service lowered the
credit ratings of 16 Spanish banks.  EU Meeting  The yield on Germany’s two-year note climbed almost two
basis points to 0.06 percent at 2:17 p.m.  London  time, having
tumbled to 0.031 percent on May 18. The yield on  Spain ’s two-
year security dropped 15 basis points today to 4.06 percent.
Two-year U.K. gilts yield 0.31 percent, with similar-maturity
U.S. Treasury notes at 0.30 percent.  The note sale will take place on the same day European
Union leaders meet in Brussels to discuss how to revive growth
and grapple with a political impasse in Greece.  Bonds issued by Germany, the region’s largest economy,
returned 1.6 percent this month, compared with a 0.9 percent
gain for French debt and a 1.2 percent loss from Italian
securities, according to indexes by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds lost
2.7 percent, the indexes showed.  Greek Recession  “Investors are willing to pay a safe-haven premium to hold
our bonds, and that explains some of the historically low
yields,” Carl Heinz Daube, managing director of Germany’s
Federal Finance Agency in  Frankfurt , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Investors are searching for German
bonds because of what our government did. Germany is showing
some economic strength, good tax revenues and lower benefit
spending.”  The average yield on German bonds dropped to 1.43 percent
on May 17, the lowest since at least 1992, according to
Bloomberg and EFFAS indexes. A post-Greek-election poll of 1,253
Bloomberg subscribers found 57 percent expect at least one
country to leave to monetary union this year.  Greece is in the fifth year of a recession that has been
amplified by austerity measures linked to its international aid,
with the  unemployment rate  reaching 21.7 percent in February. A
caretaker government was sworn in last week to lead the country
to new elections on June 17 after an inconclusive poll on May 6
propelled the Syriza party, which wants to annul the bailout,
into second place.  “Tomorrow will be a historical event,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole SA in
London. “The euro is at a crossroads, and we are in the tensest
period of the crisis that we have seen yet. Against that
backdrop, investors’ sentiment of return of capital rather than
return on capital prevails.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  