-- German State Approves Draft Law to Wind Down Bailed Out WestLB
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-05-22T16:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/german-state-approves-draft-law-to-wind-down-bailed-out-westlb.html
The German state of North Rhine-
Westphalia has approved a draft law to split up and wind down
WestLB AG as ordered by the European Union following the state-
owned lender’s bailout during the global financial crisis.  North Rhine-Westphalia’s government is “setting the legal
course in a timely manner for WestLB’s overhaul” as prescribed
by the EU’s antitrust regulator, Norbert Walter-Borjans, the
state’s finance minister, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The EU has ordered WestLB to sell or transfer assets to a
so-called bad bank by June 30. The German federal government is
concerned the bank may miss the deadline, Handelsblatt reported
May 18, citing a letter from Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter to WestLB’s owners.  North Rhine-Westphalia’s parliament is scheduled to vote on
the plan in June, the state’s government said. The minister is
“confident” that the parties negotiating the breakup of the
lender will answer questions related to valuation and
responsibilities in the allotted time, the state government
said.  Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen and a group of German savings
banks plan to acquire WestLB’s Verbundbank unit, which conducts
business with savings banks and medium-sized corporate clients.
Two North Rhine-Westphalian savings banks groups that partly own
WestLB will take on the unit’s pension obligations, the state
said.  Pending parliament’s approval, WestLB’s bad bank, Erste
Abwicklungsanstalt, will wind down additional assets, according
to the statement. The state will be responsible for WestLB’s
employees and other assets and liabilities, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  