-- Germans Afraid of Greek Anger Avoid Vacations in Blow to Economy
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b ,   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-05-22T22:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/germans-afraid-of-greek-anger-avoid-vacations-in-blow-to-economy.html
German taxi driver Rudolf Kugel, who
says he’s visited  Greece  more times than he can count, won’t be
going again anytime soon to the Mediterranean sunspot because
he’s concerned about the reaction of local people.  “They hold Germans responsible for all their misery,”
said the 62-year-old from near Stuttgart. “You want to go on
holiday to have a comfortable break, not to be lynched.”  It’s thinking like Kugel’s which has contributed to
declines of as much as a third in bookings from Germans planning
their summer break in Greece, according to  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  and
 TUI AG (TUI1) , which owns Europe’s biggest travel company. Their
avoidance is further hampering Greece’s economic woes.  Tourism is Greece’s biggest industry, accounting for almost
16 percent of the country’s gross domestic product in 2011, and
almost one in five jobs, according to the London-based  World
Travel and Tourism Council . The 2.2 million Germans who visited
Greece last year represented the biggest national group at 13.6
percent of the total, according to the Hellenic Statistical
Authority, ahead of the British at 10.7 percent.  Germany has increasingly become a target of criticism in
Greece, which is struggling to enact structural changes needed
to receive an international bailout and pull itself out of a
recession. The country is preparing for June 17 elections after
an inconclusive May 6 ballot.  Some Greek politicians have evoked memories of the
country’s Nazi occupation during World War II following
 Germany ’s insistence that Greek adhere to the terms of the
bailout agreement. The turmoil in the southern European country
has led to speculation that it may leave the euro.  ‘Big Brothers’  The leader of Greece’s Syriza Party, Alexis Tsipras, urged
Germans during a visit to Berlin yesterday to show their
solidarity in picking his country for their summer vacation.
Tsipras has pledged to rip up the terms of Greece’s rescue and
halt the austerity measures already agreed with creditors.  “You’ll experience hospitality that is always warm-
hearted, to Germans certainly,” said Tsipras, whose party led a
recent poll of voting intentions for June 17 elections. “We
believe our country is part of a great family --and you’re our
big brothers.”  The Germans need encouragement. Revenue from German
tourists declined 61 percent to 10.3 million euros in February,
the most recent month for which there is data available, while
there were 12.7 percent fewer arrivals from Europe’s biggest
economy compared with the previous year, the  Bank of Greece (TELL)  said
April 25.  Election Obstacle  “At the moment I would not go on holidays to Greece,”
Gerda Lambert, 62, said in  Frankfurt  yesterday. “I want to
relax on my holidays and due to the political tensions in Greece
right now, it is not certain that I could do that.”  The downward trend in bookings has resumed after a slight
resurgence in March, according to Anja Braun, a Hanover,
Germany-based spokeswoman for TUI.  “Ever since the discussions about an exit from the  euro
zone  started and the election at the start of May, bookings to
Greece have slowed down again,” she said by telephone. “At the
very beginning, in November, they were down about 30 percent.”  The declines have been echoed at Air Berlin,  Europe ’s
third-biggest discount carrier, which has carried 30 percent
fewer passengers to Greece this year from Germany, Chief
Executive Officer Hartmut Mehdorn said yesterday.  Some Germans’ concerned were fueled last week after a 78-
year-old Dutchman was reported by state news agency ANA to have
been hospitalized after an attack by two men in southern Greece
who mistook him for a German.  ‘Want Them Back’  “I don’t think that Greeks want to attack Germans,” said
53-year-old Kostas Dimitrokalis, who owns five hotels in
Santorini, an island formed from the remnants of a caldera 125
miles southeast of the Greek mainland. “It is all just words in
the newspapers, nothing serious. Greeks don’t hate Germans.”  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest carrier and
Germany’s largest, hasn’t seen any significant decline in
traffic to  Athens , its only Greek destination, according to
Frankfurt-based spokesman Boris Ogursky.  “We carry predominantly businessmen, with some
holidaymakers, but just to Athens, not to the Greek islands as
Air Berlin does,” he said.  Hotel-owner Dimitrokalis is hopeful that the political
tension will be resolved soon and has one overwhelming sentiment
toward the Germans: “We want them to come back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  