-- Going Over U.S. ‘Fiscal Cliff’ May Mean Recession: CBO
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-05-22T22:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/going-over-u-s-fiscal-cliff-may-mean-recession-cbo.html
The  U.S. economy  will probably tip
back into recession next year if Congress doesn’t address an
impending “fiscal cliff,” the  Congressional Budget Office 
said.  The nonpartisan agency said in a  report  today that the
economy would contract at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the
first half of 2013 if lawmakers allow the George W. Bush-era tax
cuts to expire as scheduled and don’t head off $1.2 trillion in
government  spending  cuts set to begin taking effect in January.  The economy would resume growing in the second half of next
year, CBO said, at an annual rate of 2.3 percent.  “Such a contraction in output in the first half of 2013
would probably be judged to be a recession” according to past
recessions as identified by the  National Bureau of Economic
Research , CBO said.  “Policy makers face difficult tradeoffs in deciding how
quickly to implement policies to reduce budget deficits,” the
report said. “Particularly important given the current state of
the economy, immediate spending cuts or tax increases would
represent an added drag on the weak economic expansion.”  Lawmakers in both parties have said they don’t plan to
allow all of the tax increases or spending cuts to take effect
as scheduled, though there is no agreement on how to address
them.  House Republicans  are calling for cuts in food stamps and
other programs for the poor to prevent cuts in Pentagon
spending. Democrats reject that proposal.  November Election  Both sides are waiting until after the November election
for serious negotiations. Even then, lawmakers probably will
wait until next year to resolve the tax and spending issues,
House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin  and the
panel’s top Democrat,  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , agreed last
week at a budget conference in Washington.  “It is clear that we need to act and we must do so in a
balanced way -- that is why Democrats support the extension of
tax cuts only for the middle class,” Van Hollen said in a
statement today. He called on Republicans to “put the needs of
all American families before millionaires and big  oil
companies .”  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican on the tax-
writing Finance Committee, said Obama “seems content to pursue
misguided micro-policies that target the so-called rich in the
name of so-called fairness.”  ‘Self-Anointed Arbiters’  In a Senate floor speech, Hatch said voters “don’t want
politicians spreading the wealth around. They don’t want self-
anointed arbiters of how much income is fair.”  The CBO said the economy would grow by around 4.4 percent
and add 2 million jobs next year if lawmakers rescind all of the
automatic spending cuts and extend the tax cuts.  That would add more than $500 billion to the  U.S. budget
deficit  between 2012 and 2013, the agency said. Without some
plan to address the debt, that would increase the risk of a
crisis, CBO said.  “Growing debt also would increase the likelihood of a
sudden fiscal crisis, during which investors would lose
confidence in the government’s ability to manage its budget and
the government would lose its ability to borrow at affordable
rates,” the agency said.  The challenge for lawmakers is to reduce the long-term
fiscal imbalance without hurting the economy through sudden
changes, said  Donald Marron , a former acting director of CBO.  “The optimal policy is to commit yourself to deficit
reduction in the future while not doing very much of it next
year,” Marron said. “It’s hard to distinguish that sincere
policy from the ‘just kick the can down the road, I don’t really
mean it’ policy.”  To contact the reporter on this
story: Brian Faler in  Washington  at   bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible
for this story: Jodi Schneider at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net  