-- Gol Cuts Jobs for Elusive Profit Seen as Years Away
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-05-22T23:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/gol-cuts-jobs-for-elusive-profit-seen-as-years-away.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
Brazil’s second-biggest airline, is accelerating reductions in
jobs and flights to avoid falling further behind  Tam SA (TAMM4) , whose
pending acquisition will create the world’s  largest carrier  by
market value.  Fuel-guzzling jets and a struggle to raise fares underscore
Gol’s challenges, said  Pedro Galdi , SLW Corretora de Valores e
Cambio analyst. Gol was the lone Latin American airline with a
first-quarter loss, and the only one with a negative operating
margin in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Their aggressiveness in the past few years got out of
hand,” Galdi said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo,
where Gol is based. “They have to cut into the flesh and take a
few steps back.”  Tam’s purchase by Chile’s  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) , which is due to
close next month, threatens to increase pressure on Gol, which
already was filling fewer seats on its planes. Even without that
threat from a Brazilian rival, Gol faced weaker demand and a
drag from the decline of the Brazilian real against the dollar.  “There are a number of measures we can take that could
help us have a much better performance than what we had last
year,” Chief Financial Officer Leonardo Pereira said in an
interview at the Rio Investors Day 2012 conference in Rio de
Janeiro. “Our priority is profitability, not market share.”  New Environment  Gol dismissed 131 flight crew members, four directors and
26 managers in April, citing a “new operational capacity and
economic environment” before it reported a first-quarter loss
of 41.4 million reais ($20.3 million). The airline also
eliminated 80 flights from a daily schedule of about 900.  More flight cuts are a possibility, and 1,200 jobs are
being trimmed from a workforce of about 20,500 people “mainly
by not replacing employees leaving the company,” Pereira said.  Gol has more than doubled its capacity in the past five
years, with more than 90 percent of available seats on domestic
routes, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . Its market
share on flights within  Brazil  was 34 percent at the end of the
first quarter, down from 37 percent in March 2007, according to
Anac, Brazil’s civil aviation regulator.  Operating results show the pinch on Gol’s finances in an
air-travel market where traffic growth overwhelmed airport
infrastructure in recent years, triggering widespread delays and
disruptions.  Declining Yields  Yields, or the average fare for each kilometer flown,  rose
2.5 percent  to 0.2025 real in the first quarter, while still
lagging behind Tam’s 0.2310 real, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Gol’s full-year yield in 2011 was lower than in 2006,
the data show.  “Tam and Gol fought a fare war that was very harmful to
both, but especially to Gol, which flies mainly domestic
routes,” SLW’s Galdi said. “And all that was happening within
an environment of banana-cheap prices, falling demand and chaos
in airports.”  As yields slumped and Gol’s capacity grew, the share of
seats filled on each plane fell. First-quarter  load factor 
dropped three percentage points to 67.9 percent, only 0.2
percentage point more than Gol’s break-even level, according a
May 17 presentation later sent to Brazil’s securities and
exchanges regulator, known as CVM.  Gol spent 0.0680 real on fuel for each seat flown a
kilometer last quarter, topping Tam’s 0.0640 real. Fuel
accounted for 44 percent of Gol’s costs, compared with 39
percent for Tam.  ‘Identity Conflict’  “Tam has always had higher costs and thus needed to worry
about it, and prepared itself better for rough times,” Leonardo Nitta, a  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  analyst in  Sao Paulo , said in a
telephone interview. “Gol faced an identity conflict, and is
realizing just now what needs to be done and is starting to do
it.”  Gol once was a favorite with Brazilian investors because
its low-cost, low-fare strategy helped win business last decade.
It switched its approach, purchasing VRG Linhas Aeras SA, or
Varig, in 2007 to add flights outside the country, then
abandoned the routes a year later.  Buying domestic carrier Webjet Linhas Aereas SA in August
to serve Sao Paulo’s Congonhas airport brought Gol some
operational challenges: the smaller airline’s 28 aging, less-
efficient  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-300s.  Older Planes  That model went out of production in 1999, and some of the
Webjet planes are more than 21 years old. Until the Webjet
acquisition, Gol’s 737s were all  newer versions  that Boeing says
can fly higher, farther, faster and on less fuel than the -300
variant. Gol has 120 planes, all of them Boeings.  After Gol’s 2004 initial public offering, the shares more
than doubled, reaching 82.8 reais in 2006. The stock plunged 6.3
percent today, closing at 9.32 reais, the lowest in almost 10
months. Tam rose 0.2 percent to 41.27 reais. Year to date, Gol
fell 25 percent, while Tam rose 16 percent and Brazil’s
benchmark Bovespa index declined 3 percent.  Tam will be delisted once Lan completes the acquisition via
a share-swap offer than runs through June 11. The combined
airline’s market value will be about $12 billion, vaulting it
past  Air China Ltd. (753)  and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)   Moody’s Investors Service reduced Gol’s  debt rating  by two
grades to B3 from B1 on April 19, citing weaker-than-expected
operating performance in 2011 and weak prospects for 2012. Gol
can’t weather “continued high fuel prices” and is vulnerable
to a real that is losing value against the dollar.  Dollar Debt  More than 90 percent of Gol’s lease-adjusted debt and more
than 55 percent of operating expenses are denominated in
dollars, Moody’s said. The real fell 8.6 percent against the
dollar this year before today, the most among major currencies.  “The currency affects our accounting but not our cash
position, since we don’t have any down payment in dollars due
before 2017,” CFO Pereira said.  Gol is playing catch-up with revenue-boosting steps taken
in the last decade at carriers around the world, such as
expanding third-party maintenance work and charging for inflight
meals. So-called ancillary revenue rose 2.7 percent in the first
quarter, to 241.8 million reais, or about 12 percent of the
total, according to Gol’s latest earnings report.  Smiles, Gol’s frequent-flier program, may be spun off this
year, as occurred with Tam’s loyalty-rewards business,
 Multiplus (MPLU3) , in 2010. Gol hired  Boston Consulting Group  to study
whether to sell the unit’s shares in an IPO, without committing
to such a course.  Gol expects a rebound to start this quarter, the first
period in which the airline will be able to show the benefits of
its flight and job cuts, even in a seasonally weak period for
the  airline industry , CFO Pereira said.  “I believe it will be better than last year,” Pereira
said. That was the period when Gol posted its lowest  quarterly
sales  of 2011, and a loss of 358.7 million reais.  Nitta of Banco do Brasil agreed that second-quarter results
may show evidence of a turnaround, without being enough to
prevent another annual loss in 2012. SLW’s Galdi said winning
back the investor trust Gol once enjoyed will take even longer
than that.  “It’s a matter of years, not quarters,” Galdi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  