-- Warriors Returning to San Francisco With New Arena for 2017
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-05-22T20:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/golden-state-warriors-returning-to-san-francisco-after-41-years.html
The  Golden State Warriors  are
returning to their former home in San Francisco with a plan to
build a privately financed arena on the city’s waterfront.  The multipurpose venue would stand on Piers 30-32, just
south of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, and would open in
time for the 2017-18 National Basketball Association season,
team owners Joe Lacob and  Peter Guber  said at a news conference
today attended by NBA Commissioner  David Stern , San Francisco
Mayor Edwin Lee and Warriors players past and present.  “This arena is about winning, on the court and for our
fans,” said Lacob, managing partner at the  Menlo Park ,
California-based venture capital  firm  Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers. “It’s going to happen. We will be here in 2017.”  The Warriors have played for 41 years at Oracle Arena in
Oakland on a lease that runs out in 2017, Lacob said. Its  San
Francisco  land deal provides for long-term leases on the 13-acre
pier, envisioned as the arena site, as well as a parcel across
the Embarcadero roadway that has previously been considered for
condominiums, offices and shops.  The Warriors would pay for seismic and structural
improvements to the pier, estimated at $75 million to $100
million, and could use proceeds from developing the parcel to
offset costs, Jennifer Matz, the city’s development director,
said in an interview.  Environmental Review  Specific design and land-use plans still must pass
environmental review by the city and the California State Lands
Commission. That panel chairman is Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom, a former San Francisco mayor, who spoke in support of
the project.  The San Francisco Giants baseball team, which privately
financed a nearby stadium that opened in 2000, “have proven
that it can be done very well,” Lacob said before an invited
crowd that included San Francisco’s police and fire chiefs,
former Warriors player Nate Thurmond and former coach Al Attles,
who led the franchise to the NBA title in 1975.  Guber, chairman of Mandalay Entertainment Group, likened
the San Francisco arena concept to a “21st century campfire,”
with technology connecting spectators to action on the court.
Arenas that seat as many as 20,000 spectators have proven
successful around the NBA because they can also host
entertainment and conventions as well as sports events, Stern
said.  “That would be huge for San Francisco,” Stern said in an
interview.  Seismic Analysis  City officials believe improving the decrepit pier won’t
exceed $100 million because of a seismic and structural analysis
“suitable for a gold-plated project” that was done by  Oracle (ORCL) 
Corp.’s Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  in connection with
a possible venue for the 2013 America’s Cup, Matz said.  The Warriors won two championships playing in Philadelphia
between 1946 and 1962, and Wilt Chamberlain set an NBA record by
scoring 100 points in one of the team’s games against the  New
York Knicks  in the final season. The franchise relocated to San
Francisco in 1962 and Oakland in 1971. The 1975 championship
team included Hall of Famers Rick Barry and Jamaal Wilkes.  The Warriors went 23-43 this past season, the third-worst
record in the Western Conference.  The  National Football League ’s San Francisco 49ers are
moving to  Santa Clara , located about 45 miles south of San
Francisco, in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  