-- Google Void Seen as Opportunity for China Mobile App Store: Tech
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-23T11:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/google-void-seen-as-opportunity-for-china-mobile-app-store-tech.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system runs two-thirds of the smartphones sold in China yet the
company’s online  app store , Google Play, isn’t open for business
there because of censorship concerns. That’s creating an
opportunity for  China Mobile Ltd. (941)   The world’s biggest phone company by subscribers opened its
 Mobile Market  store for Android apps in 2009, and it now has 158
million registered users. Customers have downloaded more than
630 million apps, making Mobile Market the world’s largest
carrier-operated app store, said Jack Kent of IHS Screen Digest.  The success of Mobile Market comes at a welcome juncture
for the wireless giant, fueling  revenue  growth as its core
business matures. China Mobile competes with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s App
Store in a nation where Analysys International said mobile
applications and services are set to jump 80 percent to 220
billion yuan ($35 billion) this year as cheaper smartphones make
surfing the Web more affordable.  “Without having to compete with the official Google store,
China Mobile has an opportunity that operators in other
countries don’t have,” said Kent, a London-based analyst.
“China Mobile’s relationship with subscribers leaves it well-
placed to take advantage.”  The carrier’s data services business, including Mobile
Market, jumped 15 percent last year to 139.3 billion yuan,
compared with an 8.8 percent growth in total  sales .  Facebook, Twitter  China Mobile shares fell 0.8 percent to HK$81.90 in  Hong
Kong  trading today, trimming the gains this year to 7.9 percent.  Shipments of smartphones in China are projected to jump 52
percent this year to 137 million units, overtaking the U.S. for
the first time as the world’s biggest market, according to a
March estimate from market researcher IDC.  Phones running Android accounted for 68 percent of sales in
the fourth quarter, while Apple’s iPhone made up 5.7 percent,
according to Beijing-based Analysys International. Apple’s
online store generated about $2.9 billion in global app sales
last year, compared with about $618 million for Google, Kent
estimated.  “The reason we care about this business is that it can
help drive or promote our other businesses,”  China  Mobile’s
Chief Executive Officer Li Yue said in a May 16 interview. “If
a developer makes a very good app, then it will help boost
traffic on our network and help our growth that way.”  All Web content in China is censored, and that control
extends to online stores selling apps, games and e-books. Both
Mobile Market and Apple’s Chinese-language store, which takes
payment in local currency, abide by government censorship
restrictions and don’t offer apps to access the blocked websites
of Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc. and YouTube Inc.  Google Censorship  Google said in January 2010 it was no longer willing to
self-censor content for Chinese services, so it shuttered its
local search page and redirected users to a Hong Kong site. Taj
Meadows, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Google, declined to comment
on why Google Play was unavailable in China. The store has more
than 450,000 apps and games, the company said in March.  China Mobile’s store has 68,663 apps, compared with 560,957
for Apple, said Sun Peilin, a researcher at Analysys
International. Mobile Market’s offerings include Instagram
Inc.’s photo-sharing and editing software, and Rovio
Entertainment Oy’s Angry Birds, Angry Birds Seasons and Angry
Birds Space.  China Mobile’s sales from applications and information
services grew 12 percent to 48.4 billion  yuan  last year,
accounting for 9.2 percent of total sales and overtaking  text
messages  as the company’s biggest source of data revenue.  Drive Traffic  That total includes 22 billion yuan from mobile music, 1.5
billion yuan from mobile e-mail services, 627 million yuan from
e-books and 571 million yuan from mobile videos, according to
the company’s annual report.  Mobile Market has become the world’s largest Chinese-
language application software platform, Li said.  Sales from the Mobile Market last year were about 23
million yuan, though the traffic generated by app downloads
among China Mobile’s 667.2 million mobile-phone subscribers is
more important to the carrier, Li said.  China Mobile is forecast to post its third straight year of
 sales  growth after reporting revenue gains of at least 10
percent from the time of its 1997 Hong Kong listing through
2009. Sales growth may slow to 7 percent this year, according to
the average of 31 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Unicom, Telecom  China Mobile isn’t the only local company looking to fill
the Google gap for Android apps. Analysys International tracks
13 major app stores in China, including from carriers  China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  and  China Telecom Corp. (728) , and device
makers including  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)   “We see a lot of competition in the app store space in
China,” said Lisa Soh, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Macquarie
Group Ltd. “The competition in app platforms is likely to mean
it will be more difficult to monetize.”  One thing that may help China Mobile generate sales is that
it offers the highest percentage of paid apps versus free apps
among all stores in China, Sun said. Mobile Market charges for
91 percent of its apps, while China Unicom charges for 77
percent and Apple’s for 48 percent.  Many games in China Mobile’s shop are offered in local
currency prices that range from the equivalent of 50 cents to
$1.50.  “A couple of years ago, everyone began to realize how huge
Apple’s App store was becoming and wanted into that market,”
said Neil Juggins, a Hong Kong-based analyst at JI Asia Research
Ltd.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  