-- Greece’s Tsipras Appeals to German Taxpayers for Help in Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-22T14:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/greece-s-tsipras-appeals-to-german-taxpayers-for-help-in-crisis.html
Greece ’s Syriza party leader Alexis Tsipras appealed to German taxpayers to help Greece grapple with
economic and fiscal crisis.  “Until when should German taxpayers pay into a bottomless
pit?” Tsipras said to reporters in Berlin today after he held
talks with leaders of  Germany ’s anti-capitalist Left Party. “It
apparently flows to the  Greek economy , but in reality only the
banks and bankers are being financed.”  Tsipras, whose Syriza party was leading in a poll released
three days ago of voting intentions for June 17 elections, has
pledged to rip up the terms of Greece’s rescue and call a halt
to the austerity measures agreed with international creditors
and championed by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Tsipras said that he is in Germany to press for a common
solution to Greece, now in its fifth year of a deep economic
recession. It is in Germany’s interest to change the policy of
austerity, he said.  “The euro zone doesn’t have an owner, or a landlord,” he
said. “We are not tenants; we are equal partners, and none of
us should feel like tenants.”  The exit of one euro member state would foreshadow the
departure of others as “the market will begin to seek out other
countries to be next,” Tsipras said, citing states such as
 Italy  with “much bigger debts.”  “No political leadership would want to take responsibility
for this,” he said.  ‘Save the Euro’  For Greeks, voting for Syriza “doesn’t mean that we’ll be
kicked out of the euro,” he said. “It will mean a great
opportunity for us to save the euro.”  A victory for Syriza would mean stability for Greece,
whereas insisting on a continuation of the “catastrophic”
austerity measures means a return to the drachma, Tsipras said.  “It’s not a matter of needing more money,” he said.
“What we need is that the money that has been committed is
properly invested.”  Tsipras said that he sought talks with Merkel as part of
contacts “with all sides of the political spectrum.” No German
ministers were planning to meet with Tsipras during his visit to
Berlin, government spokesman Georg Streiter said yesterday.  “Maybe those who are afraid of dialog have a bad
conscience,” he said.  Air Berlin Plc,  Europe ’s third-biggest discount carrier,
said today that its Greek business has declined by almost a
third as Germans shun the Mediterranean nation as a tourist
destination.  Tsipras urged Germans to spend their vacation in Greece to
help the economy.  “I ask Germans to choose Greece for their summer holidays,”
he said, adding that Greeks are renowned for their hospitality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  