-- Greeks Too Western to Pull Off Baltic Rebound, SEB Says
-- B y   H e l l m u t h   T r o m m   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-05-22T09:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/greeks-too-western-to-pull-off-baltic-rebound-seb-says.html
Greece  is too used to western  living
standards  to endure the austerity needed to emulate the success
of the Baltic region’s rebound, said the head of  Estonia  at  SEB
AB (SEBA) , the second-largest bank in the three former Soviet states.  “In Greece, they have lived for at least two generations
over their running ability to keep up the social welfare,” Riho
Unt, the chief executive of SEB Pank AS, said in an interview in
Tallinn yesterday. “They don’t have a reference point and then
it is really much more difficult to adjust your behavior.”  Estonia,  Lithuania  and Latvia contracted more than any
other nation in the world during the 2008-2009 crisis. Latvia,
where output shrank 18 percent in 2009, needed a bailout led by
the  International Monetary Fund  to survive. Yet the austerity
measures tied to that loan were tolerated by a population that
had endured shortages of food and basic necessities, along with
hyperinflation before the collapse of the  Soviet Union  in 1991
and in the early years of transition to capitalism.  Estonia’s $19 billion economy grew 3.9 percent in the first
quarter, preliminary data from the statistics office show.
First-quarter  goods exports  rose 9 percent from a year earlier,
down from 54 percent in the same period of last year.  A decision by Stockholm-based SEB and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  to stay
in the region paid off as the Baltic economies rebounded to
deliver growth rates in excess of 5 percent last year.  “In Estonia, even in the severe moments of the crisis, you
compared it to pre-independence and you understood that your
life has improved,” Unt said.  Greek Exit Talk  Greek efforts to form a government after a May 6 election
have failed after voters rejected pro-bailout parties, prompting
policy makers in  Europe  to speak openly about contingency plans
in the event of a Greek euro exit.  Greece’s economy will shrink 4.7 percent this year after
contracting 6.9 percent in 2011, the European Commission said
this month. Its debt load will reach 160.6 percent of gross
domestic product, versus a euro-zone average of 91.8 percent,
the commission said. The debt load will be 10.4 percent in
Estonia and won’t exceed 50 percent in any of the Baltic states,
according to the commission.  Estonia, which adopted the euro in 2011, has won the trust
of the European Union as a nation able to commit to its budget
pledges, helping it achieve better financing terms, Unt said.
The newest euro-area member had the EU’s fastest economic growth
rate of 7.6 percent last year on renewed export demand from its
Nordic trade partners.  “If you are earning the trust, you can really agree on new
terms,” Unt said. “You really can reach a situation where you
can leverage off the good behavior and everyone is more ready to
make concessions, but you are not really able to do that upfront
because there is no trust.”  Contamination Risks  The spillover from a Greek exit from the euro area would
pose the biggest threat to Estonia’s economy, Unt said. Such an
event would trigger a credit freeze that would contaminate
funding costs as far as  Sweden , where SEB is based, Unt said.  “SEB is building huge buffers these days to really meet
whatever circumstances can occur,” he said. “Therefore our
customers are generally pretty safe. But you never know how deep
it can go.”  Estonia’s euro entry has pushed down bank funding costs as
much as 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point, below those
paid by lenders in neighboring  Latvia  and Lithuania, Unt said.
Lending margins to companies are also below those in Sweden and
 Finland , at 150 basis points above the euro area interbank
offered rate, thanks to tight competition, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  