-- Iran Gives UN Atomic Inspectors Access Before Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-05-22T17:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/iaea-iran-reach-accord-on-atomic-inspections-amano-says.html
United Nations atomic inspectors and
 Iran  broke a five-year stalemate with an agreement that gives
the International Atomic Energy Agency access to the Persian
Gulf nation’s disputed Parchin military complex.  IAEA head Yukiya Amano announced the breakthrough today
after he returned from a surprise visit to Tehran, saying the
two sides agreed yesterday to create a document outlining the
steps necessary for Iran to clear suspicions over its atomic
program. It’s the first time since June 2007 that the IAEA and
Iran have agreed on methods to give inspectors greater access to
facilities including Parchin, where work may have taken place on
the trigger for a nuclear weapon, according to the agency.  “There was an important development on the structured
approach document on which we have been working since January,”
Amano told journalists in Vienna. “The decision was made to
conclude and sign an agreement.”  The announcement was greeted with skepticism by Israel,
where Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said Iran is trying “the
impression of progress” ahead of nuclear negotiations tomorrow
in Baghdad, according to the Israeli Ministry of Defense.  Barak repeated Israel’s demand that Iran stop all  uranium
enrichment , with current stockpiles of enriched uranium removed
from Iran, to ensure that the Persian Gulf nation won’t have the
capability to produce nuclear weapons.  Implementation Test  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said Iran’s follow-through will be critical.  “Obviously, the announcement of the deal is one thing, but
the implementation is what we’re going to be looking for -- for
Iran to truly follow through and provide the access to all of
the locations, the documents, and the personnel that the IAEA
requires in order to determine whether Iran’s program is
exclusively for peaceful purposes,” she told reporters in
Washington.  The accord, which Amano said will be signed “quite soon,”
comes as negotiators from  China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the
U.K. and the U.S. -- the so-called P5+1 group -- head to Baghdad
for a second round of talks tomorrow over the Islamic Republic’s
nuclear program.  Iran’s Parliament Speaker  Ali Larijani  said it would be
“improper” for the P5+1 group to seek a cooperative gesture
from Iran while imposing new sanctions, according to Iranian
state-controlled Press TV.  More Access  While IAEA inspectors regularly visit sites where Iran
enriches uranium, the agency has been seeking more access to
facilities suspected of hiding undeclared nuclear work. The 2007
agreement, negotiated by former IAEA head  Mohamed ElBaradei ,
cleared Iran of some suspicions before breaking down.  European and U.S. diplomats criticized that accord as a
stalling tactic. The program was derailed after Iran refused to
address allegations contained inside intelligence documents
given to the agency, saying they were fakes.  Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said his government
is “very suspicious” of the latest agreement. Iran has
“played a game of hide-and-seek” with the IAEA and the
international community for years, he told  Israel ’s  Army Radio .  U.S. envoy Robert Wood said in an e-mailed statement that
the Islamic Republic should “take this opportunity to resolve
all outstanding concerns about the nature of its nuclear
program. Full and transparent cooperation with the IAEA is the
first logical step.”  Oil Declines  The deal with Iran, the second-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, helped push crude
prices lower today. Oil for June delivery slid 86 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $91.71 a barrel at 1:04 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract expires today. The more
actively traded July contract fell 85 cents to $92.01. Front-
month futures are down 7.2 percent this year.  “It doesn’t mean everything is going to be resolved, but
it seems at least there’s some better cooperation between Iran
and the IAEA,” said  Olivier Jakob , a managing director at Zug,
Switzerland-based Petromatrix GmbH. “It’s part of the process
which for now is moving in the right direction. But the real
significance will come tomorrow with the P5+1 meeting.”  Amano said Iran consented to an inspection of the Parchin
site 18 miles (30 kilometers) southwest of Tehran, where the
IAEA said in November it had “credible” evidence showing the
country had worked on the trigger for an atomic weapon. While
the final details must be hashed out between the IAEA and Iran’s
top nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , they won’t scuttle the
deal, he said.  Differences Remain  “There remain some differences, but Mr. Jalili elaborated
that the differences will not be an obstacle to reach an
agreement,” Amano said. “We understood each other’s positions
better. That was the reason we could make this important
development.”  The P5+1 group had demanded that Iran take concrete steps
to alleviate concern over its nuclear work.  “We had some agreements with the P5+1 in Istanbul for more
cooperation,” Jalili said today at  Baghdad  airport, according
to Iran’s Press TV. “Now we hope that talks in Baghdad will
lead to that cooperation.”  Several Obama administration officials and Western
diplomats said the P5+1 group won’t give Iran relief from oil
and financial sanctions that are hobbling its economy. The group
has agreed on confidence-building measures it may offer during
talks in the Iraqi capital tomorrow in response to Iranian
concessions, they said.  U.S. and European Union sanctions are crippling Iran’s
ability to export and get paid for crude, its main source of
revenue. The U.S. and the EU are in no hurry to ease that
pressure before their concerns about  Iran’s nuclear program  are
addressed, said the officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  