-- Micex Rises Second Day on U.S. Data; Rosneft Rallies on Sechin
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-22T17:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/micex-retreats-as-crude-falls-putin-names-ex-ministers-as-aides.html
Russian stocks climbed for a second
day as U.S. data beat estimates and OAO Rosneft, the country’s
biggest oil producer, rose after Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev 
named  Igor Sechin  its chief.  The 30-stock Micex climbed 0.2 percent to 1,301.09 by the
close in Moscow. Rosneft rose 1.7 percent, while OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , a
Russian steel and coal producer, rallied 5.3 percent. Bank
Vozrozhdenie advanced 3.3 percent after posting a jump in first-
quarter profit. Federal Grid Co.,  Russia ’s state-run high
voltage power transmission company, sank 1.8 percent after it
said the government will raise prices the state company charges
less than forecast.  Rosneft rose the most in almost two weeks as Medvedev said
he ordered the board to appoint Sechin chief executive officer
after he helped build the state-run company into the nation’s
biggest oil producer. The National Association of Realtors said
sales of existing homes in the U.S. increased in April for the
first time in three months.  “The market was oversold,” Dimitri Kryukov, a partner at
Verno Capital in Moscow, which manages $200 million in Russian
equities, said by phone. “Any positive data from the U.S. is
market-moving, but the market remains at bear levels.”  The  Micex (INDEXCF)  entered a bear market last week after tumbling
more than 20 percent from its March 14 high. Urals crude,
Russia’s main export earner, lost 0.5 percent today to $107.80 a
barrel after jumping 2 percent yesterday.  Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, received
almost 50 percent of budget revenue from oil and gas sales last
year, according to government estimates.  Counterweight  Putin appointed a number of former ministers as his aides
today, creating a counterweight decision-making center to the
cabinet headed by Medvedev a day after unveiling a new
government that kept Anton Siluanov as finance minister.  Putin confirmed the new cabinet yesterday, keeping the
finance, defense and foreign ministers as well as First Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov , his pointman for relations with
foreign investors and the country’s richest businessmen. Putin
replaced Sechin with Arkady Dvorkovich as a deputy prime
minister in charge of energy.  “Classic cheap energy stocks, like Gazprom, Lukoil, may
gain on the appointment of Dvorkovich instead of Sechin,”
 Kingsmill Bond , chief equities strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
Moscow, said by phone. “We don’t know what the reforms will be
but clearly, as a rule, cheaper stocks tend to benefit on reform
agendas.”  First BRIC Bear  Lukoil, the country’s second-biggest oil producer, dropped
0.5 percent to 1,630.50 rubles while OAO Gazprom, the natural
gas export monopoly, added 1 percent to 143.43 rubles.  The country was the first of the so-called BRIC countries
to enter a  bear market  in 2012 last week after the dollar-
denominated RTS Index fell more than 20 percent from a March 15
peak.  Redemptions at Russia-focused equity funds declined in the
week through May 16 to $52 million compared with $188 million
the week before, according to EPFR Global.  European Union leaders are preparing to gather in Brussels
tomorrow to discuss how to revive growth and snap a political
impasse in  Greece , where voters rejected austerity measures in
elections on May 6.  Citigroup cut its rating of emerging-markets stocks to
neutral yesterday, citing the prospect of a “tough summer”
with the escalating European crisis a potential catalyst for
further declines.  Federal Grid slid to 22.55 kopeks. Russia’s Federal Tariff
Service confirmed an 11 percent increase in the company’s power
tariffs under the so-called regulatory asset base, or RAB,
starting July 1, according to a statement. Rates will rise 9.4
percent in July 2013 and by the same amount the following year,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  