-- Microphones for the Stars Go Mass Market
-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 2012-05-22T19:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/microphones-for-the-stars-go-mass-market.html
     May 22 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- For more than a decade,
Blue Microphones focused on a rarefied market. The  Westlake
Village  (Calif.) audio equipment manufacturer made expensive
analog microphones for professional recording studios and
renowned artists such as  Bruce Springsteen , Coldplay, and Jay-Z.  Then, in 2005, it introduced a retro-looking digital
microphone for $99, about one-third the price of its analog
models, hoping to appeal to musicians editing and distributing
their songs themselves. The new microphone’s big breakthrough:
its USB plug.  Being able to connect to a computer’s USB port meant users
didn’t have to rely on built-in mics, which aren’t designed for
recording. Without advertising, word of mouth exploded, and Blue
Microphones released a similar model for $150. The microphones,
available at Apple stores, Best Buy, and other retailers, have
helped drive the total number of devices sold to 750,000, says
John Maier, Blue’s chief executive officer and a 20-year veteran
of the music hardware industry. Sales remain strong as “the way
people communicate and create content becomes more and more
democratized,” he says.  To maintain growth, the 38-employee company is trying to
distinguish its popular digital consumer microphones, called the
Snowball and the Yeti, from about 40 others unveiled over the
past three years by competitors such as AKG, Sennheiser, Shure,
and Samson Technologies. Samson last year introduced three mics
with similar retro aesthetics and playful names: the Meteor Mic,
the GoMic, and the G-Track. “Kudos to them,” says Maier. “They
didn’t copy us directly, but they saw what was going on.”  This summer, Blue Microphones plans to introduce the Tiki,
the first USB mic with software that mimics human hearing. The
idea is to make it easier to hear people talking during
conversations on Skype and Apple’s FaceTime. For them, “built-in
mics and speaker systems on laptops and desktops increasingly
don’t seem to fit the bill,” says Deloitte’s U.S. technology,
media, and telecommunications leader Eric Openshaw. External “mic
alternatives seem to be a better proposition for many,” he says.  Rather than build a “dumb mic” that can’t determine what is
human voice and what isn’t, and write software for a computer to
control it, Maier says his engineers used artificial intelligence
to distinguish human sound from background noise. That means it
won’t record typing or traffic, for example. Another first: When
the user stops speaking or singing, the mic mutes itself. When
the user resumes talking, the mic transmits audio within 20
milliseconds, a gap so small most humans can’t recognize it, so
it doesn’t cause lags or pauses the way other microphones do,
which can result in voice overlap and interruptions.  At this year’s International  Consumer Electronics Show , a
handful of brands came by asking about using Tiki for built-ins
for cars and computers, says Maier. Blue Microphones may for the
first time license its technology, he says, aping Intel’s
lucrative “Intel Inside” campaign to build awareness of its brand
with “Blue Mic Tech Inside” labels on the equipment.  Blue Microphones is also trying to crank up sales in foreign
markets by establishing individual partnerships with distributors
in  Europe  and  Asia  rather than one main distributor, with which
Maier says it parted ways this March. Last year, Blue’s
international business increased 38 percent, and revenue hit
$19.5 million, says Maier. This year he estimates about $27
million in revenue, with about 20 percent from overseas sales.  The expansion from steady, small manufacturer to growth
venture isn’t a fluke. In 2008 the Transom Capital Group, a
private equity firm launched by former McKinsey consultants,
bought a majority stake in Blue Microphones. It rebuilt the
manufacturer’s supply chain in  China  and the U.S., put a new
accounting system in place, and broadened marketing strategy.
“When I arrived, the company couldn’t produce enough product to
fill demand,” says Russ Roenick, a Transom managing partner who
acted as Blue’s CEO until it hired Maier. Roenick pushed through
the changes because “we didn’t want to collapse under the weight
of our own growth.”  Of course, its growth is dependent to a large extent on the
behemoths making computers and other devices with internal
microphones that their customers find lacking. If Apple, for
example, introduces a new laptop with a better mic, or “changes
something, like a connector … we do have to move fast,” says
Maier, “but so do our competitors.”  He’s pushing to keep Blue Microphones agile. Since its
inception, the company has built all its professional equipment
at its  California  factory and used contract manufacturers in
Shanghai and Shenzhen for its consumer models. Maier says he has
recently been looking for alternatives, including making its
consumer lines in California. “We’re great at hand-built, custom
high-end [manufacturing], but not at mass manufacturing,” he
says. “We bolster and reinvest where we’re strong—product
development and marketing. We find partners to help us with
manufacturing and logistics.”