-- Tiger’s Africa Growth a Priority as S. Africa Sales Slow
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-05-22T06:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/tiger-s-africa-growth-a-priority-as-s-africa-sales-slow.html
Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS) ,  South Africa ’s
largest food company, said expansion into the continent remains
a priority as the company increased external investments in the
first half.  “The expansion into new markets, primarily in the rest of
the African continent, remains a key strategic thrust, both
through acquisitions and exports,” the Johannesburg-based in a
statement today.  Tiger Brands spent 670.3 million rand ($81 million) on
acquisitions and on capital expenditure in the first half
through March, raising its shareholding in Zimbabwe’s  National
Foods Holdings (NAFH)  Ltd. by 11.2 percentage points to 48.6 percent,
it said. Sales growth of 3.4 percent in South Africa lagged
behind the overall increase of 12 percent, it said.  Tiger Brands, which produces Tastic rice and the All Gold
food lines, expects “domestic economic conditions will continue
to be challenging for the rest of the financial year” and South
African  consumer spending  “will remain under pressure.”  Retail sales declined a seasonally adjusted 1.2 percent in
the first quarter, the statistics agency said May 16. Economic
growth may slow to 2.7 percent this year from 3.1 percent last
year, Gordhan said on Feb. 22.  “Price increases to recover costs will therefore have to
be judiciously managed and cost control and operational
efficiencies throughout the supply chain and support functions
will remain key focus areas,” the company said.  Profit rose 8 percent to 1.28 billion rand from a year
earlier. The company declared a dividend of 2.95 rand a share.  -- Editors: Ana Monteiro, Karl Maier  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  