-- U.K. Needs More BOE Stimulus and Possible Tax Cuts, IMF Says
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-05-22T13:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/imf-says-u-k-needs-more-monetary-stimulus-possible-tax-cuts.html
Britain requires further monetary
easing to aid the economy and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  should prepare for temporary tax cuts, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  With the economy mired in its first double-dip recession
since the 1970s, the Bank of  England  and the Treasury should
introduce policies to underpin demand and unclog the financial
system, the Washington-based lender said in its annual review of
the U.K. published today. The central bank needs to inject
further stimulus through bond purchases or by cutting  interest
rates , with tax cuts following as soon as the fall.  “If the economy turns out to be significantly weaker than
forecast fiscal easing should be considered,” IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said at a press conference in the
Treasury in London.  The call for action was accompanied with praise for
existing deficit-cutting plans, which the IMF said had gained
the credibility of investors and lowered government borrowing
costs. Should monetary tools fail, Osborne should look at
temporary cuts in sales and payroll taxes and more spending on
infrastructure, it said.  ‘Fourth in Line’  Changing tack in the face of a deteriorating economy would
outweigh any loss of credibility with financial markets so long
as the government has a longer-term plan to restore fiscal
health, the IMF said. The fiscal lever should be “fourth in
line” among the measures recommended for the U.K., Lagarde
said.  The opposition  Labour Party  seized on the comments, saying
Osborne’s plan to erase the bulk of a deficit of 8 percent of
gross domestic product by 2017 is damaging the economy.  “Even they are facing up to the reality that it’s not
working,”  Ed Balls , who shadows Osborne in Parliament, said of
the IMF. “We need a plan for jobs and growth. The IMF agree
with that.”  Britain faces “large” risks as the crisis in the euro
area, its biggest export market, threatens to derail growth and
inflationary pressures remain weak, the IMF said.  “There are more tools that can be used from a monetary
policy point of view and we have discussed that extensively with
the  Bank of England ,” Lagarde said. “We believe that it has
quantitative-easing measures available that could be resumed. We
also believe that there is room in terms of interest rates that
could be used as well.”  Monetary Options  Options for boosting lending to households and businesses
include the central bank, under instruction from the Treasury
and using the government balance sheet, buying mortgage-backed
covered bonds and restarting liquidity programs for banks, the
IMF said.  Lagarde spoke less than an hour after a report showed U.K.
inflation slowed more than economists forecast in April to 3
percent, relieving Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  of the
need to write to Osborne to explain why it’s above the
government’s limit. It’s the first time inflation has been
within the boundaries set by the government since February 2010.  The pound fell for the first time in three days against the
dollar after the IMF report and the inflation data. Sterling
declined 0.3 percent to $1.5796 at 2:50 p.m.  London  time. U.K.
government bonds dropped for a second day, lifting the 10-year
yield 2 basis points to 1.859 percent.  Budget Deficit  Britain had an underlying  budget deficit  of 13.8 billion
pounds ($21.8 billion) in April, the first month of the fiscal
year as the slowdown subdued tax receipts. The figure, which
excludes support for banks, compared with 9.1 billion pounds a
year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said today.  Osborne should consider borrowing more money to spend on
infrastructure, the IMF said. It also suggested options to lower
private-sector borrowing costs, including the purchase of
private-sector bonds through the central bank and the provision
of longer-term bank funding facilities against a broad range of
collateral.  Britain’s economy has been “flat” and productive capacity
could remain idle for an extended period, the fund said.  The IMF assessment contrasted with a separate review today
by the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, which said Osborne was right to push ahead with his
budget cuts and that the central bank stimulus program is
“appropriately providing strong support to the economy.”  Osborne told the press conference that the government is
planning for all euro-area contingencies.  “It’s clear we’re now reaching a critical point for the
 euro zone ,” he said. Euro-area members “need to stand behind
their currency or face up to the prospect of a Greek exit.”  “The IMF must also prepare for the consequences if members
in  Europe  do not follow its advice,” he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  