-- Impala Says Most Workers at Rustenburg Not at Work Today
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2012-05-22T08:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/impala-says-most-workers-at-rustenburg-mine-on-strike.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the
world’s second-largest producer of the metal, said the latest
bout of labor unrest at its Rustenburg mine in  South Africa  will
cost the company 3,000 platinum ounces in lost output a day.  Night-shift workers at Rustenburg, the world’s biggest
platinum mine, refused to go underground yesterday after
discovering that some of their colleagues had been arrested. The
arrests followed union  clashes  last week that resulted in one
person being shot, the Johannesburg-based company said today in
an e-mailed statement. Most employees didn’t report for duty
today, it said.  Those arrested were local leaders of the Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union, which is competing for
members with the  National Union of Mineworkers , the country’s
biggest union.  “Workers plan to march to the Phokeng Police Station this
morning to demand the release of their leaders,” Impala said.
“We have not received any demands from workers in relation to
this work stoppage which in our view is as a result of continued
union rivalry between the NUM and AMCU.”  Rivalry between the organizations and concern about pay
disparity led to the dismissal of 17,200 Rustenburg workers
during an  illegal strike  in January and operations closing from
Jan. 20 to March 5. Four people were killed and more than 50
injured during the protest. Impala’s Rustenburg mine produces
about 12 percent of global output of the metal.  Court Appearance  The three workers arrested yesterday will appear on charges
of attempted murder today at the Bafokeng Magistrates Court in
Rustenburg, police spokesman Thulani Ngubane said by phone.
Workers hadn’t yet gathered at the Phokeng station, he said.  The mine, northwest of Johannesburg, produced 941,200
ounces of platinum in the year through June 30. That’s 12
percent of Impala’s 7.88 million-ounce estimate of global supply
in 2011.  Impala gained 1.2 percent to 142.16 rand by 10:05 a.m. in
Johannesburg, paring its drop this year to 15 percent. Platinum
advanced for a fourth day, adding 0.1 percent to $1,469.25 an
ounce in  London .  AMCU General Secretary Jeff Mphahlele declined to comment
when contacted on his mobile phone. Calls to AMCU’s headquarters
didn’t connect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  