-- Mining Slump Feeds M&A as Projects Overrun Budgets: Commodities
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-05-23T11:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/mining-slump-feeds-m-a-as-projects-overrun-budgets-commodities.html
The world’s largest mining companies
led by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are struggling with higher costs to
complete $200 billion in new projects, prompting them to slow
work and turn instead to acquisitions and asset sales.  BHP and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , ranking first and third by sales,
this month said they’ll ration capital spending because of
escalating costs and a slower-than-expected global economy.  “It’s been ‘build’ for quite some time, and now it’s
pushing much more in favor of potentially ‘buy’ because there
are bargains out there,” Michael Elliott, Sydney-based global
mining and metals leader at Ernst & Young LLP, said by phone.  Lower metals prices have made targets cheaper and spurred
mining companies globally to announce $91 billion of deals in
the year to date, up from $71.2 billion in the same period of
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. (FQM) ,  African Minerals Ltd. (AMI)  and  Coal of Africa Ltd.  are
potential takeover candidates, Liberum Capital Ltd. said.  The  Bloomberg World Mining Index (BWMING)  has lost 24 percent from
its 2012 high in February, raising investor concern of an end to
the  bull market  that increased commodities as much as  fourfold 
since 1999, with price gains in 11 of the past 13 years.  “The market is increasingly pricing in the end of the
super-cycle,” Liberum analysts Dominic O’Kane and Richard
Knights said last week in a report. “The majors are re-thinking
organic growth plans versus M&A as valuations fall.”  BlackRock Trims  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, trimmed
its holdings in BHP following concerns the company’s Olympic Dam
project and shale assets may curb returns. A drop of as much as
50 percent in mining company valuations since last year, while
capital spending costs gain 25 percent a year, has shifted the
balance in favor of acquisitions and mergers, Liberum said.  “If the capital cost of bringing those projects through
overruns starts eating into those returns, then other growth
scenarios which include M&A become more attractive,” Ernst &
Young’s Elliott said.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest diversified mining
company, last month said it’s interested in entering the iron-
ore industry and would seek to acquire a producing asset rather
than develop a mine.  Global spending on new production will drop 19 percent to
$103.8 billion next year, according to a May 2 report from Bank
of America Corp., dubbing spending cuts the “new paradigm” as
mining companies focus on safeguarding returns to shareholders.  Metals Plunge  Metal prices in London have plunged 13 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 9, after optimism of a global economic
recovery was dented by China’s decision in March to cut its
growth forecast. The cost of building mines in Australia, the
biggest exporter of iron ore and coal, has risen as much as 100
percent, according to  Rio Tinto .  Commodities, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24 raw materials, still remain more than threefold
above their 1999 levels. About half of this year’s $91 billion
in announced deals comes from  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s $45.3
billion stock offer for  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Copper producers First Quantum and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) ,
iron ore miners African Minerals as well as London Mining Plc
and coal companies Adaro Energy and Coal of Africa are among
possible takeover candidates, Liberum said.  Asset Sales  BHP, already selling its Richards Bay minerals business in
Africa and its diamond unit, may also dispose of its aluminum
and manganese businesses as well as some coal assets in Africa,
Australia and America, Bank of America said in a May 2 report.  BHP spokeswoman Kelly Quirke declined to comment on falling
valuations making takeovers more attractive. Bruce Tobin, a
Melbourne-based spokesman for Rio Tinto, also declined to
comment.  First Quantum is trading at a multiple of 9.6 times
earnings compared with 10.1 a year ago, while Kazakhmys’ price-
to-earnings ratio has almost halved to 4.3 times, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “The price of building new projects means that in many
cases it might be cheaper to acquire a company than build your
own,”  Andrew Harrington , a resources analyst with Patersons
Securities Ltd., said by phone. “The biggest ones would be
coal, copper and gold, each of those three are trading at about
a 30 percent discount to the commodity price.”  Recent Deals  Recent examples include Iamgold Corp., a Canadian producer
of the precious metal, agreeing to buy Trelawney Mining and
Exploration for about C$585 million ($573 million) on April 27
and Sumitomo Corp. buying a 50 percent stake in Aquila Resources
Ltd.’s Isaac Plains coal mine in Australia for A$430 million
($421 million) April 3.  BHP, which spent $20 billion buying shale assets last year,
had the balance sheet capacity to continue to make more
acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Marius Kloppers said in
February.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  Chairman  John Parker  said in March
the company continues to examine merger and acquisition
opportunities.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s third-biggest iron
ore producer, would appeal to Anglo and Teck, according to  RBC
Capital Markets . It may also be a target for Glencore after it
buys the rest of Xstrata in stock, RBC said.  Bull Market Ending?  The 14-year bull market, or supercycle, in commodities may
be coming to an end as interest rates move to “more normal
levels,” Longview Economics Ltd. said last month. Mining
companies operating in Asia are facing lower cash flows as
prices retreat from “stratospheric” levels, credit rating
company Standard & Poor’s said in a May 3 report.  “For the base metals sector, we think the peak is behind
us,”  Nikos Kavalis , London-based metals strategist with Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc, said by phone. “Although we expect higher
prices we don’t expect a return to previous peaks.”  BHP, Rio Tinto, Xstrata, Glencore and Anglo may spend a
combined $200 billion on building new production over the next
five years, Liberum said. Some of this spending may come under
review as prices decline from records, the analysts said. BHP
will fall short of a five-year spending target of $80 billion on
new mines and expansions because of slower growth in China,
political gridlock in the U.S. and the euro-crisis dampening the
recovery, Chairman Jac Nasser said May 16.  Margins Pressured  “You still have high metal prices, the problem is the
margins are getting eaten into by cost inflation that is running
rampant in the industry, as high as between between 8 and 10
percent per annum for some miners,”  Jeff Largey , a mining
analyst at Macquarie Capital Ltd. in  London (LMEX) , said by phone. “As
you grow you’re actually paying more in terms of your capex per
ton and your returns thus diminish.”  To be sure, rather than buying assets in production,
trimmed spending plans may prompt BHP to use the surplus cash
for a new share buyback, RBC’s London-based analysts Des Kilalea
and Richard Hatch said in a May 18 report. BHP completed a $10
billion repurchase plan last June and Rio Tinto finished a $7
billion buyback in March.  “Companies like BHP have cash flow coming out of their
ears but anything beneath you would probably want to hold on to
your funding” because of cost pressures and increased
difficulty in agreeing on debt funding with banks, Harrington
said.  BHP’s board is due to decide on the development of three
major projects -- an iron ore expansion at Port Hedland in
Western Australia, the Olympic Dam copper and uranium mine in
Australia and the Jansen potash mine in Canada -- by the end of
this year that may cost a combined $55 billion to develop,
Liberum said. BHP may choose phased expansions for Jansen and
Olympic Dam, Largey said.  Rio Tinto,  outlaying  more than $33 billion on expanding
output, will narrow spending, Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese said May 10, citing a weaker global economy and cost
increases of as much as 100 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Todd White  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  