-- Iran Oil Deadline Looms as Sanctions Curb Tanker Supply
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-05-22T11:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/iranian-oil-deadline-looms-as-sanctions-on-tankers-curb-supply.html
The European Union’s ban on Iranian
oil shipments that takes full effect July 1 is curbing ship
charters now because of the time it takes the vessels to deploy,
load and deliver cargoes, the fleet’s biggest re-insurer said.  Tanker owners are already avoiding bookings to ship Iranian
crude because the 27-nation bloc’s prohibition applies to
vessels carrying cargoes from that date, said Andrew Bardot, the
executive officer of the London-based  International Group  of P&I
Clubs. The group’s members, covering 95 percent of the fleet
against risks such as spills and collisions, follow EU law.  United Nations inspectors and  Iran  reached an agreement
yesterday that will allow the  International Atomic Energy Agency 
to investigate alleged nuclear-weapons work in the Persian Gulf
nation. Iran’s crude exports already slumped 23 percent this
year, according to Barclays Plc. A journey to  China , the biggest
buyer of Iranian crude, takes about 20 days and tankers are
normally hired about three weeks in advance.  “Wherever the ship is when the deadline arrives, that is
the cut-off,” Bardot said by phone yesterday. “We can’t drive
the political pace. That’s entirely out of our hands.”  Iran’s oil exports have declined to 1.7 million barrels a
day, from 2.2 million a day last year, according to Barclays.
They may fall a further 300,000 to 500,000 barrels a day from
July, analysts led by Helima Croft in  New York  said in a May 15
report. The embargo was announced in January.  Sovereign Guarantees  The EU is reviewing the insurance ban to ensure it doesn’t
have any “undesired” impact, the U.K.’s Foreign Office said
May 10. Brent oil traded in  Europe  advanced as much as 14
percent after the embargo was first announced. It has since more
than erased the gain, falling 1.5 percent to $108.95 a barrel.  Japan’s parliament is considering state guarantees for
tankers carrying Iranian crude, according to two government
officials familiar with the proposed legislation. Indian ship
owners also asked the state to cover shipments. The government
in China has underwritten some Iranian cargoes, the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency  said in March.  China’s imports of crude from Iran rebounded in April from
the lowest level in almost two years after the nations settled a
dispute over payment terms. Its purchases from the Persian Gulf
nation rose 53 percent to about 390,000 barrels a day, compared
with 254,000 in March, according to data today from the Beijing-
based General Administration of Customs.  Arrive and Unload  To comply with the sanctions, ships carrying Iranian oil
would need to unload before July 1, said Clare Hatcher, a
consultant at Clyde & Co., an international trade law firm based
in London.  China was the biggest buyer of Iranian crude in 2010,
followed by  Japan  and  India , according to the U.S. Energy
Department. Tankers take about 20 days to reach the northeast
port of Qingdao in China from Iran, and traders usually book
ships three weeks before their loading date, said Per Mansson,
the managing director of shipbroker Norocean Stockholm AB.  Some shipments of petrochemicals, which the EU banned from
May 1, lost cover for the end of their voyages because delays or
port congestion caused them to arrive after the deadline, Bardot
said. The ships’ owners found alternative insurance, he said.  The government in Tehran, facing four sets of UN sanctions,
says its nuclear research is for civilian purposes. Chinese,
French, German, Russian, U.K. and U.S. negotiators will start a
third round of discussions with their Iranian counterparts in
Baghdad tomorrow. EU ministers agreed previously to review the
ban on shipping insurance this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  