-- Iran Nuclear Talks Enter Second Day in Baghdad
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-05-24T01:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/iran-world-powers-meet-over-atomic-concerns-in-baghdad.html
Western powers and  Iran  will resume
nuclear talks today in  Baghdad  after a first day of discussions
yielded no agreement, according to a Western official.  Chinese, French, German, Russian, British and U.S.
negotiators -- the so-called P5+1 group -- and Iran’s
representatives didn’t issue a public statement as daylong talks
recessed yesterday at almost midnight. Talks will resume at 8
a.m. Baghdad time, according to the Western official, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the deliberations are being
conducted privately.  The meeting was convened in an effort to forestall a
military strike against Iran, a prospect  Israel  hasn’t ruled
out. While the Persian Gulf nation, target of a probe by the
United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency since 2003,
denies it wants to make nuclear weapons, it has refused to
cooperate with inspectors and is under multiple international
sanctions.  The negotiators met a day after IAEA inspectors bridged an
impasse with Iranian authorities over wider access to suspected
nuclear sites, including the Parchin military complex. IAEA
Director General Yukiya Amano said he expected the accord to be
signed “quite soon.”  “It could take some time before we see that there is
really an agreement,”  Olli Heinonen , the IAEA’s former chief
Iran inspector and now a visiting professor at  Harvard
University , said on Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word”
yesterday. “We have an ample amount of time, at least until the
end of this year, to solve this problem.”  Khamenei’s Decree  Iran, which the IAEA said tripled its output of higher-
enriched uranium in February, could build an atomic weapon in
months if its leadership chose to do so, Heinonen said. The IAEA
is expected to issue its quarterly report on Iranian uranium
production later this week.  Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad yesterday reiterated
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei’s decree that
nuclear weapons are forbidden under the Islamic Republic’s laws.  “Iran believes the annihilation of all weapons of mass
destruction is a sacred goal and that the security and health of
humans depend on it,” state-run Press TV cited Ahmadinejad as
saying. Iran has said its nuclear program is for civilian
purposes.  The negotiators held detailed discussions on concrete steps
during their first day of talks, according to a senior U.S.
official who briefed reporters afterward, characterizing the
meetings as the beginning of a process rather than the end.  ‘Strategic Mistake’  Sanctions are putting pressure on Iran, part of a dual-
track policy that also includes engagement, the U.S. official
said. The U.S. is prepared to impose additional sanctions if
need be, the official said.  Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  told reporters in
Tehran that he expected the negotiations to “bring good news.”
He warned that imposing new sanctions on his country would be a
“huge and strategic mistake.”  Before the Baghdad meeting, U.S. and the EU diplomats ruled
out suspending any of the dozens of financial, trade, insurance
and energy-related sanctions imposed on Iran since November. The
nations said they were willing to offer limited confidence-
building measures such as nuclear-safety assistance, research-
reactor fuel, airplane parts and help fighting drug smugglers in
return for concessions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Baghdad at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  