-- Israel Energy Says Has Funds, Plans Gas Drilling in Early June
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-05-22T08:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/israel-energy-says-has-funds-plans-gas-drilling-in-early-june.html
Israel Land Development Co. Energy
Ltd. (IE) , a natural-gas explorer, plans to drill early next month
off the country’s Mediterranean coast and has funds needed to
complete the testing work, its chief executive officer said.  The Tel Aviv-based company, which holds a 47 percent stake
in the offshore Sara and Myra gas prospects, has finished
raising the money it needs to drill test wells there, Ohad Marani said in an interview. Israel Land Energy said on May 20
that the Swiss VNG Capital Fund agreed to invest $20 million in
exchange for a 9.33 percent share of the company.  “I am very optimistic about starting to drill in the first
days of June,” Marani said yesterday. “We believe we have very
substantial blocks with huge potential, mainly for natural gas,
but also for oil.”  The Sara and Myra prospects may hold 6.5 trillion cubic
feet of gas, according to a June 30 report prepared by U.S.-
based consultant Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. The Tamar
and Leviathan gas deposits discovered off  Israel  since 2009
together hold an estimated 30 trillion cubic feet, more than
triple the U.K.’s remaining reserves. These finds are sufficient
to meet Israel’s domestic needs and may enable it to export gas,
industry executives and government officials have said.  If drilling is successful, Israel Land Energy will decide
later how to transport the gas for sale.  “We will move forward very fast, and we will do very
successful well tests,” Marani said. “Then we will deal with
exports. In the long-run we will probably sell one-third of our
products to the domestic market and export about two-thirds.”  Cyprus Tender  Israel Land Energy said on May 12 that a unit submitted a
bid in a Cyprus government tender for exploration and production
rights for oil and gas at a site off the island’s coast. The
Levant Basin, a triangular slice of the ocean floor between
Israel and Cyprus, may hold 122 trillion cubic feet of gas,
according to U.S. Geological Survey estimates.  “The Israeli market is a little crowded now, and if we
want to expand we need to diversify the risk and operate in
several places,” Marani said. “If we win the Cyprus tender, we
will need to raise more money through the  capital market  via a
stock issue.”  At the beginning of this year, the company said a unit
entered into agreements with Albania’s government for oil and
gas rights at three blocks in the  Adriatic Sea .  “Natural gas is very important and a real asset, but it’s
a little bit more of the same,” he said. “Oil is a real game-
breaker, and hopefully we will be the first to find oil, which
would be a huge upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  