-- History Shows U.S. Can Stimulate Now, Cut Later
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-05-22T23:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/history-shows-u-s-can-stimulate-now-cut-later.html
From 2017 to 2022, Social Security’s
normal  retirement age  is scheduled to gradually increase to 67.
And I’ll bet that not only happens as planned, but does so with
little fanfare -- which is pretty much what happened several
years ago when the age rose from 65 to 66.  Therein lies an important point: When policy makers put in
place measures carefully designed to reduce the  federal deficit 
in the future, most of them happen. This is a good thing, since
enacting more stimulus today and more  deficit reduction  to take
effect later is exactly what the U.S. needs.  It’s also what makes the ongoing jobs-versus-austerity
debate so frustrating. What we really need is to be bolder on
both jobs and austerity, by pursuing a combination policy.  Additional stimulus is required because the labor market
remains extremely weak. Delayed deficit reduction is also needed
to reduce uncertainty over how the federal government will
navigate its perilous fiscal path -- and to boost the chances of
enacting more stimulus despite the looming debt limit.  To appreciate the potential of the combination approach,
look no further than the plan offered by the  Domenici-Rivlin
debt-reduction task force , which proposed more than $600 billion
in stimulus in one year -- far more than I have seen from any
serious proposals for a naked stimulus (not linked to deficit
cutting). What’s most remarkable about the upfront stimulus in
Domenici-Rivlin is that it was supported by Republican task-
force members, because it was combined with delayed deficit
reduction. When was the last time you saw Republicans embrace
such a large stimulus proposal?  Maximum Stimulus Now  Those who are most concerned about the weak labor market
should be most willing to do whatever it takes -- including
combining delayed budget cuts with stimulus -- to get the most
stimulus passed. And those who favor a combined approach
shouldn’t be characterized (as I have been) as pro-austerity and
anti-stimulus. If anything, proponents of the combined approach
seem to be the only ones with even a remotely viable approach to
getting substantial additional stimulus.  Likewise, those who are most worried about our long-term
fiscal health shouldn’t fret too much about additional stimulus
today, if it is combined with future budget cuts. Stimulus now
would have only a modest long-term impact on national debt. So
if it can lead to a deal, while also easing short-term pain from
unemployment, what’s not to like?  Opponents of a combination approach make two arguments. The
first is that it’s too complicated. I have never seen much
evidence presented for this argument, and I would like to give
Congress and the public more credit for being able to do two
things at once.  The second argument is that any delayed deficit-reduction
legislation would be reversed by future Congresses. Why bother?  History suggests a rosier view. The increases in Social
Security’s retirement age were legislated in 1983 -- almost 30
years ago -- and Congress has allowed them to take effect. The
same holds for most Medicare changes Congress has passed, even
those phased in over time.  A careful  study  of lawmakers’ record on Medicare, published
in 2009 by James Horney and Paul Van de Water, of the  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities , concluded: “The history of health
legislation in recent decades demonstrates that, despite some
critics’ charges, Congress has repeatedly adopted measures to
produce considerable savings in Medicare and has let them take
effect. For example, Congress took such action as part of major
deficit-reduction packages in 1990 and 1993 and as part of more
modest deficit-reduction packages in 1997 and 2005. Virtually
all of the cuts that it enacted in 1990, 1993 and 2005 went into
effect.”  Future Deficit Reduction  Even in the special circumstances surrounding the aftermath
of the 1997 deal, when the budget briefly moved into surplus,
Congress allowed about four-fifths of the 1997 reductions to
take effect.  The exception, frequently mentioned, was the Sustainable
Growth Rate mechanism, included in the 1997 budget deal, which
altered doctor reimbursements. Next week’s column will discuss
why simple caps on total payments, as that mechanism was meant
to do, are a problem. Similarly, the type of delayed deficit
reduction that is particularly in vogue today -- tightening caps
on discretionary spending many years in the future without
specifying any details of how the reductions will be
accomplished -- seems vulnerable to reversal.  To say that delayed deficit reduction can be done in the
wrong way, though, is not to say it’s impossible. The more
gradual and specific the austerity enacted today to take effect
later, the more likely it is to become reality. And to those who
argue it can’t be done, I’m more than happy to take a bet on
whether the normal  retirement age  will hit 67 on schedule.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  the future of
affirmative action  and  breaking up the big banks ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  private equity and Democrats ; Enrique Krauze on
 dangerous journalism in Latin America ;  Jacob Kirkegaard  on why
 a Greek exit would help the euro area ; James Copland on the
 Justice Department and accounting firms .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  