-- Misys Said to Change Loan Structure for Vista Equity Buyout
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-05-22T21:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/misys-said-to-make-changes-to-financing-for-vista-equity-buyout.html
Misys Plc (MSY) , a provider of banking
enterprise software, changed the structure on $1.07 billion of
loans backing its buyout by Vista Equity Partners LLC, according
to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  A $730 million term loan was increased to $945 million,
while a 250 million-euro ($317 million) term portion was cut to
100 million euros, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private.  The dollar-denominated piece will now pay interest at 6
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
compared with the 5 percentage points to 5.25 percentage points
initially offered, said the person.  The  interest rate  on the euro-denominated portion will now
be 6.25 percentage points more than the Euro interbank offered
rate, up from 5.5 percentage points to 5.75 percentage points,
according to the person.  Both pieces will have a 1.25 percent minimum on the lending
benchmark and will be sold at 97 cents on the dollar, compared
with 99 cents originally proposed, the person said.  Lenders will receive call protection on 102 cents and 101
cents, according to the person. That means Misys would have to
pay 2 cents more than face value to replace the loan during the
first year and 1 cent more than par to refinance the debt during
the second year.  Commitment Deadline  Credit Suisse Group AG is arranging the financing for the
London-based company, which is also seeking a $125 million
revolving line of credit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors have until 5 p.m. today in  New York  to
submit commitments, said the person.  Misys’ seven-year, $615 million unsecured term loan will
now be secured by a second lien on collateral, according to the
person. The debt is expected to yield 12 percent and can’t be
refinanced for the first three years, the person said. Bank of
America Corp. is arranging this portion of the financing and
investors must submit commitments by 5 p.m. tomorrow in New
York. The second-lien loan is expected to be distributed to
investors May 24.  Vista, the San Francisco-based private equity firm is
acquiring Misys for 1.3 billion pounds ($2.1 billion) in cash,
the data show.  Martin Taylor , a principal at Vista and president of Vista
Consulting Group, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment. An e-mail sent to Misys seeking comment wasn’t
immediately returned.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a  term loan  it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  