-- Italy to Contract More Than Government Forecasts, Istat Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-05-22T13:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/italy-to-contract-more-than-forecast-by-government-istat-says.html
Italy’s economy will contract this
year more than the government forecasts as falling domestic
demand and investments extend the country’s fourth recession
since 2001, the national statistics institute said.  Gross domestic product will decline 1.5 percent in 2012
before rising 0.5 percent in 2013, Istat Chairman Enrico Giovannini said in  Rome  today, according to the text of a speech
to present the institute’s annual report. Household consumption
and corporate investment will both decline this year, 2.1 and
5.7 percent respectively.  Istat’s GDP projections compare with forecasts by Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s government for a 1.2 contraction this
year and 0.5 percent growth in 2013. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said today that Italy’s
economy will shrink 1.7 percent this year and expand 0.5 percent
next year. Istat said the  unemployment rate , currently at a 12-
year high of 9.8 percent, won’t start falling until 2014.  This year “will be remembered as a very difficult year,
both on the economic and social level,” Giovannini said. Last
year,  Italy  was forced “to acknowledge fully and in a traumatic
way the seriousness of the situation, as we realized that we’re
more vulnerable than imagined and began to deal with many
unresolved issues.”  Monti, who took office on Nov. 16, has pushed through 20
billion euros ($25.5 billion) in austerity measures and efforts
to streamline bureaucracy and deregulate services. Still,
Italian GDP fell 0.8 percent in the three months through March,
the third quarterly decline and the steepest drop since 2009.  Contagion Threat  The Paris-based OECD warned today that Monti’s efforts to
overhaul the economy and shore up public finances may be
undermined by contagion from the euro region’s debt crisis that
threatens to drive up borrowing costs.  “The OECD expects a more prolonged recession,” said
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London . “And this is what they anticipate provided the euro-
zone crisis does not escalate further.”  Italy’s goal of virtually eliminating the deficit next year
and balancing the budget in 2014 is achievable, though “some
additional fiscal action may be needed, given the projected
recession but prudent government assumptions about revenues from
anti-tax-evasion measures provide a safety margin,” the OECD
said.  Monti said today that Italy won’t need any further budget
adjustments. “We are en route to having a light, structural
 budget surplus  in 2013 thanks to the measures we have already
taken,” he told reporters in Rome as his government unveiled
plans to offer as much as 30 billion euros in back payments owed
by the state to Italian companies for their goods and services.  Supporting Consumption  Consumer group Codacons urged Monti’s government to enact
measures to support families and consumption as it’s “the only
way for the economy to expand, at least in 2013,” according to
an e-mailed statement today. “Otherwise, as today’s forecast by
the OECD shows, Italy won’t meet its balanced-budget target.”  Italy’s outlook is “tilted to the downside” as the third-
biggest economy of the 17-member euro region faces rising debt-
financing costs and a credit crunch amid an escalating sovereign
crisis, the  International Monetary Fund  said last week in a
review of the country’s public finances.  “Renewed financial turmoil could push government bond
yields higher, tighten bank credit and weaken activity,” the
Washington-based lender said, confirming an earlier forecast for
a 1.9 percent contraction this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  