-- Liverpool Said to Hire Fenway’s Billy Hogan as Head of Commerce
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/liverpool-said-to-hire-fenway-s-hogan-as-commercial-director.html
Liverpool has chosen Fenway Sports
Management executive Billy Hogan to become the commercial
director at the 18-time English soccer champion, according to
two executives connected with the team.  Hogan is the managing director of the marketing arm of John Henry’s Fenway Sports Group, which owns Liverpool, the  Boston
Red Sox  and Roush Fenway Racing. He will move to Liverpool from
Boston, said the people, who were granted anonymity because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  Liverpool representatives didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment. Hogan didn’t reply to a voicemail.  The new hire continues a shake-up after the Reds finished
eighth in England’s Premier League, the worst finish for the
club in 14 years. The club fired manager  Kenny Dalglish  after
ending the season 37 points behind champion  Manchester City .  Since Henry’s investment group bought Liverpool 18 months
ago, the team has also ousted Director of Football Damien Comolli, Chief Medical Officer Peter Bruckner, Communications
Director  Ian Cotton  and Commercial Manager Graham Bartlett.
Hogan will assume the role of Bartlett, a former Nike Inc.
executive who lasted less than a year in his post.  Managing Director  Ian Ayre  will get greater responsibility
over negotiating player trades and contracts, a role previously
done by Comolli, one of the people said.  An official announcement confirming the arrival of Hogan
will be made later this month, the people said.  Manager Search  Ayre is in charge of bringing a list of candidates for the
vacant manager post to principal owner Henry and Chairman Tom Werner, added the person. The Boston-based duo has yet to start
talks with any potential coach.  Former England coach  Fabio Capello  and Tottenham’s  Harry Redknapp  do not fit Liverpool’s criteria for a coach, two of the
people said. U.K. media yesterday linked the pair with the Reds.  Hogan helped secure an agreement, worth a record 25 million
pounds ($39.4 million) annually, to have Boston-based New
Balance Athletic Shoe Inc.’s Warrior Sports supply Liverpool’s
jerseys, replacing Adidas AG. He has also been part of a team
putting together Liverpool’s off-season tour in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Budapest via the London newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  