-- Japan April Exports Rise Less-Than-Forecast 7.9%
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-05-23T00:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/japan-april-exports-rise-less-than-forecast-7-9-.html
Japan’s exports  rose a less-than-
estimated 7.9 percent in April from a year earlier, underscoring
the risk that weakness in global demand may limit the rebound in
the world’s third-biggest economy.  Imports gained 8 percent, leaving a trade deficit of 520.3
billion yen ($6.5 billion), the  finance ministry  said in Tokyo
today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 27
analysts was for exports to increase 11.8 percent after rising
5.9 percent in March.  Earthquake reconstruction work and gains in  consumer
spending  helped to drive an  annualized 4.1 percent expansion  in
the first quarter after a 0.1 percent gain in the final three
months of 2011. Japan’s debt-rating downgrade by Fitch Ratings
yesterday signaled the importance of the economy maintaining
momentum to limit a deterioration in the nation’s finances.  “The overall picture for exports looks dull,” said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at Citigroup Global Markets Japan
Inc. in Tokyo. “If exports stay flat when the effect of post-
quake reconstruction is likely to peak out in the latter half of
the year, there’s a possibility  Japan ’s economy will fall into a
lull.”  Japan posted a 84.5 billion yen deficit in March. The yen
traded at 79.97 per dollar as of 9:55 a.m. in Tokyo after
weakening yesterday when Fitch said that Japan’s “fiscal
consolidation plan looks leisurely relative even to other
fiscally-challenged high-income countries, and implementation is
subject to political risk.”  BOJ Meeting  Bank of Japan  policy makers are meeting today to decide on
whether more stimulus is needed to support growth and counter
deflation. Seven of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
said they expect the central bank to bolster monetary stimulus
by July, while none predicted immediate action.  Europe’s debt crisis and speculation that Greece will exit
the euro are clouding the outlook for Japanese exporters such as
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305)   In the latest trade figures, comparisons are distorted by
disruptions a year earlier in the aftermath of the March 11
quake and tsunami that devastated north-eastern regions. Energy
imports have increased because of nuclear plant shutdowns that
followed the disaster.  Fitch cut Japan’s local-currency rating one step, and
foreign-currency grade two levels, to A+, the fifth-highest
ranking. The move escalated pressure on lawmakers to double the
 sales tax  to boost revenue, with the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development warning the nation’s debt is heading
into “uncharted territory.”  A surge in demand for Japanese  government bonds  that sent
10-year yields to the lowest level since 2003 this month is
masking the risks from rising debt. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko
Noda  has failed to persuade opposition lawmakers to support his
legislation, leaving gross public debt poised to reach 223
percent of gross domestic product next year, the OECD said.  “The trade deficit still has room to expand further,”
 Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo and a former central bank official, said before the
report, citing demand for energy imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  