-- Japan Rating Cut Rings Alarm on Tax Gridlock
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-05-23T00:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/japan-rating-cut-by-fitch-on-leisurely-efforts-to-tame-debt.html
Japan’s sovereign-rating cut by  Fitch
Ratings  escalated pressure on lawmakers to double the  sales tax ,
with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
warning the nation’s debt is heading into “uncharted territory.”  The local-currency rating was reduced one step, and
foreign-currency grade two levels, to A+, the fifth-highest
ranking, Fitch said in a statement yesterday. The Paris-based
OECD said separately that boosting the 5 percent consumption
levy is a “top priority.”  A surge in demand for Japanese government bonds that sent
10-year yields to the lowest level since 2003 this month is
masking the risks from rising debt. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has failed to persuade opposition lawmakers to support his
legislation, leaving gross public debt poised to reach 223
percent of gross domestic product next year, the OECD said.  “It’s an alarm bell for Japanese politics and the slow
progress in Japan’s fiscal consolidation,” said  Junko Nishioka ,
chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo and a
former central bank official. “There’s no commitment to fiscal
consolidation -- in the long run, Japan’s creditworthiness and
fiscal sustainability aren’t looking good.”  Fitch went one step further than Moody’s Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor’s , which both have Japan on their fourth-
highest rankings. Fitch and S&P both have a negative outlook for
the nation’s grade.  Yen Drop  The yen weakened 0.8 percent against the dollar yesterday
after the announcement, and was little changed today at 79.99 as
of 9:49 a.m. in Tokyo.  “The country’s fiscal consolidation plan looks leisurely
relative even to other fiscally-challenged high-income countries,
and implementation is subject to political risk,” said  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific Sovereigns at Fitch.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters that he didn’t
want to comment on the assessment, while adding that the
government will press on with tax and welfare reform to improve
finances.  Raising the 5 percent sales tax is a “top priority” and
balancing the budget and reducing the public debt burden are
“essential,” the OECD said in a report yesterday. Delays in
restoring the fiscal health of the world’s third-largest economy
could risk a run-up in government borrowing costs, it said.  Yields Falling  So far, Japan’s worsening credit score hasn’t led to a drop
in bond prices, with yields on benchmark 10-year debt falling to
0.815 percent on May 18, the lowest since 2003.  Turmoil in  Europe  has boosted the appeal of Japanese assets
as a so-called haven for investors and the nation remains the
world’s largest net creditor. Japan’s foreign investments and
assets grew to the second-highest level on record in 2011,
Finance Ministry data showed yesterday.  “Very strong private sector savings in Japan” help support
the sovereign rating, Colquhoun said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong  today. Private-sector demand
for Japanese  government bonds  won’t change soon, he said.  Yields “are being kept low by extremely loose monetary
policy and safe haven demand,” said David Rea, an economist at
London-based Capital Economics. “Japan is not  Greece  and is
unlikely to share a similar fate,” he said, adding that it has
“its own currency, independent monetary policy, a relatively
strong economy and ample external assets.”  Moody’s, S&P  Moody’s cut the nation one step to Aa3 in August last year,
citing the build-up in government debt since the 2009 global
recession. S&P lowered Japan to AA- in January last year and
said the outlook was “negative” three months later. No comment
was immediately available from those companies yesterday.  Japan ’s economy grew more than expected in the first
quarter as private consumption rose and reconstruction spending
boosted public investment. Gross domestic product rose an
annualized 4.1 percent from the final three months of 2011, a
Cabinet Office report showed May 17.  Bank of Japan  officials will today announce whether they
will take additional steps to spur growth and counter deflation
after the yen rose last week to a three-month high against the
dollar, dragging on the nation’s exports. Seven of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News said they expect the central bank to
bolster monetary stimulus by July, while none predicted action
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  