-- JPMorgan’s Blunder Doesn’t Mean U.S. Should Bust Up Banks
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/jpmorgan-s-blunder-doesn-t-mean-u-s-should-bust-up-banks.html
JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.’s colossal $3
billion-and-counting trading blunder has breathed new life into
long-simmering calls to break up big U.S. banks. We agree
they’ve become too concentrated, too complex and too unwieldy to
effectively regulate or manage, but there are better solutions
than asking bureaucrats to take them apart.  The biggest U.S. banks have grown only  bigger  since the
financial crisis. The five largest institutions now control 52
percent of all the banking industry’s  assets , up from 17 percent
in 1970. JPMorgan alone holds more than $2.3 trillion, up from
$1.6 trillion in 2008. The banks’ size is partly the result of a
perverse incentive: The larger and more systemically threatening
they become, the more likely the government will be to bail them
out in an emergency. That too-big-to-fail status gives them an
advantage in the marketplace, allowing them to borrow more
cheaply than smaller, less dangerous banks. They commonly use
that taxpayer-subsidized money to make speculative bets, like
the one that went sour at JPMorgan.  Opposition to this state of affairs has intensified
recently, as prominent voices -- including Federal Reserve Bank
of Dallas President  Richard Fisher , St. Louis Fed President
 James Bullard  and former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  -- have called for shrinking U.S. banks.
Splitting the businesses of traditional lending and risky
trading into separate entities, the argument goes, would
minimize the threat of another financial crisis, protect
taxpayers and bank customers, and better insulate the  U.S.
economy  against shocks. The debate over whether this would be
the right approach crosses partisan lines: Neither President
 Barack Obama  nor presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , for
example, is in the break-up-the-banks camp.  Market Roulette  Undoubtedly, there is good reason to be worried about the
dangers posed by superbanks that take depositor money with one
hand while playing market roulette with the other. A big enough
mistake on the roulette side -- where traders buy and sell
securities such as credit default swaps and collateralized debt
obligations -- can impair a bank’s lending capacity or even
cripple an entire institution.  Despite the best efforts of the Dodd-Frank financial reform
legislation, it’s still not hard to envision a situation where
the government would need to ride to the rescue of a JPMorgan,
 Bank of America  Corp. or  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. to prevent broader
contagion. The law requires more transparent trading of
derivatives, stepped-up oversight of systemically important
institutions and more capital to absorb losses. It gives
regulators the power to take apart a large, failing institution
if it’s a threat to the financial system, and creates
significant hurdles for any future taxpayer bailout. In the yet-
to-be-implemented Volcker rule, it seeks to forbid banks from
speculating for profit with their own money. Nonetheless,
credit-rating companies  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service both say they anticipate the U.S. government would
rescue large banks in a future crisis, and the banks’  borrowing
costs  suggest the market agrees.  It’s tempting to consider a return to the days of the
 Glass-Steagall Act , when institutions engaged either in
traditional banking -- taking customer deposits and lending --
or securities trading. Unfortunately, that’s not likely to work.
The financial system has evolved in some irreversible ways. It’s
increasingly hard to differentiate between securities and loans,
because the latter are now often written as contracts that can
be traded. Many loan commitments must be considered derivatives
for accounting reasons. Perhaps most important, the
responsibility for making such difficult distinctions would fall
to  Washington , which has proved time and again its inability to
assess risk. As the experience of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
demonstrated, even a pure securities firm can present a big
threat to the system.  Penalize Bigness  A better approach would be to change the economic
incentives. Make bigness more costly, rather than more
rewarding. There are various ways to achieve this. Regulators
can impose fees tied to the size of banks’ liabilities or to
their reliance on fickle short-term financing, which tends to
disappear in a crisis.  Capital requirements  for the largest
banks can be raised far higher than the 7 percent the Fed
currently requires. Research by economists at the  Bank of
England  suggests 20 percent would be the optimal level for
economic growth. Beyond that, regulators can require bank
holding companies to capitalize their lending and trading
operations separately, so that losses in one business won’t
affect the other; this “ring-fencing” approach is already being
put in place in the U.K.  Don’t count on the banks to be happy with increased capital
requirements and risk-based fees. JPMorgan Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon , for instance, has argued that such
requirements will crimp lending and harm the broader economy.
We’ve debunked that fallacy  before . Bank executives’ real
concern is that they will lose a taxpayer subsidy that has made
it easy to boost their profits and bonuses in good times.  U.S. taxpayers should never again have to worry that a
bank’s missteps will threaten economic disaster and necessitate
a bailout. Giving banks an incentive to shrink will go a long
way toward protecting the financial system and making too big to
fail a thing of the past.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  the future of
affirmative action ;  Margaret Carlson  on  private equity and
Democrats ;  Peter Orszag  on  combining stimulus and budget cuts ; 
 Enrique Krauze  on  dangerous journalism in Latin America ; Jacob 
Kirkegaard on why  a Greek exit would help the euro area ; James 
Copland on the  Justice Department and accounting firms .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 