-- JPMorgan Hires Ex-SEC Enforcement Chief McLucas in Probes
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-05-22T21:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/jpmorgan-said-to-hire-ex-sec-enforcement-chief-mclucas.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank, has hired former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission enforcement chief William McLucas to help respond to
regulatory probes of the firm’s $2 billion trading loss.  The lender retained law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale &
Dorr LLP, where McLucas is a partner, shortly after the bank
disclosed the loss on May 10, said  Kristin Lemkau , a spokeswoman
for New York-based JPMorgan.  The probes began after JPMorgan traders in  London  built up
positions in illiquid  credit derivatives  that were so large they
distorted market prices and eventually led to what Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  called “self-inflicted” losses
that may grow. That spurred reviews by the SEC, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  “Our focus right now is on whether the company’s public
disclosure and financial reporting is accurate,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said today in congressional testimony. “The
agencies collectively, including the criminal authorities, are
working very hard to untangle what happened at the firm.”  The SEC is reviewing the accuracy and timing of JPMorgan’s
disclosure of changes in how it calculates value-at-risk, or
VaR, which shows how much it could lose from trading most days,
Schapiro said. The bank changed its VaR model for the chief
investment office during the first quarter without telling
investors. The new model, which has since been scrapped, had cut
the risk estimation almost in half, Dimon told investors May 10.  Disclosure of Changes  When there are changes to the VaR model, “those changes
have to be disclosed” to the public, said Schapiro, 56. When
companies report large trading losses, “we actually make them
back-test and provide us with full information about why their
estimates of losses were so far off,” she said.  McLucas, 61, led the SEC’s enforcement division from 1989
to 1998 and represented board committees in the collapses of
Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc. He didn’t reply to a phone call
and e-mail seeking comment.  The losses occurred in a portfolio of credit investments
overseen in London by JPMorgan’s chief investment office, which
manages risks. The company used a trading strategy that was
“flawed, complex, poorly conceived, poorly vetted and poorly
executed,” Dimon, 56, has said.  JPMorgan’s general counsel and most senior lawyer,  Stephen Cutler , also previously served as the head of enforcement at the
SEC. Cutler, 50, worked with McLucas at WilmerHale from 2005 to
2007, before JPMorgan hired him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  