-- JPMorgan Veered From Hedging Practices at Competing Banks
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-22T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/jpmorgan-veered-from-hedging-practices-at-competing-banks.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s biggest U.S.
competitors say their corporate investment offices avoid the use
of derivatives that led to the bank’s $2 billion loss and buy
fewer bonds exposed to credit risk.  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Wells Fargo & Co.
say the offices don’t trade credit-default swaps on indexes
linked to the health of companies. JPMorgan is said to have
amassed positions in such indexes that were so large they drove
price moves in the $10 trillion market.  The loss has prompted shareholders to join regulators in
scrutinizing how banks use their investment offices to hedge
risks and manage deposits they aren’t using for loans.
JPMorgan’s competitors confine corporate-level trading mostly to
interest-rate and currency swaps -- the most common derivatives
-- and put a greater percentage of funds into U.S. government-
backed securities such as Treasury bonds.  “Traditionally, banks use  government bonds , because
they’re safer,” said Ray Soifer, a former Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. bank analyst who’s now chairman of Green Valley,
Arizona-based Soifer Consulting LLC, which advises banks and
investors on strategy and risk management. “JPMorgan is going
down the credit spectrum from U.S. Treasuries, because they’re
reaching for yield.”  Seeking Returns  The concentration of assets that carry the risk a borrower
might default reflects JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ’s push over the past five years to seek higher returns at
the New York-based bank’s chief investment office, as reported
by Bloomberg News April 13. Dimon said at an investment
conference yesterday that the bank has more of such assets than
competitors, while asserting it isn’t taking undue risks.  “We have more credit exposure than other people, and we
think when we put that credit exposure on, it was actually very
good,” said Dimon, 56. “We bought some triple-A securities
that we think are as good as gold.”  About half of the $381.7 billion in JPMorgan’s chief
investment office portfolio is in company bonds, asset-backed
securities and mortgage debt not backed by the U.S. government,
according to a  March 31 filing . That compares with 7.7 percent
at the end of 2007. The amount, $188.1 billion, is more than the
holdings of such securities by its three biggest competitors
combined. It exceeds the total assets of Atlanta-based SunTrust
Banks Inc., the 10th-biggest U.S. lender.  Similar assets at San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo (WFC)  represent
34 percent of a $230.3 billion portfolio. It’s 11 percent of New
York-based Citigroup’s $270.6 billion book, and 10 percent of
the $297.1 billion pool of securities at  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America.  Fewer Treasury Bonds  JPMorgan has about 30 percent of its holdings in U.S.
Treasuries and bonds issued or guaranteed by U.S. government-
backed agencies, according to its filings. That compares with 87
percent at Bank of America, 50 percent at Citigroup and 47
percent at Wells Fargo.  The payoff: JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank, gets a yield
of 3.2 percent on its corporate bonds, compared with 1 percent
for Treasuries and debt issued by government-backed agencies.  The pressure to take bigger risks has increased as the
 Federal Reserve  keeps benchmark  interest rates  near zero,
shrinking the returns banks can get from keeping their money in
short-term U.S. government bonds.  ‘Credit-Heavy’  JPMorgan is “more credit-heavy” than other banks, said
 David Hendler , an analyst with CreditSights Inc. in New York.
“It’s just another indication that they’re searching for yield
like other money managers.”  Citigroup senior managers were getting so many questions
about corporate liquidity that Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  and Chief Risk Officer Brian Leach last week sent a
memo to staff outlining how the money is managed. Liquidity is
the term financial executives and regulators use to describe
cash or investments that can be easily sold and converted into
cash to meet redemption requests from depositors or pay off
short-term debts.  “We are conservative in our mix of assets,” Gerspach and
Leach wrote in the May 14 memo. “There are clear risk limits
and parameters throughout the firm.”  At issue is how banks manage their securities portfolios --
the investments they buy with funds left over when deposits
exceed the amount of loans. Putting the money into bonds is
supposed to bring higher yields than the bank could get from
parking the money at the Fed, currently paying 0.25 percent on
deposits. The four biggest U.S. banks manage a combined $1.2
trillion in these portfolios.  ‘Everyone Does It’  JPMorgan’s holdings are overseen by the chief investment
office, where the flawed derivatives trades took place. The
former head of the unit, Ina Drew, reported directly to Dimon
until she resigned last week.  “Think of this as a big fixed-income portfolio,” Dimon
said yesterday. “Almost every single bank, whether you call it
CIO or treasury, almost everyone does it.”  Bank of America’s portfolio is run by Chief Investment
Officer Walter Muller, who reports to CFO  Bruce Thompson .
Citigroup Treasurer Eric Aboaf manages his bank’s pool,
overseeing a chief investment office and deputy treasurers in
countries outside the U.S. At Wells Fargo, the function is split
between CFO Tim Sloan and John Shrewsberry, who runs the
investment banking and trading division.  Macroeconomic Risk  The differences between JPMorgan and its competitors extend
to the use of  credit derivatives  by corporate investment offices
to hedge macroeconomic risks in the company, such as the
possibility that more loans might sour as unemployment rises.
While all four banks buy and sell credit-default swaps, such
transactions typically are done in trading departments.  Dimon, on a May 10 conference call with analysts and
investors, said the bank’s losses stemmed from a “strategy to
hedge the firm’s overall credit exposure, which is our largest
risk overall, in a stressed credit environment.” He said the
bank now plans to scale back.  “We are reducing that hedge,” Dimon said. “The portfolio
has proven to be riskier, more volatile and less effective as an
economic hedge than we thought.”  While Citigroup’s corporate office tries to hedge some
credit risks, those trades are small and linked to consumers’
financial health, said  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for the bank.  “Citi has a small amount of straightforward economic
hedges managed at the corporate center to mitigate our credit
exposure, principally relating to consumer loans,” Bell said,
declining to provide a figure.  Wells Fargo, BofA  Wells Fargo also shuns such bets,  Mary Eshet , a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Wells Fargo does not have a CIO function that employs
large-scale macroeconomic credit-derivative hedges,” she wrote.  Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  said yesterday at the
investment conference that while his company sometimes uses
credit-default swaps tied to individual companies, it doesn’t
hedge against broader macroeconomic risk.  “We don’t do the macro hedging from a corporate
perspective,” he said. “We obviously manage our interest-rate
risk every day.”  That doesn’t make Bank of America, Wells Fargo or Citigroup
risk-free.  “The scale of their transactions remains an important
issue,” said Eric Hilt, an associate professor of economics at
 Wellesley College  in  Massachusetts . “A currency hedge could be
just as damaging and risky as a credit hedge if done on an
absurdly large scale.”  Bank treasury departments are a “sleepy little world,”
and aggressive risk-taking should be left to the trading
division, said Thomas Obermaier, a former Citigroup risk officer
who’s now CEO of  Regulatory DataCorp Inc. , a consulting firm
based in King of Prussia,  Pennsylvania . JPMorgan is a client and
owns a stake in the company, he said.  “This was clearly a treasury department designed to
maximize profit as much as trying to manage the portfolio, and
they got burned,” Obermaier said. “They can eat a $3 billion
loss. But you shouldn’t eat a $3 billion loss from treasury
trading.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 