-- JPMorgan Employee Sues After $2 Billion Trading Loss
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-22T14:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/jpmorgan-employee-sues-over-trading-losses-to-retirement-funds.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was sued by a
former employee seeking to represent participants in the bank’s
retirement plan who lost money on company stock the plan held
after the bank reported a $2 billion trading loss.  The complaint filed yesterday by Gregory Scrydloff in
Manhattan federal court accuses New York-based JPMorgan of
making misstatements about its financial health that allowed the
company’s stock to trade at inflated prices between April 13,
when the company reported  earnings , and May 10, when Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  disclosed the trading loss.  Last week, an  Arizona  trust filed a securities-fraud
lawsuit seeking to represent all  investors  who lost money on the
stock as a result of alleged misstatements by the bank about its
losses. In another case filed last week, an individual investor
asked for damages on behalf of the company from Dimon, the
bank’s  board  and other executives.  The trading losses came on synthetic credit products, which
are derivatives tied to credit performance. In disclosing the
$2 billion loss on transactions he said were intended to manage
risk, Dimon cited “egregious” failures by the bank’s chief
investment office.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment on the most recent lawsuit.  The employee case is Scrydloff v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 12-
4027, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The earlier cases are Baker v. Dimon, 12-cv-03878,
and Saratoga Advantage Trust -- Financial Services Portfolio,
12-cv-03879, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  