-- Justice Department May Be in the Next Cubicle
-- B y   J a m e s   R .   C o p l a n d
-- 2012-05-22T23:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/justice-department-may-be-in-the-next-cubicle.html
The  Justice Department  appears to
have learned a lesson in the 10 years since it indicted Arthur
Andersen LLP for alleged improprieties in the firm’s Enron
bookkeeping. By 2005, when the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously
vacated a conviction in the case, the accounting firm had
collapsed, and all but a handful of the 85,000 employees
worldwide lost their jobs.  The Justice Department has since avoided large-scale
corporate prosecutions that would threaten the disastrous
collateral consequences brought on by its case against the
former Big Five accounting firm.  But in the place of actual prosecutions, the Justice
Department has aggressively pursued what are blandly called
“deferred prosecution” or “non-prosecution” agreements -- DPAs
and NPAs, for short -- through which prosecutors and companies
negotiate terms to avoid a criminal trial. This approach may be
avoiding the sort of corporate death sentence visited upon
Andersen for what proved to be non-crimes, but nonetheless does
something just as worrisome: It insinuates Justice Department
career bureaucrats into the day-to-day management of major
American businesses.  Although only 17 DPAs or NPAs were reached between
businesses and federal prosecutors in the decade before the
Andersen indictment, more than 200 have followed in its wake,
through both the Bush and Obama administrations. Seven Fortune
100 companies are currently operating under the supervision of
federal prosecutors:  CVS Caremark (CVS)  Corp.,  Google (GOOG)  Inc., Johnson &
Johnson, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Merck & Co., MetLife Inc. and
Tyson Foods Inc.  Wal-Mart on Deck  Seven other of the 100 largest businesses have been under a
DPA or NPA in just the past few years. Others, such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., currently facing scrutiny for alleged Mexican
bribes prohibited under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, are
sure to follow.  In each of the past three years, fines and penalties levied
under federal deferred-prosecution and non-prosecution
agreements have exceeded $3 billion. While such fines are not
insignificant, of far greater concern are the sometimes sweeping
powers that prosecutors have asserted over business practices.
In recent DPAs and NPAs, federal prosecutors have variously
pressured companies to change long-standing sales and
compensation practices; to restrict or modify contracting and
merger decisions; to carry out onerous compliance and reporting
programs; to appoint corporate monitors with broad discretion
over management decisions; and even to oust executives or
directors.  Businesses accept the agreements with such aggressive terms
because they can ill afford to fight a criminal investigation. A
certified public-accounting firm like the former  Arthur Andersen 
is uniquely vulnerable to criminal indictment and conviction.
But criminal inquiries place significant pressure on stock
prices for all companies and can impair the ability to obtain
credit. Companies can be debarred from government contracting or
denied licenses upon an indictment or conviction, making
businesses in certain industries, such as health care and
financial services, particularly unable to fight back against a
prospective prosecution.  Just  since 2009 , finance companies have entered into 18
federal  DPAs  and  NPAs  and health-care businesses into 11 such
agreements. The finance companies alone have a collective market
value exceeding $690 billion, with more than $20 trillion in
assets under management.  There is essentially no evidence that DPAs and NPAs, for
all their sweep, have been effective in combating corporate
crime. Some corporate-ethics watchdogs have argued that current
Justice Department practices, by failing to credit internal
compliance programs, have undermined companies’ incentives to
self-police.  No Judicial Oversight  What the agreements have been effective in doing is
elevating Justice Department lawyers as business regulators who
can reshape industry practices without having to engage in the
cost-benefit analysis that is the norm for administrative agency
action. Prosecutors in this area act largely without any
judicial oversight: Judges never see NPAs and routinely rubber-
stamp DPAs, and these agreements typically state that
determinations of whether a company is in breach are the
prosecutor’s alone and are beyond judicial review.  It is long past time that Congress asserted itself over the
Justice Department’s use of DPAs and NPAs to assume broad and
unaccountable regulatory authority. Public “tough on crime”
sentiment and understandable anger over unprincipled conduct by
some business leaders make most politicians hesitant to suggest
that the criminal law is being too harshly applied to
corporations.  Still, there’s little case for prosecuting corporations as
entities in the first place. Unlike individuals, they can’t be
imprisoned. As the Arthur Andersen case demonstrated, business
entities often cannot be prosecuted, either -- at least without
potentially drastic effects on corporate shareholders,
employees, pensioners, customers and suppliers.  Federal prosecutors have been having a profound impact on
those constituencies, with broad economic consequences, in the
way they have been deciding not to prosecute businesses, but
rather to control them through DPAs and NPAs. In the decade
since Arthur Andersen was indicted, we haven’t seen a repeat of
that error. But in its place we have watched as federal
prosecutors assume vast powers that make them an overarching, if
hidden, regulator of American business.  (James R. Copland is the director of the Center for Legal
Policy at the  Manhattan Institute  and author of a new report,
“The Shadow Regulatory State: The Rise of Deferred Prosecution
Agreements.” The views expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  the future of
affirmative action  and  breaking up the big banks ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  private equity and Democrats ;  Peter Orszag  on
 combining stimulus and budget cuts ;  Enrique Krauze  on  dangerous
journalism in Latin America ;  Jacob Kirkegaard  on why  a Greek
exit would help the euro area .  To contact the writer of this article:
James R. Copland at  communications@manhattan-institute.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  