-- Keystone XL Pipeline Will Raise U.S. Gasoline Prices, Group Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-05-22T18:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/keystone-xl-pipeline-will-raise-u-s-gasoline-prices-group-says.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed pipeline
to carry crude from the  oil sands  of  Canada  to the U.S. Gulf
Coast would increase gasoline prices, according to a report from
an environmental group that opposes the project.  The Keystone XL pipeline would divert crude oil from the
U.S. Midwest to refineries along the Gulf Coast geared to
producing  diesel fuel  for export, the  Natural Resources Defense
Council  said in a report today. That will decrease the amount of
gasoline produced for U.S. consumers and raise production costs,
making the fuel more expensive, according to Anthony Swift,
author of the report and an attorney with the environmental
group.  President  Barack Obama  rejected the project in January
saying that more environmental study is needed. The NRDC
findings contradict a report last year from IHS CERA, which
provides business advice and analysis to energy companies, that
said the pipeline would help lower fuel prices.  “This requires President Obama and his administration and
the Congress to take a real look at the impact of  tar sands  to
the environment and not have to worry about the political issue
of gas prices,” Swift said on a conference call with reporters.  The original project, estimated to cost $7.6 billion,
would’ve expanded TransCanada’s existing Keystone pipeline to
carry as much as 830,000 barrels a day from Canada’s oil sands
and North Dakota’s Bakken Shale along a 1,661-mile (2,672-
kilometer) path to Gulf Coast refineries. The NRDC and other
environmental groups oppose the expansion of Canadian oil sands
production, which they say creates more greenhouse gases than
conventional crude.  Project Split  Following Obama’s denial, TransCanada split the project and
reapplied for separate segments from the Canadian border to
 Steele City , Nebraska, and from Cushing, Oklahoma, to Texas
refineries on the Gulf Coast. The segments would be connected by
existing pipeline.  The U.S. State Department has jurisdiction over the section
that crosses the international border.  “Yes, it does pull up the Midwest crude price because it
equalizes the market, but on the other hand it introduces
additional supply to an already fairly saturated region,”
 Sander Cohan , a global transportation fuels analyst and
principal with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts, said in an interview. “It might have a small
impact.”  Friends of the Earth , a Washington-based environmental
group, has said the Keystone XL pipeline will increase air
pollution and the amount of  greenhouse gases  associated with the
production of crude from the oil-sands region. Crude from the
oil sands is 5 percent to 15 percent more carbon intensive than
the average crude used in the U.S., according to IHS CERA.  API Job Estimate  The  American Petroleum Institute , the Washington-based
group that represents more than 470 oil and natural gas
companies, said the project will add 20,000 U.S. jobs and lower
dependence on oil from the  Middle East .  “The Keystone XL tar sands pipeline is not a solution to
rising gas prices,” according to today’s report. “By
decreasing the supply of gasoline in the United States and
increasing the price refineries pay to produce it, Keystone XL
will add to America’s pain at the pump.”  The U.S. imports 8 million to 9 million barrels of oil a
day, according to Shawn Howard, a spokesman for Calgary-based
TransCanada.  “To somehow suggest that helping offset current imports
from Mexico and Venezuela with this Canadian and American crude
is going to drive prices up, because what we’re doing is helping
replace some of the current feedstock, doesn’t make sense,”
Howard said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  