-- Clijsters Will Quit Tennis After Trying to Win Fourth U.S. Open
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-23T00:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/kim-clijsters-says-she-will-retire-again-after-u-s-open-tennis.html
Kim Clijsters , the former No. 1-
ranked women’s tennis player, said she’ll retire from the sport
for a second time in September after trying to win her fourth
U.S. Open title.  Clijsters, 28, said at a news conference in Brussels
yesterday that she’s enjoyed her “greatest triumphs” at the
National Tennis Center in New York, where she won the
championship in 2005, 2009 and 2010.  This year’s tournament , the
last of the four Grand Slams, will be held Aug. 27 to Sept. 9.  “We will be in the  United States  with my beautiful
family,” Clijsters, who is married to U.S. basketball player
Brian Lynch, told reporters, according to her  website . “It will
be the ideal way to quit.”  Clijsters, who’s slipped to 44th in the WTA Tour rankings
while recovering from a torn hip muscle, has previously said
this would be her final season. She first retired in 2007 before
the birth of her daughter, Jada, and returned to win the 2009
 U.S. Open  as an unranked wild-card entrant after ending her 28-
month layoff.  Clijsters missed last year’s U.S. Open because of a
strained stomach muscle and is unbeaten at the National Tennis
Center since losing to fellow Belgian Justine Henin in the 2003
final. She also won the 2011 Australian Open.  The winner of 41 WTA Tour events, Clijsters said last month
that her recovery is progressing slower than expected and that
she’d skip the clay-court season to focus on getting fit for
Wimbledon and the  London  Olympics. Clijsters doesn’t plan to
play in another tournament until next month.  The  French Open , the second major tournament of the year,
begins May 27 in Paris, while Wimbledon starts June 25 in
London, which will stage the Olympics from July 27 to Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  