-- Kit Planes Found to Crash, Kill More Than Factory Craft
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-22T19:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/kit-planes-found-to-crash-kill-more-than-factory-craft.html
Private planes assembled from kits
have been involved in more crashes and deaths than other small
aircraft because pilots are often ill-prepared to fly them, a
U.S. safety study found.  Planes like those that  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Appleton  and singer John Denver were
piloting when they died are more than three times more likely to
be in a fatal accident, the  National Transportation Safety Board 
said today. Ten of 102 accidents in home-built planes last year
occurred the first time a pilot flew them.  Home-built small planes are classified as experimental by
the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  and have fewer
regulatory restrictions than similar factory-built planes, the
safety board said. It voted to recommend requiring pilots to
conduct fuel-system testing, file flight-test plans and use the
latest electronic gear to record flight data.  “This has been an issue for a while,” Robert Sumwalt, a
NTSB board member, said at a hearing in  Washington  today after
describing Denver’s crash almost 15 years ago. “It involves a
lot of pilots. Hopefully we can drive the accident rate
significantly down as a result of this study.”  Unlike with a factory plane, pilots of home-built aircraft
must test fly the craft themselves. Flight tests are not always
conducted according to FAA recommendations and pilots are often
not prepared to assess whether the plane is in working order,
the study found.  Micron’s Appleton  Pilots who bought a used home-built plane often had similar
difficulties on initial flights, according to the study. While
the FAA has guidance for how to test the planes, the regulatory
agency doesn’t check to ensure that it was done.  “There’s really no excuse for not having an effective
flight-test program,” Earl Weener, a NTSB member, said at the
hearing.  Of about 224,000 U.S. general aviation aircraft, 33,000
were built from plans or kits, according to the safety board.
About 1,000 are made each year, Dick Knapinski, a spokesman for
the  Experimental Aircraft Association , said in a phone
interview. The group welcomed the board’s suggestions, and is
working on implementing several recommendations, he said.  The association, based in Oshkosh,  Wisconsin , represents
more than 160,000 pilots and other enthusiasts, according to its
website. The group helped the safety board survey owners for its
study.  Lower Cost  Home-built models range from simple designs made mainly
from wood to high-performance aircraft built with carbon fiber.
They have been growing in popularity because they typically cost
less than factory-built planes and appeal to hobbyists,
Knapinski said.  The home-built Lancair IVP-TP plane that Micron
Technology’s Appleton was flying when he crashed and died Feb. 3
in Boise,  Idaho , was equipped with a turbine engine and was
pressurized to fly at high altitudes. This model can cost
hundreds of thousands of dollars, according to Knapinski.  Appleton’s plane crashed shortly after takeoff as he was
attempting to return to the airport, according to the safety
board. Investigators haven’t established a cause.  One of the best-known accidents involving home-built planes
was one that killed Denver on Oct. 12, 1997, in the ocean just
off Pacific Grove,  California .  Denver had 2,750 hours of flight time and had been approved
to fly many aircraft types, including Learjets, according to
safety board records.  Inadequate Training  Denver owned the plane that crashed, a Long EZ home-built
model designed by  Scaled Composites LLC  of Mohave, California,
for about two weeks and flown it a handful of times, the safety
board found. The company, now owned by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,
was founded by spacecraft designer Burt Rutan.  The accident occurred after fuel in one tank ran out and
the engine stopped running as Denver attempted to switch to the
other tank, the safety board ruled. Denver’s inadequate training
in the plane contributed to the accident, the agency said, as
did a relocated fuel switch that was difficult to reach. Because
the plane was a home-built model, there were no U.S. rules on
moving the fuel switch, according to the safety board.  One of the biggest causes of accidents was engine failure
and the safety board voted to recommend that pilots be required
to test a new plane’s fuel system before its first flight.  Home-built plane owners should also be required to submit a
flight-test plan to the FAA, the safety board recommended.  Recording Data  Pilots should also be encouraged to use the latest
electronic gear to record data from test flights to provide a
more detailed record of a plane’s performance, according to the
safety board.  The FAA is reviewing the safety board’s recommendations,
the agency said in a statement. An initiative already under way
to help pilots avoid losing control of aircraft, a leading cause
of home-built accidents, may address some safety board
recommendations, the FAA said.  The purpose of the study wasn’t to discourage people from
building their own aircraft,  Deborah Hersman , chairwoman of the
safety board, said in an interview after the hearing.  The home-built segment of the market has helped drive
innovations such as computerized cockpit electronics and the use
of composite materials, Hersman said. Several safety-board
employees have built planes in their spare time.  “They are the heartbeat of aviation,” she said of
hobbyists who fly those models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  