-- KKR Said to Near $2 Billion for Second Asia Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-05-22T04:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/kkr-said-to-near-2-billion-for-second-asia-fund.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the buyout firm co-founded
by Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , is gathering $2 billion in
the first round of capital raising for a new Asia fund, three
people with knowledge of the matter said.  KKR, based in  New York , is seeking as much as $6 billion
for the fund, and plans a so-called first close in June, the
people said, asking not to be identified because the information
is private.  The fund will be KKR’s second targeting Asia, where
private-equity investment jumped 38 percent from 2009 to last
year according to estimates from Asian Venture Capital Journal.
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and TPG Capital are also amassing regional
funds as  Asia ’s economies outpace the U.S. and Europe.  Steven Okun, a spokesman for KKR in Asia, declined to
comment on the new fund.  KKR is offering investors in its KKR Asian Fund II the
option of a lower management fee or a greater share of
commissions levied on its portfolio companies, according to
marketing documents obtained by Bloomberg News in December.  KKR  raised  $4 billion for its first Asia fund in 2007. That
fund was generating an 11.3 percent net internal rate of return
as of Sept. 30, according to the marketing documents.  Fifty-three funds were attempting to raise a total of $22.3
billion to invest exclusively in Asia as of last month,
according to data compiled by Preqin Ltd., a London-based
research firm.  KKR established a presence in Asia in late 2005 and now has
six offices in the region with 45 investment professionals. It
has made 22 investments in Asia, investing and committing about
$4.6 billion in equity, the marketing documents showed.  The buyout firm said last month its first-quarter profit
rose 4.6 percent to $683.8 million, beating analysts’ estimates
as the carrying value of its holdings rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  