-- N.J. Revenue May Trail Christie Forecasts by $1.3 Billion
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-23T18:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/n-j-revenue-may-be-1-3-billion-short-of-christie-s-forecasts.html
New Jersey ’s revenue may fall below
Governor  Chris Christie ’s projections by as much as $1.3 billion
through June 2013, the Legislature’s chief budget analyst said, 
prompting the state's chief executive to ask, “Why would anyone
with a functioning brain believe this guy?"  Collections may lag behind Christie’s targets by $668
million in fiscal 2012 and $635 million in the year that begins
July 1, David Rosen of the nonpartisan Office of Legislative
Services told the Assembly Budget Committee today.  The shortfall estimated by Rosen is more than double the
$537 million over the two-year period that he projected for the
budget panels in March. New Jersey revenue is increasing at a
pace that is “a good deal more modest than had been
anticipated” in Christie’s budget, Rosen said.  “To put it simply, revenues are rising too slowly to
achieve the year-end targets,” Rosen said. “And it appears
that May collections for the major taxes will not materially
improve the situation.”  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff told lawmakers the two-
year revenue shortfall is $676 million, about half of what Rosen
estimated. Taxes will trail by $314 million in fiscal 2012 and
$362 million for the year that begins July 1, he said.  The $32.1 billion budget for fiscal 2013 that Christie
proposed in February hinged on a 7.3 percent revenue gain, the
most since before the recession that began in December 2007. The
49-year-old Republican has traveled the state to promote his
“Jersey Comeback,” a turnaround he has said will let the state
raise spending while cutting income taxes by 10 percent.  ‘Dr. Kevorkian’  Christie, speaking to an industry group today in Trenton,
called the Legislative Services office a “handmaiden” to the
Democratic majority, and Rosen the “Dr. Kevorkian” of the
Statehouse, a reference to the late assisted-suicide advocate
Jack Kevorkian.  “Why would anyone with a functioning brain believe this
guy?” he told the crowd. “Nobody in this state believes  David
Rosen  anymore and nobody should.”  Rosen, 65, holds a doctorate in political science from
 Rutgers University , has been with the Legislative Services
office since 1984 and has worked on budgets since 1991. He
declined to comment on Christie’s Kevorkian remark.  The dilemma confronting Christie echoes the situation in
 California , where Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, had to cut
deeper into his fiscal 2013 spending plan as  tax revenue  came up
short, swelling a projected deficit to almost $16 billion. Brown
is seeking to temporarily raise sales and income taxes while
cutting state payrolls and services to the needy.  Moody’s, S&P  Christie will seek $20 million in salary savings in the
coming year by not giving raises, according to Sidamon-
Eristoff’s written testimony. The administration also will seek
to cut $260 million in “pay as you go” road funding in fiscal
2013, the treasurer said.  Moody’s Investors Service warned that New Jersey’s missed
revenue targets are a “credit negative” after Sidamon-Eristoff
said last week that April receipts from income and corporate taxes
were $230 million less than projected.  Standard & Poor’s  said in
February that Christie’s budget is “structurally unbalanced”
because it’s built on “optimistic” revenue assumptions.  “It’s time to see the reality that things are not going as
well as we had hoped they would,” said Assemblyman Vincent Prieto, a Secaucus Democrat who leads the budget committee.
“This is something that is real and we’re going to have to deal
with it.”  Income Taxes  Rosen projected that income-tax collections may lag behind
Christie’s estimates by $618 million over two years, while
business taxes may be $190 million short.  Christie’s office released a statement today saying that
while “Democrats root for failure based on Moody’s uninformed
claims, business leaders across the Garden State agree that the
New Jersey Comeback has begun.” The statement cited a  survey  of
chief executive officers released yesterday in which respondents
said they are more optimistic about the business climate and
economic recovery now than a year earlier.  Rosen’s office has been wrong in the past, including an
estimate last year that exceeded Christie’s forecast by $800
million, said  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for the governor.
Buoyed by those projections, Democrats passed their own budget
and Christie cut $1 billion from it, using line-item vetoes.  Legislative Services “has a long history of being all over
the map,” Roberts said yesterday by e-mail. “You simply can’t
rely on OLS’s wildly fluctuating projections when one year
they’re overestimating and the next year they’re
underestimating.”  Rosen told committee members that crafting revenue
projections is an imprecise process. The median error by his
office was 3.2 percent between fiscal 2000 and 2011, while the
executive branch’s median error was 3.9 percent, he said.  “The administration’s numbers are within the realm of
possibility, but it’s also possible they’ll be substantially
below” their projections, he said in an interview after the
hearing. “We’re just giving the committee our estimates. That’s
what our job is. They can use it or not use it as they will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  