-- Nigeria’s Naira Hits Three-Month Low as Oil Import Demand Rises
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-22T15:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/nigeria-s-naira-hits-three-month-low-as-oil-import-demand-rises.html
The naira weakened to the lowest in
more than three months, snapping two days of gains, after demand
for dollars increased from oil importers and debt investors.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer depreciated
0.3 percent to 159.25 per dollar, the lowest closing price since
Feb. 14, as of 3:42 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital. The
naira has gained 1.9 percent this year, the second-best
performer in Africa.  “The oil importers are getting comfortable and are
increasing demand for dollars,” Jide Solanke, an analyst at
First Securities Discount House Ltd., said by phone from Lagos
today. Investors in local debt are also exiting trades on
concern over rising inflation, he said.  Inflation accelerated to 12.9 percent in April, the fastest
since October 2010, from 12.1 percent in March, after President
Goodluck Jonathan partially reduced subsidies on gasoline in
January.  Nigeria  is a fuel importer because of a lack of
refining capacity.  Nigeria’s government is yet to implement recommendations,
including the overhaul of the management and board of the state
oil company Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. almost a month
after a  House of Representatives  committee probe on possible
fraud in fuel subsidy payments was completed. Payments totaling
2.6 trillion naira ($16 billion) in fuel subsidies were made in
2011 through a fraudulent process, the committee said.  The naira weakened 0.7 percent last week, falling the most
since Dec. 23.  Naira ‘Pressure’  Last week’s “depreciation was partly due to strong dollar
outflow to cover petroleum import bills and repatriation of
dividends by foreign investors,”  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) 
analysts, led by Paris-based Paul-Harry Aithnard, wrote in a
note to clients today. “Pressure on the naira will likely be
sustained.”  The Central Bank of Nigeria’s Monetary Policy Committee
unanimously left the rate at a record high 12 percent for a
fourth consecutive meeting, Governor Lamido Sanusi told
reporters in the capital, Abuja, today. That was in line with
the forecasts of all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Oil, Nigeria’s key export, slipped after the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development trimmed economic growth
forecasts in the euro area and  Iran  agreed to let western
nuclear inspectors into the country. Nigerian benchmark  Bonny
Light crude  has slid 16 percent from its March high this year.  “Possible softening of crude  oil prices  on international
markets with potential fiscal revenue loses and the likely
pressure on the foreign exchange markets and foreign exchange
rates” is a concern, Sanusi said.  Yields on Nigeria’s $500 million of dollar bonds due 2021
fell 18 basis points to 5.5897 percent. Borrowing costs on naira
bonds due 2015 slipped two basis points to 15.28 percent,
according to May 21 data compiled by the Financial Markets
Dealers Association.  Ghana ’s cedi fell 0.9 percent to 1.905 per dollar in Accra,
the capital, the biggest decline since May 3 on a closing basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  