-- Nissan Close to Naming Infiniti Head to Boost China Sales
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-05-22T09:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/nissan-close-to-naming-infiniti-head-to-boost-china-sales.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-
largest carmaker, is preparing to appoint a global head for its
Infiniti luxury brand after setting up the unit’s headquarters
to Hong Kong to boost  China  sales.  Nissan has made its pick and the executive will be named
“at a fitting time,” Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn told
reporters in Hong Kong today. Nissan, which introduced the
luxury brand to China in 2007, plans to increase China sales by
50 percent this year, he said.  Nissan is counting on China to help drive growth and
challenge  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. Ghosn plans to more than triple
Infiniti sales to 500,000 units in five years to raise its share
of the global luxury car market share to 10 percent.  “What they are trying to do in China is what Toyota’s
doing in the U.S.,” said Kota Yuzawa, an analyst of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said today by phone. “It’s very much from
scratch. Lexus 20 years ago was also from scratch.”  Global management, sales and marketing staff for the brand
will be based out of Hong Kong from today, while engineers will
remain in Yokohama, Japan, Haruko Wada, a spokesman for Infiniti
in Hong Kong, said by telephone. The new headquarters will have
a workforce of about 100 by the end of this year, mostly hired
externally, she said.  Nissan’s deliveries of Infiniti vehicles in China climbed
almost 40 percent to 19,000 units last year, making it the
luxury brand’s second-largest market after the U.S., where two-
thirds of Infiniti cars were sold last year.  Shares Gain  Nissan rose 4.4 percent, the most in six months, to close
at 776 yen in  Tokyo  trading, while the benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average added 1.1 percent. The stock has gained 12 percent
this year, outperforming the Nikkei.  “Establishing our headquarters in Hong Kong, the gateway
to China, is an acknowledgment of the center of gravity in
luxury vehicle sales,” Andy Palmer, the Nissan executive vice
president in charge of Infiniti, said in a statement today. He
said dealerships will increase from 25 last year to more than
100 over the next year.  Sales of premium cars have “considerable” room to grow as
they only account for about 5 percent of vehicle sales in China,
compared with 10 percent in the U.S. and 16 percent in  Europe ,
Yuzawa wrote in an April 20 report. Infiniti sales may reach
300,000 in the country by March 2021, according to Yuzawa’s
report.  Infiniti M Sedan  Nissan said last month it will begin manufacturing two
Infiniti models in China from 2014. It unveiled a stretched
version of the Infiniti M sedan designed for Chinese customers
at the Beijing Auto Show last month.  Ghosn said the details, including the location, of the
Infiniti’s China plant will be announced by the end of the year.  Nissan manufactures most Infiniti models in Tochigi,  Japan ,
about 100 kilometers (62 miles) north of Tokyo. The yen’s climb,
reaching a postwar high in October, led the company to reduce
Japan production. Infiniti JX SUVs started rolling off assembly
lines in  Tennessee  in February, Nissan spokesman Toshitake Inoshita said.  “The challenge is how they will bring new models to meet
local demands,” Masatoshi Nishimoto, an analyst with IHS
Automotive, said this month. “The Chinese premium car market is
already very competitive as there are German luxury brands like
Audi and BMW that have already established a good reputation
among local consumers.”  Adding Markets  Infiniti vehicles are sold in 46 countries and regions,
with the company planning to expand that to 70 markets by 2016.
This year, it will add new markets including Australia, Mexico
and  Brazil , Ghosn said.  The company plans to produce vehicles at “full-speed” and
stockpiling is “not an issue for Nissan” in China, where
industry vehicle sales may increase 7 percent to 8 percent this
year, Ghosn said.  On the low-end side of Nissan’s business, the company plans
to expand sales of Datsun-branded cars to the  Middle East ,
 Africa , and  Latin America , after introducing them in Indonesia,
India and  Russia  starting in 2014, Ghosn said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Hong Kong today.  “We’re going to go step by step,” Ghosn said. “It’s
going to be affordable.”  Ghosn is reviving the Datsun brand after three decades to
capture demand for low-end cars in  emerging markets  as part of
Nissan’s plans to increase its share of global vehicle sales to
8 percent by March 2017. Nissan has said it expects Datsun, the
company’s third global brand, to account for as much as half of
its sales in those markets in five years.  On the yen, Ghosn said he expects the Japanese currency to
weaken to 80 to 85 yen against the dollar this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  