-- N. Korea Denies Nuclear Test Plan as It Upgrades Rocket Site
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-05-23T06:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/north-korea-denies-it-had-plans-to-conduct-nuclear-weapons-test.html
North Korea  denied planning a nuclear
weapons test while a report indicated it’s upgrading a rocket
launch site, conflicting signs that underscore the challenge of
gauging the intentions of new leader Kim Jong Un.  The totalitarian regime is building a new launch pad for
firing larger long-range rockets at its Musudan-ri site in the
northeast, according to a U.S. university monitoring project on
North Korea. The report came after North Korea’s Foreign
Ministry said last month’s botched long-range rocket launch was
intended “for peaceful purposes and we never anticipated
military measures like a nuclear test.”  Kim has shown no sign of abandoning his country’s nuclear
ambitions five months after succeeding his late father  Kim Jong
Il . U.S. and South Korean officials have said Kim’s government
may soon detonate an atomic weapon to rebound from the
embarrassment of the failed rocket launch.  “With these preparations, North Korea is just trying to
show that it has power but won’t use it right now,” said Paik Hak Soon, senior research fellow at the Sejong Institute in
Seoul. “The only way to be effective is to maintain a
believable appearance of power without exercising it.”  Construction at Musudan-ri began last summer and is in its
“early stages,” the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins
School of Advanced International Studies in  Washington  said on
 its website , citing satellite images taken April 29. The new
facility resembles a recently completed Iranian missile center,
hinting at a possible connection with Tehran, the report said.  ‘Hostile Policy’  The U.S. must end its “hostile policy,” otherwise North
Korea will “expand and bolster” its nuclear program, the
spokesman said, according to yesterday’s KCNA report. South
Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman Cho Byung Jae said the
statement left the North’s intentions unclear.  “Until now North Korea’s words and actions have differed,
so we take note of yesterday’s statement and will monitor to see
how things progress from here,” Cho said.  In Beijing,  Glyn Davies , the U.S. special envoy on North
Korea policy, yesterday said he was “at a bit of a loss to
imagine what they’re referring to when they talk about hostile
policies.”  Davies, who spoke to reporters after meeting officials
including his Chinese counterpart  Wu Dawei , said he raised the
issue of sanctions on North Korea and “the importance of
reinforcing them and taking them very seriously.’  Building Reactor  The regime has also resumed building a light-water reactor
at Yongbyon, its main nuclear enrichment facility about 90
kilometers (55 miles) north of the capital Pyongyang, Hardy
said, citing aerial imagery published in early April. Such a
reactor could supply fissile material for atomic weapons.  Satellite imagery from April 30 shows that the government
is close to completing a containment building for a new
experimental light water reactor, according to a separate report
from the  Johns Hopkins ’ website.  Davies, who flies to  Tokyo  today, said May 21 in Seoul
after meeting his South Korean and Japanese counterparts that
the totalitarian government would face a ‘‘swift” response to
further nuclear or missile tests.  North Korea on April 13 launched a long-range rocket that
it said would put a satellite into orbit. The projectile
disintegrated minutes after liftoff.  “That was a miscalculation on their part,” Davies said in
Beijing yesterday. “They missed an opportunity to demonstrate
their seriousness of purpose.”  North Korea fired rockets from the Tonghae Satellite
Launching Ground at Musudan-ri ahead of underground nuclear
tests in 2006 and 2009. Last month’s long-range rocket was
launched from the Sohae Satellite Launching Station on the
northwestern coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  