-- Tennis No. 1 Djokovic Splits With Sponsor Sergio Tacchini
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-22T14:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/novak-djokovic-parts-ways-with-clothing-sponsor-sergio-tacchini.html
Sergio Tacchini International, whose
clothes have been worn by tennis champions such as  John McEnroe ,
parted ways with Novak Djokovic because the No. 1 men’s player
has “outgrown” the brand.  “It has been mutually and amicably decided that, as of the
2012 Roland Garros Grand Slam, Novak Djokovic will no longer be
the brand ambassador,” the Novara, northern Italy-based
manufacturer said in an e-mailed statement today.  Djokovic is the reigning Wimbledon,  U.S. Open  and
Australian Open champion. The Serb rose to the top spot in the
men’s rankings last July after he won his first Wimbledon title.
The  French Open , which he’s never won, starts May 27 in Paris.  In November 2009, when ranked third, Djokovic signed with
Sergio Tacchini and ended his link-up with  Adidas AG (ADS) , the
world’s second-biggest sporting goods maker. Two weeks prior to
that announcement, Adidas said it signed fourth-ranked  Andy Murray  of Britain on a “long-term contract.” Murray is still
ranked No. 4 and has yet to win a major.  Sergio Tacchini clothing has also been worn by former Grand
Slam winners Pete Sampras, Gabriela Sabatini and  Martina Hingis .  Since he signed with the brand, Djokovic “has grown
professionally, climbing from third to first place in the world
ATP ranking,” Sergio Tacchini International said.  It described him as having “outgrown the Italian brand
that, although it is losing such a precious spokesperson, is
offering Djokovic the opportunity to take on new challenges and
new sponsors.”  The company cited Djokovic as saying “Sergio Tacchini is a
company with great tennis tradition and it supported many tennis
champions.”  A spokesman for Djokovic wasn’t immediately available to
comment on the company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  