-- Novo’s Insulin Pill Quest is Holy Grail for Diabetics
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-05-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/novo-s-insulin-pill-quest-is-holy-grail-for-novo-health.html
Jackie Chaline needs four shots of
insulin a day to survive. The 66-year-old Frenchwoman, who was
diagnosed with diabetes 16 years ago, says switching to a pill
would be a form of liberation.  “Swallowing a tablet would make such a difference,” says
Chaline, a former public transport agent who has gotten about
9,000 insulin shots in the past seven years.  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  is trying to make Chaline’s wish, and
those of millions more like her, come true. Vying with other
drugmakers to develop what could be one of the biggest
blockbuster drugs in years, the company is spending at least $2
billion to make an insulin pill hardy enough to cheat the body’s
own defense mechanisms and deliver insulin to the bloodstream.  “The odds of making it were a million to one five years
ago,” says Novo Chief Science Officer Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen.
“Are we getting closer to a 50-50 scenario? Absolutely.”  If successful, an insulin pill could reach peak sales of
from $5 billion to $10 billion, estimates Vincent Meunier, an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris.  “It would be one of the biggest drugs of all time,”
Meunier says, though for now, it’s still “in the realm of
science fiction.”  Acid Attacks  Novo executives say research is moving along. One new
clinical study began earlier this month. Diabetics currently
must inject insulin to prevent sugar from pooling in their
blood. A successful pill must be hardy enough to withstand acid
attacks during digestion and nimble enough to pass the filter of
the gut wall to reach its first target, the liver.  “It’s a big effort, because it’s so difficult,” Thomsen
says. “If things are difficult, you either make them big or you
don’t make them.”  Diabetes, caused by a lack of insulin needed to convert
blood sugar into energy, affects 366 million people worldwide,
killing one every seven seconds, the International Diabetes
Federation estimates.  A tablet wouldn’t replace injections entirely because it’s
likely to be used only in patients whose bodies can still
produce some insulin, according to Thomsen. Instead, the drug
would allow diabetics to get treated earlier because doctors
wouldn’t wait to prescribe a pill like they do with injections.  “If this were to work, it would be huge,” says Spyros
Mezitis, an endocrinologist at  Lenox Hill Hospital  in  New York .
“We would get more people on insulin. It would be a lot easier
to use.”  Hiding in Bathrooms  Jackie Chaline, who suffers from  Type 2 diabetes , the most
common form, says she resisted the switch to insulin for fear of
injections. Seven years later, she still finds it painful at
times. When she eats out, she ducks into bathrooms to spare
others the sight of the needle. She also has to rotate between
her arms, belly and thighs to find undamaged skin. Swallowing a
pill would “change everything,” she says.  So far, Novo’s experimental long-acting insulin pill has
been tested on rats, beagle dogs and more than 100 human
volunteers. One version of the medicine, dubbed NN1953, has
“successfully completed” a first round of clinical tests, in
which people took the tablet once, the Danish company said on
Feb. 2 when it reported full-year earnings.  The tests are being conducted at the  Profil Institute for
Metabolic Research  near Dusseldorf,  Germany , Thomsen said. The
company wouldn’t comment further. An earlier version, known as
NN1952, was abandoned after failing early tests.  Cheating Mother Nature  Chief Executive Officer Lars Soerensen kicked off the pill
hunt six years ago. A corporate magazine displayed in the
company’s waiting lounge devotes two pages to Novo’s “search
for the Holy Grail,” with pictures of scientists at work.  Novo, the world’s biggest producer of insulin, needs new
products to fight competition from  France ’s  Sanofi (SAN)  and
Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  The company is waiting for
U.S. regulators to approve a new, long-acting injectable insulin
called degludec, intended to wrest market share from Sanofi’s
best-selling Lantus. First-quarter earnings missed estimates,
hurt by slower-than-expected sales of Victoza, also a medicine
for diabetics, and NovoSeven, a hemophilia treatment.  When swallowed, insulin embarks on a journey that takes it
through the stomach and the intestines, where it faces the
assault of acids and enzymes. It must then cross the gut wall,
usually accessible only to smaller particles known as amino-
acids, to reach the bloodstream and travel to the liver.  “The gut should make sure you don’t get toxic material
into your body,” says Thomsen, sketching the product’s travel
route on the board of a conference room at Novo’s headquarters
in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark . “You have to cheat Mother Nature.”  ‘The Real Thing’  To tackle the challenge, Novo has been bringing together
its own scientists, experienced in insulin engineering, and
external researchers who are experts in tablet formulation.  New hires include Nazaneen Pourkavoos, who helped develop
an extended-release version of Janumet, a pill that combines the
Januvia diabetes treatment with an older drug known as
metformin, for  Merck & Co. (MRK)   Pourkavoos, whose role is to find a formulation that can
cross the gut barrier, works with Thomas Kjeldsen, a 23-year
Novo Nordisk veteran who likes to carry the experimental tablet
around like a baby -- and speaks of it in the same adoring tone.  “This is the real thing,” he says with a grin, holding up
the oval white pill prototype. “It’s fascinating. You think
about the insulin pens, the needles, and then you look at this.
It explains all the efforts.”  Other Attempts  The challenges aren’t over once the insulin crosses the gut
wall. Researchers must extend the hormone’s ability to stay in
the bloodstream and boost its capacity to be absorbed by the
body, a concept known as bio-availability, according to Thomsen.
Novo has already found a way to give insulin more staying power
and it’s searching for ways to further increase bio-
availability, he said.  Finally, scientists must avert absorption swings caused by
the vagaries of human digestion. On days when the patient
suffers a bout of diarrhea for example, the pill’s passage
through the bowels may be too quick to allow proper insulin
absorption. Novo says the once-daily tablet should give patients
enough of an insulin buffer to guard against hypoglycemia, a
state of dangerously low blood-sugar levels.  A handful of smaller companies, including Diasome
Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Conshohocken,  Pennsylvania , Jerusalem-
based  Oramed Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ORMP)  and  Diabetology Ltd  of  Jersey ,
in the  Channel Islands , have tried to solve the problem, some
only to abandon efforts.  Biocon Ltd. (BIOS)  from Bangalore,  India , said
last month it’s looking for a partner to further develop its
oral insulin program, which is in  advanced tests .  “Previous attempts never worked,” Meunier points out.  Cannibalism Risk  Novo  will be able to tell which oral insulin candidate is
ready for mid-stage clinical development by the end of next
year, Thomsen said.  “I would be extremely surprised if they were successful,”
said  Nick Turner , an analyst for Mirabaud Securities in  London .
Others point to difficulties of a different kind.  An insulin pill could be “cannibalistic of their existing
business,” says  Alistair Campbell , an analyst at Berenberg Bank
in London. Still, “the risk is someone else could develop a
pill, so the fact they are leading the way on oral insulin is,
from a defensive point of view, good news for them.”  Soerensen, who has spent three decades at Novo, jokingly
warned researchers he won’t retire until they succeed in making
an insulin tablet. On Feb. 2, the company said the 57-year-old
CEO’s contract had been extended by three years to 2019.  “When we started this, I thought it was going to be very,
very difficult,” says Lars Fogh Iversen, who heads the
company’s diabetes protein engineering unit. “Now I am really
confident we will crack this one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  