-- NTPC to Spend $15 Billion on Coal Imports as Prices Slide
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-05-23T04:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/ntpc-plans-15-billion-contracts-to-import-coal-corporate-india.html
NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) ,  India ’s biggest power
producer, said it plans to spend as much as $15 billion over a
decade to secure overseas coal supplies as prices of the fuel
tumble to a 19-month-low.  The utility may sign five- or 10-year contracts for the
first time to import as much as 150 million metric tons of coal,
Chairman Arup Roy Choudhury said by telephone from New Delhi
yesterday. The cost will be $15 billion, assuming a rate of $100
a ton, he said. Production constraints at state monopoly  Coal
India  Ltd. are forcing the New Delhi-based generator to step up
purchases abroad.  “With coal prices where they are, this could be a good
time to lay our foundation for future imports,” Choudhury said.
“If we need more, we’ll buy it as we have in the past, 4 or 5
million tons at a time.”  State-owned NTPC is seeking to tackle bottlenecks after its
failure to meet targets for generation and capacity addition
sent its  stock  tumbling to a 3 1/2-year low last week. The
country’s biggest utility needs to ensure availability of fuel
as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans to spend $400 billion
over the next five years to reduce blackouts in the world’s
second-fastest growing major economy.  Shares  Shares of NTPC fell 0.2 percent to 141.05 rupees as of 9:54
a.m. in Mumbai trading. The stock is headed for a third annual
loss, having declined 12 percent this year, compared with a 3.7
percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   “Because of industry struggles, NTPC shares have scraped
the bottom of the barrel,” said Rohit Singh, a Mumbai-based
analyst with IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd., who has a buy
recommendation on the stock. “They have taken a realistic
approach to addressing the industry’s problems and should be on
their way back up.”  NTPC posted its second straight drop in quarterly  profit  in
the three months ended March 31 after fuel costs increased and
its tax burden more than doubled. Power producers are paying
almost double the price for imported coal to make up for the
local shortfall, pushing up costs.  Rising U.S. coal exports and slowing economic growth in
 China , the world’s biggest importer of the fuel, have caused
Asian benchmark prices to slide, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. Power station coal for loading at  Australia ’s
Newcastle Port fell 17 percent in the past year to $96.95 a ton
in the week ended May 18, the lowest level since Oct. 8, 2010,
according to IHS McCloskey data on Bloomberg.  Capacity Addition  Indian demand for imported coal is set to exceed China’s in
the coming years, according to Bernstein, as the South Asian
country adds to its installed capacity of 201.6 gigawatts.  NTPC is boosting imports even after Prime Minister Singh
ordered Coal India, the world’s largest producer of the mineral,
to sign fuel supply agreements with power companies. The
utility, which plans to add 4,660 megawatts in the financial
year ending March 31, has balked at signing a deal with  Coal
India. (COAL)   The fuel supply agreement would fail to penalize Coal India
if it doesn’t meet its obligations, Choudhury said. While NTPC
is in direct negotiations with Coal India, power companies have
written to Singh’s office seeking liability against Coal India
should the company fall short of its supply volumes.  Peak Deficit  “Falling coal prices provide an opportunity for everybody
involved,”  Michael Parker , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Bernstein, said in an interview on May 20. “NTPC will shore up
its supplies while taking some of the heat off Coal India. This
could be a sign of things to come across the Indian industry,
which could catch up with China in imports.”  NTPC targets a 25 percent increase in coal imports to 16
million tons this year. It currently has an installed capacity
of 37,514 megawatts, or 19 percent of the country’s total.  About one in four Indians lives without electricity as
supplies aren’t enough for the entire population. The country
plans to add 76 gigawatts of capacity in the next five years to
help revive economic growth to 9 percent from 6.1 percent in the
quarter ended Dec. 31.  India’s peak power deficit, or the shortfall in supplies
during periods of high demand, was 9.5 percent in March,
according to the Central Electricity Authority.  NTPC has rights to develop three coal mines in India with
combined reserves of 2.8 billion tons, which won’t start
production before 2013. Rivals, including  Tata Power Co. (TPWR)  and
Reliance Power Ltd., have acquired stakes in Indonesian and
Australian fields or local coal mines to secure fuel supplies.  Coal Output  NTPC, which achieved 65 percent of its capacity addition
target for the year ended March 31, has $3.9 billion in cash and
equivalents.  Coal India plans to lift output by 6.4 percent to 464
million tons in the year that started April 1 after missing its
production target the previous year because rains stalled
operations and environmental approvals for new mines were
delayed. The prime minister’s office asked the mining company to
sign supply accords with power companies and import the fuel if
needed.  Industrialists including  Anil Ambani , chairman of  Reliance
Power Ltd. (RPWR) ,  Gautam Adani , chairman of Adani Power Ltd., and Tata
Power Chairman  Ratan Tata  met Singh in January to seek increased
coal supplies from local mines, faster environmental approvals
for projects and tariff reforms that would allow utilities to
pass on an increase in costs.  Cost of Power  “Agreeing to coal on a sheet of paper doesn’t solve the
long list of problems for NTPC,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla ,
chief strategist for SMC Global Securities Ltd. based in New
Delhi. “India still has to help states afford the cost of power
and there still isn’t a clear land acquisition policy for new
plants. While this is good, NTPC still has a long road ahead.”  NTPC will close bidding on a 5 million ton coal import
order on May 30 then begin developing terms for their long-term
deal, Choudhury said.  “By agreeing to a bulk deal, this will make my power
cheaper and more desirable for cash-strapped buyers,” he said.
“Profit is an afterthought right now. If we meet our capacity
and generation goals, then higher profits will follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  