-- Obama Leaves NATO With Message on Winding Down Afghan War
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-05-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/obama-leaves-nato-with-message-on-winding-down-afghan-war.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and NATO
allies set in motion a plan to extract their forces from the
long, unpopular war in Afghanistan, leaving the Afghans with
broad promises of support once the coalition leaves in 2014.  A last-minute flurry of diplomacy failed to break a
stalemate with Pakistan over closed supply routes. Obama and
Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari spoke briefly twice
yesterday to show both are committed to a resolution that will
mean money for Pakistan and a way to remove expensive equipment
and supplies from Afghanistan as the drawdown takes place.  On the closing day of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Summit in Chicago, the U.S. and its allies ratified a strategy
that puts Afghan forces in the lead combat role by mid-2013
leading to the departure of coalition forces by the end of 2014.  “We leave  Chicago  with a clear road map,” Obama said at a
news conference after the agreement was announced. “Our
coalition is committed to this plan to bring our war in
Afghanistan to a responsible end.”  Obama, who is seeking re-election in November, capped four
days atop the foreign policy stage with the NATO summit in his
adopted hometown of Chicago preceded by a two-day meeting with
leaders from the Group of Eight countries at Camp David, the
presidential retreat in rural  Maryland , focused on the European
sovereign debt crisis and the possibility of  Greece  leaving the
euro zone.  Presidential Campaign  U.S. politics were never far from the surface during the
two gatherings.  During the same news conference where he spoke about the
future of Afghanistan and how he wouldn’t “paper over”
differences with  Pakistan , Obama was asked about his campaign’s
ad tying Republican presidential hopeful  Mitt Romney  to job
losses at a steel company owned by Bain Capital LLC, Romney’s
former private equity firm.  Obama said such lines of attack are fair game and “what
this campaign is going to be about.”  The G-8 summit had its own connection to the U.S. campaign,
which is dominated by the economy. “What happens in Greece has
an impact here in the  United States ,” Obama said.  From the NATO summit, the president flew to Joplin,
 Missouri , to deliver a high school commencement address in a
town devastated by a tornado last year. Tomorrow, following a
speech to graduates of the U.S. Air Force Academy, Obama heads
to  California  to raise money for his campaign.  Cary R. Covington, a political science professor at the
University of  Iowa  in Iowa City, said the outcomes of the G-8
and NATO summits will probably have a “negligible impact” on
the election.  Voter Interest  “Voters are not concerned about international affairs per
se and do not make the link between  Europe ’s economic crisis and
the health of the U.S.’s own economy,” Covington said in an e-
mail. “By the time August rolls around no one will even
remember that the meetings took place, much less that Obama had
a leading role in them.”  Stephen Larrabee of  Rand Corp. (RAND) , a policy institute based in
 Santa Monica , California, said Obama did about “the best that
he could do” with the NATO summit given the challenges of
Afghan governance, and war-weariness and fiscal pressures facing
the U.S. and allies.  “He’s determined to get U.S. forces out of Afghanistan but
at the same time try to do it in a way that would keep the place
from collapsing if it’s at all possible,” he said.  The question remains whether Obama can “slow down the rot
and leave some semblance of a stable situation,” Larrabee said.  While U.S. officials did not release any totals, they said
they were close to securing sufficient funding from other
countries to help the U.S. pay for an estimated $4.1 billion a
year to help Afghan security after the war’s end.  Pakistan Negotiations  The failure to reach a deal with Pakistan was
disappointing, said David W. Barno, a retired Army lieutenant
general and senior adviser at the Center for a New American
Security, a policy institute in  Washington .  Zardari said during a NATO meeting yesterday that he
directed the defense committee of the cabinet to finish
negotiations toward opening the supply routes, according to a
NATO official who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
meeting wasn’t public.  Obama described his own talks with Zardari as “very
brief.”  “I don’t want to paper over real challenges there,” Obama
said. “There’s no doubt that there have been tensions” with
Pakistan and the U.S. and coalition forces. “I think they are
being worked through, both military and diplomatic channels.”  Karzai, in an interview with  CNN  afterward, described the
interaction with Obama and Zardari as “just a photo
opportunity.”  Routes for Pullout  For the U.S., Barno said getting the Pakistani routes
reopened “is not extraordinarily time-sensitive.” The urgency
will come as the combat mission ends, and U.S. and NATO allies
need to get equipment out of  Afghanistan .  NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said at the
summit that “it will be quite a logistical challenge to draw
down the number of troops in the coming months and years, so we
need a number of transit routes and obviously the transit routes
through Pakistan are of great importance.”  With the Pakistan routes closed, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  met yesterday at the summit with senior ministers from
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan,  Turkmenistan , and
Uzbekistan, all countries that support the so-called northern
distribution network through which NATO forces are receiving
supplies, according to Pentagon press secretary  George Little .  Remain ‘Combat Ready’  “President Obama laid out the stakes clearly to the
alliance and the regional partners on the importance of transit
routes,” said Mark Jacobson, a senior fellow at the  German
Marshall Fund  and a former deputy NATO senior civilian
representative in Afghanistan from 2009 to 2011.  “No doubt in my mind that the Central Asian nations are
willing to pick up the routes if Pakistan will not come to an
agreement, and, in the end, it will mean less money for
Pakistani truck drivers,” Jacobson said.  The transfer of security missions to Afghan forces in the
summer of 2013 doesn’t represent an “accelerated road map” for
the withdrawal of NATO combat troops, Rasmussen said.  “We will remain combat ready” until the end of the
International Security Assistance Force mission in 2014,
Rasmussen said. Still, there will be a “gradual” drawdown
during the transition period from mid-2013 to the end of 2014,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Chicago at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Chicago at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  