-- Obama’s ‘Paper Tiger’ Pentagon Budget Spends Five Times China
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-05-22T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/obama-s-paper-tiger-pentagon-budget-spends-five-times-china.html
Republicans and President  Barack Obama  are squaring off again over federal spending, only this
time the president wants to cut it and the Republicans want to
increase it.  As a Senate committee begins work today on a bill
authorizing next year’s military budget, White House officials
have threatened a veto of anything resembling a measure passed
by the House last week that would add $4 billion to his request
for the Pentagon.  With the war in Iraq over, the military involvement in
 Afghanistan  winding down and federal spending squeezed by
mounting debt, Obama has proposed reducing the  defense budget  by
4.9 percent from this year’s level. Though the Joint Chiefs of
Staff backed the plan,  House Republicans  challenged their
advice. Howard “Buck” McKeon of  California , the chairman of
the Armed Services Committee, warned against letting the U.S.
become a “paper tiger.”  The fight has already spilled over into election-year
politics. Republicans have usually depicted Democratic
presidents as weak on defense, and Obama’s challenger,  Mitt
Romney ,  called the president  “reckless” for signing a law last
year that could mean as much as $1 trillion less for the
Pentagon over a decade if Congress fails to agree on a plan to
reduce deficits and the debt.  Democrats say it is wrong to spend more on defense while
cutting domestic programs. The House “puts the funding of an
already bloated military budget ahead of any semblance of fiscal
responsibility,” said Representative  Earl Blumenauer  of  Oregon 
before voting against the $554 billion bill.  Senate Democrats  Democrats, who control the Senate panel taking up the
defense authorization measure, are likely to abide by Obama’s
spending limits, or even go “perhaps lower than the president’s
request,” said  Todd Harrison , a defense budget analyst at the
Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments in Washington.  In fact, Obama’s longer-term plan calls for a modest
increase after the cut he is seeking for next year.  In contrast
to prior post-war periods, when the Pentagon was hit with major
reductions -- 40 percent in the six years after  Korea  and 28
percent in the decade after  Vietnam  -- Obama’s five-year plan
calls for it to start getting a gradual 1.9 percent increase
each year through 2017, without adjusting for inflation.  With or without the additional money passed by the House,
U.S. military spending far outweighs that of any potential
adversary.  Biggest Spender  U.S. spending accounted for 41 percent of global military
expenditures in 2011, according to the Stockholm International
Peace Research Institute. China accounted for 8.2 percent and
Russia 4.1 percent, the Stockholm-based policy group said in an
April report.  Historically, the argument over defense versus domestic
spending has been settled with more money for each, said  Larry Sabato , director of the University of Virginia’s Center for
Politics.  “This goes back a long way to the 1980s when Republicans
controlled the Senate and got what they wanted on defense, and
Democrats in the House got most of what they wanted on social
spending,” Sabato said in an interview. “That’s the reason we
started down this path toward giant national debt.”  Getting to a middle ground may be tough this year with the
U.S. facing more than $15 trillion in debt as well as a
political atmosphere in which compromise “is seen as a dirty
word,” Sabato said.  Deficit, Debt  The developing slowdown in  defense outlays  has taken place
in the midst of a contentious debate over the federal deficit,
ballooning debt, spending and taxes.  In an effort to get a grand compromise last year, Congress
passed the Budget Control Act of 2011, which required cuts of
$487 billion from projected U.S. defense spending for the decade
ending 2021.  If a so-called supercommittee failed to get an
agreement on how to reduce the deficit and debt, an additional
$500 billion would have to come out of defense.  Those prospective cuts were seen as an incentive to get
Republicans to compromise. The supercommittee couldn’t agree,
and the cuts are scheduled to take place starting in January.  Although McKeon, the House Armed Services chairman,
supported the law, “he has come to regret that vote and is
having buyer’s remorse,” said  Tom Donnelly , a defense analyst
at the  American Enterprise Institute  in  Washington .  McKeon has said adding $4 billion to the Pentagon’s 2013
budget request would keep ships the Pentagon wanted to retire
and slow reductions in Marine Corps and Army forces. Those
measures would ensure “the president’s new defense strategy is
not a paper tiger,” McKeon said at a May 9 committee meeting.  Protecting ‘Constituencies’  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  shot back at McKeon, saying
the money added by the House is an attempt by Congress to
“protect particular constituencies.”  The Obama administration released a national security
blueprint in January that the Pentagon has said would result in
a smaller military over the next 10 years following the end of
the wars in  Iraq  and Afghanistan.  The military services would decline to 1.32 million members
on active duty by 2017, or 7.2 percent fewer members than the
current level of 1.42 million, according to the  Congressional
Research Service .  The smaller force would still be capable of taking on
terrorists as well as defeating aggression and projecting power
in the face of opposition from countries such as China and  Iran ,
according to the Pentagon.  Donnelly, the defense analyst, disagrees. “The U.S.
military just needs more,” he said in an interview. A smaller
military may struggle to surge in a future conflict as it did in
Iraq and Afghanistan, he said.  Election as Arbiter  This November’s presidential election may be the arbiter of
which view prevails, Donnelly said. A Romney victory may mean a
stronger support for defense at the expense of social programs,
he said.  “The age of austerity is not a geologic age,” Donnelly
said. “It’s not the ice age. It’s a choice” and if voters
choose to keep social entitlement programs that take up 15
percent of the U.S. Gross Domestic Product, “then, yes, it’s
going to squeeze other stuff out” including military spending.  The House-passed defense authorization bill is H.R. 4310.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  