-- Obama Offers School Districts $400 Million to Tailor Classes
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-05-22T19:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/obama-offers-school-districts-400-million-to-tailor-classrooms.html
President  Barack Obama  will offer
school districts the chance to compete for awards from a $400
million program with plans to individualize classes and improve
student achievement.  The awards, of as much as $25 million each, will target
districts that “focus on transforming instruction so that it
meets all students’ learning abilities,” the Education
Department said in a statement today. The department will take
comment on the criteria for the awards competition through June
8, according to the statement.  The competition is the latest addition to Obama’s $4
billion Race to the Top program, which during the past three
years has distributed grants to states on the basis of plans to
raise educational standards and tie teachers’ evaluations to
student performance. The district-based plan will encourage
efforts to help teachers determine which students have mastered
subject matter and help others catch up, according to the
statement.  “We are inviting districts to show us how they can
personalize education for a set of students in their schools,”
Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  said in the statement. “We need
to take classroom learning beyond a one-size-fits-all model and
bring it into the 21st century.”  The program intrudes on local educational decisions and
adds to the bureaucracy faced by school staffers, said
California Republican Representative Duncan Hunter, chairman of
the House Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary, and
Secondary Education. The House Committee on Education and the
Workforce has approved two pieces of legislation that would give
states and districts greater control over classrooms, he said in
a separate statement.  ‘Questionable Impact’  “I urge the president to stop dedicating more taxpayer
dollars to new programs with questionable impact, and instead
work with Congress to complete a reauthorization of elementary
and secondary education law,” he said in the statement.  Districts applying for the funds must serve at least 2,500
students, 40 percent or more of whom qualify for free or
reduced-price lunches, according to the statement. The
department expects to announce awards for a total of 15 to 20
districts in December, an official said on a conference call
with reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  