-- OECD Sees Subdued India Growth Amid Limited Room for Rate Cuts
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-05-22T08:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/oecd-sees-subdued-india-growth-amid-limited-room-for-rate-cuts.html
India ’s growth may remain “subdued”
in the financial year to March 2013 as inflation curbs
consumption and restrains interest-rate cuts, the Organization
of Economic Cooperation and Development said.  “The economy has slowed, with the weakness focused in
manufacturing and investment spending,” the Paris-based OECD
said in a report today. “As a result, growth is expected to
remain subdued through much of the year.”  The report reinforces concern India’s outlook has worsened
because of trade and fiscal deficits, political gridlock,
elevated  inflation  and the threat to global growth from  Europe ’s
debt crisis. The risks pushed the nation’s currency to a record
low yesterday, past 55 to a dollar.  India’s economy  will expand 7.3 percent in the year ending
March 31, and 7.8 percent the following year, the OECD estimates.
The  wholesale-price index  will rise 6.7 percent this financial
year, and 6.5 percent next year, it said.  The  Reserve Bank  of India lowered the  repurchase rate  on
April 17 for the first time since 2009 by 50 basis points to
boost growth. The monetary authority signaled inflation might
limit the room for further cuts, flagging price risks from the
fiscal deficit, energy costs and a weaker rupee.  Inflation may remain “uncomfortably high” for some time,
the OECD said, with a further delay in pass-through of energy
costs leading to more oil subsidies and a wider  fiscal deficit .  Subsidies in the year ended March overshot the official
estimate by 51 percent to 2.16 trillion rupees ($39.3 billion).
The government plans to curb expenditure on subsidies to 1.9
trillion rupees, or 2 percent of gross domestic product, in the
year that started April 1, according to budget documents.  “Continued policy uncertainty, including as regards
further fiscal slippage, would weaken investment sentiment and
result in softer near-term growth and an erosion of longer-run
prospects,” the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  