-- OECD Sees Risk of Europe Crisis Hurting World Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-22T09:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/oecd-sees-risk-of-spiraling-europe-crisis-hurting-world-economy.html
The  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  said  Europe ’s debt crisis risks
spiraling and seriously damaging the world economy.  “The risk is increasing of a vicious circle, involving
high and rising sovereign indebtedness, weak banking systems,
excessive fiscal consolidation and lower growth,” OECD Chief
Economist Pier Carlo Padoan wrote in the organization’s semi-
annual report on the global economy. Such a downside scenario
“may materialize and spill over outside the euro area with very
serious consequences for the global economy,” he said.  The remarks amount to a warning to European Union leaders
who are preparing to gather in Brussels tomorrow to discuss how
to revive growth and grapple with a political impasse in Greece,
where voters rejected austerity measures in elections on May 6.
The euro has dropped more than 3 percent this month on concern
that  Greece  may opt to leave the 17-nation monetary union.  The OECD, which advises its 34 member governments on
economic policy, left its 2012 growth forecast for the group
unchanged at 1.6 percent as the gloomier picture in the euro
area was offset by improving prospects in the U.S.  Gross domestic product in the euro region will shrink 0.1
percent this year and expand 0.9 percent in 2013 instead of
posting growth of 0.2 percent and 1.4 percent as predicted last
November, the Paris-based OECD said today.  ‘Persistent Weakness’  “Such persistent weakness reflects underlying economic,
fiscal and financial imbalances within the euro area, which have
been the root cause of this crisis and barely begun to unwind,”
Padoan said. “Recovery in healthier countries, while welcome,
is not strong enough to offset flat or negative growth
elsewhere.”  Germany ’s GDP, adjusted for work days, will expand 1.2
percent this year and 1.9 percent in 2013, while  France  will
post growth of 0.6 percent and 1.2 percent, the OECD forecast.
By contrast Italy’s economy will shrink 1.7 percent and 0.4
percent, and  Spain ’s will contract 1.6 percent and 0.8 percent.  The OECD urged the  European Central Bank  to stand ready to
resume buying  government bonds  in the secondary market should
market turmoil increase.  Volatility in sovereign bond markets “could have
repercussions for the stability of the banking system and
ultimately public finances,” the OECD said. That may require a
policy response that “could involve further action by the ECB
through its  government bond purchasing program .”  In any event, given declining inflationary pressures,
“there is room for further monetary easing,” it said. The ECB
has already cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of 1
percent.  Reform Fatigue  The OECD warned that voters in euro-area countries
struggling with austerity measures may not put up with further
budget cuts.  “Tolerance for fiscal adjustment may be reaching its
limit,” it said. “With recession in a number of countries in
2012 and 2013, a combination of enduring financial fragility,
rising unemployment and social pain may spark political
contagion and adverse market reaction.”  Given the risks inherent in fiscal adjustment, the OECD
called for austerity measures to be “as growth-friendly as
possible,” arguing “much can be gained in efficiency of public
spending and through a composition of taxation that is least
harmful to growth.”  Growth Compact  Europe’s fiscal compact, which aims to anchor budget
restraint in national law and boost supranational surveillance,
should be partnered by a growth compact that could include the
issuance of jointly-guaranteed bonds to help recapitalize banks
and increasing resources available to the  European Investment
Bank  to fund infrastructure projects, the OECD said.  “Such moves could pave the way to a broader issuance of
euro-bonds,” Padoan said.  The European outlook contrasts with that of the U.S., for
which the OECD lifted its growth forecasts to 2.4 percent and
2.6 percent this year and next. In November, the organization
predicted a U.S. expansion of 2 percent in 2012 and 2.5 percent
in 2013.  “In the U.S., growth should continue to strengthen as
confidence is picking up in both businesses and households,”
Padoan wrote. “The risk of excessive fiscal tightening in 2013
remains to be addressed, failing which, growth would be severely
affected.”  China’s Slowdown  The OECD expects the Japanese economy to expand 2 percent
this year and 1.5 percent next year. In  China , which isn’t a
member of the OECD, growth will be 8.2 percent this year and 9.3
percent next year, according to the OECD’s latest forecasts.
That’s less than the 8.5 percent and 9.5 percent growth rates it
projected in November.  “China’s slowdown became more pronounced in late 2011 and
early 2012 as first exports and then inventories fell,” the
OECD said. “If growth continues to weaken in the second quarter
of this year, the government should speed up implementation of
key infrastructure projects.”  Padoan warned that five years after the onset of the
financial crisis, policy makers have failed to rebuild
confidence that is the basis for growth.  “As long as confidence is not rebuilt on a solid basis
with the right policy choices, downside risks will prevail,” he
said. “This is important everywhere but particularly so in the
euro area, where  crisis management  goes hand in hand with the
building of the institutions needed for a monetary union to work
properly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  