-- OECD Says Tackle Gender Gap to Boost Economic Growth
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-22T20:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/oecd-says-tackle-gender-gap-to-boost-economic-growth.html
The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development urged member nations to reduce
gender inequalities, arguing that greater educational and career
opportunities for women will bolster global growth.  Female workers today still earn 16 percent less than men in
OECD economies, the organization said in a report today. Those
gaps widen for higher-income women, who earn on average 21
percent less than their male counterparts and make up only 10
percent of corporate boards and one-third of managers, according
to the paper.  Government representatives from the 34 member countries are
set to discuss the report in Paris this week at a forum
highlighting unemployment and inequality. Intervention must
start early on, as women are choosing to study subjects that
offer fewer career prospects, the study said.  “Leaving women behind means not only forsaking the
important contributions women make to the economy but also
wasting years of investment in education of girls and young
women,” the OECD said. “Increased education accounts for about
half of  economic growth  in OECD countries in the past 50 years,
and that has a lot to do with bringing more girls to higher
levels of education and achieving greater equality in the number
of years spent in education between men and women.”  Beyond the realm of education, governments and businesses
should also make it easier and cheaper for women with children
to continue working, the OECD said. Women have also faced a
“glass ceiling” that has blocked their career advancement.
Norway’s success in boosting female representation in the
boardroom through quotas suggest such policies can be effective,
the report said.  Female Entrepreneurs  The number of female entrepreneurs has changed little over
the years and the women who do start their own businesses do so
on a smaller scale, employing fewer people and generating lower
sales and profits.  “The proportion of women-owned businesses is currently
stuck at around 30% of the total in OECD countries, and seems to
’plateau’ at around the same level in  developing countries  which
have started from low levels,” the OECD said.  U.S. representatives to this week’s forum include Alan Krueger, chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s Council of
Economic Advisors, and U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk .
Chilean Finance Minister Felipe Larrain, Polish Deputy Prime
Minister  Waldemar Pawlak  and Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan are also scheduled to attend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  