-- Oil Trades Near Two-Day Low on Iran Deal, Rising Supplies
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-23T06:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-on-iran-deal-rising-supplies.html
Oil declined for a second day in  New
York  after  Iran  agreed to grant access to United Nations nuclear
inspectors and U.S. crude stockpiles increased.  Futures slid as much as 1 percent. UN inspectors and Iran
broke a five-year stalemate with a deal that gives the
International Atomic Energy Agency access to the nation’s
Parchin military complex, IAEA head Yukiya Amano said yesterday.
Oil advanced in the first four months of this year on concern
sanctions against Iran will disrupt supplies. U.S. crude
inventories rose  1.5 million barrels  last week, the  American
Petroleum Institute  said. A government report today may show a
gain of 1.7 million.  “The agreement by Iran to let the inspectors in is a small
step in potentially reducing the supply risk,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “That
feeds into the overall situation where demand is steady to
somewhat soft against a background of more than adequate
supplies.”  Crude for July delivery declined as much as 88 cents to
$90.97 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $91.02 at 2:22 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract slid 1.1 percent to $91.85 yesterday, the lowest close
since May 18. The June future, which expired, fell 91 cents to
$91.66. Front-month prices are 7.9 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement dropped 71 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $107.70 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate was at $16.68, from $16.56 yesterday.  Iran Talks  Iran, the second-biggest crude producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is suspected by the West to
have worked on the trigger for an atomic bomb at the Parchin
complex. The nation holds talks about its nuclear program in
 Baghdad  today with the U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Russia ,  China  and
 Germany . The sides failed to produce an accord at their last
gathering on April 14 in Istanbul, where they described the
discussions as “constructive.”  The Western powers won’t give Iran relief from oil and
financial sanctions when they meet in the Iraqi capital, said
U.S. officials. They may offer confidence-building measures in
return for Iranian concessions, according to the officials, who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  U.S. Inventories  Crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for futures traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange, rose
491,000 barrels to 47.4 million last week, the API data showed.
That’s the highest level in records dating back to 2004.  Gasoline inventories dropped 4.5 million barrels. An Energy
Department report today may show they declined  650,000 barrels ,
according to the median estimate of 12 analysts in the Bloomberg
survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Japan ’s imports of crude rose 12.9 percent in April from a
year earlier as the country stepped up thermal power generation
to compensate for a drop in nuclear output. Purchases from
overseas were 19.16 million kiloliters, or 4 million barrels a
day, the data from the  finance ministry  showed today.  Utilities increased thermal power output by 45 percent in
April, according to data released May 16 by the Federation of
Electric Power Companies of Japan. The average utilization rate
for atomic plants was at 2 percent in the month, down from 51
percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  