-- Oil Drops on Iran’s Agreement to Allow Nuclear Inspectors
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-05-22T20:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/oil-drops-on-iran-s-agreement-to-allow-nuclear-inspectors.html
Crude slipped as  Iran  agreed to let
in United Nations nuclear inspectors, easing concern that the
conflict over the country’s atomic energy program would disrupt
Mideast supplies.  Prices fell 1 percent after Yukiya Amano, secretary-general
of the UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency, announced the
accord with Iran today in Vienna. The  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  said  Europe ’s debt crisis risks
spiraling and seriously damaging the world economy.  “The Iran agreement is certainly a positive step and is
likely to result in continued relaxation of the Iran fear
premium,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities research at
IAF Advisors in Houston. “Europe is still a big concern.”  Oil for June delivery slid 91 cents to settle at $91.66 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract expired
at the close of floor trading today. The more actively traded
July contract fell $1.01, or 1.1 percent, to $91.85. Front-month
futures are down 7.3 percent this year. Prices have fallen for
14 of the past 17 days.  Prices were little changed after industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  said U.S. oil stockpiles gained 1.48 million
barrels to 386.2 million last week, the highest level since July
1990. The July contract slid $1.26, or 1.4 percent, to $91.60 a
barrel.  Brent oil for July settlement declined 40 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $108.41 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Iranian Cooperation  The agreement between Iran and UN agency will be signed
“quite soon,” Amano told journalists in Vienna after returning
from Tehran, where the deal was reached yesterday.  International negotiators are set to head to Baghdad
tomorrow for a second round of talks over  Iran’s nuclear
program . The first discussions in 15 months between the U.S.,
the U.K.,  France ,  China ,  Russia ,  Germany  and Iran were held
April 14 in Istanbul.  “We urge Iran to take this opportunity to resolve all
outstanding concerns about the nature of its nuclear program,”
Robert Wood, the U.S. envoy to the international organizations
in Vienna, said in an e-mailed statement. “Full and transparent
cooperation with the IAEA is the first logical step.”  While UN inspectors regularly visit sites where Iran
enriches uranium, the agency has been seeking more access to
facilities suspected of hiding undeclared nuclear work. It’s the
first time since 2007 that the Islamic republic, which says its
atomic work is for peaceful purposes, has accepted a proposal
from the UN to boost cooperation and allow wider inspections.  “Achieving full compliance is really the challenge,” said
Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin,
Texas-based energy consultant. “I’ll believe it when I see
it.”  Tightening Sanctions  Oil prices  rose earlier this year as tightening sanctions
on Iran curtailed the country’s exports to Europe and raised the
threat of a possible interruption of oil tanker traffic in the
 Persian Gulf . Iran is the second-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia .  “The Iran agreement took some tensions off the market and
that’s what caused the oil decline,” said Phil Streible, a
Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures. “We also saw
weaker OECD economic growth outlook, which is weighing in on oil
prices.”  Prices also fell on concern the  European debt crisis  will
hurt oil demand.  “The risk is increasing of a vicious circle, involving
high and rising sovereign indebtedness, weak banking systems,
excessive fiscal consolidation and lower growth,” OECD Chief
Economist Pier Carlo Padoan wrote in the organization’s
semiannual report on the global economy.  European Growth  Gross domestic product in the euro region will shrink 0.1
percent this year and expand 0.9 percent in 2013 instead of
posting growth of 0.2 percent and 1.4 percent as predicted last
November, the Paris-based OECD said today.  Oil prices reduced losses after the National Association of
Realtors reported sales of  existing  U.S homes rose in April for
the first time in three months.  U.S. crude inventories probably rose  1.65 million barrels 
last week, a Bloomberg News survey showed before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. It would be the ninth week of gains.
Gasoline supplies probably fell 650,000 barrels and distillate
fuels, which include heating oil and diesel, dropped 500,000,
according to the survey.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 390,850
contracts as of 4:34 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 448,119
contracts yesterday, 24 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.46 million, the lowest level since Feb. 22,
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  