-- Homeserve Plunges After Regulator Starts Inquiry: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-05-22T09:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/homeserve-plunges-after-regulator-starts-inquiry-london-mover.html
Homeserve Plc (HSV) , a U.K.-based
emergency-repair service provider, was the worst performer in
the  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  after saying the Financial Services
Authority began a formal inquiry into former sales practices.  Analysts at Barclays Plc, UBS AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Jefferies Group Inc. said full-year earnings at the Walsall,
England-based company may drop by 20 percent or more in the year
to March 31, 2014, because of cuts in its U.K. business.  Homeserve customer numbers may fall as much as 18 percent
to 2.2 million in the U.K. in the year ending March 31, the
company said in a statement today. It will focus on water
utilities, manufacturer warranties of installed appliances and
financial services companies to try to improve customer
retention. U.K. customers declined 12 percent last year.  “There remains considerable uncertainty surrounding the
outlook for the U.K. operations,” Victoria Prior, an analyst at
JPMorgan, said in a note to clients. That “is likely to weigh
further on the shares in the short term.”  The  shares  fell as much as 35 percent to 147 pence in
 London  trading, the lowest price since December 2004 and were
down 23 percent at 9:33 a.m. That was the biggest intraday drop
since Oct. 31 and extended the decline over the past year to 66
percent.  The FSA investigation into “historic” practices had been
anticipated to some extent by investors, Prior said, as
Homeserve and the regulator had been in informal talks since
October. A formal probe would take up more management time and
could affect Homeserve’s reputation with potential partners,
said Jane Sparrow, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London, in
a note to clients.  Profit Forecasts  Net income for the year ended March 31 surged 49 percent to
114.3 million pounds ($180.6 million), or 34.6 pence a share,
from 76.9 million pounds, or 23.3 pence, a year earlier. Revenue
increased 14 percent to 534.7 million pounds.  Profit was higher than the median  estimate  of 62.1 million
pounds of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, after a bigger-
than-expected increase in the value of its 49 percent stake in
Domeo, its venture with Veolia Environnement SA, that it
revalued after buying Veolia’s 51 percent stake in December.  Homeserve’s international customer numbers rose 14 percent
to 2.2 million at March 31.  “It won’t be long before we have more customers
internationally than we have in the U.K.,” Chief Executive
Officer Richard Harpin said in a telephone interview. “A
measure of the potential is that we have less than 5 percent
market penetration compared with 12 percent in the U.K.”  The problems it had in the past with sales had reinforced
to the company that it should focus on high-quality customers
who were likely to renew contracts, Harpin said.  Homeserve said it hired Johnathan Ford from NWF Group Plc
as chief financial officer. He will take up his position on Oct.
1, Homeserve said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 