-- Money Market Stresses Ease Ahead of European Leaders Meeting
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-22T14:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/money-market-stresses-ease-ahead-of-european-leaders-meeting.html
Money-market indicators signaled
strains in short-term funding dissipated before European leaders
meet tomorrow in Brussels to address the region’s fiscal crisis.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.46685 percent for the fifth straight day,
according to the British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS
spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend, narrowed to 30.3
basis points from 30.5 basis points yesterday.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 38.2 basis points from 38.3
basis point yesterday, according to the second rolling three
month contracts. The spread is in from as wide as 46.1 basis
points this quarter on May 15.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed 1.4 basis points to 33.75 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in
many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market decreased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 45 basis points below Euribor, compared to 50.7
basis points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, held steady.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was
unchanged at 38 basis points for the 13th day, the lowest since
Aug. 1. The measure has fallen from 95 basis points at the start
of the year.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
surged $27.2 billion to $993.6 billion outstanding in the week
ended May 16, according to Federal Reserve data. The market for
corporate borrowing through U.S. commercial paper has risen for
three straight weeks.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 35.2 basis points compared with
minus 36.1 basis point yesterday,. A negative swap price
indicates investors are willing to receive reduced interest
payments on the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed
financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  