-- More Workers on Vacation Shows Better Job Market: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-05-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/more-workers-on-vacation-shows-better-job-market-bgov-barometer.html
The number of U.S. workers on
vacation has risen by the most since 2006, a sign of an
improving labor market as more Americans have sufficient income
and  job security  to take a few days off.  The BGOV Barometer shows there were 2.7 million people on
vacation during April, based on the Labor Department’s monthly
survey of employment conditions. The 12-month average was up 4
percent, the biggest jump since 2006, before the deepest
recession since the 1930s threw 8.8 million Americans out of
work.  As the U.S. unemployment  rate  has declined to 8.1 percent
last month from 10 percent in October 2009, more people have
jobs to take vacations from, and have held them long enough to
earn days off. Confidence in those jobs and the additional
disposable income they provide also make workers more willing to
take vacation days.  More workers on vacation is a “little sign” of growth and
shows that Americans are feeling more  comfortable  about the
economy, said  Joel Naroff , president of  Naroff Economic Advisors
Inc.  in Holland,  Pennsylvania .  “For a long time they had been too concerned about losing
their jobs,” Naroff said. “Taking vacations, sick days, they
tended not to do those.”  Increased confidence should also put employers on notice
that workers may be growing less fearful of losing their current
jobs, Naroff said.  Warning to Employers  “Businesses have had it pretty good for the past few years
as workers have been concerned about losing their jobs and have
been taking everything that businesses have been willing to dish
out,” Naroff said. “It’s a warning sign that when things get a
little better, the turnover could be enormous.”  Days off are up for 2012 even before next week’s Memorial
Day holiday, the unofficial start of summer vacation season. AAA
 estimates  34.8 million people are projected to travel more than
50 miles in the U.S. for the holiday.  The 2.7 million workers off last month were almost double
the 1.41 million on vacation in April last year, according to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The vacation total for April
2012 is the most for any month since 2007, excluding the peak
vacation months of June, July and August.  “This strikes me as unequivocally a good sign,” said
 Jared Bernstein , a senior fellow at the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities  and former chief economist for Vice President
Joseph Biden. “It’s a leading indicator that folks are feeling
confident enough to take more vacation time.”  Whether traveling for vacation or staying local, people are
more likely to spend money when away from the workplace, said
Bernstein. Demand for food, lodging, transportation or other
activities is needed for job growth, he said.  “If consumers are sitting on their hands, we will be stuck
in an economic slog,” Bernstein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  