-- Morgan Stanley Says It Played by Rules in Facebook’s IPO
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-23T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/morgan-stanley-says-it-played-by-rules-in-facebook-s-ipo.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  defended its role in
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s  initial public offering  after a Massachusetts
regulator subpoenaed the bank over talks between an analyst and
investors about the social media company’s revenue outlook.  “Morgan Stanley followed the same procedures for the
Facebook offering that it follows for all IPOs,” Pen Pendleton,
a spokesman for the New York-based investment bank, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “These procedures are in
compliance with all applicable regulations.”  Facebook shares have  plunged 18 percent  in the three days
since the second-largest IPO in U.S. history, prompting
investors to blame Morgan Stanley, the lead underwriter. The
bank said it sent a copy of a revised prospectus that Facebook
filed May 9 to all of its institutional and retail investors.
The filing disclosed that Facebook’s advertising growth hasn’t
kept pace with the increase in users.  “In response to the information about business trends, a
significant number of research analysts in the syndicate who
were participating in investor education reduced their earnings
views to reflect their estimate of the impact of the new
information,” Pendleton said in the statement. “These revised
views were taken into account in the pricing of the IPO.”  William F. Galvin, Massachusetts’ secretary of the
commonwealth, said his securities division subpoenaed Morgan
Stanley over talks between  Scott Devitt , the research analyst,
and the firm’s institutional investors about Facebook’s revenue.  ‘Regulatory Concern’  Those communications also may be “a matter of regulatory
concern” to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the
industry-funded brokerage watchdog, and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, Finra Chief Executive Officer  Richard Ketchum  said yesterday in an e-mail.  Ketchum didn’t say whether his Washington-based agency is
investigating Morgan Stanley.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman,
declined to comment. Reuters reported on Ketchum’s remarks
yesterday.  Research employees may communicate with investors if they
don’t do it jointly with investment-banking employees or
managers of the firm that’s going public, according to the terms
of the 2003 Wall Street research settlement. Companies paid $1.4
billion to settle regulators’ allegations that they published
misleading research to win investment-banking business.  JOBS Act  The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, which became law
last month, further relaxed restrictions on analysts who work
for investment banks underwriting an IPO, said  Jay Ritter , a
professor of finance at the University of  Florida .  “Under the JOBS Act, affiliated analysts are able to jump
in and talk to institutional investors,” Ritter said.  Ken Sena, an analyst with Evercore Partners Inc., cut his
2012 revenue estimate for Facebook by 6 percent to about $5
billion after the May 9 filing, citing the social media
company’s disclosures about users’ migration to mobile devices
and ad-revenue growth.  General Motors Co. (GM)  announced two days before the IPO was
priced that it would suspend advertising on Facebook, and the
social network “was emphasizing” that its mobile revenue per
user was lower than for desktops, Ritter said.  “Any analyst who ignored that and kept the revenue growth
rate estimates up wouldn’t have been doing a good job,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  