-- Los Angeles Gasoline Tumbles to One-Month Low on Little Demand
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-05-22T17:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/los-angeles-gasoline-tumbles-to-one-month-low-on-little-demand.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  tumbled to the lowest level against futures in more than
a month as refineries restored supply and few buyers were seen
in the market.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  finished planned
maintenance at refineries in California last week, and  BP Plc (BP/) 
resumed some production at the 266,000-barrel-a-day Cherry Point
refinery in  Washington .  “Quite a bit of unplanned maintenance on the West Coast
seems to be over,”  David Hackett , president of Stillwater
Associates, an independent fuel consultant in  Irvine ,
California, said by telephone yesterday. “Prices are coming
down in California pretty much in line with national prices, and
they’ve got a ways to fall.”  California-blend, or Carbob, gasoline in Los Angeles
dropped 16.5 cents to a premium of 1 cent a gallon versus
gasoline futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at
12:55 p.m. East Coast time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the largest drop in five days and the smallest
premium since the fuel traded at a deficit on April 17.  San Francisco Carbob, which began trading for June
delivery, fell 3.5 cents to an 11-cent-a-gallon premium to
futures, the lowest since April 23.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles, which
began trading for June delivery yesterday, climbed 0.38 cent to
5.38 cents a gallon above Nymex heating oil futures. The same
fuel in San Francisco, still trading for May, was unchanged at a
4.5-cent premium to futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
slipped 0.5 cent to a premium of 51 cents a gallon versus
gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel  there  dropped 5 cents to 20
cents a gallon above heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  