-- Mota-Engil Sees Brazil Deal Soon as Exploration Studied
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-22T09:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/mota-engil-sees-brazil-deal-soon-as-exploration-studied.html
Mota-Engil SGPS SA (EGL) , Portugal’s
biggest construction company, said it may announce a deal in
 Brazil  soon as ties to the South American country’s largest
iron-ore producer may lead to a move into the mining industry.  An acquisition may be disclosed in “coming months,” and
is unlikely to include “significant sums,” Chief Financial
Officer Goncalo Martins said in an e-mailed response to
questions late yesterday. Mota-Engil has set up a team to look
at whether to expand into the mineral-exploration business in
Africa and  South America , he said.  With operations in 20 countries, Mota-Engil is making
inroads into  emerging markets  to counter a recession at home as
Portugal’s government struggles with a sovereign-debt crisis.
Mota-Engil, which has its headquarters in Oporto, won a $703
million contract in February to build a railway line in Malawi
for Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s biggest iron-ore
producer, and said it may expand on the partnership.  Mota-Engil Chief Executive Officer Jorge Coelho said in
August that his company may make “small” purchases in Brazil
and Colombia. Martins today declined to specify any targets in
Brazil.  The construction company, whose businesses also include
waste collection and treatment, said yesterday that first-
quarter net income jumped 45 percent to 4.5 million euros ($5.7
million). Revenue rose 12 percent to 481.5 million euros, the
company said in a regulatory filing.  The profit increase will enable Mota-Engil to continue to
carry out a “stable”  dividend  payout policy, Martins said. The
board proposed an unchanged dividend of 11 cents a share to
shareholders on March 14.  “The sustainability of that policy is central for Mota-
Engil,” Martins said.  Mota-Engil  fell  as much as 0.1 percent to 1.05 euros at
9:53 a.m. in Lisbon. The stock has gained 1.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  