-- Houghton Mifflin Wins Conditional Court Approval of Loan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-22T17:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/houghton-mifflin-wins-conditional-court-approval-of-loan.html
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing
Co., the publisher of authors from  Mark Twain  to J.R.R. Tolkien,
won conditional permission to borrow $400 million of a $500
million loan to fund operations during a 30-day reorganization.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber in New York said today
he was prepared to approve the company’s interim request to
borrow the loan, which is to be managed and syndicated by
 Citigroup Inc. (C)   “Subject to the issues that I have, which I think are
drafting issues, I’m fine with this facility,” Gerber said. He
approved other routine first-day requests today, including a bid
to pay contractors and 3,300 full-time employees.  The publisher sought  bankruptcy protection  yesterday to
eliminate more than $3 billion in debt and has a prepackaged
plan backed by creditors. A hearing is set for June 21 to seek
approval of the plan.  “We ask your honor to move quickly toward a confirmation
hearing” to execute the plan, which won the votes of
90 percent of secured creditors and 76 percent of equity
holders, Jeffrey D. Saferstein, a lawyer for the company, told
Gerber today.  The company, based in  Boston , listed $2.68 billion in
assets and $3.53 billion in debt in Chapter 11 documents.  Creditors Repaid  Under the proposed reorganization, Houghton’s long-term
bank loan and bond debt will be repaid in full through all of
the equity in the reorganized company plus $30 million in cash,
according to a May 11 statement. Existing shareholders will
receive warrants for 5 percent of the new stock if they vote in
favor of the plan.  The $500 million loan will convert to exit financing.
Citigroup, also a pre-bankruptcy lender to the company, is agent
to a $235.8 million revolving credit facility and a
$2.57 billion  term loan .  The company’s other pre-bankruptcy debt includes
$300 million in 10.5 percent notes due 2019. The notes traded
recently at 61.4 cents on the dollar, down from their 52-week
high of 101 cents, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  There is some concern that Houghton’s case shouldn’t be
based in  New York  since most of its business is in Boston or
elsewhere, Andrea Schwartz, a lawyer for the U.S. Trustee, said
in court today. The U.S. Trustee is an arm of the  Justice
Department  that oversees bankruptcies. Gerber said he would take
further evidence on that issue in court papers.  E-Books  Houghton’s bankruptcy comes as traditional print-book
publishing faces growing competition from e-books. Sales of
adult paperbacks and hardcover books fell 18 percent from 2010
to 2011, according to the Association of American Publishers.
Borders Group Inc., the second-largest U.S. bookstore chain,
filed for bankruptcy in February 2011.  “The global financial crisis over the past several years
has negatively affected” Houghton’s financial performance, in a
business that “depends largely on state and local funding” for
the schoolbook market, William Bayers, company general counsel,
said in court papers explaining the filing.  Houghton provides educational products and services to
about 60 million students in 120 countries, according to its
website. The company also prints and distributes electronic
books owned by one of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s publishing arms, under
an agreement announced in January.  Houghton’s origins date to 1832, according to the company.
Among its authors are Ralph Waldo Emerson and Jonathan Safran
Foer, and the company’s titles include the “Curious George”
and “Lord of the Rings” books.  The case is In re Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Co,
12-bk-12171,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  