-- House Prices Not at Bottom in Regional Markets, Regulator Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-22T15:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/house-prices-not-at-bottom-in-regional-markets-regulator-says.html
U.S. house prices haven’t yet
bottomed out in regional markets clogged by the slow handling of
foreclosures, according to Martin Pfinsgraff, a deputy
comptroller at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  “It does not appear that we have yet hit bottom in the
pricing of housing stock in many regional markets and the issues
attendant to resolution of foreclosure processing have delayed
market clearing from occurring more quickly,” Pfinsgraff, who
focuses on credit and market risk at the agency, said in a
speech today in  New York .  The regulator of U.S. national banks, along with other
federal agencies, settled with 14 of the largest mortgage
servicers a year ago, requiring the firms to clean up
foreclosure practices. The servicers also had to hire
independent consultants to see whether their foreclosure methods
in 2009 and 2010 unfairly hurt specific customers and how those
people should be repaid.  Pfinsgraff also said the OCC has watched declining fee
income and loan demand at its regulated banks. That’s creating
“competitive pressures” to lower standards for underwriting
and price.  “We are seeing that trend in high yield, cards, and
commercial and industrial loans at present,” he said, adding
that the agency isn’t alarmed because volumes remain low. “The
trend will be worth monitoring closely. Our examiners will be
turning more of their attention to new product risks and
spending less time on evaluation of legacy assets.”  As the OCC and other financial regulators investigate what
happened in the recent loss of at least $2 billion at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , Pfinsgraff offered risk advice to bank boards.  “One red flag we warn directors about are risk managers
who respond to a query that, ‘It’s complicated,’” he said.
“Our message to the boards is if you don’t understand, you
should ask, and if a risk or activity cannot be explained in
terms you can understand, your bank should probably not do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 