-- Outokumpu Faces In-Depth EU Antitrust Review of Inoxum Deal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-22T09:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/outokumpu-faces-in-depth-eu-antitrust-review-of-inoxum-deal-1-.html
Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V)  faces an in-depth
review by European Union regulators of its bid for  ThyssenKrupp
AG (TKA) ’s Inoxum stainless steel division in a deal that would create
 Europe ’s largest maker of the alloy.  The European Commission extended until Sept. 26 its
deadline to rule on the acquisition amid competition concerns
over a transaction that would leave “only three integrated
producers of stainless steel flat products in Europe.”  A “preliminary investigation indicated potential serious
competition concerns in various markets for the production and
distribution of stainless steel flat products, where the merged
entity would have very high market shares,” the Brussels-based
EU authority said in an e-mailed statement today.  Outokumpu, based in Espoo,  Finland , agreed to buy Inoxum on
Jan. 31 in a deal valuing the German unit at about 2.7 billion
euros ($3.45 billion.) The company has said the Inoxum purchase
will bring “cost synergies.” ThyssenKrupp would retain a 29.9
percent stake in the business, receive 1 billion euros in cash,
and transfer liabilities of 422 million euros for Inoxum to
Outokumpu.  The two companies have “significant” market shares for
slabs, hot rolled and cold rolled stainless steel products, the
EU said.  The EU decision “was very much expected” and a prolonged
review “is typical in transactions of this scale,”
ThyssenKrupp said in an e-mailed statement. “As we have said
all along, we expect to get an approval by the end of 2012.
Nothing has changed in this respect.”  Outokumpu didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. It said yesterday that it expected an in-depth probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  