-- How Dutch Dollhouse Mania Explains the U.S. Housing Bust
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   C h i h a r a
-- 2012-05-22T23:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/how-dutch-dollhouse-mania-explains-the-u-s-housing-bust.html
After the U.S. housing crash
began in 2007, the media often made comparisons with the
Dutch tulip mania of 1637, one of the first and most
dramatic speculative bubbles in the Western world.  A different Dutch craze of that era -- for lavish
dollhouses, displayed by and for adults -- also holds a
powerful lesson. In both financial and emotional terms,
these grownup toys were the real precursor to our recent
obsession with house and home.  In the Dutch Golden Age, a new and powerful merchant
class emerged with the birth of speculative capitalism.
Between 1608 and the 1660s, the Netherlands became the
richest nation the Western world had ever seen. Tulip
bulbs, like the gardens where they were planted, were one
way to absorb all that extra cash.  Another popular asset was a “cabinet of wonder.”
Merchants returning from the East and West Indies built
elaborate cabinets filled with artifacts from their
journeys -- shells, tusks, insects and feather headdresses.
The cabinets, widely considered the forebears to today’s
museums, tamed all that exotic wonder. They brought order
and sense to a wild new world.  Not Playthings  The dollhouses stood right next to the wonder cabinets
in Dutch living rooms. They were exact replicas, miniature
rooms furnished with fine Dutch craftsmanship -- tiny
silver platters in the kitchen, inlaid walnut sideboards in
the hall.  “The master of the house would open the drawers of his
cabinet and explain the contents to his guests, while his
wife gave a comprehensive demonstration of her doll’s
house,”  according to the Rijksmuseum  in Amsterdam. “She
would display the contents of the cupboards, reveal hidden
spaces, light the lamps and let real water gush from the
fountain in the garden.” Alongside the spoils of world
dominance, the dollhouses said: “Here’s what all that risk
and travel is for!”  The dollhouses were “not playthings but miniature
memorials, records of dearly beloved objects,” according to
Witold Rybczynski, author of “Home: A Short History of an
Idea.” He believes the bourgeois Dutch invented the very
idea of “home.” They brought “together the meaning of house
and of household, of dwelling and of refuge, of ownership
and of affection,” he wrote. “You could walk out of the
house, but you always returned home.”  At the same time, the Dutch were conflicted about
showing off. These same families hung “vanitas” paintings
on their walls -- expensive  oil paintings  of gold treasure
next to skulls. The bones reminded them how sinful and
dangerous luxury could be. The dollhouses were like little
stage plays to reassure a deeply Protestant society that
all this investment in home -- financial and emotional --
was morally upright. Displaying your mini-silver was a way
of demonstrating your embrace of everything the home was
coming to represent: family, community, nation.  The house, then as now, was one of the family’s
greatest  assets . The after-dinner dollhouse show reassured
the Dutch that their homes could, and should, absorb all
that capital. Like the cabinets of wonder, the dollhouses
brought order and sense to a wild new world of abundance.  Valuable Assets  They were also investments in themselves. They were
commissioned and sold at auction, in the same way as oil
paintings and other luxury crafts. Collectors tracked their
worth as investments in account books. They were listed as
assets in dowries. One collector charged admission to
visitors. A dollhouse owned by an Amsterdam merchant’s wife
named  Petronella Oortman , which is displayed at the
Rijksmuseum, was worth almost the price of an actual canal
house.  It’s hard to imagine 20th-century Americans putting up
skull pictures to remind themselves not to get too rich.
But just like the Dutch, we started to feel anxious about
how much we had invested in the wild new housing market
well before it crashed. Prices in some metropolitan
markets, such as  Los Angeles  and  Miami (SPCSMIA) , increased 60
percent or more from 2001 to 2006.  We expressed our anxiety in after-dinner rituals
involving a different kind of standing cabinet.  During the housing madness, tens of millions of
Americans watched a sentimental reality show called
“ Extreme Makeover: Home Edition .” Each episode featured a
deserving family that was down on its luck -- facing
illness, disaster or other hardship. An army of friendly
neighbors and local businesses would come to their aid by
building a lavish, all-American vision of home. The show’s
peak popularity coincided almost exactly with the peak of
the real-estate bubble.  As housing prices ticked up beyond rational levels,
“Extreme Makeover” reminded us how much home was worth
emotionally. When the helpers finished, we got a tour of
the house on our little screens: its seven perfectly
appointed bedrooms, its granite counters, its private
motocross track or carousel or spaceship room. We wanted
those hardworking, innocent, injured people to have that
beautiful house. We wanted it so badly. Every week, we
reassured ourselves: Home is priceless! These people
deserve those mansions!  When the bubble burst, the show’s ratings declined.
Suddenly, the seven bedrooms and the indoor spaceships
started to seem ... a little extreme. The Dutch stopped
building dollhouses when the Golden Age ended. This year,
five years into the housing crash, ABC cancelled “Extreme
Makeover: Home Edition.” We might ask ourselves what else
is coming to an end.  (Michelle Chihara is a freelance writer and Ph.D.
candidate in English literature at the  University of
California ,  Irvine . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Michelle Chihara at
 mchihara@uci.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  