-- Petrobras Profit to Be Curbed by Weaker Real, CFO Says
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-05-22T17:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/petrobras-profit-to-be-curbed-by-weaker-real-cfo-says-1-.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-
controlled oil producer, said a weaker local currency is hurting
profit as the value of the company’s dollar-denominated debt
increases.  The effects on Petrobras’s balance sheet of the Brazilian
real’s 17 percent decline in the past three months to a three-
year low may also affect dividend payments, Chief Financial
Officer Almir Barbassa said in an interview at the Rio Investors
Day today.  “We finance ourselves from the international capital
market so our exposure to the dollar is high,” Barbassa said.
“We have to recognize the loss. This is going to have an impact
on the dividends to be paid.”  The currency fell to a three-year low yesterday and was the
biggest loser against the dollar among the 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. Petrobras has 76 billion
reais ($37.09 billion) in debt and assets abroad that are
exposed to currency fluctuations, Barbassa said.  Brazil ’s real was down 0.25 percent to 2.0470 per  U.S.
dollar  at 2 p.m. after declining earlier to 2.0635, the weakest
level since May 2009.  Net income dropped 16 percent in the first quarter to 9.2
billion reais from 10.99 billion reais a year earlier, the
company said May 16.  Petrobras slid 2.7 percent to 19.86 reais in  Sao Paulo . The
stock has fallen 7.5 percent this year, more than the 2.3
percent decline in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa Index.  Asset Sales  Petrobras will decide which U.S.  Gulf of Mexico  assets it
will sell and begin marketing them before year-end, Barbassa
said. This is part of a plan to help finance investments in
Brazil, where the company has made the largest oil discoveries
on Earth in the past decade, he said.  Petrobras hasn’t yet decided if it will sell a portion of
its U.S. assets as a group or individually, he said. Petrobras
has stakes in 186 exploration blocks in the Gulf of  Mexico  and
has had success exploring, he said.  “All the exploration and production assets are scarce
right now,” Barbassa said. “Many companies are looking for good
opportunities.”  Petrobras also wants to sell oil and natural-gas assets in
Africa and Brazil.  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3) , a Rio de Janeiro-based
explorer that partners with Petrobras, plans to compete for any
assets in Brazil the company will sell, Chief Exploration
Officer Lincoln Guardado said in an interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  