-- Peugeot Gefco Trucking Unit Attracts at Least Six Suitors
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-05-22T16:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/peugeot-attracts-at-least-six-potential-bidders-for-gefco-unit.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-
largest carmaker, is attracting interest for its Gefco trucking
unit from at least six potential buyers including Axa Private
Equity and the French national railway operator.  Geodis, a unit of Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Francais, is one of the companies weighing a Gefco bid, a union
representative said today. A spokeswoman for Axa Private Equity
confirmed the firm’s plan to submit an indicative offer.  Peugeot is asking for non-binding bids for as much as 90
percent of the unit by May 25, people familiar with the matter
said. Other bidders planning to make indicative offers include
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , PAI Partners, CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. and Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC, said the people, who
declined to comment because the talks are private.  Peugeot announced plans in February to sell assets,
including a stake worth about 500 million euros ($638 million)
in its Gefco division, as the carmaker grapples with European
overcapacity and increasing debt. Chief Financial Officer Jean- Baptiste de Chatillon said April 25 the Paris-based company was
having “very open” talks with private-equity firms and  hedge
funds  and that Gefco had a “very good market value.”  “The market would appreciate a quick deal on Gefco,” said
Xavier Caroen, a Kepler Capital Markets analyst in Zurich with a
“hold” recommendation on Peugeot shares. “However, it won’t
have a positive effect on the negative free  cash flow  expected
in 2012.”  Shares Advance  Peugeot  gained  28 cents, or 3.3 percent, to 8.77 euros in
Paris trading today. The stock has fallen 17 percent this year,
valuing the French carmaker at 3.11 billion euros.  “Geodis is one of the names,” Rudy De Carvalho, a
representative for Gefco’s main CFTC union, said in a phone
interview today. “But it’s only one of the names, and one
shouldn’t draw any conclusion from that information. There are
many other potential bidders.”  Spokespeople for Peugeot, Apollo, CD&R and PAI and declined
to comment. A spokesman for CVC couldn’t immediately be reached.  The sale of “non-strategic assets” will allow the
carmaker to focus on the long-term priority of increasing
deliveries outside  Europe , Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said in February. The European market is set to contract
in 2012 for a fifth straight year. Industrywide sales in the
region through April are down 7.1 percent, according to data
from the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.  Rising Debt  Gefco’s recurring operating profit rose 13 percent last
year to 223 million euros. Peugeot’s overall profit for 2011
dropped 27 percent to 1.32 billion euros, with the automotive
division reporting a loss of 92 million euros. Net debt widened
to 3.4 billion euros at the end of 2011 from 1.6 billion euros
on June 30.  Peugeot said last month that first-quarter revenue fell 7.3
percent after cutting prices to stem a contraction in the demand
for cars in Europe.  Peugeot is setting up a broad alliance with  General Motors
Co. (GM)  that includes developing vehicles and joint purchasing as
the two carmakers work together to turn around their European
operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  