-- Poisoning Kills More Americans Than Car Crashes, Report Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-05-22T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/poisoning-kills-more-americans-than-car-crashes-report-says.html
Poisoning, primarily by drugs, kills
more people than car accidents, making it the biggest injury-
related cause of death in the U.S., said a report by the Trust
for America’s Health and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.  Nationwide, 13.3 people per 100,000 died from poisoning
between 2007 and 2009, compared with 12.4 from motor-vehicle
accidents during the same period, the report found. More than 90
percent of unintentional poisoning deaths in 2007 were caused by
drugs and medicine, the report said. Each year, injuries create
$406 billion in lifetime costs for medical care and lost
productivity, according to the report.  Researchers identified a new set of injury threats,
including concussions in school sports, bullying, auto accidents
while texting, falls by aging  Baby Boomers  and a “dramatic,
fast rise in prescription drug abuse.” Sales of prescription
painkillers and related deaths have tripled since 1999,
according to the report.  “Motor-vehicle accidents are more dramatic and get more
coverage, but poisoning happens every day,” said Jeff Levi, who
heads the Washington-based trust. “As we’ve seen poisoning from
prescription drugs reach epidemic levels, it’s time to raise it
on the radar screen.”  From  Washington  to  Maine , states have passed or are
considering laws designed to better regulate prescription drugs.
Deaths from prescribed pain relievers have exceeded the number
caused by cocaine and heroin combined, the report said. Forty-
eight states have implemented, or have pending, programs meant
to track prescriptions to keep buyers from visiting multiple
doctors to get the same drug.  New Mexico  Last month,  New Mexico , which has the highest poisoning
death rate and injury-related fatality rate in the U.S., made
available online to providers its database tracking
prescriptions. It’s also expanding a program created for heroin
users to help pharmaceutical-drug addicts, Michael Landen,
deputy state epidemiologist, said in a telephone interview.  “We have an epidemic of prescription-drug overdoses in
this country, and in New Mexico and we need to reverse it,”
Landen said. “As a society, we need to reduce sales of
 prescription drugs  while at the same time ensuring patients in
pain are getting treatment. It’s a tough balance, and we have to
get that right.”  Striking that balance led to a political battle in
 Kentucky , which the report said has the seventh-highest
poisoning death rate. Governor Steve Beshear, a Democrat, backed
a bill this year that would have given him the authority to put
the state’s prescription-monitoring program under the attorney
general’s control so investigators would have access. The
Kentucky Medical Association said doing so would violate patient
privacy and push them away.  Legitimate Use  The bill passed in April without the provision. It requires
doctors to take full medical histories before prescribing
narcotic painkillers, among other regulatory enhancements.  “To have good pain control is essential, and anything that
would hamper access to any medication would be a problem,” said
Sharon Brigner, deputy vice president for state advocacy for the
 Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America , a
Washington-based trade group. “These are not illicit drugs.
These are drugs prescribed to patients for legitimate reasons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  