-- Fortress’s RailAmerica to Consider Sale Among Options
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-05-23T00:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/railamerica-surges-on-report-fortress-shopping-company.html
RailAmerica Inc. (RA) , the short-line
railroad operator that’s majority owned by  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG) , said it’s studying strategic alternatives that may
include a sale of the company.  Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. is working as a financial
adviser, Jacksonville, Florida-based RailAmerica said today in a
statement. The shares jumped 11 percent to $24.49 in extended
trading in New York.  Selling RailAmerica would enable Fortress to tap increasing
demand for rail freight as the U.S. housing market recovers from
a slump that dragged annual home sales to a 13-year low in 2008.
Possible bidders for the railroad may include infrastructure
funds, private equity firms and other rail operators, said
Anthony Hatch, an independent rail analyst in  New York .  “It’s a good time to be a big railroad and it’s a good
time to be a holding company for a short-line railroad,” he
said in a telephone interview. “They outperformed in the
terrible recession, they outperformed in the recovery and
they’ll outperform in whatever normal cycle we’re going to be
in.”  RailAmerica shares have risen 49 percent this year, making
the company the top performer on a Bloomberg Industries index of
eight North American rail carriers that includes short-line
operator  Genesee & Wyoming Inc. (GWR)  and  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the
largest U.S. railroad.  ‘Strong Quarters’  “These guys have come off several strong quarters of
performance,” said Brad Delco, an analyst with Stephens Inc.,
in a telephone interview from  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , referring
to RailAmerica. “They recently refinanced their balance sheet,
which was a fairly accretive transaction that helped drive value
in the stock.”  RailAmerica moved 215,741 carloads in the first quarter,
the most at the start of the year since at least 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income, excluding some items,
doubled to $13 million in the quarter ended March 31, as revenue
rose 15 percent to $143.4 million. The company may post full-
year net income on the same basis of $61.1 million compared with
$24.4 million in 2011, according to analysts’ average estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The railroad’s confirmation of the review reversed its
refusal to comment earlier on “market rumors or speculation”
after the busiest trading day for the shares since October 2010.
The Jacksonville Business Journal reported today on a May 14
article in Trains magazine that said a sale was in the works.  ‘Preliminary Discussions’  RailAmerica is “engaged in preliminary discussions with
third parties regarding a potential sale,” it said in the
statement, which didn’t identify any possible suitors.  Fortress, the New York-based investment firm, held a 60
percent stake in RailAmerica as of March 31, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Gordon Runte, a Fortress spokesman,
didn’t respond to telephone calls and an e-mail seeking comment
on today’s trading volume and the earlier reports about a
possible RailAmerica sale.  Today’s trading volume exceeded 900,000 shares, more than
five times RailAmerica’s daily average in the past 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock gained 2.7
percent to $22.13 in regular trading, giving the railroad
operator a market value of $1.12 billion. Fortress rose 0.7
percent to $3.04.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the owner of
railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , is among the interested
buyers, according to an unidentified person cited by Trains
magazine. Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment sent
to an assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  