-- Rajaratnam Bought Goldman, Smiled, Gupta Witness Says
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-22T19:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/rajaratnam-s-good-friend-gupta-called-often-aide-says.html
Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of the
hedge fund Galleon Group LLC, smiled when the stock market
closed after he got a phone call that spurred his hedge fund to
hurriedly buy  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  shares, a witness at the
 Rajat Gupta  trial testified.  Caryn Eisenberg, who was Rajaratnam’s personal assistant at
Galleon, was today’s first witness at the insider-trading trial
of Gupta, formerly a Goldman Sachs director.  Eisenberg, a prosecution witness, testified that she
received an “urgent” telephone call at around 3:54 p.m. on
Sept. 23, 2008, that she put through to Rajaratnam in his
adjacent office. She didn’t remember the identity of the caller
but said it was a male voice and someone who was on a list of
“important people” provided to her. She said the call was from
a phone number of Gupta’s assistant.  Rajaratnam took the call, then spoke to a partner, Gary Rosenbach, who repeatedly urged traders to “buy Goldman
Sachs,” she said. Galleon traders bought $43 million worth of
Goldman Sachs shares, according to prosecutors.  After the close of the market, Goldman Sachs announced a
$5 billion investment in the bank by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Goldman Sachs rose on news of the investment, generating a
profit of almost of almost $1 million for Galleon, the
government says.  The prosecutor, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , asked
Eisenberg about Rajaratnam’s demeanor after receiving the call.  ‘Smiling More’  “He was smiling more,” she testified, adding that the
investment stood out in her mind because everyone at Galleon was
discussing it the next day.  “It was memorable because Warren Buffett is a very
important and influential man, and he didn’t typically make
investments in companies like Goldman Sachs,” she said.
“Everyone was still talking about it.”  Gupta, who ran the consulting firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994
to 2003, is accused of passing insider tips to Rajaratnam in a
conspiracy that lasted from 2007 to January 2009. Rajaratnam is
serving an 11-year prison sentence for insider trading.  Prosecutors say Gupta, 63, gave Rajaratnam material,
nonpublic information about New York-based Goldman Sachs and
Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest
consumer-products company. Gupta was a director at both
companies.  He’s charged with one count of conspiracy and five counts
of  securities fraud , which carries a maximum 20-year prison
sentence.  A ‘Good Friend’  In her testimony this morning, Eisenberg said Gupta was
considered a “good friend” of Rajaratnam’s who telephoned
Galleon’s offices “many times” and would sometimes make
unannounced visits.  She said that when she began working at Galleon’s offices
in January 2008, Gupta’s name was one of five that appeared on
the list of “important people” whose calls should be put
through to Rajaratnam even if they called at the start or end of
a trading day.  Eisenberg was told not to disturb Rajaratnam with any calls
“unless they were people on a list I was given,” she
testified. Reading from a notebook and a separate list she kept,
Eisenberg said Gupta was identified on the documents as “a good
friend -- chairman and CEO of McKinsey & Co.”  She also said other names on the “important people” list
were Rajiv Goel, then an Intel Corp. managing director who later
pleaded guilty to  insider trading ; Anil Kumar, a partner at the
time at McKinsey who subsequently pleaded guilty to insider
trading; Parag Saxena, a  money manager ; and  Stanley Druckenmiller , who runs Duquesne Capital Management LLC.  Rajaratnam Trial  Kumar and Goel -- who was nicknamed “Peter Pan” on the
list -- both testified against Rajaratnam at his trial last
year. Saxena and Druckenmiller haven’t been accused of
wrongdoing.  During the almost two years that Eisenberg worked at
Galleon, the list of important people grew to about 10 names,
she said. One person added to the roster was  Danielle Chiesi ,
then an analyst at New Castle Funds LLC, Eisenberg said. Chiesi
later pleaded guilty to insider trading and was sentenced to
prison.  List of Names  Another name added to the list was  David Loeb , she
testified. Loeb, Goldman Sachs’s head of Asia equity sales in
 New York  and a managing director, hasn’t been accused of
wrongdoing.  “He would call throughout the day, but not as frequently
as some of the other callers,” Eisenberg said of Loeb.  E-mails to Druckenmiller seeking comment on today’s
testimony weren’t immediately returned. Saxena is CEO of New
Silk Route LLC, an investment firm co-founded by Gupta. A
message left for Saxena at New Silk Route wasn’t immediately
returned.  Gupta’s lawyers don’t dispute that Gupta and Rajaratnam
were friends. They say the relationship soured after Rajaratnam
lost $10 million that Gupta invested in an entity called Voyager
Capital Partners. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. had declared
bankruptcy on Sept. 15 of that year.  Snuck Out  On cross-examination by Gupta’s lawyer David Frankel,
Eisenberg said Rajaratnam sometimes directed her to lie to Gupta
about his availability when Gupta either called or made
unannounced visits to the office.  “Lying, as in saying he wasn’t in the office,” Eisenberg
said, adding, “he may have snuck out of the building to avoid
him.”  Frankel showed jurors excerpts of a Feb. 29, 2008, instant
message exchange between Eisenberg and Anita Teglasi, another
Rajaratnam assistant.  “Raj made me lie to Rajat,” Eisenberg wrote. “He doesn’t
want to see him.”  “No way!” Teglasi replied.  “And Rajat is waiting around,” Eisenberg said.  “He is right behind me,” Teglasi replied, using the
abbreviation for “laugh out loud.”  “He’s standing at his door waiting,” Eisenberg wrote.
“He walked around looking for him.”  Borgata Trip  Frankel also showed an itinerary of a trip Rajaratnam took
with a group of other fund managers to the Borgata hotel and
casino in  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , in February 2008, where
about six people were transported there via private helicopter.  Participants included Goldman Sachs president  Gary Cohn  and
 David Heller , former head of Goldman Sachs’s securities
division.  “Rajat Gupta wasn’t on the list?” Frankel asked.  “No,” Eisenberg said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment about the trial
testimony related to Loeb, Cohn or Heller.  Eisenberg’s testimony continues this afternoon.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  