-- Rajaratnam Bought Goldman, Smiled, Gupta Witness Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/rajaratnam-bought-goldman-smiled-gupta-witness-says.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam  smiled when the stock market closed after receiving a
phone call that spurred his hedge fund to hurriedly buy  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  shares, a witness at the  Rajat Gupta  trial
testified.  Caryn Eisenberg, who was Rajaratnam’s personal assistant at
Galleon, was yesterday’s first witness at the insider-trading
trial of Gupta, formerly a Goldman Sachs director.  Eisenberg, a prosecution witness, testified that she
received an “urgent” telephone call at around 3:54 p.m. on
Sept. 23, 2008, that she put through to Rajaratnam in his
adjacent office. While she didn’t remember the identity of the
caller, she said it was a male voice and someone who was on a
list of “important people” provided to her. She said the call
was from a Connecticut phone number of Gupta’s assistant.  Rajaratnam took the call, then spoke to his partner, Gary Rosenbach, who repeatedly urged Galleon traders to “buy Goldman
Sachs,” she said. A second witness, Ananth Muniyappa, then a
Galleon trader, said he and Rosenbach rushed to buy a total of
267,000 shares of Goldman Sachs at about $124 a share.  After the market’s close, Goldman Sachs announced a $5
billion investment in the bank by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Goldman Sachs shares rose on the investment,
generating a profit of almost $1 million for Galleon,
prosecutors say. Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  asked
Eisenberg about Rajaratnam’s demeanor after the trade.  “He was smiling more,” she testified, adding that the
investment stood out in her mind because everyone at Galleon was
discussing it the next day. “It was memorable because Warren
Buffett is a very important and influential man, and he didn’t
typically make investments in companies like Goldman Sachs.”  ‘Good Friend’  Muniyappa told jurors that he rushed to fill Rajaratnam’s
order to buy Goldman Sachs stock. “He wanted it executed by the
end of the day, definitely,” he testified.  Gupta, who ran the consulting firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994
to 2003, is accused of passing insider tips to Rajaratnam in a
conspiracy that ran from 2007 to January 2009. Rajaratnam is
serving an 11-year prison sentence for insider trading.  Prosecutors say Gupta, 63, gave Rajaratnam material,
nonpublic information about New York-based Goldman Sachs and
Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest
consumer-products company. Gupta, who was a director at both
companies, is charged with conspiracy and securities fraud.  Yesterday, prosecutors began presenting evidence about the
Buffett investment and what they say was the close relationship
between Rajaratnam and Gupta. Eisenberg also testified about
Rajaratnam’s high-stakes fantasy football league.  Goel, Kumar  In her testimony, Eisenberg said Gupta was considered a
“good friend” of Rajaratnam’s who telephoned Galleon’s offices
“many times” and would sometimes make unannounced visits.  She said that when she began working at Galleon’s offices
in January 2008, Gupta was one of five “important people”
whose calls should be put through to Rajaratnam even if they
called at the start or end of a trading day.  Eisenberg said she was told not to disturb Rajaratnam with
any calls “unless they were people on a list I was given.”
Reading from a notebook and a list she kept, she said Gupta was
identified on the documents as “a good friend -- chairman and
CEO of McKinsey & Co.”  The others were Rajiv Goel, then an Intel Corp. managing
director who later pleaded guilty to  insider trading ; Anil Kumar, a partner then at McKinsey who subsequently pleaded
guilty to insider trading; Parag Saxena, CEO of New Silk Route
LLC, an investment firm co-founded by Gupta; and  Stanley Druckenmiller , who runs Duquesne Capital Management LLC, she
said.  Call During Day  Kumar and Goel -- who was nicknamed “Peter Pan” on the
“important people” list -- both testified against Rajaratnam
at his trial last year. Saxena and Druckenmiller, who didn’t
immediately return e-mails or telephone calls, haven’t been
accused of wrongdoing.  During the almost two years that Eisenberg worked at
Galleon, the list of important people grew to about 10 names,
she said. One person added to the roster was  Danielle Chiesi ,
then an analyst at New Castle Funds LLC, Eisenberg said. Chiesi
is serving a prison term after pleading guilty to insider
trading.  Another name added to the list was  David Loeb , she said.
Loeb, Goldman Sachs’s head of Asia equity sales in  New York  and
a managing director, hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  “He would call throughout the day, but not as frequently
as some of the other callers,” Eisenberg said of Loeb.  ‘Snuck Out’  Gupta’s lawyers acknowledge that Gupta and Rajaratnam were
friends. They say the relationship soured after Rajaratnam lost
$10 million that Gupta invested in an entity called Voyager
Capital Partners.  Because some of the evidence against Gupta will come from
remarks Rajaratnam made on phone calls wiretapped by
prosecutors, defense lawyer David Frankel used his cross-
examination of Eisenberg to show that Rajaratnam was a liar.  The lawyer had Eisenberg testify that Rajaratnam sometimes
directed her to lie to Gupta about his availability when Gupta
called or made unannounced visits to the office.  “Lying, as in saying he wasn’t in the office,” Eisenberg
said, adding, “he may have snuck out of the building to avoid
him.”  Frankel showed jurors excerpts of a Feb. 29, 2008, instant
message exchange between Eisenberg and Anita Teglasi, another
Rajaratnam assistant.  Fantasy Football  “Raj made me lie to Rajat,” Eisenberg wrote. “He doesn’t
want to see him.”  Frankel also showed an itinerary of a trip Rajaratnam took
with a group of other fund managers to the Borgata hotel and
casino in  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , in February 2008, where
about six people were transported there via two helicopters.  Participants included Druckenmiller;  David Heller , then the
co-head of Goldman Sachs’s securities division; Michael Daffey,
also a Goldman Sachs executive; and  Paul Tudor Jones , chairman
of hedge fund Tudor Investment Corp., she said. The two sides
disagreed over whether Goldman Sachs president  Gary Cohn  made
the trip, which came at the end of the group’s fantasy football
season.  Proceeds from the league were intended for charity, she
said.  ‘On the List?’  “Rajat Gupta wasn’t on the list?” Frankel asked.  “No,” Eisenberg said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on testimony about Loeb, Cohn, Heller or Daffey. Heller,
Cohn and Daffey didn’t return e-mails sent after business hours.  Shawn Pattison, a spokesman for Jones, declined to comment.  The trial will resume today. Among the government’s
witnesses in the case will be  Byron Trott , who was vice chairman
of Goldman Sachs, and Stephen Pierce, a managing director at the
bank, according to court papers.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  