-- Bonds Gain on Speculation Rates to Stay on Hold; Rand Weakens
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-22T13:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/rand-declines-on-concern-euro-debt-crisis-to-weigh-on-growth.html
South African bonds gained for a
fourth day, driving yields to the lowest in more than two weeks,
on bets the central bank will maintain rates at three-decade
lows as it prioritises growth over inflation. The rand declined.  The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
retreated six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.57
percent as of 2:55 p.m. local time, the lowest since May 4.
 South Africa ’s currency slid 0.5 percent to 8.2685 per dollar.  The Monetary Policy Committee will leave its repo rate at
5.5 percent on May 24, according to the median forecast of 18
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The MPC will probably leave
rates at that level at least until the third quarter of 2013,
forward-rate agreements show.  “Our base case view for is for the MPC to keep its repo
rate on hold for the next 12 months, with the first rate hike
pencilled in at the earliest in the third quarter of 2013,”
Michael Grobler, an analyst at Afrifocus Securities in Cape
Town, said in e-mailed comments. “A rates-friendly MPC
statement may lead to marginally lower bond yields.”  Investors are betting the MPC will prioritise growth over
inflation when it starts a two-day meeting tomorrow to discuss
 interest rates . South Africa’s economic growth will be slower
than forecast in the first quarter, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said May 18.  The consumer inflation rate probably quickened to 6.2
percent in April, from 6 percent the month before, a report
tomorrow will say, according to the median estimate of 17
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank’s mandate is
to keep inflation in a 3 to 6 percent target range.  European ‘Uncertainty’  The rand depreciated before data that may show consumer
sentiment in the euro area, South Africa’s biggest trading
partner, slipped to a four-month low as the debt crisis weighs
on economic growth.  A gauge of household sentiment in the euro area probably
dropped to minus 20.5 this month from minus 19.9 in April,
according to the median economist estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey before the European Commission reports the figure today.
That would be the lowest level since January. The euro area buys
22 percent of South Africa’s exports.  “With no market-moving data or events today, the focus
remains on  Europe ,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “The risk is that the rand continues to trade with a
weaker bias while European Union uncertainty persists.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said Europe’s debt crisis risks spiraling and seriously damaging
the world economy.  ‘Vicious Circle’  “The risk is increasing of a vicious circle, involving
high and rising sovereign indebtedness, weak banking systems,
excessive fiscal consolidation and lower growth,” OECD Chief
Economist Pier Carlo Padoan wrote in the organization’s semi-
annual report on the global economy. Such a downside scenario
“may materialize and spill over outside the euro area with very
serious consequences for the global economy,” he said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday she won’t
shy away from disagreeing with French President  Francois
Hollande  at the EU summit beginning tomorrow in Brussels. Good
cooperation “doesn’t exclude differing positions,” Merkel said
in  Chicago  during a meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. Elsewhere in Europe,  Greece  is preparing for June
17 elections following an inconclusive May 6 ballot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  