-- Treasuries Losing Appeal With Widest Yield Penalty: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-05-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/treasuries-losing-appeal-with-widest-yield-penalty-muni-credit.html
U.S. local governments are borrowing
the most since March, pushing municipal yields to the highest
level of 2012 relative to Treasuries and giving an added
incentive to buy tax-exempt bonds.  Issuers from  New York City  to San Francisco plan to sell
about $10.3 billion this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The wave is causing the $3.7 trillion municipal market to trail
U.S. government securities. As a result, 10-year tax-exempt
yields rose to  108 percent  of those on federal debt last week,
the highest since Dec. 2.  For investors including Gary Pollack at Deutsche Bank AG,
that’s a signal to favor munis over taxable securities such as
Treasuries. He may buy 10-year tax-exempts as soon as this week,
heading into a several-month period where muni coupon and
redemption payments are poised to exceed new bond sales by a
total of about $20 billion.  “Sometime in late June, July we’re going to have a very
nice period for munis, so I would want to get my crossover trade
in before that occurs,” said Pollack, who manages $12 billion
as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche’s private wealth
unit in  New York .  Buyers monitor the yield ratio as a measure of relative
value, shifting resources between the two asset classes.
Investors are willing to accept lower yields on local-government
bonds because the interest they pay is typically exempt from
state and federal taxes.  Beating Treasuries  Munis have outperformed Treasuries this year as eight
straight quarters of rising state tax revenue and a decline in
defaults have boosted investor confidence. Tax collections have
eclipsed the peak hit before the 18-month recession that ended
in June 2009, according to the  Albany , New York-based Nelson A.
Rockefeller Institute of Government.  Local-government bonds have earned 4.1 percent this year,
beating Treasury gains of 1.3 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Twenty-year general obligations
yield 3.75 percent, after touching 3.6 percent in January, the
lowest since 1967, according to a Bond Buyer  index .  Last week, Treasuries led as concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis is worsening drove 10-year federal yields as low as 1.69
percent, within 0.01 percentage point of a record. Ten-year
Treasury notes yielded 1.74 percent yesterday, compared with
 1.84 percent  on benchmark tax-exempts of a similar maturity.  Average Since 2001  Since 2001, yields on 10-year municipal bonds rated AAA
have averaged 92 percent of those on Treasuries, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The ratio peaked at 195 percent in December
2008 during the financial crisis as investors piled into
sovereign bonds for a haven.  “On a relative-value play, this is a good time to be
looking at municipals,” Alan Schankel, a managing director at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview.  Interest rates  on AAA 30-year municipals climbed to about
 113 percent  of Treasuries last week, the most since Feb. 1. The
average is 103 percent going back to 2001.  Pollack said he anticipates buying municipals within the
next month, before coupon and redemption payments rise and boost
demand for tax-exempt debt.  Such payments will total $113 billion from June through
August, outpacing new issuance by about $20 billion, according
to Chris Mauro, head U.S. municipal strategist at  RBC Capital
Markets  in New York.  Sales Jump  This week’s sales amount is a 30 percent increase from last
week’s $7.9 billion, the biggest leap since the start of April.  The supply jump may boost ratios between tax-exempts and
Treasuries even more, Peter Demirali, who manages $500 million
of taxable municipal assets at Cumberland Advisors Inc. in
Mendham Township,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview.  “Supply is always an issue of the municipal-bond market,”
Demirali said. “And given the low nominal yield levels that
we’re at, you could expect ratios to widen out in order to
distribute the deals.”  For the muni market, the  $10.39 billion  sold in the period
ending March 9 made the week the busiest of 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Following are descriptions of coming sales:  SAN ANTONIO plans to sell $650 million of electric- and
gas-system revenue bonds as soon as tomorrow. Proceeds will
refund debt, according to offering documents. Bank of America
will lead banks. Moody’s Investors Service rates the bonds Aa1,
second-highest. (Added May 22)  MASSACHUSETTS is set to issue $350 million of general-
obligation bonds as soon as today to help finance capital
projects. The debt will price competitively. The longest
maturity for the bonds is 2042, according to offering documents.
Standard & Poor’s rates Massachusetts AA+, second-highest.
(Updated May 22)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  