-- Refinery Sludge Signals Profit From Fuel Indian Processors Spurn
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-05-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/refinery-sludge-signals-profit-from-fuel-indian-processors-spurn.html
Aadi Group, a privately-owned trader
of scrap metal and steel, is seeking to profit from turning
refinery waste into  fuel oil , a product spurned by the country’s
crude processors.  The company is making 25,000 metric tons a year from
refinery sludge at a distillation plant in Gujarat in west
 India , according to Anish Mehta, the chief executive officer of
 Aadi Oil Pvt Ltd.  The unit supplies fuel to industrial users
such as  power plants  and steel mills, he said in a May 16 e-
mail. Aadi also plans to start making bitumen from black pitch,
a by-product at the plant, from September this year, he said.  The company is making fuel oil as Indian refiners such as
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and Essar Oil Corp. shun production of
the fuel burned by utilities and ships. The product sells at a
discount to crude and incurs losses for refiners, while gasoline
and diesel reap profits.  “The big players were getting out of fuel oil,” Mehta
said. “They get the higher margins from making gasoline and
diesel, and we get the market share for fuel oil.”  Prices in  Singapore , a benchmark for Asia, were at a
 discount  of $1.50 a barrel to Dubai crude May 22, according to
data from PVM Oil Associates, a broker. In comparison, gasoil
traded at a  premium  of $15.72 a barrel, PVM data showed.  Using refinery sludge allows Aadi to make fuel oil more
profitably than the major refiners as the feedstock costs less
than crude, Mehta said. The company blends high-sulfur, “off-
specification” fuel that it imports from the  Middle East  with
the plant’s output. The resulting product, which is a lower-
sulfur fuel that meets customer requirements, is sold in the
Indian domestic market, he said.  Indian Refiners  Reliance’s two plants in Jamnagar, the world’s biggest
refining complex, and Essar’s adjacent facility in western India
are equipped with delayed coker units, which help break down
heavy crude components into lighter products without leaving a
residue of fuel oil.  Aadi also plans to develop its coal imports business this
year and wants to start bringing in 35,000 tons a month from
Indonesia and  South Africa , Mehta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  