-- Regulators Designate Swaps Clearinghouses Systemic
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-05-22T22:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/regulators-designate-swaps-clearinghouses-systemic.html
A panel of U.S. regulators voted to
designate swaps clearinghouses as systemically important, a step
that would put them under heightened supervision.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council approved the
designation of an initial set of so-called financial-market
utilities as systemically important. The utilities, which
weren’t named, may contest the designation. The council expects
to make final designations “as early as this summer,”
according to a statement issued by the U.S. Treasury Department.  Clearinghouses are required to process most swaps in the
$708 trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market  under
provisions of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. The designation will be
the FSOC’s first delineation of which companies aside from banks
would threaten the financial system in the event of a failure.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange, said
last year it will have its clearinghouse designated. The
Chicago-based company guarantees interest-rate and credit-
default swaps. The designation of so-called financial-market
utilities is taking place under the Dodd-Frank Act overhauling
financial regulation and will entail tougher examination and
reporting requirements.  Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc. owns the
world’s largest credit-default swaps clearinghouse, and London-
based LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., is owner of the biggest interest-
rate swap clearinghouse.  Secretary Geithner  The panel of regulators also is in the process of
determining which non-bank financial companies are systemic.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , the panel’s chairman,
has said it would make that designation by the end of the year.
U.S. bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more
are automatically deemed systemically important.  The Dodd-Frank act aims to reduce risk and boost
transparency in the swaps market after largely unregulated
trades contributed to the 2008 credit crisis. Clearinghouses,
which are capitalized by their members, guarantee trades by
standing between buyers and sellers.  Under Dodd-Frank, the designated utilities could be subject
to Federal Reserve supervision and may be required to open an
account at a Federal Reserve bank, develop a risk-management
framework and procedures and resources for a possible default.
The Fed also may provide access to its discount window in
“unusual and exigent” circumstances.  2008 Crisis  Credit-default swaps were closely tied to the 2008
financial crisis. Insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
collected fees by selling banks and other investors credit-
default swaps that would pay out if their mortgage securities
defaulted. When the housing market collapsed, AIG was unable to
meet its promises, and the U.S. government stepped in to honor
the contracts.  FSOC also received a preliminary briefing on the $2 billion
trading loss at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The Treasury statement said
“regulators are still in the process of conducting their
evaluation of what happened and why.”  “That examination is an important input into the ongoing
effort to design safeguards and reforms, including those in the
Volcker Rule, so that mistakes in judgment at individual banks
are less likely to threaten the broader financial system and
economy. FSOC members will remain focused on these issues and
return to them and others at their next scheduled meeting of the
Council in June,” according to the statement issued by the  U.S.
Treasury .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  