-- Reid Says Republican Extremism Stalls Spending-Cut Deal
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-22T16:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/reid-says-republican-extremism-stalls-spending-cut-deal.html
Congress won’t be able to prevent
federal spending cuts scheduled for 2013 unless Republicans
allow tax increases in a deficit-reduction plan, Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  wrote in a letter to Republican senators.  “Once Republicans are willing to abandon their commitment
to more tax breaks for multimillionaires and special interests
and their plans to end Medicare, I am confident that we can
reach an agreement,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, wrote in a letter
dated May 21 to Senate Republicans. “Unfortunately, it appears
that Republicans’ blind adherence to Tea Party extremism is
making it impossible to reach this sort of balanced agreement
before the election.”  Reid was responding to a May 17 letter sent to him by 41
Republicans, who urged Reid to act now to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff waiting at the end of the year.  If Congress doesn’t act, the George W. Bush-era tax cuts on
wages,  capital gains , dividends and estates will expire at the
end of 2012. Automatic spending cuts of $1.2 trillion over 10
years to the Defense Department and other programs will take
effect in 2013.  Barclays Capital  has estimated that the fiscal cliff could
reduce gross domestic product in the U.S. by 3 percent.  Democrats should “get with the program” and focus on the
expiring tax cuts, said Julia Lawless, a spokeswoman for Senator
 Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, who had organized the Republican letter.  “The largest tax increase in history is set to hit almost
every single American on Jan. 1,” she said. “The American
people aren’t interested in a political sideshow by the
president and his Capitol Hill allies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  