-- Renault’s Lada Link Risks Russian Taste for Nothing Soviet: Cars
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a ,   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-05-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/renault-s-lada-link-risks-russian-taste-for-nothing-soviet-cars.html
Olga Sorokina, a child psychologist
from a city near Moscow, doesn’t want to own a Lada anymore, and
unlike past generations of Russians, she has plenty of options.  After having to fix “almost everything” from the
transmission to the mirrors on her 2006 Samara sedan, the 26
year old from Krasnogorsk said she is considering an Opel Corsa
from  General Motors Co. (GM)  Deepening cooperation between Lada’s
parent  OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ)  and  France ’s  Renault SA (RNO)  hasn’t won her over.  “I am a bit skeptical,” said Sorokina. She’d consider a
car made by the Togliatti-based manufacturer only after
“positive feedback,” even if it’s sold as a Renault, she said.  Lada, which has been the dominant brand in Russia for
decades, is under pressure to defend its lead as major
automakers push into the market. With  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  expanding and AvtoVAZ phasing out models like the
2105 that dates to Leonid Brezhnev’s era, Lada’s share of
Russian car sales is projected to drop to 20 percent next year
from 29 percent in 2010, according to IHS Automotive data.  The wandering loyalties of Russian consumers threaten
Renault’s growth plans, which rely on control of AvtoVAZ to
dominate a market that’s poised to become  Europe ’s largest by
2014. Auto demand in the country will probably surpass  Germany 
as incomes rise, making  car ownership  affordable to more people.
Fewer than two of every 100 Russians bought a car last year,
about half the rate in Germany.  ‘Only White Spot’  “It’s just about the only white spot on the world map
that’s left for Renault to grow,” said Erich Hauser, an analyst
with Credit Suisse in  London . “They’re buying the biggest guy
in the room, but there’s a lot of uncertainties in the deal. In
the meantime, competition isn’t getting any easier.”  Renault, based in Boulogne-Billancourt, is seeking to
expand in  emerging markets , with European car demand set to
decline for the fifth straight year in 2012. In the first
quarter, revenue fell 9 percent to 9.54 billion euros, while
sales at Volkswagen, which is expanding in  China , the U.S. and
 Latin America , surged 26 percent to 47.3 billion euros.  Renault and its alliance partner,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , signed
a tentative agreement with Russian Technologies Corp. on May 3
to invest $750 million in a joint venture that will own 74.5
percent of AvtoVAZ. The deal, which follows Renault’s purchase
of a 25 percent stake in the Russian carmaker in 2008, is
targeted for completion by 2014.  Ford, which has annual capacity to produce 125,000 Focus
and Mondeo vehicles at its factory in St. Petersburg, last year
created a joint venture with OAO Sollers, Russia’s third-largest
carmaker, that will assemble Explorer sport-utility vehicles and
other models.  VW Production  VW, Europe’s biggest carmaker, opened a plant in Kaluga,
about 170 kilometers (106 miles) southwest of Moscow, in 2007 to
produce 150,000 cars a year. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based
automaker agreed last year to build as many as 110,000 VW and
Skoda vehicles annually with billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s OAO
GAZ. The deal follows GAZ’s agreement to build Chevrolet Aveos
for GM, which operates a factory in  St. Petersburg  and partners
with AvtoVAZ to make the Chevrolet Niva.  AvtoVAZ was set up with the help of  Fiat SpA (F)  in the 1960s,
as the  Soviet Union  sought to create its own “people’s car”
for the Eastern Bloc. In its heyday, East German buyers had to
wait as long as 17 years to get a Lada. After the dissolution of
the Soviet Union in 1991, the company survived with the help of
government loans and by trading finished cars for parts from
suppliers or for food and clothing for workers.  Soviet-Era Models  Lada, which is replacing Soviet-era vehicles like the 2105
and 2104 with new models, has stumbled in its efforts to
overhaul its product lineup. Last month, a fault with the fuel
system caused it to recall 24,000 Granta sedans, representing
almost the entire production run of its first new model since
2007. The same defect also affected 70,000 Kalina compacts.
Lada’s sales are forecast to decline 2 percent to 566,900
vehicles this year, according to IHS.  Renault believes it can lure customers back as reliability
improves and more new vehicles hit the market.  “You don’t buy a big brand in order to kill it,” said
Bruno Ancelin, Renault’s managing director for  Russia . “If you
ask Russian customers if they want to buy a Lada today, they
would probably say no, because of quality issues. But if you ask
again if they would be ready to buy the same car with an
improved quality, 90 percent of them say yes. It’s a brand
they’re very attached to, because of a strong nationalist
feeling.”  Bargain Offer  For customers like Piotr Fomin, no other carmakers are
worth considering. The low cost of the vehicles and a service
network that blankets the country make Lada “the most reliable
vehicle for Russia,” said the 50 year old from Voronezh, 500
kilometers south of Moscow, who has driven Ladas for decades.  AvtoVAZ plans to at least maintain its market share by
improving quality, expanding the lineup and keeping prices and
service costs low by using locally made parts, Chief Executive
Officer Igor Komarov said by e-mail. The company will also rely
on more than twice as many sales outlets as Chevrolet and
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , two of the top brands outside the Renault-
Nissan-Lada group.  Backed by models like the Granta, which starts at 229,000
rubles ($7,300) compared with 400,000 rubles for the Hyundai
Solaris, the group intends to boost the combined market share of
Lada, Renault and Nissan to 40 percent by 2015 from 33 percent
last year. IHS projects Lada’s market share recovering to 21
percent in 2014. The Russian auto market is forecast to rise 28
percent to 3.4 million vehicles in 2014, according to the
country’s industry ministry.  Presidential Support  “Renault-Nissan and AvtoVAZ are doing the right thing,
keeping the Lada brand in the low-cost segment,” said Vladimir Bespalov, an analyst with VTB Capital in Moscow. “That’s their
major competitive advantage” and the segment will remain
Russia’s biggest for years to come.  AvtoVAZ also has high-profile supporters. Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  attended an April ceremony to introduce the Lada
Largus, the brand’s first model based on Renault technology. In
August 2010, Putin drove a yellow Kalina Sport 2,165 kilometers
to inspect a new road in Russia’s far east. His regime loaned
AvtoVAZ 75 billion rubles during the financial crisis in 2009.  “If you want to talk about Russian authorities, we have
excellent relationships with them,” said Renault’s Ancelin. “I
sleep perfectly well at night -- much better I think than some
of my colleagues in other parts of the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  