-- Renesas Shares Climb on Report It May Cut Jobs, Add Cash
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-05-22T06:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/renesas-shares-climb-on-report-it-may-cut-jobs-add-cash.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the
world’s biggest automotive microcontroller maker, rose the most
in three months in Tokyo trading after the Yomiuri newspaper
said it plans to raise capital and cut about 6,000 jobs.  Renesas jumped 7.4 percent, the the biggest gain since Feb.
8, to 289 yen at the close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average added 1.1 percent.  The company will probably ask its majority owners  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501) ,  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503)  and  NEC Corp. (6701)  to buy shares to
raise 50 billion yen ($630 million), the newspaper reported
today, without saying where it got the information. Renesas
isn’t the source of the report and nothing has been decided
about cutting jobs or raising capital, the Kawasaki city, Japan-
based company said in a statement to the stock exchange.  “The report eased some concerns,”  Mitsuo Shimizu , an
analyst at Iwai Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by phone.
“The shareholders must do something to help Renesas turn
profitable.”  The chipmaker has lost about 31 percent of its market value
since May 9, when the company said it couldn’t provide an
earnings outlook because of uncertainty in the chip market.
Renesas, 91 percent  owned  by NEC, Hitachi and Mitsubishi
Electric, posted a  net loss  of 62.6 billion yen in the year
ended March 31.  Demand for chips used in consumer electronics and personal
computers has slumped, Renesas said May 9. Sharp Corp.,  Sony (6758) 
Corp.,  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s three biggest television makers,
posted a combined 1.6 trillion yen loss last fiscal year, as
prices declined for televisions and a stronger yen reduced
overseas earnings and competitiveness.  ‘Some Kind of Action’  Renesas may cut about 15 percent of its  workforce  through
buyouts and attrition, Yomiuri said. The company may consolidate
or sell some of its 19 factories in  Japan , according to the
report.  The major shareholders of Renesas may consider taking
“some kind of action” to support the chipmaker if asked,
Kenichiro Yamanishi, president of Tokyo-based Mitsubishi
Electric, said yesterday. The companies haven’t received a
request from Renesas, he said.  Hitachi hasn’t received a request from Renesas and nothing
has been decided on support, spokesman Hirotaka Ohno said by
telephone. NEC has no plan to make additional investment in
Renesas, spokesman Takehiko Kato said by phone. Mitsubishi
Electric declined to comment beyond its president’s remarks.  NEC owns about 3 percent of Renesas after transferring most
of its 35 percent stake in the chipmaker to its pension trust.  The additional investment “may not be enough” because of
costs to pay employees to leave, Yuichi Ishida, an analyst at
Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said by telephone.  Elpida  Renesas yesterday fell to the lowest on  record  since its
predecessor went public in 2003. The company was formed in 2010
after the merger of money-losing chipmakers Renesas Technology
Corp., a venture between Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric, and
NEC Electronics Corp.  Elpida Memory Inc., which shares the same origin as
Renesas, filed for bankruptcy in February after posting losses
for five straight quarters because of falling prices of the main
memory used in personal computers. The Tokyo-based company was
formed in 1999 after merging Hitachi and NEC’s dynamic random-
access memory business. Mitsubishi Electric later separated its
DRAM unit and combined it with Elpida.  Renesas makes microcontrollers, a type of semiconductor
that acts as a mini-computer dedicated to specific tasks such as
triggering air bags in cars and controlling a DVD player. The
chips are used in products ranging from automobiles to consumer
electronics. The company  supplies  customers including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , Sony and Nintendo Co., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  