-- Repsol May Boost Russia Focus After YPF Loss, Alliance Oil Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-05-22T11:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/repsol-may-boost-russia-focus-after-ypf-loss-alliance-oil-says.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  may seek to boost its
presence in  Russia  via its venture with Alliance Oil Co. after
the Spanish crude producer lost assets in Argentina, according
to the head of the Russian company.  “There is a lot of interest and a lot of joint work to
look for new assets in Russia,” Alliance Oil Managing Director
Arsen Idrisov said on a conference call today. “It might be a
positive for the Russian market because this was considered as
an alternative to Latin American operations of Repsol.”  Repsol executives are revising the Madrid-based oil
producer’s long-term strategy after the Argentine government
seized its YPF unit last month. The company is looking to boost
oil production and identify new petrochemical deposits to offset
the loss of its Argentine assets.  Repsol isn’t commenting on its strategy ahead of a May 29
presentation for investors, said spokesman Kristian Rix.  “The question is will Repsol be able to do that in terms
of cash available for investments,”  Alexander Nazarov , an oil
and gas analyst at OAO Gazprombank, said today by e-mail.  Alliance Oil, listed in Stockholm, and Repsol agreed in
December to form a $840 million oil and gas venture focused on
production in Russia. Repsol owns a minority stake in Alliance
after the 2008 merger of Alliance and West Siberian Resources
Ltd., in which Repsol had held 10 percent.  “It’s an unfortunate event for Repsol,” Idrisov said.
“For us it is rather a support because Repsol has confirmed two
strategic areas for investing into the upstream,  North America 
and Russia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  