-- Romanian Parliament Passes Law to Change Election System
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-05-22T13:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/romanian-parliament-passes-law-to-change-election-system.html
Romania’s Parliament today approved a
law eliminating a minimum vote threshold for lawmakers ahead of
general elections expected later this year.  Proposed by the country’s newly appointed Prime Minister
Victor Ponta, who also heads the Social-Democrats, and his
coalition partner Crin Antonescu, the leader of the Liberals,
the law changes an elections system that required every party to
reach at least 5 percent of votes to enter Parliament. The law
got 180 votes in favor and 30 against,  Mediafax  reported.  A candidate who wins the highest number of votes in a
voting district in the first ballot will gain a seat in
Parliament regardless of the percentage obtained by his or her
party, according to the new law. Current legislation regulated
that a person only can get a seat in Parliament if his or her
party passed the 5 percent threshold of total valid votes cast.  Romania plans to hold local elections on June 10, with
general elections probably following in November. The alliance
between Social-Democrats and Liberals would win 61 percent of
the votes, according to a survey conducted by pollster IRES
conducted on May 2 among 1,209 people with a margin of error of
3 percentage points.  “The new law discourages the rise of extravagant
parties,” Viorel Hrebenciuc, a social-democratic lawmaker, told
reporters after the vote.  The opposition parties said they will challenge the law at
the  Constitutional Court , Roberta Anastase, the chairman of the
Parliament’s lower chamber, told reporters in Bucharest.  President Traian Basescu must also sign off the law for it
to become effective.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  