-- Trucker Shares Seen Rallying in U.S. With Housing Rebound
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-05-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/trucker-shares-seen-ready-to-rally-in-u-s-with-housing-rebound.html
Trucking companies may need to put
more vehicles on the road to support a recovery in U.S.
residential construction, which might send their shares higher.  Housing starts rose 2.6 percent to a 717,000 annual rate in
April, beating the 685,000 median estimate of 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Construction has  improved  50 percent
from a low of 478,000 reached in April 2009, during the 18-month
recession that ended two months later, based on data from the
Commerce Department.  “All of the freight required to build a new home has a
very positive impact on trucking activity,” said Todd Fowler,
an analyst in  Cleveland  at KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., the
investment banking arm of KeyCorp. As a rule of thumb, each new
residence requires between five and eight truckloads to
transport supplies such as lumber, roofing materials and
interior furnishings, he said.  Purchases of new homes probably rose in April to a 337,000
pace, up 2.7 percent from the prior month, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 72 economists.
Sales data is to be released by the Census Bureau tomorrow.  As construction improves further, trucking companies will
need to add capacity to meet the additional demand, said Bob Costello, chief economist for the American Trucking Associations
in Arlington, Virginia. This will “without a doubt” be a
benefit to the industry, particularly in the so-called truckload
business, he said.  An index of the loads carried by the truckload segment, a
proxy for industry volume, has risen 14 percent to 103.9 in
March from the recession period low of 91 in January 2009, based
on a survey of the trucking association’s members. Still, that’s
almost 13 percent below the May 2008 level, the data show.  Carrier-Size Expansion  If starts were to remain above 750,000 for a 12-month
period, trucking companies would need to add about 4,000 trucks
to the road, according to Fowler’s calculations. To meet this
demand, a fleet the size of those run by a top-10 carrier, such
as  Knight Transportation Inc. (KNX) , would be required, he said.  There’s “light at the end of the tunnel” for homebuilders
as inventories remain lean and demand is “forming a bottom” in
most regions, said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist in Toronto
at BMO Capital Markets. Housing starts have averaged a 713,500
annualized pace this year and may improve to average 740,000 in
2013, he estimates.  Federal Reserve policy makers echoed this sentiment, noting
that sales and starts “suggested some upward movement,” though
“most participants anticipated that the housing sector was
likely to recover only slowly over time,” according to the
minutes of their April meeting released May 16.  Flatbeds First  Operators of flatbeds -- trailers without sides that
transport lumber and large materials -- are typically the first
to experience more residence-related business as homebuilding
expands, said Charles Clowdis, managing director of
transportation advisory services at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . As a homeowner gets ready to move in,
dry van carriers carry more freight, such as furnishings and
appliances, he said.  Landstar System Inc. (LSTR)  is among publicly traded trucking
companies with exposure to the flatbed business. The
Jacksonville, Florida-based carrier had 3,424 flatbed trailers
as of Dec. 31, according to its annual report. This compares
with 3,437 at the end of 2010.  Truckload carriers including  Werner Enterprises Inc. (WERN)  and
 Celadon Group Inc. (CGI) , which transport goods to retailers such as
 Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , probably will benefit from a
better housing market, said Fowler, who maintains “buy”
recommendations on these companies.  Trucking Comparisons  The Bloomberg U.S. Truckload Trucking Index -- which
includes Indianapolis, Indiana-based Celadon and Werner, based
in Omaha,  Nebraska  -- has risen 8.4 percent this year, compared
with a 3.2 percent increase for the  Russell 2000  Index. For the
past 12 months it underperformed the Russell.  The recovery in trucking volumes since the recession ended
hasn’t been led by housing, so “an incremental improvement in
housing starts will be a net positive for our industry,” Derek Leathers, president of Werner, said in a phone interview.
Activity will pick up because the company hauls freight for
retailers that sell housing-related goods, he said.  The trucking index’s rebound means “the bleeding has
stopped,” according to Jim Stellakis, founder and director of
research at New York-based research company Technical Alpha. If
it begins trading higher than its peaks relative to the Russell
2000, which came in January 2012 and August 2011, it would
indicate investors are becoming more optimistic about the
industry, he said.  Shares of trucking operators haven’t outperformed the
market during the past year because freight activity has been
“good, but not great,” Fowler said. “If you believe the
housing market is getting better, there should be an additional
improvement” in demand and the rates charged, which may help
stock performance, he said.  Not Turning  Still, “housing really hasn’t turned” from the
perspective of Landstar, Chief Financial Officer James Gattoni
said on an April 26 conference call.  Arkansas Best Corp. (ABFS)  also is
awaiting a comeback in the industry, President and Chief
Executive Officer Judy McReynolds said at a March 14 conference
in New York hosted by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “We are looking forward to the time whenever housing even
comes back to something close to normal,” McReynolds said. “It
is a sizable factor,” she said, for both truckload and so-
called less-than-truckload, the  Fort Smith , Arkansas-based
carrier’s primary business.  Should new home starts return to a 10-year average of 1.3
million on an annualized basis, it would effectively double the
number of trucks required to haul housing-related freight from
current levels, Fowler estimated. Even so, the industry is in
equilibrium, and a stronger housing market could make it
imbalanced because of a shortage of available drivers, he said.  Employment Return  An improvement still may be a few years away, though “home
affordability has rarely been better, at least in the last four
decades,” Guatieri said. That’s because employment is
“moderately coming back,” and prices remain low, bringing
first-time buyers into the market, he said.  The jobless rate fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent in
April, down from a 27-year high of 10 percent in October 2009,
Bureau of Labor Statistics data show.  Home prices  were down
about 34 percent in the 2011 fourth quarter from their 2006
peak, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values.  Though the truckload segment probably will be the biggest
beneficiary -- with carriers hauling everything from roofing to
carpeting -- more construction could have a ripple effect
throughout trucking, Fowler said.  “It would be a rising-tide environment for all of the
carriers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  