-- Rupert the Horse Upstages Rotund Baritone in ‘Falstaff’
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-05-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/rupert-the-horse-upstages-rotund-baritone-in-falstaff-.html
There are some great performances in
an amusing new production of Verdi’s “Falstaff” (1893) at the
 Royal Opera House  in London. Yet Rupert the horse manages to
outshine everyone else on stage.  Director Robert Carsen sets the action in the 1950s, an era
which has been so over-exploited in recent opera updatings that
it feels like “return to factory settings” mode.  No matter. With its glamorous frocks, class hierarchies and
gender conservatism, it still provides a serviceable background
for this tale of a clever middle-class woman who outwits a
foolish old member of the nobility. Carsen manages to ring some
funny and thoughtful changes out of it.  There’s plenty of lively business and background detail in
the Shakespeare-based tale, and it looks sumptuous. Falstaff
lives messily in an old oak-paneled hotel where he tries to
avoid paying his bills. Alice Ford, the unwitting object of his
lust, has an ultra-expensive modern kitchen decorated in pastel
greens and pinks. We see aristocratic poverty meeting new
bourgeois wealth.  After he has been unceremoniously dumped in the Thames as a
punishment for his amorous folly, Falstaff crawls into a stable
to dry off. This is where he laments his gray hair and
foolishness, and where he meets Rupert the horse.  Rupert nods sagely at every statement, then chews on his
hay. When Falstaff reflects that his big belly kept him afloat
in the river, he kindly passes a sugar lump to his new friend so
that he can get nice and plump too.  Lovelorn Beasts  Later the sturdy Rupert is even able to support the weight
of title-role baritone Ambrogio Maestri, who is 6 foot 6 inches
and of Falstaffian proportions. A beautiful image is created
when Falstaff rides into the moonlit and mysterious Windsor Park
for a rendezvous in the final act. “Love makes beasts of us
all,” he muses, patting his steed fondly.  Rupert is mostly, though not always, imperturbable.
Sometimes he turns to the somewhat wayward conductor  Daniele
Gatti , fixing him with a steely glare. If I were Gatti, I’d
start filling my pockets with propitiatory sugar lumps.  In short, Rupert is the undoubted star of the show, despite
some fine human performances.  Ana Maria Martinez  sings the
soaring lines of wily Alice Ford with rich ease, and plenty of
comic variety.  Marie-Nicole Lemieux gets the biggest laughs as Mistress
Quickly, a woman who relishes the chance to become a vampish go-
between in the affairs of her friend Alice. Amanda Forsythe
(Nannetta) and Joel Prieto (Fenton) make a handsome and sweet-
sounding couple of young lovers.  Generic Emotions  And Falstaff himself? Maestri’s voice is so powerful and
warm it easily could heat the whole auditorium, and the famous
denunciation of honor provides vocal thrills.  His acting is another matter, and there’s not enough lust
in the early episodes or fear in the final scene when Falstaff
believes he’s being attacked by evil spirits. The emotions feel
generic rather than detailed.  Maestri’s immense physical presence ensures that he never
loses authority on stage, and his natural fitness for the role
is a bonus.  “All the world’s a jest,” sings Falstaff at the end.
After a patchy few months at the Royal Opera, it’s great to find
something to laugh about again.  Rating: ***1/2.  “Falstaff” is in repertory at  Covent Garden  through May
30. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  On May 30, the production will be relayed to 15 BP Summer
Big Screens around the U.K.  T*
What the Stars Mean:
****          Excellent
***           Good
**            Average
*             Poor
(No stars)    Worthless
T*  Muse highlights include Farah Nayeri on  film  in Cannes and
Scott Reyburn on  auctions .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 