-- Rupiah, Indonesia Bonds Rise for a Second Day as Stocks Rally
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-05-22T09:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/rupiah-drops-after-investors-cut-indonesia-debt-share-holdings.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah and bonds gained
for a second day after local stocks rose the most since
February.  The Jakarta Composite  Index (JCI)  of shares snapped five days of
losses to climb 2 percent after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  said yesterday that the two nations will do
“everything necessary” to ensure Greece stays in the single-
currency zone.  “Global risk levels have eased, and we’ve seen regional
shares advance today, which supports the currency,” said Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta.
He predicts the rupiah to trade within 9,250 to 9,450 this week.  The rupiah strengthened 0.2 percent to 9,228 per dollar as
of 4:33 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, held at 10
percent for a fourth day.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.51
percent, according to closing prices from the Inter-Dealer
Market Association. The yield lost nine basis points this week.  Global funds reduced ownership of  sovereign notes  by 3.3
trillion rupiah ($352 million) this month through May 16,
according to data from the  finance ministry .  “The current patch of poor sentiment has raised concerns
about the risks of portfolio outflows,” analysts at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. led by  David Carbon  wrote in a report today.
Indonesia may post its first full-year current-account deficit
in 2012 since the Asian financial crisis, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  