-- Russian GDP May Grow Faster Than Estimated, Ulyukayev Says
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-05-22T16:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/russian-gdp-may-grow-faster-than-estimated-ulyukayev-says-1-.html
Russia’s economy may expand faster
than the government estimates this year as the euro-region debt
crisis proves to be “manageable” for the country, said central
bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev .  Economic growth will probably be “closer to” 4 percent in
2012, faster than the official prediction for a 3.4 percent
increase, Ulyukayev said at a conference in London today. Bank
Rossii will hold inflation to its target range of between 5
percent and 6 percent this year, he said.  The economy of the world’s biggest energy exporter grew 4.9
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the fastest
pace since the three months ended September 2011. President
 Vladimir Putin , who was inaugurated for his third term in the
Kremlin on May 7, has said Russia’s growth must exceed the
global pace of expansion over the next decade by gaining at
least 6 percent annually to turn the economy into one of the
world’s five largest by purchasing power by 2015.  Russia  needs to undertake consolidation of public finance
even as its fiscal position is relatively better compared with
western European countries, Ulyukayev said.  The country is likely to see net capital outflows this
year, he said, adding that outflows have totalled about $42
billion so far in 2012. These are mainly caused by companies
failing to convert export earnings into rubles, and instead
investing them in short-term assets in foreign currency, he
said.  The  European debt crisis  will not lead Russia to reduce the
proportion of its reserves in euros, Ulyukayev said.  “We still feel comfortable with the structure of our
investments,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  