-- Sales of Previously Owned U.S. Homes Probably Climbed in April
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-22T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/sales-of-previously-owned-u-s-homes-probably-climbed-in-april.html
Sales of  existing  U.S. homes probably
rose in April for the first time in three months, indicating the
industry is stabilizing, economists said before a report today.  Purchases climbed 2.9 percent to a 4.61 million annual rate
last month, according to the  median  forecast of 73 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The pace would be just shy of the
4.63 million reached in January that was the strongest in more
than a year.  Gains in employment, depressed prices and record-low
 mortgage rates  may bring more properties within reach of buyers,
eliminating a source of weakness for the world’s largest economy
just as risks from  Europe ’s debt crisis climb. At the same time,
efforts to reduce foreclosures and free up financing are just
beginning to take root, signaling a sustained housing recovery
will take time to develop.  “The housing market continues to show signs of healing,
albeit gradually,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  New York . “Progress is being made on
easing the foreclosure burden, but it is slow.”  The report from the National Association of Realtors is due
at 10 a.m. in Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from
4.47 million to 4.8 million, following 4.48 million in March.  Existing-home sales, tabulated when a contract closes,
climbed to 4.26 million last year from 4.19 million in 2010.
Demand peaked at 7.1 million in 2005 during the housing boom. In
2008, sales totaled 4.11 million, the least since 1995.  Record Affordability  A real estate agents group’s affordability index, which is
based on a combination of resale prices,  household income  and
mortgage rates, reached a record high in the first quarter, a
report this month showed.  Borrowing costs remain attractive. The average rate on a
30-year fixed mortgage fell to an all-time low of 3.79 percent
in the week ended May 17, according to data from  Freddie Mac 
going back to 1971. The average 15-year rate dropped to 3.04
percent, also a record low, the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-
 finance company  said.  Rising employment and incomes may provide more support for
housing. The  unemployment rate  fell in April to a three-year low
of 8.1 percent as employers added 115,000 jobs, according to
Labor Department figures.  The Commerce Department may report tomorrow that new-home
sales, tabulated when contracts are signed, rose in April to a
337,000 pace, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Underpin Growth  The steadying outlook for residential real estate may
reinforce projections the industry that helped trigger the
recession will contribute to economic growth this year. Housing
starts climbed to a 717,000 annual rate in April, more than
anticipated. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo confidence index jumped in May to a five-year high.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding (S15HOME)  Index has
advanced 30 percent so far this year, outpacing a 4.6 percent
gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
said orders rose 15 percent to 4,991 homes in its first quarter,
and backlogs increased 12 percent to 5,798 homes.  “It was the first quarter in several years that
fundamental demand came in stronger than expected,”  Richard Dugas , chief executive officer of the Bloomfield Hills,
Michigan-based company, said during an April 26 conference call
with analysts. “We are pleased with how the year has started
off, including a continuation of better sales activity thus far
in April.”  Five-Year Low  Foreclosure filings  fell to a five-year low in April as
lenders sought to avoid seizing property. The number of default,
auction and seizure notices sent to homeowners totaled 188,780
last month, down 14 percent from a year earlier and 5 percent
from March, according to RealtyTrac Inc.  There are signs property values may also stabilize.  Home
prices  rose 0.6 percent in March from the previous month, the
first sequential advance since July and the third straight
month-over-month gain excluding short sales and foreclosure
sales, mortgage data company CoreLogic Inc. reported. Prices
fell 0.6 percent from a year earlier, it said.  
To contact the report on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  