-- Sanusi Says Nigeria’s Subsidy Must Be Transparent, Affordable
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-05-22T16:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/sanusi-says-nigeria-s-subsidy-must-be-transparent-affordable.html
Central Bank of Nigeria Governor
Lamido Sanusi made the following comments after a meeting of the
bank’s monetary policy committee in Abuja today.  On whether the nation’s fuel subsidy should be fully removed
after it contributed to slow in economic growth:  “Our view on fuel subsidy has always been very clear: that
we cannot spend 4 percent of our GDP on petroleum subsidies.
There are of course other issues. Issues around the transparency
of the entire process, which have come into light, and which are
being investigated.”  “We think that we should work toward managing these
subsidies with an affordable level if at all they’re going to
remain. But also work toward improving the transparency and the
governance of the process, and making people accountable for
abuses, which clearly inflates the numbers.”  On the outlook for the naira:  “In the short to medium term, we’ll retain it within the
band. We don’t think the pressure came from declining oil
prices. The pressure came from a natural reaction to the re-
emergence of crisis in  Europe .”  “The total hot money in the system today is under $5
billion. About $3 billion of that is in long-term instruments.”  “We have enough reserves to protect the naira and to
defend it at current levels in the medium-term, which is not to
say that we want that money to go. It’s just to say that we are
prepared for it in the event that it goes.”  On the level of foreign currency reserves, which grew by 13
percent this year to $37.3 billion as of May 18:  “Are we satisfied with the level of reserves given where
oil prices have been? The oil minister has said that we’ve lost
$7 billion to oil theft. I think we’ve always known that the
amount of money we’re getting was somewhat lower than what we
should be getting, given where  oil prices  were.”  “This is now a reliable communication from the minister
in charge of the area, as to an estimate of how much has been
lost. So, frankly if $7 billion has not been stolen last year,
we’d be at $45 billion.”  “So, is the central bank happy? No, we’re not happy to
lose $7 billion. And I do hope and pray that we catch whoever
stole the $7 billion and get it back from them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  