-- SAP to Acquire Ariba for $4.3 Billion in Push Into Cloud
-- B y   K e n n e t h   W o n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-05-23T16:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/sap-agrees-to-buy-ariba.html
SAP AG (SAP) , largest maker of enterprise-
applications software, agreed to buy  Ariba Inc. (ARBA)  for $4.3 billion
in the German company’s second multi-billion purchase in cloud
computing to take on  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   SAP will pay $45 a share, or 20 percent more than Ariba’s
May 21 closing price, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP said
yesterday. The transaction, subject to approval by Ariba
shareholders and regulators, will probably be completed by the
end of August, SAP Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt said on
a conference call.  Ariba is the leader in cloud-based collaborative commerce
applications, counting  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Deutsche Bank AG
among customers it connects to more than 730,000 suppliers. As
competition in on-demand software intensifies, SAP has increased
its pace of acquisitions, last buying SuccessFactors Inc. in
December. With businesses increasingly choosing to store and
process data on the Web, SAP is shifting many of its staple
applications to the Internet.  “We don’t have the DNA in the cloud,” SAP co-Chief
Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said in an interview. “We’re
probably the most strategic cloud player in the enterprise
software industry.”  SAP fell 0.9 percent to 47.38 euros at the close of trading
in  Frankfurt , paring the stock’s increase this year to 16
percent. Ariba slipped 0.1 percent to $44.82 at 12:01 p.m. in
 New York , after jumping 19 percent yesterday.  Earnings Growth  In more than 60 enterprise software takeovers since 2002,
the median multiple buyers paid was about 16 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the 106 times
trailing 12-month Ebitda SAP has offered for Ariba, the data
show.  Sunnyvale, California-based Ariba’s Ebitda is projected to
more than quadruple to $125 million in the 12 months through
September, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  SAP’s acquisition of Ariba would be the largest enterprise
software deal since  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  bought Autonomy Corp.
for more than $10 billion last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. There have been almost 1,200 of those transactions
globally over the past decade, with a value topping $80 billion.  Counterbid?  “There’s potential for other bidders to emerge,” said
 Richard Williams , an analyst at Cross Research in Livingston,
 New Jersey , who has a hold rating on SAP. “There’s a history of
bidding wars between SAP and Oracle and this is exactly the kind
of strategic company that would spark something like that.”  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, declined to comment.  Oracle separately said today it agreed to buy Vitrue, a
provider of cloud-based social marketing applications. Financial
details weren’t disclosed.  Ariba’s global trading network connects and automates more
than $319 billion in commercial transactions, collaborations,
and intelligence among companies, according to SAP’s statement.
SAP’s tools mostly serve internal business processes, and Ariba
would give the German company a way to automate business
transactions with outside companies and make it a stronger
competitor in cloud-based business networks, Williams said.  The deal will add to SAP’s profit, excluding some items, in
2013, Brandt said yesterday. Ariba CEO Robert Calderoni will
join SAP’s global management board.  SuccessFactors Takeover  SAP bought SuccessFactors in December 2011 for $3.4
billion, adding a maker of online personnel-management
applications to help it enter the cloud-computing market. SAP is
now offering its payroll, supply-chain management and financial
software as cloud applications through the Internet.  The market for cloud software delivered via the Web will
grow five times as quickly as sales of programs installed on
clients’ premises, according to researcher IDC. SAP plans to
generate 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) from such systems by
2015 to help it reach a sales target of more than 20 billion
euros by that year.  While Oracle has snapped up rivals, SAP had traditionally
shied away from large deals, with past CEO  Leo Apotheker  telling
investors in 2009 that the company’s home-grown software was
superior to Oracle’s. McDermott and co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe
have changed that strategy as they race to snatch business from
Oracle and other companies such as  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and
Workday Inc. in the cloud.  Hana Analytics  SAP bought Sybase Inc. for $5.8 billion in 2010 to bolster
its database and mobile-computing offerings. It has also
introduced a data-processing system called Hana, which competes
with Oracle in  database software .  This year, Oracle has purchased human-resources software
maker Taleo Corp., a counterweight to SAP’s acquisition of
SuccessFactors, and customer-service cloud-software vendor
RightNow Technologies Inc.  Ariba reported $444 million in  revenue  last year, an
increase of 39 percent from a year earlier. The U.S. company’s
board has unanimously approved the deal, SAP said in the
statement. SAP plans to fund the transaction with its own cash
and a 2.4 billion-euro term loan facility, the company said.  At today’s annual shareholder meeting in  Mannheim ,  Germany ,
some SAP investors say the company may be paying too much. “We
don’t know whether Ariba can generate the profits that would
justify the high price,” Jella Benner-Heinacher, managing
director of the German Association for the Protection of
Wertpapierbesitz, said in an interview.  Ariba held its initial public offering in June 1999 and was
one of darlings of the Internet bubble, seeing its stock more
than quadruple in its first two months of trading. The shares
plummeted about 90 percent in 2001.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG advised SAP on
the deal, while Morgan Stanley provided financial counsel to
Ariba.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  