-- SEC Sues Two Florida Men Over Claim They Fed Rothstein Fraud
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-22T18:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/sec-sues-two-florida-men-over-claims-they-fueled-rothstein-fraud.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued two Florida men over claims they fraudulently
raised more than $157 million to fuel a  Ponzi scheme  that
collapsed in October 2009.  George Levin and Frank Preve used money from 173 investors
to purchase phony legal settlements from Florida attorney Scott Rothstein, who is serving a 50-year prison sentence for running
the fraud, the SEC said today in a statement. Levin and Preve
misrepresented to investors that they had procedures in place to
protect the funds, the SEC said. The two men denied wrongdoing.  At least eight people have pleaded guilty to helping
Rothstein, who admitted in 2010 that he persuaded wealthy
investors to buy stakes in what he said were payouts from
settlements of sexual-harassment and workplace-discrimination
cases. The cases were fabricated, using forged documents and
fictitious plaintiffs and defendants, the SEC said.  “Levin and Preve fueled Rothstein’s Ponzi scheme with the
false sense of security they gave investors,” Eric Bustillo,
head of the SEC’s Miami office, said in the agency’s statement.
“They promised to safeguard investors’ assets, but gave
Rothstein money with nothing to show for it.”  The SEC is seeking disgorgement of ill-gotten gains and
unspecified financial penalties. The agency’s investigation is
continuing, according to the statement.  ‘Biggest Victims’  In a joint statement, attorneys for Levin and Preve said
their clients were “two of the biggest victims” of Rothstein’s
fraud.  “Mr. Levin and Mr. Preve have testified at length on
multiple occasions before the SEC and have provided many
thousands of pages of documents to the SEC to assist it in its
investigation,” according to the statement. “Their extensive
cooperation, and the detailed written submissions of counsel for
Mr. Levin and Mr. Preve, showed that Mr. Levin and Mr. Preve
were not involved in the Ponzi scheme and were deceived and
defrauded by Mr. Rothstein.”  The two men began raising money to purchase settlements in
2007 by offering short-term promissory notes and interests in a
private fund that invested exclusively with Rothstein, the SEC
said. As the scheme collapsed and Rothstein stopped making
payments to earlier investors, Levin and Preve kept touting the
success of their investment strategy, the agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  