-- SEC Trials Increase 50 Percent as Execs Fight Lawsuits
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-22T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/sec-trials-increase-50-percent-as-execs-fight-lawsuits.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, long known for settling enforcement actions without
having to prove its case in court, is struggling to cope with
a surge in the number of executives and companies willing to go
to trial to defend themselves.  The SEC’s office in  Washington  is actively litigating about
90 cases, up more than 50 percent in the past year, Matthew Martens, the SEC’s chief litigation counsel, said in an
interview. At the same time, Martens’ trial unit staff has
stayed relatively flat at about 36. He recently added three more
lawyers to his group and is looking to hire more.  Martens said its critical that his unit present a credible
threat. “At the end of the day, if we can’t win cases, then
people don’t settle. That’s the reality,” he said.  The wave of litigation has two main sources: more complex
cases stemming from the 2008 financial crisis and a related
increase in lawsuits filed against individual executives.  The collapse of the housing market and resulting financial
turmoil involved complex securities for which there was little
legal precedent. In addition, the agency has brought more
financial crisis lawsuits against executives -- more than 50 so
far -- and individuals are often inclined to fight claims that
could damage or end their careers.  Those cases, which have required years of investigation,
are central to the agency’s effort to restore its reputation
after being battered for more than three years by lawmakers,
judges and investors who claimed it hasn’t been tough enough in
holding  Wall Street  to account.  Prolonged Battles  Prolonged courtroom battles could sap resources from the
SEC, which has said funding gaps have already diminished its
ability to regulate securities markets. That puts regulators in
a bind: They need to demonstrate to Congress that they need more
resources while not showing any weakness to defendants.  “If you don’t have a legitimate trial threat, if you don’t
communicate to the targets of your investigation that you’re
prepared to go to trial, then you can be exploited,” SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in May 17  testimony 
before the House Financial Services Committee. “Defendants will
simply hold out for a softer settlement and not fear the
alternative.”  The SEC is litigating at least four cases related to
complex financial products linked to residential mortgages.
While firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  have settled the SEC’s claims,
executives named in the suits are fighting them in court.  Limited Resources  “It doesn’t take many cases to eat up limited resources,”
said Mark Schonfeld, the former head of the SEC’s regional
office in New York who is now a partner at law firm Gibson Dunn
& Crutcher LLP. “It’s not just an expenditure of resources in
the near-term; these cases go on for years and years.”  Fabrice Tourre, the London-based Goldman Sachs executive
sued over his role in selling a mortgage-linked security called
Abacus, has fought an SEC lawsuit since 2010 and the judge
recently extended a deadline for taking testimony from witnesses
outside the U.S. The SEC has about 10 attorneys involved in the
litigation, according to court documents.  In some cases, the SEC has taken the once-rare step of
suing executives over claims they were negligent. Historically,
the agency had refrained from suing individuals if the evidence
didn’t support a stronger claim, such as intentional fraud or
recklessness.  Negligence  “It can be hard to persuade a judge and jury that a person
should be punished for something they did 10 years ago, when
they have had an exemplary career before and since,” said
Schonfeld. “When you add on top of all that that the worst
thing you’re saying about a person is that they acted
negligently, that’s not a very compelling case.”  Brian Stoker, a former Citigroup employee who the agency
said was responsible for structuring a deal at the center of the
SEC’s lawsuit against the bank, and Edward Steffelin, a
collateral manager for a collateralized debt obligation faulted
in an SEC settlement with JPMorgan, are both fighting
negligence-based claims.  “When the SEC is being more aggressive in the enforcement
context and using more creative theories, breaking new ground,
that can lead to more litigation because people feel they have a
greater chance of prevailing,” said David Kornblau, the SEC’s
former chief litigation counsel who is now a partner at law firm
Covington & Burling LLP in  New York .  Citigroup Case  The SEC has become increasingly vocal in recent months
about the resource drain of prolonged litigation after U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff rejected a $285 million settlement
with Citigroup. Rakoff criticized the agency for its practice of
settling cases without requiring an admission of wrongdoing.  “The cost of trials, both in terms of the thousands of
staff time hours and other out-of-pocket costs such as expert
witnesses, can be exorbitant,” Khuzami said in his May 17
testimony. “It is wiser to save our resources by demanding
settlements approximating what we could expect to achieve at
trial and spending those saved resources on fighting other
frauds or litigating when a settlement doesn’t meet our
standards.”  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who leads the
Financial Services panel, said in last week’s hearing that “a
policy that has judges micromanaging federal agencies’ exercise
of their enforcement authority and requiring the government to
engage in lengthy and expensive trials in every instance would
not serve the best interests of taxpayers or investors.” Bachus
has questioned whether Congress should increase the SEC’s
budget.  80 Percent Success  Much of the burden of burnishing the SEC’s courtroom
credentials has fallen to Martens, a former federal prosecutor
in  North Carolina  who was tapped in 2010 to become the SEC’s
chief litigation counsel. During his tenure, the agency has
prevailed in more than 80 percent of the matters that went all
the way to trial, according to his calculations.  After graduating first in his class from the University of
North Carolina School of Law, Martens, 39, began his legal
career as a clerk to Judge David Sentelle at the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Washington D.C. in 1996 followed by a one-year
clerkship with then- Supreme Court  Chief Justice William Rehnquist.  Martens later worked for about three years as a litigation
associate at law firm Latham & Watkins before joining then-
Assistant Attorney General  Michael Chertoff  at the  Justice
Department , ultimately becoming his chief of staff for the
criminal division.  ‘One-Man Dynamo’  Martens “was like a one-man dynamo,” Chertoff, who later
served as secretary of  Homeland Security  and is currently
chairman of a security management firm called the Chertoff
Group, said in an interview. “Matt is not a guy who’s going to
be afraid to take a case to trial.”  At the SEC, Martens has pushed to insert his trial
attorneys earlier in investigations to avoid inheriting cases
that wouldn’t play well in court. He’s also taking an active
role in reviewing legal briefs before they’re filed.  While Martens directly oversees the  trial lawyers  in
Washington, litigators in the SEC’s regional offices don’t
report directly to him. Still, Martens is responsible for
ensuring continuity in the SEC’s litigation nationwide,
including briefs on the agency’s position on the Supreme Court’s
ruling involving  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  Martens said that he
personally reviews all of the SEC’s briefs on the Janus
decision, which effectively narrowed the universe of people who
can be sued for making false statements in financial filings.  Subprime Cases  Also on the docket is a raft of subprime disclosure  cases 
against executives who the agency claims made misleading
statements about their firms’ exposure to souring home loans.
The ongoing litigation includes lawsuits against six former
executives of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac , three executives from
IndyMac Bancorp Inc, the ex-CEO and chief financial officer of
 Franklin Bank Corp (FBTXQ) , and three former executives of Thornburg
Mortgage Inc.  The trend is likely to continue. In a congressional hearing
in March, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said the agency will need
to focus more resources on the trial unit.  “The expectation is that as we bring more and more cases,
we will have to litigate more of them,” Schapiro said, adding
that the agency needs “experienced trial counsel” to handle
the load.  “They can never be seen to lack litigation capacity
because otherwise some people will try to steam roll them,”
said Steve Crimmins, a partner at law firm K&L Gates who used to
be deputy chief litigation counsel at the SEC. “If they show
weakness, if they show understaffing, if they show the inability
to go to trial, they won’t get the settlements they need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  