-- Senators Seek to Remove Bankers From 12 Regional Fed Boards
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-05-22T22:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/senators-seek-to-remove-bankers-from-12-regional-fed-boards.html
U.S. Senators  Bernie Sanders ,  Barbara Boxer  and Mark Begich introduced legislation today that would
remove banking industry executives from the 12 regional Fed
banks’ boards of directors.  “Allowing currently employed banking industry executives
to serve as directors on the boards of directors of Federal
Reserve banks is a clear conflict of interest that must be
eliminated,” according to the text of the bill, released today
by Sanders, a Vermont Independent who caucuses with Democrats.  Congress created the Fed nearly a century ago with a mix of
public and private features, including 12 regional banks with
private banking executives on their boards of directors. The
structure of the central bank is under new scrutiny following a
$2 billion trading loss at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  whose chief
executive officer,  Jamie Dimon , is on the board of directors of
the  New York  Fed.  “If this is not a conflict of interest, I don’t know what
is,” Sanders said today at a press conference alongside Boxer,
a Democrat from California.  This is “not a perceived conflict, but a real conflict of
interest when bank presidents and employees of banks sit on the
very boards that regulate them and sometimes bail them out,”
Boxer said.  Sanders and Boxer said they had not discussed the bill with
the Senate leadership or the administration of President  Barack Obama . The legislation was introduced today with Begich, a
Democrat from  Alaska , listed as a cosponsor.  Bankers on Boards  Sanders noted in the press conference that Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said having bankers on boards of the
Fed presents a “perception” problem.  Geithner, who was president of the New York Fed before
becoming Treasury Secretary, said in an interview last week with
PBS television “that perception is a problem,” in response to
a question about Dimon’s position on the New York Fed board.  “It’s worth trying to figure out how to fix that,” said
Geithner.  The 12 regional Fed banks each have a nine-member board of
directors. Six of those directors are appointed by banks that
are members of the  Federal Reserve System . The remaining three
are appointed by the central bank’s Board of Governors in
Washington.  The legislation would make all nine members appointed by
the Board of Governors. The governors are political appointees,
nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate.  Employees of any firm regulated by the Fed would no longer
be eligible. The legislation also says that directors and
employees of the Fed system would be prohibited from owning
stock or investing in any company that is regulated by the Fed
system “without exception.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  