-- Ships Deter Pirate Stalkers by Signaling Armed Guards’ Presence
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-05-22T09:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/ships-deter-pirate-stalkers-by-signaling-armed-guards-presence.html
Ships at risk of attack by Somali
pirates are increasingly indicating when they have armed guards
on board to deter assailants they suspect are using Internet-
based vessel-tracking systems to identify targets.  At least 30 ships ranging from  oil tankers  to commodity
carriers last indicated they were being protected by armed
security, according to satellite signals captured by  IHS Inc. (IHS) 
and compiled by Bloomberg today. The tactic probably started in
December, according to OAO Sovcomflot,  Russia ’s largest tanker
company, which is among the companies using the practice.  Pirates are using Internet-based tracking systems to watch
shipping and naval activities, according to Hans Lodder, head of
the Netherlands Defence Staff’s Naval Requirements Branch and a
former commanding officer of the frigate HNLMS Tromp. Under
International Maritime Organization rules, captains are normally
meant to transmit Automatic Identification System signals to
avoid accidents at sea, with an option to switch the gear off if
its use is thought to make a ship vulnerable to attack.  “Putting such a statement in the destination field in AIS
can be seen as a warning to pirates able to monitor AIS and as a
notification to naval forces about the presence of armed
guards,” Peter Sand, an analyst at the Baltic and International
Maritime Council in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark , said by e-mail
yesterday. The group represents 65 percent of world owners.  $965 Billion  Global pirate attacks fell 28 percent to 102 in the first
quarter as naval interventions reduced incidents off the coast
of Somalia, the London-based International Maritime Bureau said
April 23. About $965 billion of cargo bound for  Europe  passes
through the high-risk area, according to Justine Greening, the
U.K. Secretary of State for Transport.  Vessel masters decide whether to display information other
than a destination using AIS equipment, Sand said. They can turn
off the signals in areas at risk of piracy, provided they turn
the gear on again when attacked, according to Interorient Marine
Services ( Germany ) GmbH, whose ships transit the area twice a
month. No ship carrying armed guards has been hijacked
successfully, according to the Security Association for the
Maritime Industry.  The EU force has a mission of containing piracy in a region
about 1 1/2 times the size of western Europe with nine warships
and five patrol aircraft. Video footage on the website of  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube showing Dutch marines seizing a ship that had
been hijacked by pirates in 2010 was downloaded 35 times in
Somalia, Lodder said.  Satellite Phones  “The pirates are becoming more violent, more cunning, and
they are increasingly using sophisticated technology, including
GPS, satellite phones and international connections,” Saeed
Mohamed, minister of maritime transport, ports and counter
piracy in Somali Puntland, said at a conference in London May
16. Networks in places including London and Dubai are used to
identify destinations and locations of vulnerable ships,
according to the minister.  Maritime piracy’s total cost came to $7 billion last year,
according to  Oceans Beyond Piracy , a project of the Broomfield,
Colorado-based nonprofit One Earth Future Foundation. The
shipping industry bore more than 80 percent of costs, it said in
a report. Spending on security equipment and guards amounted to
between $1.06 billion and $1.16 billion, the report showed.  It’s important that captains don’t try to bluff pirates by
pretending to have armed guards on board, said David Sharp,
health safety security environment manager at Unicom Management
Services (Cyprus Ltd). The company is a ship-management unit of
OAO Sovcomflot, which operates 157 vessels, its website shows.  “Initially I don’t see any issue with it, excepting of
course if the information is incorrect,” Limassol, Cyprus-based
Sharp said by phone yesterday. “If it’s incorrect, it could
result in the delay of military intervention. When a team’s on
board, I have no objection to it. But to try and fool people,
it’s a double-edged sword.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  