-- Sino-Forest Engaged in ‘Fraudulant Scheme,’ OSC Alleges
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-05-23T13:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/sino-forest-disclosure-grossly-misleading-osc-says.html
Sino-Forest Corp. cofounder  Allen Chan  helped run a “complex fraudulent scheme” that exaggerated
the timber producer’s assets, secretly benefited from a 2010
acquisition and misled investigators,  Canada ’s main financial
regulator said.  The Ontario Securities Commission detailed the charges in a
 statement  yesterday, almost nine months after the Toronto-based
watchdog said it was probing the company and some of its
employees. Chan and four former senior Sino-Forest executives --
Alfred C.T. Hung, George Ho, Simon Yeung and Albert Ip --
inflated the company’s revenue and made misleading public
statements, it said.  The commission is “not saying that these were mistakes,”
Kirk Baert, a Toronto-based partner at law firm Koskie Minsky
LLP, which is leading a class-action suit against Sino-Forest,
said by telephone. “They are saying that these were deliberate
attempts to deceive them and to deceive the public.”  The charges are the latest chapter in a saga that began in
June when short seller  Carson Block ’s research firm Muddy Waters
LLC published a report accusing Sino-Forest of fraud. Even as
the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based company denied the
allegations, its shares fell 74 percent in Toronto before the
commission halted the stock in August. The plunge lost investors
including hedge-fund firm Paulson & Co. C$3.3 billion ($3.2
billion) and focused attention on corporate governance of
Chinese firms listed in  North America .  Sino-Forest is reviewing the allegations and is considering
how to respond, the company said in statement today. Emily Cole,
a lawyer representing Chan, didn’t immediately return a call
outside normal business hours.  Police Probe  Despite Chan’s resignation as CEO and the hiring of new
management, the  shares  never traded again and were delisted in
April. Sino-Forest, which at one time was  China ’s largest timber
company with a market capitalization of more than C$6 billion,
filed for  bankruptcy protection  in March as part of an accord
with bondholders who are owed $1.8 billion.  A hearing into what is one of Canada’s largest alleged
frauds will be held by the commission on July 12 in Toronto.
Sino-Forest is also being investigated by the  Royal Canadian
Mounted Police . Sergeant Richard Rollings, a spokesman for the
force in Ontario, didn’t respond to a request for comment
outside of normal business hours.  “We applaud the Ontario Securities Commission, with help
from regulators in  Hong Kong , for holding the perpetrators
accountable for their actions,” Block said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Gengma Fraud #1’  Sino-Forest didn’t have “sufficient proof of ownership of
the majority of its standing timber assets,” the commission
said in its 38-page statement.  In one of four “illustrative” examples of alleged
fraudulent actions by Sino-Forest that were outlined by the
commission, the company purported to buy Chinese standing timber
in 2007 that it had already purchased through a subsidiary
earlier that year. The so-called “Gengma Fraud #1” resulted in
an overstatement of Sino-Forest’s timber holdings in the years
through 2007-2009, the commission said.  Sino-Forest purportedly sold the timber in 2010 and then
offered the same assets as collateral for a  bank loan  in 2011,
the commission said. The transaction overstated the company’s
revenue in the second quarter of 2010 by 52 percent, or $157.8
million, the regulator said.  ‘Complex Investigation’  Chan, who stepped down as Sino-Forest’s chairman and CEO in
August and resigned from the company last month, fraudulently
gained from Sino-Forest’s acquisition two years ago of a
controlling stake in Hong Kong-based  Greenheart Group Ltd. (94) ,
which owns timber assets in Suriname. Chan secretly controlled
companies that received more than $22 million as a result of the
deal, the commission said.  David Horsley, Sino-Forest’s former chief financial
officer, “authorized, permitted or acquiesced” in the release
of misleading statements, the commission also said. As such, he
didn’t comply with Ontario securities law and his conduct was
contrary to the public interest, the commission said.  Peter Wardle, a lawyer for Horsley, didn’t return a
telephone message seeking comment.  “This is a complex international investigation and we have
dedicated significant resources to this file, moving swiftly to
take action against these individuals,” Tom Atkinson, the
commission’s director of enforcement, said yesterday in a
separate statement. “This is an important first step and our
investigation is continuing into this matter, including an
examination of the role of the gatekeepers.”  $50 Million Review  An independent committee of Sino-Forest directors said in
January that a full account of the company’s activities and
business ties may never be possible. The committee, which hired
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, examined 1.5 million documents in
the course of a $50 million, eight-month investigation into the
 Muddy Waters  allegations, Chairman William Ardell said in
February.  The investigation was hindered by a lack of cooperation
from some of Sino Forest’s suppliers and intermediaries involved
in timber and wood-products transactions, Ardell, who led the
review, said at the time.  Ardell didn’t respond to a telephone message left at his
home in Oakville, Ontario.  “When you look at the fraud allegations from outsiders,
who were at arm’s length, like Muddy Waters, they didn’t have
any real direct access to any inside financial information,”
said Brian Fox, founder and chief marketing officer of Capital
Confirmation Inc., a Brentwood, Tennessee-based company that
provides electronic audit confirmation services.  “Once the commission is able to go in there and actually
get better access and more detailed information, it’s certainly
not surprising that it would come out at this point with further
allegations of fraud.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  