-- SMRT Breakdowns Dent Earnings as Rail Fines Loom: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-05-23T09:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/smrt-breakdowns-dent-earnings-as-rail-fines-loom-southeast-asia.html
Singapore ’s  SMRT Corp. (MRT) , named the
world’s best metro operator in 2009, angered commuters, lost its
CEO and became Asia’s worst-performing major rail stock when
trains stopped running on time. Worse may be in store.  The December breakdowns, the most disruptive in its 25-year
history, prompted protests and forced the company to boost
spending on upgrades amid the government’s biggest transport-
related inquiry since 2004. The regulator said last week it’s
considering raising the maximum penalty it can impose on train
operators from S$1 million ($786,000).  “There are still a lot of uncertainties and I don’t think
it’s over yet,” said Lee Wen Ching, an analyst at CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. in Singapore who rates the stock underperform.
“The ongoing inquiry could result in further macro headwinds.”  Known for its efficiency in carrying more passengers per
kilometer than subway operators in  Hong Kong ,  Tokyo  and  New York ,
SMRT attracted 50 percent more customers in the past five years
as population growth accelerated and two new casino resorts led
to a surge in tourists. A government push for people to use
public transport over private cars has exacerbated the outcry
from commuters accustomed to reliability in Singapore.  SMRT declined 0.3 percent to a three-year low of S$1.61 in
Singapore trading. The drop took the stock’s six-month slump to
11 percent, more than any Asian passenger rail company on the
104-member  Bloomberg World Transportation Index. (BWTRAN)  Costs from the
breakdowns reduced profit in the last quarter to the lowest in
more than eight years.  One Buy Rating  Eleven of the 17 analysts who track the company have sell
ratings, and only one analyst recommends buying the stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For Hong Kong’s  MTR
Corp. (66) , nine of 14 analysts have buy recommendations.  Former CEO Saw Phaik Hwa quit on Jan. 6 following the
disruptions that led to a Dec. 17 rally with 80 people near the
city’s downtown demanding her departure. SMRT said at the time
she resigned to “pursue personal interests.” Saw, who earned
S$1.85 million in the year ended March 2010, was previously
regional president of luxury retailer DFS Venture Singapore Pte.  The  Land Transport Authority  said in a May 18 statement it
will “enhance the penalty framework to adequately reflect the
impact on commuters,” adding that it’s “reviewing the maximum
penalty that can be imposed on the operators.”  The inquiry, which started last month, is the biggest for
the city’s transportation industry since the 2004 collapse of a
downtown highway. The investigation on SMRT may lead to mandates
for more stringent repairs, maintenance and checks, which would
increase costs and hurt earnings, CIMB’s Lee said.  ‘Cost of Success’  SMRT declined to comment because the regulatory review is
being carried out, according to an e-mailed response to
questions.  “Singapore has had very rapid  population growth  in the
past decade, driven by inflows of foreign workers and foreign
professionals, and there’s been a quantum leap in tourist
arrivals over the last five years with the advent of the
integrated resorts,” said Prasenjit Basu, head of research and
economics at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. “That
has put some strain on the public transport infrastructure, but
I would call this the cost of success.”  That cost now amounts to S$900 million, which SMRT will
spend over eight years to carry out major upgrades on its subway
network, including its aging signaling system. The two major
disruptions in December over a 36-hour period left more than
200,000 commuters stranded along the rail line for the Orchard
Road shopping belt, with some trapped in the tunnel.  Diverse Experience  SMRT named Tan Ek Kia, former chairman for Northeast  Asia 
at Royal Dutch Shell Plc, to replace Saw as the interim head
because of his “diverse experience in engineering and
construction, safety, operations and business management.”  About 2.7 million passenger trips are made on Singapore’s
subway every day, the city-state’s Transport Minister Lui Tuck Yew said April 9 in Parliament.  “They are running thousands of train trips for more than
18 hours a day and I daresay that there is no way you can
prevent disruptions from occurring,” Lui said. “What you try
to do is minimize the major disruptions.”  Several breakdowns on SMRT’s newer network have occurred
since December, including the  Circle Line , which opened in
stages starting 2009.  SBS Transit Ltd. (SBUS) , a unit of Singapore’s
biggest owner of taxis, which started the North East Line nine
years ago, also reported disruptions on its network this year.  ‘Always Crowded’  “The number of breakdowns has reached the point of being
unacceptable and maintenance needs to be improved,” said Kue
Chan Chong, 46, a Singaporean commuter who takes the East West
Line at least twice a day. “Regardless of the time you take the
train, it’s always crowded.”  SMRT carried more than 70 passengers per kilometer of train
operations, according to the  Land Transport Authority . That’s
more than 60 for Tokyo, and far exceeds those for cities
including Hong Kong and  Chicago , it said.  SMRT is asking the transport authority to share the costs
of its upgrades, which will include the wooden rail ties and
locking claws, by 2019. SMRT awarded a S$195 million contract to
replace the signaling system to a unit of Thales SA in  February .  “In addition to repair and maintenance, a significant part
of our system needs to be replaced or renewed,” Interim CEO Tan
said April 30. “We’ve come to a conclusion that our maintenance
approach needs to be adapted to take better account for the
aging of the system and increased train runs to meet higher
ridership demand.”  Public Transport Push  Singapore is encouraging more people to use public
transportation. The city plans to double its rail network to 278
kilometers (173 miles) in 2020 from 138 kilometers in 2010,
which includes building new lines and extending existing ones,
according to the  transport authority .  The city has cut taxes to spur investment, prompting
companies to hire hundreds of thousands from overseas, with
foreigners and permanent residents making up more than a third
of the 5.2 million population. The two casino resorts, which
also include a downtown convention center and Universal Studios
theme park, boosted visitors to a record 13.2 million in 2011.  The number of passengers increased 34 percent to 10.6
million in the quarter ended March, up from 7.9 million in the
previous three months, according to SMRT.  “I don’t think it has altered Singapore’s image in any way,
because Singapore’s infrastructure is still spectacular by world
standards,” Basu said.  Singapore was ranked by Mercer in November as the Asian
city with the best quality of life, citing values such as
“continuously investing in infrastructure and public
services.”  Plunging Profit  Higher expenses caused SMRT’s  net income  in the quarter
ended in March to fall 59 percent to S$13.9 million, the
smallest since the three months ended June 2003, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It spent S$3 million for the
disruptions in December.  The increase in costs for the company comes on top of
spending on new trains and buses, as well as higher fuel costs,
according to Somesh Agarwal, a Singapore-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd.  “With capex increasing many folds with operating costs,
 cash flow  is fast drying up and earnings growth will be hard to
come by,” Agarwal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  