-- Sonova Declines as Profit Forecast Disappoints Analysts
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-05-22T15:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/sonova-full-year-profit-misses-estimates-on-strong-franc-1-.html
Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  fell the most in
more than a year in Zurich trading after the maker of Phonak
hearing aids forecast full-year profit and sales will rise less
than analysts expected.  The shares fell 9.9 percent to close at 84.10 Swiss francs,
the biggest decline since March 30, 2011.  Sales will probably rise 7 percent to 9 percent and
earnings before interest, tax and amortization will probably
gain 15 percent to 20 percent this year, excluding currency
swings, the Staefa, Switzerland-based company said in a
statement today. This is Sonova’s first forecast since Lukas Braunschweiler became chief executive officer in November.  “Guidance looks on the weak side, but could be
conservative due to new management,” wrote Ingeborg Oie, an
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd., in a note to investors,
adding that the consensus was for profit growth on that basis of
27 percent.  Earnings before interest and tax rose to 287.7 million
Swiss francs ($306 million) in the 12 months through March from
270.8 million francs a year earlier. That missed the 303.5
million-franc average  estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The weakness of currencies such as the dollar and the euro
against the franc meant that while full-year sales rose 12
percent in local currencies, growth was 0.2 percent when
translated into francs, Sonova said. That cut revenue by 184
million francs.  ‘Disappointing’  “Organic growth is disappointing,” Oliver Metzger, an
analyst with Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said today. He said
organic growth, which excludes currency effects, in the
company’s main hearing-aid business was 2 percent in the second
half of the year.  The dollar was 13 percent lower against the franc on
average during Sonova’s most recent fiscal year, while the euro
was 9.3 percent weaker.  Operating profit, or earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization, fell to 315.2 million francs from 326.6 million
francs a year earlier. Negative currency effects reduced profit
by 82 million francs.  The company also proposed a dividend of 1.20 francs.  Sonova reorganized its international sales force this year,
splitting it into three units, each headed by an executive who
reports directly to CEO Braunschweiler.  Sonova said April 2 that it formally objected to a summons
for 26 million francs filed by a Belgian shareholder group over
last year’s profit warning which resulted in an insider trading
investigation of management at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Zurich at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  