-- South Africa May Hold Lending Rate as Traders Boost Bets
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-23T08:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/south-africa-may-hold-lending-rate-as-traders-boost-bets-on-cut.html
South Africa ’s central bank will
probably keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged tomorrow
even as investors raise bets that borrowing costs will be
lowered this year to support a faltering economy.  The Reserve Bank will hold the  repurchase rate  at 5.5
percent, according to all 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Governor Gill Marcus is due to announce the decision in a
televised speech after 3 p.m. in  Pretoria , the capital.  Policy makers have run out of room to reduce rates to
stimulate the economy as inflation stays near the top of the
central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range, Marcus said
on May 8. Investors, though, are pricing in a bigger chance
South Africa will follow central banks in  Brazil ,  India  and
 Australia  in lowering rates to bolster their economies in the
face of Europe’s debt crisis.  “Investors have been pushing the market so hard, they’re
pricing in a small chance of a cut,” Michael Grobler, an
analyst at Afrifocus Securities said in a telephone interview
from  Cape Town . “They’ve priced out any chance of a rate hike
this year and for most of next year.”  The yield on forward-rate agreements due in December
plunged 18 basis points in the past month, dropping below the
three-month Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate for the first
time since January, a sign that some traders are positioning for
a rate cut this year. As recently as March 20, the contracts
implied a rate increase of 50 basis points.  ‘Limited Room’  Inflation, which quickened to 6.1 percent in April from 6
percent the previous month, will probably peak at 6.5 percent in
the second quarter, according to the central bank’s forecasts.  “The expected inflation trajectory suggests that there is
limited, if any, room for further monetary accommodation at this
stage,” Marcus said in a speech in Zurich on May 8. The central
bank must be concerned about the impact of lower interest rates
on inflation, she said.  Investors disagree. Forward-rate agreements starting in
December, after the MPC’s final policy meeting for 2012, dropped
as low as 5.50 percent on May 18, compared with three-month
JIBAR at 5.60 percent. The yield on the contracts due in 18
months dropped to 5.96 percent on May 21, the lowest since Nov.
14. The yield gained two basis points to 6.03 percent today.  Manufacturing Shrinking  The economic slowdown in  Europe  is damping demand for
manufactured goods from the continent’s largest economy,
undermining the economy’s outlook. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan , who cut this year’s growth forecast to 2.7 percent in
February, said on May 18 the economy probably grew at a slower
pace in the first quarter because of weak mining, manufacturing
and retail-sales data.  Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
unexpectedly contracted 2.7 percent in March, while the retail
industry, the fastest-growing sector last year, shrank 1.2
percent in the first quarter, the statistics office said on May
16. South Africa’s jobless rate rose to 25.2 percent in the
first quarter, the highest of more than 60 nations tracked by
Bloomberg.  “In the current environment, growth will dominate over
inflation concerns” at the MPC meeting, Carmen Nel, an
economist at Rand Merchant Bank, a unit of FirstRand Ltd., said
by phone from Cape Town. “The  Reserve Bank  will probably wait
for data showing that global growth is falling off a cliff
before they cut rates.”  Inflation Forecasts  Investors estimate inflation will be above the 6 percent
level over the next five years, government bond yields indicate.
The gap between yields on five-year fixed-rate notes and
inflation-linked debt shows traders expect a 6.25 percent annual
rise in consumer prices through 2016. The so-called breakeven
rate has dropped from as high as 6.86 percent in the past six
months as slower global growth tempered inflation expectations.  Brazil, India and Australia have cut interest rates in
recent months to counter slowing growth in Europe and  China ,
their main export markets. South Africa may follow suit if
inflation moderates and growth slows, said Cees Bruggemans,
chief economist at  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  in Johannesburg.  “If both inflation and growth surprise to the downside
these next 18 months, and more emerging-market countries and
commodity producers are inclined to ease monetary policy, it
might increasingly make sense for South Africa to join this band
of brothers and resume policy easing with a modest 0.5 percent
rate cut,” Bruggemans said in an e-mailed note to clients on
May 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  