-- Southerners Stranded in Sudan Waiting for a Trip Home
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-05-23T15:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/southerners-stranded-in-sudan-waiting-for-a-trip-home.html
Nimuli struggled to rise from a rope
bed to greet pastor James Mading Bui at an Episcopal church
where she lives in a suburb of Khartoum,  Sudan ’s capital,
waiting to travel back home to the newly independent south.  Nimuli is one of as many as 700,000 South Sudanese who have
become regarded as dark-skinned, often Christian outsiders in
mainly Arabic Sudan since the oil-rich south seceded in July.
Verbally abused as “insects” by some Sudanese on the streets,
they have no citizenship or residential rights and no idea when
they are going to be able to travel to  South Sudan .  “It has been a really tough time for us,” Nimuli, a 49-
year-old mother of four, said in a May 19 interview at the
church, refusing to give her last name for fear of retribution
from the Sudanese authorities. “We’ve been waiting for months,
unclear of our fate, running out of money and options, and now
with no legal status.”  After the south’s independence, Nimuli was fired from her
job at the Ministry of Education where she worked as a cleaner
for 17 years, her children were forced out of school and the
family was given nine months, until April 9, to “regularize
their status.”  The public attitude toward southerners in Khartoum hardened
as military and diplomatic clashes between the two countries
intensified. The governments have become embroiled in disputes
over oil, borders and citizenship rights since the south’s
independence gave it control of about three-quarters of the
formerly united country’s crude output of 490,000 barrels a day.  Southerners Targeted  “Targeted attacks of southerners, whether organized or
spontaneous, are on the rise,” Sarnata Reynolds, project
manager for statelessness at Washington-based  Refugees
International , said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“There are regular reports of church bombings, beatings and
forced deportations throughout the country.”  The  International Organization for Migration  has begun an
airlift of about 12,000 stranded South Sudanese from Kosti, 300
kilometers (186 miles) south of Khartoum, to Juba, South Sudan’s
capital. Geneva-based IOM has ferried about 5,200 returnees back
to the south so far, said spokeswoman Samantha Donkin.  “Everyone seems quite upbeat about returning to South
Sudan despite the challenges,” she said today by phone from
Juba. “A lot of them felt targeted, felt unwelcome.”  Sudan Registers Southerners  Sudan’s Ministry of the Interior is registering South
Sudanese so they won’t be classified as stateless, according to
the  United Nations . As of May 10, the government had registered
14,000 people, it said.  “However, registration of South Sudanese is not taking
place systematically throughout Sudan,” the UN Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said this month. “Also,
mixed messages are being sent out about the registration and its
purpose.”  In March, negotiators drafted a deal that would grant
freedoms, including residency and work permits, to each other’s
citizens. A scheduled summit between Sudanese President Umar al- Bashir and South Sudan’s leader,  Salva Kiir , to sign the
agreement was called off after their two armies clashed.  The UN Security Council, backing an African Union peace
plan, warned the two countries that they faced sanctions unless
they stopped fighting and returned to talks by May 16. The
deadline passed without the start of negotiations.  ‘Kill the Insects’  The talks will begin on May 29, Eric Ngandu, a spokesman
for the  African Union , said today in a mobile-phone text
message.  South Sudan yesterday accused Sudan of carrying out air and
ground attacks on its territory on May 20 and May 21.  Al-Bashir, in a speech, called the authorities in South
Sudan “insects” after southern forces occupied the disputed
oil-rich territory of Heglig for 10 days last month.  “People are extremely fearful, especially those who find
shelter in churches,” said Bui, pastor in charge of the
Episcopal Church of Sudan in Khartoum’s Hajj Youssif suburb.
“Southerners are receiving verbal threats from policemen here;
I’m being called an insect now most of the time.”  Human Rights Watch  said that on April 21, a group of
Sudanese burned and looted a church in the al-Jereif West area
of Khartoum. The looters chanted: “We will kill the insects, we
will kill the slaves,” as police stood by, the New York-based
rights group said, citing witnesses.  ‘Blind Eye’  “There is a deliberate policy of the government to turn a
blind eye to all the harassments that are being done by their
security forces” and members of the ruling  National Congress
Party , South Sudan’s government spokesman, Barnaba Marial
Benjamin, said yesterday in an interview in Juba.  Foreign Ministry spokesman al-Obeid Murawih and police
spokesman al-Sir Ahmed Omar didn’t answer phone calls seeking
comment.  While Sudan was one nation, southerners had the right of
residency in Khartoum. After a 2005 peace agreement brokered by
the U.S., the U.K.,  Norway  and regional governments ended a 20-
year civil war between the north and south, South Sudanese were
given the chance to vote for independence in a referendum in
January last year. Ninety-nine percent of them approved it.  Oil Shutdown  Relations between the two countries deteriorated to such an
extent that the south shut down its crude output after accusing
Sudan of stealing part of the oil that is carried by a pipeline
to an export terminal on the  Red Sea . The authorities in
Khartoum said they were collecting unpaid oil fees. The main
producers in the two countries are China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s ONGC
Videsh Ltd.  While Sudan’s government allows southerners attending the
University of Khartoum to stay until they graduate, some said
they are worried about being picked up by members of South
Sudanese militias that are backed by Sudan and forced to fight
against South Sudan’s army.  “All of us now go home before sunset,” said John, a 20-
year-old who refused to give his last name and cut short a brief
interview for fear of being arrested for talking to a
journalist. “I don’t attend night lectures anymore to minimize
my risks.”  The UN  Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs 
said this month that as many as 28 southerners were abducted in
Khartoum.  Ill-Treatment  “I know many stories of southerners who’ve been arrested
and held for some days in police custody for no reason, and were
subjected to torture and other ill-treatment,” Pastor Bui said.  About 375,000 people have returned since last year to South
Sudan, according to the UN, and conditions have worsened this
year.  As many as 4.7 million people in South Sudan, more than
half the population, may face food shortages because of north-
south violence, ethnic clashes in Jonglei state and the shutdown
of oil production, the UN said this month.  Returnees often have to be settled at a transit camp
outside Juba because they don’t have any family in the area to
support them, according to IOM.  “This essentially means that incoming returnees are likely
to remain at the transit site until durable solutions are
identified, including the allocation of land for them to kick-
start their lives -- typically a long and difficult process,”
IOM South Sudan Chief of Mission Vincent Houver said in a May 18
 statement .  Nimuli said she has members of her extended family in Juba
to look after her.  As she waits at the church for IOM to help her move south,
Nimuli says she’s suffering from a kidney inflamation and can’t
get treatment because she’s illegal and doesn’t have money.
Since her husband died in 2002, she’s been the sole provider for
her son and three daughters.  “I sold everything months ago because we were told we’ll
go back home tomorrow,” Nimuli said. “But tomorrow never
came.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  