-- Bond Risk Falls Before EU Leaders Meet to Tackle Greek Crisis
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-05-22T09:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/sovereign-corporate-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring sovereign and
corporate debt fell on speculation European Union leaders
meeting in Brussels tomorrow will take steps to shore up the
euro and prevent  Greece ’s crisis from deepening.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments fell for the first time in eight
days, dropping five basis points to 311 at 9:40 a.m. in London.
A decline signals improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  EU leaders will do “everything necessary” to keep Greece
in the euro, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said
yesterday, even as  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  prepare to disagree over methods. Europe’s
debt crisis risks spiraling and seriously damaging the world
economy, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said today.  “As we’ve learned over the past two years, risk rallies
ahead of EU summits are not uncommon but for it to be sustained
we will likely need actionable policy announcements,”  Jim Reid ,
head of fundamental strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London,
wrote in a note to investors. “Direct bank recapitalizations
from the ESM, a path towards euro bonds and a pan-European bank
deposit guarantee are the main hopes.”  Swaps on Spain tumbled 18 basis points to 537, after
climbing to a record yesterday, Italy declined 14 to 498 and
Ireland fell five to 717.  Corporate Risk  Corporate and financial bond risk fell for a second day.
Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies
with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 22 basis points to
721, the lowest in more than a week. The Markit iTraxx Europe
Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell six
basis points to 174.5 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers fell 10 basis points to 288.5 and the
subordinated index declined 18 to 488.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.8 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  