-- SpaceX Launches Craft for Space Station in Second Attempt
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-05-22T11:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/spacex-launches-craft-for-space-station-in-second-attempt.html
A Space Exploration Technologies
Corp. rocket lifted off today in the company’s second attempt to
send the first commercial vehicle to the International  Space
Station .  The closely held company, known as SpaceX and controlled by
billionaire Elon Musk, launched the Falcon 9 rocket at 3:44 a.m.
from Cape Canaveral,  Florida . SpaceX will make history if its
unmanned Dragon capsule docks at the station as scheduled on May
25, delivering more than 1,000 pounds of food, clothing and lab
equipment.  A successful mission may ease concern that turning the
space program over to the private sector is too risky, according
to Michael Ciarmoli, an analyst with Cleveland-based KeyBanc
Capital Markets Inc. The federal government retired its own
shuttle fleet last year and wants U.S. companies to take over
the job of servicing the space station.  It would show that the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration “is making the wise investment in private- or
commercial-based space companies,” Ciarmoli said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Today’s liftoff followed a planned May 19 launch that was
called off with a half second left in the countdown. The problem
was traced to a faulty engine valve.  Musk, 40, was monitoring today’s flight from mission
control at SpaceX’s headquarters in Hawthorne,  California ,
company spokeswoman Kirstin Brost Grantham said in an e-mail
yesterday.  NASA  streamed the liftoff live on its website.  ‘Tremendous Elation’  At a NASA press conference after the launch, Musk said he
had been concerned about another valve problem surfacing. With
the liftoff, “every bit of adrenaline in my body released,” he
said.  “It was tremendous elation,” he said. “For us, it’s like
winning the  Super Bowl .”  The white two-stage rocket cleared its tower in a predawn
liftoff. A video feed showed SpaceX employees clapping, cheering
and hugging when the Dragon capsule separated from the rocket
and went into orbit on schedule, 10 minutes into the flight.  “The significance of this day cannot be overstated,” NASA
Administrator Charles Bolden said in a separate media briefing
at  Cape Canaveral  after the launch.  “We’re handing off to the private sector our
transportation to the International Space Station so that NASA
can focus on what we do best: Exploring even deeper into our
solar system with missions to an asteroid and Mars on the
horizon,” he said.  May 25 Docking  The capsule is to spend the first 24 hours essentially
catching up to the station. On May 24, it’s scheduled to perform
a fly-by at a distance of 1.5 miles to test sensors and flight
systems before attempting to dock early May 25.  “There’s still a thousand things that have to go right,”
Alan Lindenmoyer, manager of NASA’s commercial crew and cargo
program, said at the press conference.  The space station has a full crew of six astronauts aboard.
One of them will be responsible for grabbing the Dragon capsule
with the lab’s 60-foot robotic arm during the docking phase. The
U.S. has invested about $50 billion in the station, which was
completed last year and is scheduled to operate at least through
2020.  SpaceX was founded in 2002 by Musk, the company’s chief
executive officer and chief designer. He also co-founded the
online payment service PayPal Inc., now part of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , and
is chief executive officer of  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , which makes
high-performance electric cars.  Musk Investment  The South African-born Musk, who owns more than 70 million
shares of SpaceX, says he wants to take the company public in
2013, according to a Feb. 10 article by  Bloomberg News . He took
Tesla public in 2010, and plans an initial public offering this
year for SolarCity Corp., a builder of roof-top solar panels.  SpaceX is valued at an estimated $2.37 billion, according
to SharesPost Inc., an online secondary market based in San
Bruno, California. The figure is based on an April 20 trade of
SpaceX shares at $10 a share, and it assumes 237 million shares
outstanding, according to the website.  Musk has invested about $100 million in SpaceX, Brost
Grantham said. Venture capital firms such as Founders Fund
Management LLC, Draper Fisher Jurvetson and Valor Equity
Partners LP have invested at least $200 million, according to
Securities and Exchange Commission filings.  ‘Watershed Event’  “SpaceX has been an incredibly exciting investment for
us,” Steve Jurvetson, managing director at  Menlo Park ,
California-based Draper Fisher Jurvetson, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “The launch to the space station, bringing cargo up
and back to Earth, will be a watershed event.”  SpaceX said in a press release last week that it has more
than $4 billion in revenue under contract, including the
government business and commercial sales. It announced in 2010 a
$492 million agreement to launch satellites for  Iridium
Communications Inc. (IRDM) , the world’s second largest provider of
mobile satellite services.  SpaceX and  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  have been awarded almost
$700 million in combined NASA contracts to develop the ability
to deliver cargo to the space station, and another $3.5 billion
for 20 resupply missions scheduled to begin this fall.  Orbital, based in Dulles,  Virginia , plans to launch its new
Antares rocket for the first time, possibly in August, from a
new launch pad near Wallops Island on Virginia’s Eastern Shore,
said Barron Beneski, a company spokesman. It’s scheduled to
deliver supplies to the space station with its Cygnus spacecraft
by the end of the year as part of a test flight similar to
SpaceX’s, he said.  Rising Tide  While both companies may compete for business in the
future, a SpaceX success would also benefit Orbital, according
to Chris Quilty, senior vice president at Raymond James &
Associates Inc., based in  St. Petersburg , Florida.  “It’s basically a rising-tide-lifts-all-boats type of
theory,” he said.  NASA retired the shuttle in July before companies such as
SpaceX and Orbital proved they could resupply the station. The
Obama administration a year earlier canceled a program to
develop a shuttle successor, hoping the private sector would
offer lower costs.  Only spacecraft developed by the governments of the U.S.,
 Europe ,  Japan  and  Russia  have docked with the station, which
orbits about 240 miles above Earth. None of those vehicles has
the ability to return significant amounts of science experiments
to Earth, as the manned shuttle did and as SpaceX’s Dragon
capsule is designed to do.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  