-- Spanish Court Ends Tax-Fraud Case Against Botin Banker Family
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-22T14:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/spanish-court-ends-tax-fraud-case-against-botin-banker-family.html
A Spanish court ended a tax-fraud
investigation into undeclared Swiss funds belonging to members
of the Botin family, who have helped run  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  for
a century, after they paid the money they owed.  Santander Chairman Emilio Botin, his brother Jaime and 10
of their children resolved their situation in a way “that can
be considered correct and true,” according to the ruling,
signed by Judge Fernando Andreu Merelles, which was sent by the
 National Court  today via e-mail.  The court said last June it would investigate the Botins
after details of hidden funds at HSBC Holdings Plc’s Swiss
private bank were passed to Spanish tax authorities by  France .
The case attracted attention because of the family’s prominence.
Botin family members have held  management roles  at the country’s
biggest bank since at least 1895.  “The full dismissal of this case by the National High
Court judge, at the request of the Public Prosecutor and the
State Attorney, confirm what we said when the case was opened in
June 2011: that the family had voluntarily and completely
regularized its tax obligations, which were and are all up to
date,” Botin family representatives Jesus Ramon and Rafael
Mateus de Ros of the Madrid law firm Uria Menendez said in an e-
mailed statement distributed by the bank today.  When the court announced the probe in June last year, the
Botin family said in a statement distributed by Santander that
it had put its tax affairs in order “voluntarily.” Ana Patricia Botin, Botin’s eldest daughter and the head of the
bank’s U.K. arm, was among the family members under
investigation.  Emilio Botin ’s father took money to  Switzerland  when he was
forced to leave  Spain  in 1936 after the outbreak of the
country’s civil war, Efe newswire reported on June 16 last year,
citing people close to the family it didn’t identify. Family
members have paid a combined 200 million euros ($255 million) to
put their tax affairs in order, Efe said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  