-- Sukhoi Crash Probe Detects No Systems Failure on Recorder
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-05-22T11:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/sukhoi-crash-probe-detects-no-systems-failure-on-recorder-1-.html
The probe by Indonesian air safety
specialists into the crash of a Sukhoi SuperJet flight found no
sign of aircraft-systems failure, the plane’s manufacturer said.  The plane’s cockpit voice recorder showed that the
collision-avoidance system was working, United Aircraft Corp.,
the Moscow-based parent of Sukhoi, the manufacturer of the 90-
seat plane, said in a  statement .  “Indications of the failure of the aircraft’s systems and
components were not discovered,” United Aircraft said on its
website. The plane’s collision-avoidance system was providing
information on distance to the ground, the company said.  Cockpit recorders can reveal whether any system-failure
alarms sounded and show whether audible warnings indicated a
crashed plane was about to hit an obstacle. The hunt for the
digital flight data recorder continues, with special forces now
replacing an earlier search team. That recorder contains
information on the functioning of the plane’s systems and
engines.  The plane crashed May 9 into a mountainside in  Indonesia ’s
West Java province, killing all 45 people on board. The Sukhoi
jet was on a promotional trip through  Asia .  Joint Investigation  The investigation may be critical in deciding the future of
 Russia ’s first new passenger plane in more than two decades as
President  Vladimir Putin  seeks to revive his nation’s aerospace
industry. The 90-seat Sukhoi SuperJet was designed with western
partners to compete with aircraft built by  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and
 Embraer SA. (EMBR3)   United said the information came from the results of a
joint investigation of the accident undertaken by Indonesia’s
National Committee for Transport Safety and by Russian
authorities.  “Let the investigation finish first,” said Tatang
Kurniadi, head of Indonesia’s National Transportation Safety
Committee, who spoke by telephone. He referred to the initial
published statement about the investigation as a “common
protocol.”  United said nothing in the statement about any information
gleaned from cockpit conversations or whether pilots spoke in
the final minutes of the flight.  A cockpit voice recorder would also be able to capture the
sounds of engines being put into higher thrust if pilots
responded to a collision-warning alarm. The statement didn’t
indicate anything about engine noises.  The plane, which seats five abreast, uses engines built by
PowerJet, a venture between Snecma, a unit of  Safran SA (SAF) , and NPO
Saturn. The aircraft had been on its second flight of the day,
carrying prospective customers and local journalists, when it
disappeared from radar screens shortly into its voyage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  