-- Swiss Stocks Advance the Most Since Feb. 1; Banks Rally
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-22T15:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/swiss-stocks-climb-for-second-day-as-transocean-gains.html
Swiss stocks  rallied the most in more
than three months amid speculation euro-area leaders will act to
support the currency union and as a U.S. report showed sales of
existing homes rose for the first time in three months.  Transocean Ltd., the world’s largest offshore-rig
contractor, gained 2.8 percent. Credit Suisse Group AG,
Switzerland’s second-biggest lender, climbed the most in two
months.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  slumped the most in more than a year
after forecasts for sales and profit growth missed analysts’
projections.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 1.6 percent to 5,910.20 at the
close in Zurich, trimming this year’s decline to 0.4 percent.
This was SMI’s biggest jump since Feb. 1. The gauge dropped 2.6
percent last week as Greece’s politicians failed to form a
government and the country’s president called a second election
for June 17. The Swiss Performance Index also advanced 1.6
percent today.  “We’re seeing a normal rebound after a selloff,” said
Nils Rosendahl, an analyst at  Nordea Markets  in  Stockholm .
“Everyone is seeing this as breathing space before the new
elections in  Greece .”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was about 5 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Germany will consider all ideas on bolstering euro-area
growth, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said as he met with
 Pierre Moscovici , his French counterpart yesterday. Moscovici
said French President  Francois Hollande  backs the issue of joint
euro-area bonds that will help debt-ridden nations reduce their
borrowing costs.  OECD Forecasts  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said the debt crisis may spiral, damaging the world economy.  “The risk is increasing of a vicious circle, involving
high and rising sovereign indebtedness, weak banking systems,
excessive fiscal consolidation and lower growth,” OECD Chief
Economist Pier Carlo Padoan wrote in the organization’s semi-
annual report on the global economy.  In the U.S., sales of  existing homes  rose 3.4 percent to a
4.62 million annual rate in April, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an increase to a
4.61 million rate.  Transocean jumped 2.8 percent to 41.37 Swiss francs, the
largest increase in seven weeks.  Banks Rally  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  added 3.9 percent to 19.47 francs. The bank
said its investors chose to receive 48 percent of their 2011
dividend payments in shares instead of cash. The company will
issue 24.2 million new shares, representing 1.9 percent of its
current share capital.  UBS AG (UBSN)  climbed 3.2 percent to 11.16 francs.  Sonova plunged 9.9 percent to 84.10 francs, the biggest
drop since March 2011. The hearing-aid maker said sales will
probably rise 7 percent to 9 percent and earnings before
interest, taxes and amortization may gain 15 percent to 20
percent this year, excluding currency swings.  “Guidance looks on the weak side,” Ingeborg Oie, an
analyst at Jefferies Group Inc., wrote in a report, adding that
the consensus was for profit growth of 27 percent.  Georg Fischer AG (FI/N) , Europe’s largest maker of iron castings
for cars, climbed 4.4 percent to 352.50 francs, the biggest gain
since February. The company said it bought Independent Pipe
Products Inc., which has an annual revenue of more than $50
million, to expand its U.S. water pipe business. The company
didn’t disclose any financial terms.  AFG Arbonia-Forster Holding AG (AFGN) , the maker of heaters,
windows, doors and refrigeration systems, advanced 4.6 percent
to 17.10 francs, the steepest climb since March 26, after Martin Huesler, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank AG in Zurich,
raised the stock to overweight, the equivalent of buy, from
market weight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  