-- Swiss Bankers Plan for French Emigres as Hollande Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   K r a u s
-- 2012-05-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/swiss-bankers-plan-for-french-emigres-after-hollande-s-victory.html
Switzerland is preparing for an
influx of wealthy French emigres after Socialist Francois Hollande ousted  Nicolas Sarkozy  in presidential elections.  Hollande proposed a 75 percent tax in February on income
exceeding 1 million euros ($1.27 million) as part of his plan to
cut France’s budget shortfall. The levy may push rich French
citizens to relocate to Switzerland and lower their taxes
through the forfait system, a lump-sum cost for foreigners that
is based on expenditure rather than income.  “It’s open hunting season on wealthy people in France,”
said Francois Micheloud, a partner at Lausanne, Switzerland-
based  Micheloud & Cie. , which helps foreigners relocate to the
Alpine nation. “The number of French asking for assistance has
tripled in the last 18 months.”  Switzerland, a haven for refugees since Jean Calvin arrived
in Geneva in the 16th century, had 5,445 people in the forfait
system at the end of 2010 and more than 33 percent of those are
French, Micheloud said. Of the 300 richest people and families
in Switzerland, 43 are French and include designer Daniel
Hechter and the Peugeot family, according to a list published by
 Bilan  magazine in December.  “We’ll see another wave of people and companies moving
abroad,” said Olivier Cadic, a French businessman who moved his
firm to the U.K. and is standing for one of the seats in
Parliament reserved for nationals residing abroad. “The big
wave will come in 2013, when people see the kind of taxes they
are paying.”  Hunt for Rich  Hollande’s victory may push entrepreneurs to leave  France 
for Switzerland, Baron Benjamin de Rothschild, chairman of
Geneva-based  Banque Privee Edmond de Rothschild , said in an
interview published today in Bilan.  “This hunt for the rich, most of whom are entrepreneurs
and contribute actively to the French economy, risks sparking an
exodus,” said de Rothschild, the sixth generation since Mayer Amschel Rothschild and his five sons bankrolled European
governments in the 19th century. “Geneva could benefit from
this if it remains reasonably attractive for tax and the quality
of its services.”  Should France introduce an income tax based on nationality
-- something proposed by Sarkozy during the election campaign --
de Rothschild said he would probably give up his French
citizenship.  The number of foreigners tapping the Swiss forfait climbed
31 percent between 2006 and 2010, according to figures from a
body representing the finance directors of the country’s 26
cantons. The system was originally introduced by the canton of
Vaud in 1860s to get wealthy British residents to pay for local
services.  Forfait Appeal  Under the forfait, expenditure is calculated at not less
than five times the annual rental value of the individual’s home
in  Switzerland . Ordinary federal and cantonal tax rates are
applied to this figure and there is no obligation to declare
worldwide income or assets, and no tax is paid on income from
securities holdings.  “The beauty of the forfait is its simplicity,” said
Christian H. Kalin, a lawyer at  Henley & Partners  in Zurich.
“You pay a fixed amount and you don’t need expert accountants.
For very wealthy people, it’s a very attractive regime.”  While Swiss authorities don’t provide a breakdown of
forfait nationalities,  Vaud , the biggest French-speaking canton,
had 1,394 residents using the system, according to cantonal
figures for April. Neighboring Geneva had 690 and the canton of
Valais 1,162, according to 2010 numbers from the Conference of
Cantonal Finance Directors.  Lake Geneva  “There are more French people living around Lake Geneva
than in all of  Africa ,” Micheloud said.  While 155,743 French people resided in Switzerland at the
end of last year, according to France’s Ministry of  Foreign
Affairs , only a small number were part of the forfait system.  Time may be running out for French tax exiles in
Switzerland and part of the threat comes from Hollande’s
predecessor Sarkozy, who sought to lose his “candidate of the
rich” label during the election campaign. Sarkozy introduced a
34.5 percent exit tax on  capital gains  from assets sold by
French citizens within eight years of leaving the country.  That will deter wealthy French from leaving for Switzerland,
said Patrick Michaud, a Paris-based tax lawyer.  “French who profited from previous tax accords won’t be
able to anymore,” Michaud said.  Local Backlash  Forfaits also are causing resentment in Switzerland, where
the top rates of income tax exceed 40 percent in cantons such as
Geneva. The canton of Zurich voted to eliminate the system in
2009 and Schaffhausen followed in 2011. Appenzell Ausserrhoden
plans to end the system next January.  The Swiss Parliament is debating a proposal to increase the
forfait to seven times the rental value of a residence and set
the minimum taxable income at 400,000 Swiss francs ($424,000).  For one French millionaire, Michel Lacoste, chairman of
Lacoste SA, the company that makes polo shirts with a crocodile
insignia, the need to pay for schools, hospitals and roads makes
the forfait system outdated.  “The forfait system is from an era that belongs to the
past, something that was diverted from its original purpose,”
said Lacoste, who lives in the canton of Geneva, and isn’t
entitled to a forfait after becoming a Swiss national. “I pay
as much, if not more, in taxes here than I would in France.”  French politics will mean more citizens depart for
Switzerland, said Kalin of Henley & Partners, comparing
Hollande’s victory with that of France’s last Socialist
president,  Francois Mitterrand .  “When Mitterand came to power, there was a significant
wave of emigration,” he said. “We’re definitely going to see a
further exodus of wealthy people leaving France.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Kraus in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at   mvera1@bloomberg.net  