-- U.K. Energy Bill Aimed at Boosting Nuclear, Avoiding Gas
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-05-22T05:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/u-k-energy-bill-aimed-at-boosting-nuclear-avoiding-gas.html
The British government will today
propose an electricity-market overhaul to boost spending on low-
carbon power generation and avoid a run on natural gas.  The draft law will guarantee prices for nuclear and
renewable energy and pay producers for providing back-up supply
when wind power falls short, according to the Department of
Energy and Climate Change. It’s aimed at securing commitments
from utilities to fund new reactors and clean-power projects,
curbing reliance on gas-fed plants.  Power companies are looking to the proposals for long-term
industry support after  EON AG (EOAN) ,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  SSE Plc (SSE)  withdrew U.K.
nuclear plans over the past year and Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  quit in February. Utilities need to spend as much as 110
billion pounds ($174 billion) to replace Britain’s aging power
plants and upgrade grids by 2020, according to the government.  The price guarantees were first outlined last July, with
the government proposing a so-called contract for difference,
designed to shield producers from swings in the market and spur
investors to build new capacity. The U.K. can get as much as 50
percent of its power by burning  gas , which has almost doubled in
price in three years, boosting calls for nuclear expansion.  “We have created the most attractive environment for new
nuclear of anywhere in the world,” Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said last week. “We can’t do this without international
investment and we recognize we have to create the right
framework to allow that to come forward.”  Nuclear Withdrawal  Germany ’s EON and RWE backtracked on plans to build U.K.
reactors in March, while SSE said in September it would sell out
of a British nuclear venture with GDF Suez SA and  Iberdrola SA. (IBE) 
The country gets about 20 percent of its power from nine atomic
plants, five of which are due to shut over the next decade.  Power prices may need to be 166 pounds a megawatt-hour,
more than three times the current level, to justify the expense
of building a new nuclear plant, Citigroup Inc. said in a May 8
note, assuming an estimated cost of 7 billion pounds a reactor.  That burden may dissuade utilities from committing funds,
leading to power blackouts within five years unless Prime
Minister  David Cameron  devises a better nuclear strategy,  David
King , a former government scientific adviser, said in March.  “The risk of the lights going off is very serious,” said
King, who advised  Tony Blair  and Gordon Brown’s administrations
through 2007. “At the moment the industry sees an amber light on
nuclear new-build.”  Huhne, Davey  Former Energy Secretary Huhne championed the expansion of
nuclear, pushed the development of offshore wind farms and
backed subsidies for renewables. He resigned after being charged
with lying about a driving offense, leaving the power-market
reform to his successor, Ed Davey.  The legislation will go into effect in 2013 if passed. It
recommends a so-called capacity market to reward utilities for
running back-up plants when renewable power is insufficient, and
a nationwide emissions-performance standard.  In separate efforts to drive funding for reactors and wind
farms, the Treasury is introducing an emissions tax, starting in
2013 at 4.94 pounds for every metric ton of carbon dioxide and
rising to 9.55 pounds the following year. The levy is based on a
so-called floor price, set by the government, that increases to
30 pounds a ton by 2020, accounting for the cost of compliance
with the European Union’s emissions-trading system.  The U.K. plans to build 18,000 megawatts of offshore wind
power and two new reactors by the end of the decade, while
replacing current generation and upgrading the grid. About half
of its coal-fired plants are scheduled to close by 2016.  Electricite de France SA , the largest nuclear operator, is
planning two new generators at its Sizewell site on England’s
North Sea coast with partner  Centrica Plc. (CNA)  It also intends to
make a final  investment decision  on two new reactors at the
Hinkley Point project in southwest England by the end of 2012.  The units would be the first new nuclear plants in the U.K.
for more than 15 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 