-- U.K. Stocks Rise on China Demand Prospects; Xstrata Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-22T16:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/u-k-stocks-rise-as-mining-shares-gain-on-china-prospects.html
U.K. stocks  climbed the most in more
than three months, led by a rally in mining companies, amid a
report China is seeking to speed up construction projects
spurring demand for industrial metals.  Xstrata (XTA)  Plc rose as the company forecast Chinese demand for
copper will recover in the second half of the year.  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  gained after reporting revenue growth that beat
analyst estimates.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  led an advance in lenders’ shares.  The FTSE 100 Index added 1.9 percent to 5,403.28 at the
close in London, the biggest increase since Feb. 1. The gauge
lost 5.5 percent last week and has tumbled 9.4 percent from its
2012 high on March 16 amid mounting concern Greece may be forced
leave to the euro area. The FTSE All-Share Index rose 1.8
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 1.9 percent.  “Murmurings from China of it sustaining growth is helping
to underpin sentiment,” said David Jones, chief market
strategist at IG Index in London. “Movements in the mining
sector always have a disproportionate effect on the  FTSE 100. (UKX) ”  Stocks rose yesterday, snapping a five-day selloff, after
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said his government will focus more
on bolstering economic growth.  The China Securities Journal today reported the country
plans to speed up approval of infrastructure projects. This
year’s investment plans must be submitted before the end of June
and the government may allocate construction funds earlier than
planned, the newspaper said.  Stimulus Program  In the U.K., the International Monetary Fund called for the
Bank of England to add stimulus to help support the British
economy. While the central bank halted its so-called
quantitative-easing program this month, policy makers have left
the door open to more bond purchases as the BOE lowered growth
forecasts.  Consumer prices rose 3 percent last month from a year
earlier, down from 3.5 percent in March, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London.  Barclays increased 4.9 percent to 188.9 pence. RBS gained
5.5 percent to 21.95 pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  added 4.5
percent to 27.62 pence.  Xstrata, the world’s fourth-biggest copper producer,
climbed 3.2 percent to 972.9 pence. The company said it expects
Chinese demand for the metal to recover in the second half as
the government takes steps to boost growth.  Consumer Demand  Demand for white goods and household appliances, one of the
main uses for copper, as well as continuing year-on-year growth
in China’s power generation sector will benefit from China’s
stimulus efforts, Charlie Sartain, chief executive officer of
the Xstrata’s copper unit said in Sydney today.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  rose 4.5 percent to 1,076 pence,  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED)  gained 3.9 percent to 1,047 pence and Rio Tinto
Group jumped 4 percent to 2,936.5 pence.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  climbed 3.1 percent to 2,087.5 pence.
The London-based mining company and Codelco, Chile’s state-owned
mining company, agreed to talks to try to resolve a dispute over
ownership of Anglo’s local unit and asked a court to suspend
proceedings.  Vodafone advanced 4.2 percent to 172 pence, for the  biggest
contribution  to the FTSE 100’s increase. Europe’s largest mobile
phone company reported a 2.3 percent increase in fourth-quarter
service revenue growth, excluding currency swings and
acquisitions, as German customers increased spending.  That followed a 0.9 percent rise in the previous quarter
and beat the average analyst estimate of 1.7 percent gain.  CRH, Carnival  CRH Plc (CRH)  climbed 3.8 percent to 14.35 euros in Dublin as
Credit Suisse upgraded the building-materials maker to neutral
from underperform.  Credit Suisse analysts also reiterated their outperform
rating, the equivalent of a buy, for  Wolseley Plc (WOS)  and  Travis
Perkins Plc (TPK)  sending the shares up 4.6 percent to 2,255 pence and
3 percent to 949 pence respectively.  Carnival Plc (CCL)  rallied 4.3 percent to 2,077 pence as analysts
at Exane reiterated their outperform recommendation for the
world’s largest cruise-ship operator and raised the price
estimate for the shares to 2,500 pence. That’s 26 percent higher
than yesterday’s closing price.  Elsewhere,  Homeserve Plc (HSV)  sank 29 percent, a record drop, to
160.90 pence as the company said the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority has started a formal investigation into Homeserve’s
past selling practices.  Homeserve, which today reported full-year net income that
beat analyst estimates, said it plans to reduce its U.K.
business, cutting customer numbers to 2.2-2.4 million in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  