-- U.K. Inflation Slows as IMF Sees Need for More Stimulus
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-22T10:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/u-k-inflation-slowed-more-than-economists-forecast-in-april-1-.html
U.K. inflation  slowed more than
economists forecast in April, cooling to a level that relieves
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  of the task of writing a
letter to the government.  Consumer prices rose 3 percent from a year earlier, down
from 3.5 percent in March, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today in London. The median forecast of 30 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was 3.1 percent. The rate is within the
government’s boundaries for the first time since February 2010.  The inflation slowdown came as the  International Monetary
Fund  said the Bank of England should add to stimulus for the
economy. While the central bank halted its so-called
quantitative-easing program this month, King left the door open
to more bond purchases at a press conference last week as the
central bank lowered growth forecasts.  “These figures give the Monetary Policy Committee slightly
more leeway to undertake more QE to cushion the U.K. economy
from the euro-zone turmoil,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “We expect core price
pressures to ease further in response to contracting output and
weak pay growth.”  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
data was published and the IMF said Britain requires further
monetary easing. Sterling dropped as much as 0.5 percent to
$1.5764 and was trading at $1.5785 as of 10:52 a.m. in London.
The 10-year gilt yield rose 2 basis points to 1.86 percent.  IMF Comments  “There are more tools that can be used from a monetary
policy point of view,” IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said in London after the fund published its annual review of the
U.K. “It has quantitative easing measures available that could
be resumed. We also believe that there is room in terms of
interest rates that could be used as well.”  The  Bank of England  held its  bond-purchase target  at 325
billion pounds ($512 billion) this month and kept its key
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent. Minutes of the
meeting, showing how officials voted, will be released tomorrow.  From the previous month,  consumer prices  rose 0.6 percent
in April, the statistics office said. The decline in the annual
rate was due to the timing of the Easter holiday and prices
changes in the transport, alcohol and clothing categories.  Core inflation , which excludes alcohol, food, tobacco and
energy prices, slowed to 2.1 percent from 2.5 percent. Retail-
price inflation, a measure used in wage negotiations, eased to
3.5 percent from 3.6 percent. The retail-price index excluding
mortgage-interest payments showed an annual gain of 3.5 percent.  BOE Target  While inflation is slowing, it has been above the central
bank’s 2 percent goal for 29 months, and King is obliged to
 write quarterly  to the government when the rate differs from the
target by more than 1 percentage point. He said last week that
while the rate will fall more slowly to 2 percent than
previously forecast, slack in  the economy  would put downward
pressure on price growth.  Separately, data showed Britain had an underlying budget
deficit of 13.8 billion pounds in April, the first month of the
fiscal year, compared with 9.1 billion pounds a year earlier.
The figure excludes the transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd.
pension assets to the public sector.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has said there can be no
retreat from his deficit-reduction plans even as the economy
struggles to grow. While the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development backed the fiscal squeeze today,
saying that it’s “appropriate despite disappointing economic
growth,” the IMF said the government should consider greater
fiscal stimulus if monetary policy fails to revive growth.  U.K. Outlook  The central bank’s Inflation Report published last week
shows annual consumer-price gains slowing to 2 percent by about
the middle of next year, and reaching about 1.6 percent in two
years. The bank lowered its economic outlook because of pressure
from the euro-area debt crisis.  The OECD said today that the debt turmoil risks spiraling
and seriously damaging the world economy, in comments that come
a day before European Union leaders gather in Brussels to
discuss how to revive growth and grapple with a political
impasse in  Greece .  “The risk is increasing of a vicious circle, involving
high and rising sovereign indebtedness, weak banking systems,
excessive fiscal consolidation and lower growth,” OECD Chief
Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said.  An index of euro-area  consumer confidence  probably fell to
a four-month low in May, economists said before a report due to
be published later today.  Japan Downgrade  Earlier,  Japan  reported that foreign investments and assets
grew to the second-highest level on record as companies used the
high yen to make acquisitions abroad, a trend that may help them
cope with stagnant demand at home. Investments abroad grew 3.3
percent to 582 trillion yen ($7.3 trillion) in 2011, rising for
the third year.  Still, Fitch cut the nation’s credit rating one step to A+
with a negative outlook, citing its “leisurely” efforts to
tackle the world’s biggest public debt burden. Japan’s
government said in January that it will probably miss its goal
of balancing the budget by fiscal 2020 even with a proposed
doubling of the  sales tax , yet to be approved by lawmakers.  In the U.S., sales of  previously owned homes  probably
rebounded in April, according to an economists’ survey.
Purchases advanced 2.9 percent to a 4.61 million annual rate,
the National Association of Realtors today in  Washington  will
probably say. Purchases dropped 2.6 percent to a 4.48 million
annual rate in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  