-- U.K. Prosecutor to Review Whether Tchenguiz Case to Continue
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-05-22T16:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/u-k-fraud-office-to-review-whether-to-continue-tchenguiz-probe.html
U.K. Serious Fraud Office Director
 David Green  will decide whether the agency should continue its
investigation into real estate investor Vincent Tchenguiz in
connection with the collapse of an Icelandic bank.  Green will complete the review by June 18 and will also
return some materials seized during the investigation, according
to a statement filed by the SFO with a London court.  Vincent and Robert Tchenguiz were granted a judicial review
their March 2011 arrests during SFO criminal investigation into
the collapse of Iceland’s Kaupthing Bank Hf, which the men claim
were unlawful because the warrants were obtained with incorrect
information. They are seeking about 100 million pounds ($160
million) in damages from the SFO.  “That’s as close as I have ever seen to a prosecuting
authority saying ‘We think we may have to stop this
investigation,’”  Vincent Tchenguiz ’s lawyer Peter Goldsmith
said of the today’s statement from Green. “There is no
continuing basis to investigate Vincent Tchenguiz.”  SFO lawyers said in April that the agency was conducting an
internal review into “errors” in the arrest and searches of
Tchenguiz offices. While it said the review was complicated by
staff departures, Judge John Thomas denied a request for more
time to prepare for trial and scheduled today’s hearing.  Difficult Timing  Green, the SFO director, apologized for the timing of the
decision and said in today’s statement, “these are complex
factual allegations, necessitating very careful assessment,
expert analysis of underlying documentation and consideration
within the broader context of the SFO’s ongoing investigation”
into  Robert Tchenguiz , and his relationship with Kaupthing
executives.  Ken Macdonald , Robert Tchenguiz’s lawyer, said the SFO’s
suspicions about transactions between his client’s companies and
Kaupthing were based on wrong or inaccurate information and his
arrest and the search warrants were therefore unlawful.  Goldsmith said the SFO had conceded the searches and
seizures of Vincent Tchenguiz’s properties were unlawful and his
claim for damages was transferred to another court to be heard
as a civil claim.  The allegations against Vincent, that he overvalued
collateral for loans and failed to disclose senior lenders, have
been shown to be false, Goldsmith said. The SFO should have
questioned information it received from Grant Thornton U.K. LLP
about potential wrongdoing, as the firm represented Kaupthing’s
resolution committee, which was involved in a 1.5 billion-pound
legal dispute with Vincent, the lawyer said.  Grant Thornton  said in an e-mailed statement that it acted
appropriately.  “Any disclosure made has been accurate and in accordance
with those professional and legal obligations,” according to
the statement.  The case is Robert Tchenguiz v. Director of the Serious
Fraud Office & Anr,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division, Administrative Court, CO/4468/2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  