-- U.K. Proposes Energy Overhaul to Lure Spending on Nuclear, Wind
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-05-22T13:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/u-k-proposes-energy-overhaul-to-lure-spending-on-nuclear-wind.html
The British government proposed an
overhaul of the country’s electricity market in a bid to lure
the 110 billion pounds ($174 billion) of investment needed to
replace aging power plants and expand renewable energy.  The draft law, published today, lays out plans to guarantee
prices for low-carbon electricity and pay producers for
providing back-up supply when wind power falls short, according
to the Department of Energy and Climate Change. It’s aimed at
securing commitments from utilities to fund new atomic reactors
and clean-power projects, curbing reliance on gas-fed plants.  Power companies stepped up calls for long-term industry
support after  EON AG (EOAN) ,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  SSE Plc (SSE)  withdrew U.K. nuclear
plans in the past year and Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  quit in
February. Utilities need to spend as much as 110 billion pounds
to replace a fifth of Britain’s power plants, add renewables
projects and upgrade grids by 2020, according to the government.  “Measures contained in this energy bill will enable us to
keep the lights on, bills down and the air clean,” Huhne’s
successor Ed Davey said today in a statement. “By reforming the
market, we can ensure security of supply for the long-term.”  The price guarantees were first outlined last July, with
the government proposing a so-called contract for difference,
designed to shield producers from swings in the market and spur
investors to build new capacity. The U.K. can get as much as 50
percent of its power by burning  gas , which has almost doubled in
price in three years, boosting calls for nuclear expansion.  Right Framework  “We have created the most attractive environment for new
nuclear of anywhere in the world,” Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said last week. “We can’t do this without international
investment and we recognize we have to create the right
framework to allow that to come forward.”  Germany ’s RWE, which with EON backtracked on plans to build
U.K. reactors in March, said today’s proposals may not be
sufficient to secure the required investments.  “For Britain to remain an attractive market for investors,
 energy policy  must be given adequate priority and resource,”
RWE Npower Chief Executive Officer Volker Beckers said in a
statement. “I remain concerned by the amount of change being
implemented in the energy sector and the time it is taking.”  Cost Burden  Power prices may need to be 166 pounds a megawatt-hour,
more than three times the current level, to justify the expense
of building a new nuclear plant, Citigroup Inc. said in a May 8
note, assuming an estimated cost of 7 billion pounds a reactor.  The U.K. gets about 20 percent of its power from nine
atomic plants, five of which are due to shut in the next decade.
The cost of building new reactors may dissuade utilities from
committing funds, leading to power blackouts within five years,
former government scientific adviser  David King  said in March.  “The risk of the lights going off is very serious,” said
King, who advised  Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown ’s administrations
through 2007. “At the moment the industry sees an amber light
on nuclear new-build.”  SSE, the U.K.’s second-biggest energy supplier, said in
September it would sell out of a British nuclear venture with
GDF Suez SA and  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  to focus on renewables.  Electricite de France SA, the largest reactor operator,
said today it will decide whether to prolong the lives of its
U.K. Hunterston B and Hinkley B plants by 2013, adding that an
extension makes “absolute sense in terms of filling a short-term
energy need.”  Hinkley Point, Sizewell  EDF also intends to make a final  investment decision  on two
new reactors at Hinkley Point by the end of 2012, and is
planning two new generators at its Sizewell site with partner
 Centrica Plc. (CNA)   Former Energy Secretary Huhne championed the expansion of
nuclear, pushed the development of offshore wind farms and
backed subsidies for renewables. He resigned after being charged
with lying about a driving offense, leaving the power-market
reform to his successor.  The proposals are likely to be included in a bill to be
introduced to parliament in late 2012, with a final law approved
at the end of 2013, the energy department said.  The draft recommends a so-called capacity market to reward
utilities for running back-up plants when renewable power is
insufficient, and a nationwide emissions-performance standard.
The U.K. also has a fleet of coal-fired plants, about half of
which are scheduled to close by 2016.  “We are still some way from having a detailed picture of
how the  electricity market  will look in the future, on which the
success of these reforms depends,” said Neil Bentley, director-
general of the  Confederation of British Industry . “With major
investors waiting in the wings, these details are needed.”  As well as industry concerns, Davey faces public criticism
that his energy plans will drive up bills. U.K. households may
pay as much as 65 billion pounds a year in total on energy by
2020, more than quadruple the figure in 2000, according to
Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 