-- U.S. Won’t Ease Oil Sanctions at Iran Nuclear Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-22T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/u-s-won-t-ease-oil-sanctions-at-iran-nuclear-talks.html
Negotiators headed to  Baghdad  for a
second round of talks on  Iran’s nuclear program  won’t be giving
Iran the relief it is seeking from oil and financial sanctions
hobbling its economy, according to Obama administration
officials and Western diplomats.  Instead, the U.S. and the five other major powers that will
hold talks tomorrow with Iran in the Iraqi capital have agreed
on confidence-building measures they may offer in response to
Iranian concessions, said several U.S. officials and Western
diplomats who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the issue. The five other countries represented
at the table are the U.K.,  France ,  Germany ,  China  and  Russia .  U.S. and European Union sanctions aimed at the No. 2
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
are crippling Iran’s ability to export and get paid for crude,
its leading source of revenue. The U.S. and European Union are
in no hurry to ease that pressure before their concerns about
Iran’s nuclear program are addressed, Obama administration
officials and Western diplomats said.  The six powers are willing to offer Iran something:
assistance to its civilian nuclear program and an easing of
restrictions that have blocked it from getting spare parts for
civilian aircraft, U.S. officials said.  “This is a reciprocal process. It’s very difficult for the
U.S. to get an Iranian concession now and give a U.S. concession
in three months,” said  Trita Parsi , author of “A Single Roll
of the Dice: Obama’s Diplomacy with Iran.”  “In order for them to get something they have to give
something,” said Parsi, president of the National Iranian
American Council.  2009 Offer  State Department officials said the offer may be similar to
a failed 2009 plan to take Iran’s stockpile of 19.75 percent
uranium and process it into fuel rods that would be sent back to
Iran for use in the Tehran Research Reactor, which makes medical
isotopes.  While medium-enriched uranium is needed to make medical
isotopes to treat cancer patients, it also can be enriched
further to weapons-grade levels. The international community
wants Iran to halt its 19.75 percent enrichment and ship out its
stockpiles -- steps that Iranian officials have signaled in
recent weeks they are willing to consider.  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  has said the six
nations engaged in talks hope Iran will offer concrete proposals
responding to concerns that its nuclear program is a cover for a
weapons effort. Still, U.S. officials and Western diplomats said
no one expects Iran to address all concerns about its nuclear
activities in this meeting.  Additional Sanctions  U.S. financial sanctions on nations that fail to reduce
significantly their Iranian oil imports will go into effect on
June 28 as planned, as will a July 1 oil embargo blocking
Iranian crude from entering the EU, the officials said. In voice
vote late yesterday, the  U.S. Senate  approved a bill to impose
additional financial and energy-related sanctions on  Iran .  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said added sanctions may help convince Iranian
leaders “that the costs of pursuing this weapon outweigh any
perceived benefit.”  Israeli and U.S. leaders have raised the threat of military
action against Iranian nuclear sites if the Tehran government
fails to take steps to assure the world that it is not seeking
to develop nuclear weapons or the capacity to do so.  Some observers of the negotiations, including Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and numerous U.S. lawmakers, have
said they believe Iran is using negotiations to buy time to
advance suspected efforts to acquire a nuclear weapons
capability.  ‘Clear Demands’  Iran “wants to destroy  Israel ” and “the world’s leading
nations must show determination and not weakness,”  Netanyahu
said yesterday in a text message sent to reporters. “They don’t
have to make concessions to Iran. They must make absolutely
clear demands.”  Netanyahu said Iran “must stop all enrichment of nuclear
material, it must get rid of all nuclear material that has
already been enriched, and it must dismantle the underground
nuclear facility at Qom,” the site of a once-secret facility
known as Fordo where Iranians have been producing medium-
enriched uranium.  While Iran insists its program is solely for civilian
energy and medical research, it has refused to comply with
demands for greater transparency from the  United Nations
Security Council  and inspectors from the  International Atomic
Energy Agency .  Staying Tough  Mark Dubowitz , a sanctions specialist who has advised
Congress and the Obama administration, told Congress last week
he worries that Iran’s supreme leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei 
will play for time “by dangling some incremental nuclear
concessions before the negotiators, such as the cessation of 20
percent  uranium enrichment .”  “This concession will be portrayed as an important
confidence-building measure, putting pressure on the
administration and its partners for a similar gesture in
return,” Dubowitz said in testimony before the House Foreign
Affairs Committee.  During the May 17 hearing, Dubowitz urged lawmakers who
have supported tighter sanctions to pressure the administration
not to offer “too much relief for too few concessions.”  At the same hearing, Mark Wallace, president of United
Against Nuclear Iran, a New York-based advocacy group, said
Congress should send a strong message to the administration by
passing stronger sanctions on Iranian banking, insurance,
disclosure and shipping.  Verifiable Concessions  Wallace urged lawmakers to make sanctions more “airtight”
and said the administration can be more aggressive about
enforcing an economic blockade on Iran and pressing EU allies
“to not walk back those very important steps that they’ve
taken.”  Dubowitz, executive director of the Washington-based
Foundation for Defense of Democracies, warned that U.S. and EU
negotiators may be tempted to offer “sanctions relief in the
shadows.” In an interview, Dubowitz said that might take the
form of turning a blind eye to discounted Iranian oil exports
for struggling EU nations, such as  Greece , or setting a lower
standard for compliance with some U.S. sanctions.  Obama administration officials and Western diplomats said
they have no plans to ease oil sanctions unless Iran dismantles
illicit aspects of its nuclear program.  Iran would have to demonstrate significant verifiable
concessions before the U.S. and European Union would consider
easing penalties that have crippled Iran’s ability to export
oil, the officials said. Iran earned about $100 billion from oil
exports last year, according to  International Monetary Fund .  Halting Enrichment  While Iranian officials have claimed in state-run media
reports that the international community has accepted Iran’s
right to enrich uranium, U.S. officials and Western diplomats
say the six nations are demanding a halt to all domestic
enrichment by Iran.  Three Obama administration officials said no decision has
been made on whether a lower level of uranium enrichment, as
much as 3.5 percent, might be acceptable in the future if Iran
were to comply with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and
allow full transparency to dispel suspicions about a covert
atomic bomb program.  Parsi said in an interview he believes the administration
is maintaining a tough bargaining position to strengthen its
hand with Iran and with Congress, which is likely to oppose any
softening of the penalties.  “Instead of presenting a hypothetical American concession
in return for a hypothetical Iranian concession, the White House
is keeping quiet publicly,” Parsi said. “They’ll go to table,
and then come back to Congress and say this is what we got. If
they get something significant, it’s easier to spin it as a win
and not focus on what they give away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  