-- U.S. Stocks Reverse Gain in Final Hour on Greece Woes
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-23T05:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-after-s-p-500-rally.html
U.S. stocks erased gains in the final
hour of trading as concern that  Greece  would exit the euro and a
tumble in  Facebook (FB)  Inc. shares overshadowed economic optimism.  Commodity and technology shares in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell, while  financial  companies gained. Facebook
slumped 8.9 percent, dropping 19 percent in two days. A gauge of
homebuilders in S&P indexes rose 1.9 percent amid a better-than-
estimated housing report.  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  rallied 1.6 percent after
reporting first-quarter profit that exceeded estimates. Dell
Inc. tumbled 12 percent at 5:43 p.m.  New York  time after
forecasting revenue that missed analysts’ projections. S&P 500
June  futures  dropped 0.6 percent as of 2:50 p.m. in  Tokyo .  About three stocks fell for each rising on U.S. exchanges
at 4 p.m. New York time. The S&P 500 added 0.1 percent to
1,316.63, almost erasing a gain of 1 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lost 1.67 points, or less than 0.1 percent,
to 12,502.81. About  7.3 billion  shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, or 8.2 percent above the three-month average.  “Stocks did a 180,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who
helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management in
Birmingham, Alabama. “On a relative basis, the U.S. is the
cleanest dirty shirt. Yet  Europe  is still a dominant story for
the market.”  Stocks erased gains after Dow Jones reported that former
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said while it is unlikely
the nation will leave the euro, it’s still a risk. European
Union leaders are planning to gather in Brussels tomorrow to
discuss how to revive growth. Equities rallied earlier today as
sales of existing U.S. homes rose in April while investors
speculated China and Europe will stimulate growth.  Europe Concern  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis drove the  S&P 500  down
as much as 8.7 percent from an almost four-year high in April.
Still, the benchmark gauge was up 4.7 percent in 2012 amid
better-than-estimated economic and corporate reports. About 70
percent of S&P 500 companies that reported first-quarter results
beat analysts’ estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We went from risk-on to risk off pretty quickly,” said
 Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment
officer at Philadelphia Trust Co. “Greece is not a major
economy, but there’s obviously fear of contagion in case it
exits the euro. These outside factors will weigh on the market
even as economic numbers are good.”  Measures of commodity shares in the S&P 500 had the biggest
losses among 10 groups. Crude oil slipped as  Iran  agreed to let
Western nuclear inspectors into the country, easing concern that
the conflict over its atomic energy program would disrupt
Mideast supplies. Gold and copper also retreated.  Coal Producers  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCX)  slumped a record 35 percent to $2.18.
The U.S. miner that last week warned of a possible customer
default hired Blackstone Group LP and said it’s still working
with lenders to finalize $625 million of loan and credit
facilities.  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  lost 3.9 percent to $23.65.
 Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  retreated 3.9 percent to $11.21.  Technology shares, which comprise 20 percent of the S&P
500, also retreated.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most valuable
company lost 0.8 percent to $556.97. The shares rose as much as
2.2 percent earlier today.  Facebook, the social networking site that raised $16
billion in an initial public offering last week, plunged 8.9
percent to $31. The offering valued Facebook at  107 times 
trailing 12-month earnings, more than every S&P 500 member
except Amazon.com Inc. and Equity Residential. The slump
reinforces concern that the IPO was priced too high.  Too High  Sentiment toward the offering worsened yesterday after
Facebook fell below the $38 price set by underwriters, burning
investors who speculated the company would mimic IPOs such as
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , which doubled on its first day. While bulls
forecast benefits as companies shift advertising to the
Internet,  Brian Wieser  of Pivotal Research Group LLC, said
Facebook’s price is too high and the path to growth unclear.  “There’s always a risk of buying into excessive hype,
using rules of thumb for  valuation  that are divorced from
fundamentals,” Wieser, a New York-based analyst at Pivotal,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “There are many things
that really speak to the uncertainty investors should be
incorporating when they’re thinking about Facebook.”  Dell slumped 12 percent to $13.30 after the close of
regular trading. The world’s third-largest personal computer
maker lost share in the global PC market in the first three
months of the year, according to market researcher Gartner Inc.
 Dell (DELL)  has eschewed sales of less profitable PCs to boost its
profit margin, which is causing revenue to slump, said Shaw Wu,
an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  San Francisco .  Homebuilders, Banks  Homebuilders rallied as  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  advanced 2.5
percent to $9.08, while  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  increased 2.2 percent to
$27.61. A measure of diversified financial shares had the
biggest advance among 24 groups in the S&P 500, gaining 1.4
percent. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  rose 1.1 percent as 22 of its 24
stocks advanced.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  jumped 4.6 percent to $34.01,
rebounding from a 20 percent plunge following its May 10
disclosure of at least $2 billion in trading losses. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. reiterated its  buy  rating on the stock today,
saying the company’s plan to halt share buybacks reflects a
“prudent decision” to preserve capital given the volatility
and uncertainty around its chief investment office’s holdings.  Best Buy added 1.6 percent to $18.46. The largest U.S.
consumer-electronics retailer lured customers with discounts on
smartphones, part of former Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn’s
efforts to compete with Amazon.com Inc. Lower demand for
televisions and notebook computers reduced comparable-store
sales in the quarter by 5.3 percent.  Urban Outfitters  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  climbed 7.4 percent, the biggest gain
in the S&P 500, to $28.10. The retailer that rehired co-founder
Richard Hayne as chief executive officer this year reported
first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates on record
sales.  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  added 2.7 percent to $150.27. The
retailer of its namesake brand clothing reported profit that
beat analysts’ estimates because of sales gains at its own shops
and department stores.  Ariba Inc. (ARBA)  surged 19 percent to $44.87, the highest level
since 2002. SAP AG, the largest business-management software
maker, agreed to buy the online-trading platform for businesses
for $4.3 billion in the German company’s biggest push into cloud
computing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  