-- U.S. Must Educate Itself Beyond Affirmative Action
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-22T23:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/u-s-must-educate-itself-beyond-affirmative-action.html
Since its inception in the 1960s,
affirmative action has been constitutionally embattled,
emotionally fraught and politically divisive.  Last week’s announcement by the U.S. Census Bureau that
births to racial and ethnic minorities in the U.S. now outnumber
births to whites promises that the quest for diversity in
American institutions won’t be getting any less complicated.  The political squabble over Massachusetts Senate candidate
 Elizabeth Warren ’s disputed geneology -- she was variously
 listed  as a “Native American” and “woman of color” when she was
on the law school faculties of  Harvard University  and the
 University of Pennsylvania  -- has inadvertently underscored the
enormous appetite of elite institutions to celebrate diversity
in their ranks. But what should be the goal of a nation speeding
so rapidly toward diversity that it will soon be without a
single racial majority? Should colleges still emphasize racial
balance, apportioning opportunity in order to give a leg up to
racial and ethnic groups that historically suffered
discrimination?  Asians are one such group. Yet at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, the crown jewel of  California ’s state
university system and one of the most competitive schools in the
nation, Asians are a plurality, making up more than 40 percent
of the student body despite being only 5 percent of the  U.S.
population  and 13 percent of California’s. Blacks, by contrast,
make up about 12.3 percent of the U.S. but only 3 percent of
Berkeley students (and 6 percent of California’s population).  Income Distribution  If college is the most reliable gateway to middle-class
success -- and elite universities are gateways to even greater
opportunities -- we can expect to see a disproportionately high
number of Asians at the top of the income scale and a similarly
weighted proportion of blacks and Hispanics settling at the
bottom.  That’s precisely how income in the U.S is  distributed .
Asians are the highest-earning group in the nation. Whites on
average earn slightly less. Hispanics, the nation’s fastest-
growing demographic group, along with blacks and American
Indians earn far less.  There are many factors that contribute to such disparities.
Yet the maneuvering required to expand opportunity and success
more broadly is bound to meet with practical frustrations, along
with continued constitutional challenges.  The  Supreme Court  has already placed restrictions on
 college diversity  programs, and may add another layer of limits
when it decides a  Texas case  scheduled to be argued this fall.  Meanwhile, a fierce political battle rages between older
whites associated with the Republican Party and younger, browner
Democrats over the allocation of  public resources . (Medicare,
for example, benefits the first group, while the Democrats’
health-care reform benefits the second.) Accommodating such
competing claims in an era of slow economic growth and high
government debt will shape American politics for the foreseeable
future.  Yet there is one arena in which the interests of all --
young, old, black, brown, white, Asian -- converge: education.
All Americans have a stake in enabling young nonwhites to obtain
decent-paying jobs, which in addition to allowing them to raise
and educate their own families, would also make it possible for
them to pay the taxes that support the high levels of
entitlement spending dedicated to retiring baby boomers.  Growing Pay Gap  The key to such jobs is education. College graduates earned
an average of $1,053 a week in 2011 and had an  unemployment rate 
almost half that of high school graduates, who earned an average
of $638 a week. This  pay gap  continues to grow.  While half of Asians in the U.S. obtain at least a
 bachelor’s degree , only about 20 percent of blacks, and about 14
percent of Hispanics, graduate college.  SAT scores  tell a
similar story, with Asians and whites significantly outscoring
blacks and Hispanics in both math and critical reading.  Despite such grim statistics, California and  Texas , the
nation’s most populous states -- and ones where whites are not a
majority -- have responded to deficit pressures by  slashing 
their education budgets. This is the policy equivalent of
 devouring  the seed corn.  Affirmative action comes late in the human development
cycle. By the time many Americans reach college age, the course
of a lifetime has been set. If the U.S. is to achieve its goal
of a multiracial society that provides equal opportunity for
all, policy makers must target preschool, elementary and
secondary education, where the foundation of success or failure
is built. Too many black and Hispanic youths grow up in poor
neighborhoods where they attend racially and economically
segregated schools that deliver subpar education, with tragic
consequences.  Creating a racially, culturally diverse environment on
college campuses is a worthy goal. But without better public
schools for the emerging American majority, it will never be
fully realized. If, on the other hand, the U.S. focuses on the
base problem -- failing younger students trapped in failing
public schools -- diversity goals at institutions further up the
ladder will partly resolve themselves.  As the census data made clear, there isn’t much margin for
error. In roughly a decade, today’s ethnic minorities will be a
majority of the nation’s under-18 population. Until schools in
their neighborhoods are producing large numbers of college-ready
graduates, the nation won’t be able to ride that demographic
wave to success.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  breaking up the big
banks ;  Margaret Carlson  on  private equity and Democrats ;  Peter
Orszag  on  combining stimulus and budget cuts ;  Enrique Krauze  on
 dangerous journalism in Latin America ;  Jacob Kirkegaard  on why
 a Greek exit would help the euro area ; James Copland on the
 Justice Department and accounting firms .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 