-- Uchumi of Kenya Gains Ninth Day to Six-Year High: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-05-22T13:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/uchumi-of-kenya-gains-ninth-day-to-six-year-high-nairobi-mover.html
Uchumi Supermarkets Ltd. (UCSP) ,  Kenya ’s
only publicly traded retail chain, advanced for a ninth day,
rising to its highest in more than six years following a  Daily
Nation  report about a dispute at one of its key competitors.  The stock climbed 3 percent to 19.05 shillings by the 3
p.m. close in Nairobi, the highest level since Feb. 22, 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares have more
than doubled this year.  Last week the Kenyan High Court froze bank accounts at
Tusky’s Supermarkets amid an on-going dispute among directors,
Nairobi-based  Daily Nation  said May 18 citing Judge Alfred
Mabeya. Four brothers who are directors of Tusky’s have been
wrangling over the management of the retail chain, it said.
Stephen Mukuha Kamau, the company’s managing director, was out
of his office when Bloomberg News called seeking comment.  “The main competitor is struggling so investors are buying
Uchumi because if the problems at  Tusky’s Supermarkets  persist,
Uchumi will be the biggest beneficiary,” Davis Mika, a Nairobi-
based independent stock analyst, said in a phone interview
today.  In the year to December 2011, the value of wholesale and
retail trade in Kenya grew to 321 billion shillings ($3.80
billion) from 261 billion shillings, according to the latest
economy survey released by the Ministry of Planning on May 15.  Uchumi , which opened its first store in  Dar es Salaam ,
Tanzania’s commercial capital, in August and a second one in
 Uganda , plans to open another seven outlets in the region, three
in Uganda and four in Kenya, Managing Director Jonathan Ciano
said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  