-- Ultramercial, Apple, Google, Kodak: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-05-22T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/ultramercial-apple-google-tenenbaum-intellectual-property.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  told a lower
court to reconsider whether some types of ideas can be patented,
in a sign that further limits may be set on infringement
lawsuits against technology companies.  The court’s action yesterday marks the second time this
year it ordered the federal appeals court that specializes in
patent cases to revisit a decision under the Supreme Court’s
March 20 decision limiting the ability to obtain legal
protection for some diagnostic medical tests.  In yesterday’s case, the justices set aside a decision by
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit that allowed a
patent for a way to make consumers watch advertisements before
they can view copyrighted material on the Web. The appeals court
had said patent owner  Ultramercial LLC , which offers online
advertising services, could pursue a lawsuit against  WildTangent
Inc. , which lets consumers play online games after first
watching a commercial.  “It’s kind of a bad omen for these business-method
patents,” said Brad Wright, a patent lawyer with Banner &
Witcoff in  Washington  who isn’t involved in the cases.  The Supreme Court ruled March 20 that a medical diagnostic
test owned by  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Prometheus unit covered little more
than an abstract idea and law of nature. Six days later, the
justices ordered the Federal Circuit to revisit a decision
allowing human genes to be patented.  WildTangent’s appeal to the Supreme Court was supported by
Google Inc. and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   The appeals court ruling exposes “high-tech companies to
increased litigation risk by sanctioning sketchy, high-level
claims that lack the specifics that transform abstract ideas
into patentable processes,” Google and Verizon said in their
filing with the court.  Ultramercial, based  Rancho Palos Verdes ,  California , had
sued Google’s YouTube unit in the same case. That claim was
settled in 2010.  A trial judge ruled that Ultramercial’s concept was an
abstract idea and not entitled to patent protection. The Federal
Circuit revived the case after deciding the patent covered a
practical application of an old idea.  A trial is scheduled for October to determine whether the
Ultramercial patent is invalid based on earlier inventions, and
if not, whether WildTangent infringed the patent.  WildTangent, which filed its appeal before the Prometheus
decision was issued, said the Federal Circuit misinterpreted a
2010 Supreme Court decision, named after patent owner Bernard L.
Bilski, that limits what types of business methods can receive
patents.  Ultramercial’s lawyers said the appeals court properly
ruled that the patent covers specific steps that can be
implemented only through complex computer programming. They said
the court fell in line with the Bilski and Prometheus decisions.  The case is WildTangent Inc. v. Ultramercial LLC, 11-962.  Kodak Loses Trade Decision in Patent Case Against RIM, Apple  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  lost a ruling in a two-year legal fight
against Apple Inc. and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  over a patent for
digital image-preview technology, a decision that may hurt the
value of assets Kodak is selling.  RIM and Apple didn’t violate Kodak’s rights because the
patent is invalid, U.S. International Trade Commission Judge
Thomas Pender said in a notice posted on the agency’s website.  Kodak, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in
January, contends Apple already owes it more than $1 billion in
damages for infringement of this and other digital capture
patents, according to a bankruptcy court filing this month.  The company’s two digital patent portfolios may be its most
valuable assets. The patent in yesterday’s ruling is part of a
portfolio of more than 1,100 related to digital capture that the
Rochester, New York-based Kodak is selling.  The judge’s recommendation “represents a preliminary step
in a process that we are confident will conclude in Kodak’s
favor,” Timothy Lynch, Kodak’s chief  intellectual property 
officer, said in a statement.  The disputed patent, 6,292,218, which Kodak claims is used
in all modern cameras, covers a feature that previews low-
resolution versions of a moving image while recording still
images at a high resolution. Higher resolution requires more
processing power and storage space. Samsung Electronics Co. and
 LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  have already paid $964 million in
settlements to Kodak for using the technology.  The patent is the subject of a suit pending between RIM and
Kodak in federal court in  Dallas . The company filed notice with
the judge in Dallas about yesterday’s findings.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the company
had no comment.  Kodak has been trying to charge for the use of its digital-
imaging patents, and  suing  in instances where that strategy
failed. The company sought Chapter 11 protection in January
after years of burning through cash as digital technology hurt
its film business.  The commission is scheduled to complete the investigation
by Sept. 21. The case targets Apple’s iPhone and BlackBerry
devices including the Tour, Storm, Bold, Curve and Pearl. Kodak
had lost its fight before another ITC judge, only to have the
commission revive the case last year.  The patent case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile
Telephones and Wireless Communication Devices Featuring Digital
Cameras, and Components Thereof, 337-703, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Wins Bid to Bar Proview Evidence in Hong Kong IPad Trial  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a bid in a  Hong Kong  court to exclude some
evidence that was previously filed by  Proview International
Holdings Ltd. (334) , its opponent in a lawsuit over the iPad trademark
in  China .  Two expert reports filed by Proview in October 2011 failed
to comply with Hong Kong court instructions, making the evidence
inadmissible in an upcoming trial between the company and Apple,
according to a ruling today by Judge Justin Ko. Proview hasn’t
decided whether to appeal the ruling, Chairman Sun Min said by
phone yesterday. Carolyn Wu, a spokeswoman at Apple in Beijing,
didn’t immediately reply to messages sent by phone and e-mail
seeking comment.  Apple is suing Proview and the Chinese company’s founder
Rowell Yang in Hong Kong, claiming they conspired to breach an
agreement in 2009 over the iPad trademark. The Cupertino,
California-based maker of the iPad tablet computer is also in
parallel litigation with Proview in mainland China, where a
court has urged the two sides to settle the dispute.  In November, a court in Shenzhen ruled that Proview’s unit
in the city owned the iPad trademark in China, as Apple’s
contract in 2009 to acquire the rights to the name was invalid.
In February, the U.S. company appealed the decision to the
Higher People’s Court of Guangdong.  Last month, the Guangdong court said it’s mediating talks
between Apple and Proview. Apple offered compensation to resolve
the dispute, though a “big gap” remains between the two sides,
Proview lawyer Roger Xie said this month.  Apple previously said the company acquired the rights to
the iPad trademark in China, its biggest market outside the U.S.
Revenue in China tripled to $7.9 billion last quarter, helped by
surging demand for products such as the iPad tablet computer and
the iPhone smartphone.  Proview, a failed display maker whose shares have been
suspended from trading in Hong Kong since 2010, has filed
separate lawsuits in Chinese courts, and complaints to the
Administration for Industry and Commerce, alleging Apple’s sales
of iPad tablets in China infringed intellectual-property law.  Google Given Weeks to Submit Remedies in EU Antitrust Probe  Google Inc. (GOOG)  was told by the European Union’s antitrust
chief it has a “matter of weeks” to resolve a probe and avoid
possible fines over allegations that the operator of the world’s
largest search engine discriminates against rivals.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  asked Google
Chairman  Eric Schmidt  for proposals to address concerns that it
promotes its own specialist search services, copies rivals’
travel and restaurant reviews, and that its agreements with
websites and software developers stifle competition in the
advertising industry.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
Argentina and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  Google disagrees with the commission’s conclusions and is
“happy to discuss any concerns they might have,” said Al
Verney, a Brussels-based spokesman for the company, in an e-
mailed statement.  Complaints over Google’s Android operating system and the
way the search engine deals with travel agencies are among
“other issues” that will continue to be investigated, Almunia
said.  Any settlement proposals from Google would be reviewed by
the company’s competitors and rivals prior to being accepted by
the EU authority.  “Will Google step up to the plate with serious effective
remedies or will it put something on the table which is not
truly serious?” said  Thomas Vinje , a lawyer for FairSearch, an
industry group that includes online travel companies  Expedia
Inc. (EXPE)  and  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) , which filed complaints about Google
with the EU. Google’s offer “needs to genuinely resolve the
concerns and re-establish competition,” Vinje said.  Foundem, a U.K. shopping website, said it was crucial to
devise “pragmatic and robust measures that restore a healthy
competitive Internet” without harming Google’s ability to
innovate, company Chief Executive Officer Shivaun Raff said in
an e-mailed statement.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest software maker, whose Bing
search engine filed a complaint in the case, declined to comment
on Almunia’s statement.  EU regulators are increasingly using settlements to end
antitrust probes. Almunia last year invited  Thomson Reuters  to
settle with regulators for a “speedy resolution” of a probe.
Apple Inc. and four publishers recently offered to settle
another case, the commission said last month.  Microsoft ended more than a decade of antitrust disputes
with the EU in 2010 by agreeing to allow users choose web
browsers.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the biggest
computer-services provider, last year settled an EU antitrust
probe into conduct that may have hindered rival mainframe-
software makers.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Music Downloading Damages Left Intact by U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court left intact a $675,000 jury verdict
against a college student who downloaded and redistributed
thousands of songs from the Internet without paying.  The court, without comment, refused to hear Boston
University student Joel Tenenbaum’s challenge to a law that let
the recording industry collect thousands of dollars from
individuals for such downloading. The jury was told to impose
damages, set by U.S. copyright law, of between $750 and $150,000
per violation.  Tenenbaum said individual downloaders who don’t make money
from sharing songs shouldn’t be treated the same as companies
whose business is to steal copyrighted content. A U.S. appeals
court rejected that argument, ruling that all illegal
downloaders, regardless of their motives, are subject to the
same range of penalties.  The Recording Industry Association of America, acting on
behalf of major record labels, sued more than 12,000 people and
sent notices to thousands of others it claimed were illegally
sharing music.  Tenenbaum and a woman from Minnesota took their cases to
trial, and both lost. An appeals court plans to hear arguments
in the Minnesota case in June.  The trial judge in Tenenbaum’s case reduced the jury award
to $67,500, saying the larger amount was unconstitutionally
excessive. The 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston
reinstated the award and said the record companies would be
entitled to a new trial if the judge cut the award again.  Suing Tenenbaum were  Sony Corp. (6758)  and its Arista Records,
Warner Music Group’s Warner Bros. and Atlantic labels and
 Vivendi SA’s (VIV)  Universal Music Group. They said he made songs
available on various sites including Napster, Morpheus, Kazaa
and LimeWire, distributing songs to millions of other people.  The Supreme Court had ruled in 2005 that Internet file-
sharing networks may bear responsibility when users illegally
download music and movies, giving the recording industry new
power to shut down such sites.  Tenenbaum’s lawyers said a 2008 study estimated that the
average teenager illegally downloaded 800 songs, which would
expose that person to damages of as much as $120 million.  The Obama administration defended the statute, saying
Tenenbaum’s argument that the recording industry should have to
show how much it was harmed by his actions would defeat the
law’s purpose of deterring copyright infringement.  The government urged the court not to take the case, saying
some issues remained unresolved, including what the judge might
do to the $675,000 damage award.  The case is Tenenbaum v. Sony BMG Music Entertainment Inc.,
11-1019.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Wick Phillips Hires Genband’s Shauna Martin for IP/Tech Practice  Wick Phillips Gould & Martin LLP hired Shauna Martin to
open an office in Austin, Texas, the Dallas-based firm said in a
 statement .  Martin , who does transactional work in the IP and
technology areas, was previously executive vice president and
general counsel, strategic transactions, for Genband Inc. of
Frisco, Texas. She has previously practiced law with  Lancaster,
Helling, Martin & Grable LLP  of Austin. She has also served as
general counsel for Hotels.com and Tristar Aerospace Co.  She has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Central Arkansas, a law degree from the University of Arkansas
and a master’s degree in law from the University of Missouri,
Kansas City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 