-- United Technologies Plans July Closing for Goodrich Purchase
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-05-22T16:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/united-technologies-plans-july-closing-for-goodrich-purchase-1-.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  expects to
complete its $16.5 billion acquisition of  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  by mid-
to-late July even with European Union regulators extending their
antitrust review of the transaction.  The probe’s deadline was pushed back by 15 working days to
Aug. 31 with the agreement of both companies, the European
Commission said in a May 16 statement. The Goodrich acquisition,
the largest by United Technologies, will add the world’s largest
maker of aircraft landing gear to brands that include Pratt &
Whitney jet engines and Sikorsky helicopters.  “Our confidence is there that we’ve done the right things
to wrap this deal up within the window we’ve described,”  Louis Chenevert , the chief executive officer of Hartford, Connecticut-
based  United Technologies , said today at the Electrical Products
Group conference in Longboat Key, Florida.  United Technologies expects to reach an agreement in the
next month with a buyer for its Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne
business, one of the units being sold to help pay for the
Goodrich transaction, Chenevert said.  A Rocketdyne deal by mid-June would contribute to $3
billion in projected proceeds from asset sales. The company is
also seeking buyers for the Hamilton Sundstrand division’s pump
and compressor businesses and its Clipper Windpower unit.  The Hamilton Sundstrand units are attracting “huge
interest,” Chenevert said at the conference. A Clipper
Windpower sale may occur by the end of this year, he said.  United Technologies climbed 0.9 percent to $74.39 at 12:31
p.m. in New York. The shares advanced 0.8 percent this year
through yesterday,  compared  with a 4.6 percent gain for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  