-- Turkey Yields Decline to Two-Week Low on Reduced Inflation Bets
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-22T15:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/turkish-yields-decline-to-lowest-in-two-weeks-lira-strengthens.html
Turkey  bond  yields  fell to the lowest
in two weeks as the central bank’s tighter policy backed
investor expectations inflation will fall in May.  The yield on benchmark two-year debt declined five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 9.46 percent by the close
in Istanbul, the lowest since May 10. The lira depreciated less
than 0.1 percent to 1.8254 per dollar, paring its gain this year
to 3.6 percent, the third-best performance among emerging-market
currencies after the Colombian peso and the Hungarian forint.  Inflation is expected to slow to about 8 percent in May
before accelerating again, Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci
said May 18. The rate of price increase in April at 11.1 percent
is the highest in 3 1/2 years. Turkey’s central bank today
withheld one-week lending at its lowest annual funding rate of
5.75 percent for a second day, lending 2 billion liras ($1.1
billion) in a one-week repurchase agreement at 10.8 percent. The
amount it can lend in five-day repo auctions varies from 1
billion liras to 6 billion liras. The last time it lent 5
billion liras at the minimum policy rate was May 2.  “It is possible that the central bank wants to eliminate
upside risks on inflation by continuing with exceptional days
despite the improved risk perceptions in the global markets,”
Ali Cakiroglu, a strategist at  HSBC Private Bank , in Istanbul
said in an e-mailed note.  Turkey’s central bank varies its funding rate daily,
keeping borrowing costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5 percent
interest-rate corridor introduced last year. The days it
refrains from lending at the lowest rate are termed
“exceptional days.”  Bondholders expect annual inflation of 7.3 percent, based
on the so-called breakeven rate, or the extra yield on fixed-
rate lira-denominated bonds due October 2013 over securities
paying returns tied to consumer prices. The rate, which is an
indicator of future inflation, fell from 7.6 percent on May 8,
the highest level since Jan. 13, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  