-- US Airways Jet Diverted on Passenger’s ‘Suspicious Behavior’
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-05-22T20:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/us-airways-flight-diverted-on-passenger-s-suspicious-behavior-.html
A  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  flight en
route from Paris to  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , was diverted
after a passenger said she had a surgically implanted device
inside her, a U.S. congressman said. Nothing was found, federal
officials said.  The  Boeing Co. (BA)  767 jet landed safely in Bangor, Maine,
shortly after noon local time, said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman
for the carrier. The jet had 188 passengers and crew, he said
today, and referred further questions to the U.S. Transportation
Security Administration.  A French citizen on board handed a note to a flight
attendant that said she had a surgically implanted device inside
her, U.S. Representative  Peter King , chairman of the House
Homeland Security Committee, said in a statement. Doctors on the
flight checked her out and did not see any sign of recent scars,
King said.  No bomb or security threat was found, said a federal  law
enforcement  official who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.
The investigation is proceeding, the official said. The woman
was arrested, according to King’s statement.  “TSA is aware of reports of a passenger who exhibited
suspicious behavior during flight,” Sterling Payne, an agency
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. Law enforcement
officers met the plane in Bangor, the first U.S. jet airport
that incoming planes from  Europe  can reach, after it was sent
there “out of an abundance of caution” because of the
passenger’s behavior, she said.  Kathleen Wright, an FBI spokeswoman, said she couldn’t
comment.  The TSA alerted airlines last July that terrorists
including the Yemen-based al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula were
studying how to implant explosive devices in new efforts to
destroy airliners.  Cockpit Secure  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection officers interviewed the
passenger while other travelers were fed at Bangor and boarded
the aircraft to fly to Charlotte. US Airways estimates the
flight will land at about 6 p.m. local time, Lehmacher said.  Air traffic controllers asked Flight 787 to verify that the
plane’s cockpit was secure, according to an air traffic control
recording posted on LiveATC.net.  “Affirmative, cockpit is secure,” one of the pilots
responded.  The North American Aerospace Defense Command, which sends
missile-equipped fighter jets when there’s a suspected terrorist
event in the sky, dispatched two F-15 jets from Barnes Air
National Guard Base in Westfield, Massachusetts, at 11:40 a.m.
local time, the agency said in a statement.  Senate Commerce Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller  praised
law enforcement and the airline crew’s response.  “Every suspicious incident needs to be taken seriously,”
the West Virginia Democrat said in an e-mailed statement. “We
can’t afford to take chances when it comes to our country’s
security.”  US Airways , on its website’s flight status section, said
the flight “was diverted to Bangor to accommodate customers
from a canceled flight.” Lehmacher said that information is
incorrect.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  