-- Verizon Wireless Driving Vodafone Profit as Europe Slumps
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-22T16:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/vodafone-profit-drops-as-clients-in-spain-greece-slash-spending.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  will have to rely
on its U.S. wireless venture to reach the top end of a range of
profit forecasts and make up for shrinking sales in crisis-
stricken European economies including Spain and Italy.  Operating profit excluding some items may rise as much as
3.2 percent in the 12 months ending March 2013, Vodafone said
today. Profit on that basis slipped 2.4 percent last year to
11.5 billion pounds ($18 billion) after the sale of a stake in
its SFR French unit. Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. mobile
carrier, accounted for 42 percent of the total, an increase of
9.3 percent.  Vodafone, which relies on western  Europe  for most of its
revenue, is no longer the world’s biggest mobile-phone company
as  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  boosted sales last year to $81.7 billion.
While profits and sales at Verizon Wireless are rising, Newbury,
England-based Vodafone still needs to negotiate dividends every
year with U.S. partner  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which
controls 55 percent of the venture.  “Verizon has become increasingly important in terms of the
contribution toward Vodafone’s guidance,” Dario Talmesio, an
analyst at  Informa Plc (INF)  in  London , said in an interview. “But
the question is how does Vodafone secure that, they are relying
on things they cannot fully control.”  Vodafone rose 4.2 percent to 172 pence at the close of
trading in London, the steepest increase since Aug. 11. Verizon
Communications added 0.6 percent to $41.60 at 12:44 p.m. in  New
York .  U.S. Client Gains  Verizon Wireless added 501,000 contract customers in the
first quarter, it said last month. Competition with  AT&T (T)  Inc.
and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  is intensifying in the slowing U.S.
market, with the carriers trying to attract customers with price
promotions, faster network speeds and new devices. Verizon sold
6.3 million smartphones in the period.  Vodafone, whose full-year sales rose 1.2 percent to 46.4
billion pounds, or $73.3 billion, is waiting on the U.S. partner
to consider a dividend from their wireless venture for the
second year in a row. For the 12 months ended March, it received
a 2.9 billion-pound dividend, of which 2 billion pounds were
paid to Vodafone shareholders.  “The only way that either Verizon or Vodafone can access
the cash is through dividends,” said Will Draper, an analyst at
 Espirito Santo Investment Bank  in London. “Vodafone is not
desperate for cash at all, but obviously they would like the
cash.”  Getting Cash  It was the first payout from the U.S. venture since 2005.
Previously, Verizon had withheld the dividend from the
partnership to focus on paying down debt.  Vodafone Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said today
that a dividend should come in “hopefully on a reasonably
regular basis.”  Verizon Communications is also increasingly relying on
profit from the venture as it loses fixed-line customers and
growth in broadband sales slows. Verizon’s wireless business
accounted for 63 percent of its revenue last year and grew 11
percent. The wireline business shrank 1.3 percent.  “Verizon and Vodafone are victims of their own success,”
said  Craig Moffett , a New York-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein. “Either one would love to own the whole thing, but
 Verizon Wireless  has grown so large and so successful that
unwinding it is nearly impossible. For better or worse, the two
companies are stuck with each other.”  Options  Vodafone repeatedly opted to keep its stake in the venture.
Verizon said in May 2010 it would be interested in purchasing
Vodafone’s holding and the partners held talks in March 2010,
discussing options including a merger, buyout or a dividend
payout, two people familiar with the deliberations said at the
time.  Halford said today Vodafone is “delighted with the
decision to keep hold” of the asset.  The reliance of both partners on Verizon Wireless could
eventually lead to a new merger attempt, Draper said.  “Verizon can’t sell it and Vodafone won’t sell it, and
where to you get to with that?” he said. “At some point, they
have to merge.”  Another option could be for the U.S. partner to give
Vodafone shares in Verizon Communications in exchange for the
British partner’s stake in Verizon Wireless, he said.  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao said today
that he’s comfortable with the situation in the U.S.  ‘Luxury Problem’  “It’s a luxury problem with Verizon paying all this cash,
even if it’s overshadowing the rest,” he said in London. “The
best thing we can do, to be honest, is to get the dividends and
to distribute the dividends to our shareholders, which is what
we did last year and what we plan to do.”  In Europe, Colao, a former McKinsey & Co. partner, is
preparing his third revamp of Vodafone’s structure since taking
over in 2008. The company said this month that Michel Combes,
the former Europe CEO, will leave Vodafone at the end of July to
run  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR French wireless unit.  Vodafone is considering a reorganization in which one
scenario would involve separating Vodafone’s European operating
companies into a group consisting of western Europe and a second
entity made up of  Turkey , central and eastern Europe, people
familiar with the matter said last week. A third group would
include Vodafone’s assets in southern  Africa  and  India , they
said, adding that the discussions are at an early stage.
Vodafone declined to comment today.  European Revamp  Adjusted operating profit will be in a range of 11.1
billion pounds to 11.9 billion pounds in the 12 months ending
March 31, 2013, after 11.5 billion pounds last year, Vodafone
said today.  Service revenue excluding currency swings and acquisitions
gained 2.3 percent in the three months ended March 31, after
rising 0.9 percent in the previous quarter. Analysts had
estimated growth of 1.7 percent. Revenue climbed 4 percent in
 Germany , offsetting declines in Spain and  Italy .  Vodafone, the last of Europe’s major phone companies to
report earnings, in November 2010 said service revenue will grow
in the range of 1 percent to 4 percent in the next three years.
Service sales include voice, data, messaging and broadband
services. They exclude handsets and accessories.  To benefit from rising demand for data services, Colao last
year shifted billing toward tiered pricing with more
consumption-based tariffs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  