-- War-Gaming Greek Euro Exit Shows Hazards in 46-Hour Weekend
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-05-23T05:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/war-gaming-greek-euro-exit-highlights-hazards-in-46-hour-weekend.html
Greece  may have only a 46-hour window
of opportunity should it need to plot a route out of the euro.  That’s how much time the country’s leaders would probably
have to enact any departure from the single currency while
global markets are largely closed, from the end of trading in
New York on a Friday to Monday’s market opening in Wellington,
New Zealand, based on a synthesis of euro-exit scenarios from 21
economists, analysts and academics.  Over the two days, leaders would have to calm civil unrest
while managing a potential sovereign default, planning a new
currency, recapitalizing the banks, stemming the outflow of
capital and seeking a way to pay bills once the bailout lifeline
is cut. The risk is that the task would overwhelm any new
government in a country that has had to be rescued twice since
2010 because it couldn’t manage its public finances.  “Leaving is difficult and messy, so anyone who thinks it’s
easy is just wrong,” said Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, who left the
 European Central Bank ’s executive board last year, in a phone
interview. “The Greeks must be rational and protect themselves
from rash decisions that they will live to regret. Leaving the
euro is not the answer to their problems.” He declined to say
whether he thought an exit would occur.  No Renegotiation  The specter of Greece leaving the euro was evoked when ECB
executive board member Joerg Asmussen told Germany’s
Handelsblatt in an interview published May 8 that Greece
couldn’t renegotiate its bailout terms if it wanted to stay in
the euro. President Mario Draghi responded May 16 that the ECB’s
“strong preference” was for Greece to stay in the euro.  The remarks followed elections May 6 that propelled the
Syriza party, which calls for reneging on the bailout accords,
into second place. Syriza may build on that support in June 17
elections, according to three opinion polls, complicating
Greece’s efforts to avoid running out of cash by early July.  Syriza’s opposition to the terms of Greece’s financial-aid
program doesn’t mean the country would have to abandon the euro
should the party form a government after the elections, party
leader Alexis Tsipras said May 20. The Pasok Socialist party and
the New Democracy party, which have taken turns running Greece
over the past four decades, favor meeting the bailout terms.  First in Century  “This is the first time since the beginning of the last
century that it’s not about the left or right winning, it’s
about pro-bailout or anti-bailout,” said Aristotle Kallis,
professor of modern and contemporary history at Lancaster
University in the U.K.  European leaders meeting today in Brussels are seeking to
keep Greece within the 17-nation single currency as new French
President  Francois Hollande  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
disagree on how much austerity is needed to stem the crisis.  In the end Greece will stick to its commitments, said Bill O’Neill, chief investment officer for Europe,  Middle East  and
Africa at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management in  London .  “We don’t think Greece will walk away, even if the result
after the June 17 election is difficult for the pro-bailout
parties,” he said in a May 21 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee . “We don’t think
they will deliberately step away from the bailout. There will be
a process of negotiation in a worst-case scenario, but we don’t
believe a Greek exit is going to happen.”  18-Month Forecast  Still, Citigroup Inc. economists said in a May 7 research
note that Greece’s election results increase the risk of the
country leaving the euro within the next year to 18 months to as
high as 75 percent. More than 50 percent of investors surveyed
by Bloomberg News predict an exit of a euro member this year.  A euro exit could be in the cards almost as soon as the new
government is formed should new leaders decline to adhere to the
bailout terms of spending cuts and economic modernization, said
 Marco Annunziata , a former International Monetary Fund executive
who now works as chief economist at  General Electric Co. (GE)  in San
Francisco.  “Time is of the essence,” he said in a telephone
interview. “Events may unfold faster than we expect. The key
risk is that anti-reform statements by a new government might
trigger a run on deposits.”  Such a run could induce the ECB as early as the following
Friday to cut off further funding to Greek banks at a time when
the government lacks money to recapitalize them, said  Carsten Brzeski , a former European Commission economist who now works
for ING Group in Brussels.  Stocks Drop  With further bailout payments suspended by EU leaders to
await the government’s direction and the country’s coffers
expected to run out of cash within two months, Greece’s options
would begin to narrow.  A new government may have to respond with capital controls
to prevent citizens, faced with potential devaluation of their
savings, from withdrawing their money from banks, said Dawn Holland, a senior research fellow at the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research in London.  “This has to happen very quickly, as capital flight has
already happened,” she said. “This is when things could get
ugly too, as on an individual basis you cannot blame people for
wanting to hold on to their euros.”  Greek bank deposits dropped about 23 billion euros ($29
billion) in the nine months through March, or about 13 percent,
to about 160 billion euros, central bank data show. President
Karolos Papoulias said on May 14 that about 700 million euros
had been withdrawn, without specifying over how many days.  Stocks Fall  Stocks fell in Asia today amid concern at the dangers posed
by any Greek departure from the euro, with the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index losing 1.6 percent as of 2:17 p.m. in Tokyo. The euro was
little changed at $1.2673. Former Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said an exit for his nation would be “catastrophic”
and have implications for the euro region, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing an interview.  “Although such a scenario is unlikely to materialize and
it is not desirable either for Greece or for other countries, it
cannot be excluded that preparations are being made to contain
the potential consequences of a Greek euro exit,” the Wall
Street Journal quoted Papademos as saying. CNBC television
separately quoted Papademos as saying there aren’t preparations
underway in Greece for a euro exit.  Should the country’s officials ultimately decide to follow
that path, Greece would have to request a meeting of euro-area
finance ministers and leaders to set the exit conditions.  New York Close  The departure preparations could come as soon as the  New
York  bond market’s close for the weekend at about 5 p.m. on a
Friday. That’s 11 p.m. in Frankfurt and Brussels, home to most
European institutions, and midnight in Athens.  “We have to assume that some plans have already been
made,” said Gabriel Stein, a director at Lombard Street
Research in London. “If not, people at the IMF and the ECB are
failing in their duties to shareholders and taxpayers.”  European Union Trade Commissioner Karel de Gucht told De
Standaard in an interview published May 18 that European
officials are already working on contingency plans.  An ECB spokeswoman who declined to be named reiterated the
central bank’s policy of not commenting on emergency plans or
possible scenarios.  Central bankers in Europe have already started discussing
the possibility of a Greek exit from the euro area and how to
handle its fallout, Swedish Riksbank Deputy Governor Per Jansson
told Bloomberg News in an interview May 11.  ‘Technically’ Feasible  A Greek exit from the euro could be “technically”
managed, ECB Governing Council member  Patrick Honohan , who
analyzed the breakup of the currency union between Ireland and
the U.K. in a 1984 research paper, said in a speech in Estonia’s
capital, Tallinn, on May 12. It “is not necessarily fatal, but
it is not attractive.”  To stem any dollar shortages as a result of market panic,
other central banks including the U.S. Federal Reserve, the Bank
of England, the Bank of Japan and the Swiss National Bank
probably would stand ready with swap lines augmented after the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  On Saturday, finance ministers could converge on Brussels
to prepare for the leaders’ summit on Sunday in which Greece’s
exit plan would be finalized, Brzeski predicted.  He said he expects the best Greece can hope for is a one-
time loan to soften the economic shock even as it pursues aid
possibilities from the IMF.  ’Stray Dog’  “Europe is likely to throw them a few bones to ensure
they’re not kicking the country out like a stray dog,” Brzeski
said.  While Greek officials negotiate in Brussels, lawmakers in
Athens may announce on the Saturday that they plan to issue a
new currency, likely to be called drachma. Like its predecessor
it would float freely in the market. Banks, meanwhile, would be
instructed to redenominate all assets and liabilities, including
bank accounts, wages and outstanding debt, according to the
exchange rate chosen.  “A country leaving the euro zone should introduce its new
currency at parity with the euro,” Capital Economics economists
led by  Roger Bootle  wrote in a paper submitted for the 2012
Wolfson Economics Prize. “This would not only avoid the
temptation for retailers to round up but also make clear to
consumers that this had not been the case, and promote
acceptance and understanding throughout the economy.”  Cash Needs  At that time, the government could also commission a new
set of banknotes and coins.  De La Rue Plc (DLAR) , a U.K. company that prints notes for more
than 150 countries, is already preparing for a reintroduction of
the drachma, the London-based Times newspaper said on May 18.
The company has asked production staff to choose potential
security threads for use in new banknotes and has retrieved
covers from an old collection of copper molds, used for
watermarks, the newspaper said, citing people it didn’t name.  De La Rue declined to comment on the newspaper report.  Until the new notes and coins are delivered, euros might
still be used for small purchases, while the share of electronic
payments, such as bank transfers, and credit or debit card
transactions, would increase as people try to save their euros,
according to Lombard Street’s Stein.  At the same time, the country may deploy its military as
soon as early morning Saturday and close its borders, preparing
to stamp euros into drachma as an interim solution once a public
announcement has been made, Holland and Brzeski said.  Immediate Default  Greece would most likely also default immediately on its
280 billion euros of debt and find itself cut off from funding
options that normally include IMF aid and the capital markets,
according to  Charlotte  Gaitanides, head of European Studies at
the University of Flensburg in Germany.  “Greece’s economy is still uncompetitive,” she said in a
telephone interview. “The low value of the new currency will
almost inevitably bring about a massive balance of payments
deficit. So that means the country will have to go to the IMF.”  Negotiations with the IMF would probably drag on for most
of the weekend, with Greece trying to win compromises over
implementing budget cuts. The IMF likely would seek the
strictest possible conditions for aid from a country that has
violated past terms, to ensure the support of poorer, emerging-
market shareholders.  The IMF has to be “technically prepared for anything
because it’s our job,” Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said
in an interview with Dutch public television broadcast on May
16. “I’m not suggesting that this is a desirable solution. I’m
just saying that this is within the range of multiple options.”  EU Membership  European ministers, now seeking ways to keep Greece in the
euro, would in an exit scenario also focus on whether the
country can stay in the 27-country EU, which guarantees it
tariff-free trade and the free movement of citizens and labor.  “Europe won’t retreat completely,” said  Thomas Mayer ,
chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Frankfurt, in a phone
interview. “The situation already is extremely unstable in
Greece and the last thing lawmakers would want is Greece falling
back into anarchy.”  The challenges of this historical undertaking may prove
overwhelming to a brand-new government in a country that is
already struggling with basic bailout conditions such as regular
tax collection.  “I am completely convinced they could not orchestrate an
orderly exit,” said  Erik Nielsen , chief economist at UniCredit
SpA in London. “This is a country that can’t implement laws, so
how in the world are they going to secretly agree to print
money, control the banks, control capital flows and think this
is going to be orderly? It’s completely impossible.”  Public Fear  No matter how long the process takes, news may leak that
Greece is preparing to leave monetary union, sending Greeks
fearful for their savings into the streets. From that point, the
national government and European authorities would be racing to
finish negotiations, contain speculation and restore order
before officially informing the public that the euro they knew
was no longer there.  “There is no reason to think there won’t be riots and
violence,” said Lefteris Farmakis, a strategist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “It would be a pretty disastrous
situation. People have no understanding of the consequences of a
euro exit.”  As Sunday draws to a close in Europe and afternoon arrives
on the U.S. East Coast, traders in Wellington,  New Zealand ,
would be the first to face the opening of bond and currency
markets at 7 a.m. local time on Monday.  “The whole world will be online when New Zealand opens
up,” said Sean Keane, an analyst in Auckland at financial
advisory group Triple T Consulting and former head of Asia-
Pacific rates trading at Credit Suisse Group AG. “You’ll have
every fund manager in New York on Sunday watching what’s going
on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  