-- War Crimes Prosecutor Presses Serbia on Suspect Support Networks
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-22T17:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/war-crimes-prosecutor-presses-serbia-on-suspect-support-networks.html
Serge Brammertz, the United Nation’s
war crimes prosecutor for the former  Yugoslavia , said  Serbia 
must explain how some high-profile suspects could evade justice
for years before being caught in the Balkan country.  His report next month on Serbia’s cooperation with the
 International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia , which
will affect the nation’s chances of joining the European Union,
will “not be positive” regarding the efforts so far in
uncovering and punishing those who helped Bosnian Serb wartime
leaders  Radovan Karadzic  and Ratko Mladic dodge arrest.  “How could these fugitives hide for so long” Brammertz
said after meeting with Serbian security and justice officials
in Belgrade today. Karadzic was arrested in 2008 and Mladic was
caught last year, more than a decade after being indicted for
their roles in the 1992-1995 war in Bosnia-Herzegovina.  While praising Serbia’s level of cooperation with the UN
tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands, including “access to
archives in relation to ongoing cases,” he called for
“sufficient investigation in relation to the fugitives
networks.”  Brammertz arrived two days after  Tomislav Nikolic , a former
radical nationalist who softened his rhetoric to enter the
political mainstream, won presidential elections against
incumbent  Boris Tadic  who led Serbia to EU candidacy. Nikolic’s
former mentor, Vojislav Seselj, is on trial at the UN court and
his supporters include Luka Karadzic, Radovan Karadzic’s
brother. The UN prosecutor is not due to meet with Nikolic.  Conflict Nations Report  The bi-annual report, which also covers other Balkan states
involved in the 1990’s conflicts, will be presented to the UN’s
 Security Council  on June 7, Brammertz said.  Serbia became a candidate for EU membership earlier this
year, following a favorable assessment by the UN tribunal that
the country was meeting its extradition commitments.  Brammertz met with Serbia’s war crimes prosecutor, Vladimir
Vukcevic, whose  office  has indicted 145 people so far, of whom
63 have been sentenced to a total of 741.5 years in jail.  The UN court in the  Netherlands  tries prominent suspects
while the national courts in the region handle lower-level
people accused of crimes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  