-- Warburg Pincus Leads $1.1 Billion Investment in Energy Startup
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-05-22T16:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/warburg-pincus-leads-1-1-billion-investment-in-energy-startup.html
Warburg Pincus  LLC, the private-
equity firm with more than $35 billion in assets under
management, said it will invest as much as $1.13 billion with
three other partners in Venari Resources LLC, a deep-water oil
exploration company.  Warburg joins Kelso & Company, Temasek Holdings and the
Jordan Company in committing to fund the Dallas-based oil
exploration and production company, the firms said today in a
statement. Venari is led by Brian Reinsborough, the former chief
executive officer of Calgary, Canada-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY) ’s U.S.
business, who left the energy company last year to join New
York-based Warburg as a so-called executive-in-residence.  “We think the deal flow right now in the deep water Gulf
of  Mexico  is very high,” Reinsborough said in a telephone
interview today. “There are a lot of drill-ready prospects
available in the region, and we want to take advantage of that
oversupply.”  Warburg, which focuses more on backing companies it thinks
will grow than engaging in traditional buyouts, has invested
over $6 billion in energy companies during the past 20 years.
Led by Charles Kaye and Joseph Landy, the firm has raised more
than $5 billion for its next fund, which is seeking $12 billion
in total, a person familiar with the plans said this month.  Deals Double  The value of private-equity deals in the  energy industry 
almost doubled last year to $33.3 billion from $17.5 billion in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as the firms seek
to build track records in order to attract capital from clients
focused on the industry.  Temasek, Singapore’s state-owned investment company which
owns assets worth S$193 billion ($152 billion), said this month
it will back Cheniere Energy Inc. with about $468 million
alongside investor RRJ Capital.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  in February agreed to acquire
El Paso Corp.’s oil and gas exploration business for $7.15
billion, and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in November agreed to buy most of oil and
gas producer Samson Investment Co. for $7.2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  