-- Well Blowout Device Upkeep Rules Seen Issued by September
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-05-22T16:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/well-blowout-device-upkeep-rules-seen-issued-by-september-1-.html
Energy companies in the  Gulf of
Mexico  will need to improve maintenance of blowout preventers
and train employees working with the devices designed to stop a
runaway well, the U.S. Interior Department said.  The agency is planning to propose a rule by September, and
will ask that drillers ensure the units can cut, or shear, the
pipe to completely seal a failing well, Deputy Interior
Secretary  David Hayes  said today at a forum in Washington. The
rule also will require sensors on the devices to alert companies
about mishaps in the deep water, he said.  The Obama administration is considering additional
requirements for the $45 million, five-story tall devices after
a unit used by  BP Plc (BP/)  in 2010 was jammed by a portion of a pipe,
and failed to prevent the largest U.S. offshore spill. More than
100 people from industry and government were at the forum hosted
by the Interior Department.  “Today’s focus on the blowout preventer is our continuing
effort to make sure that we are exploring and developing our oil
and gas resources in the America’s oceans in a safe and
responsible way,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  told
reporters. “This rule will basically set the standards for the
world.”  The blowout preventer sits atop the wellhead to regulate
the force propelling oil and gas up the pipe. If the device
fails to control the fluctuating pressure, a large blade is
designed to sever, or shear, the pipe to choke the flow and,
like a window blind blocking the light, prevent explosive gases
from reaching the rig and crews on the surface.  Management Oversight  Elements of the new rule may add costs for energy
producers, although it’s worth the investment to avoid future
disasters, Mark Denkowski, International Association of Drilling
Contractors vice president for accreditation and certification,
said in an interview today.  Under already adopted rules, drillers need independent
third-party verification that their devices work, and must show
evidence of inspections and maintenance. Operators also must
maintain safety and environmental programs, and provide
management oversight of operations and contractors under the
current rules.  The Interior Department also is preparing a safety rule for
equipment such as the subsea valves used in oil production,
updating the standards adopted two decades ago,  James Watson ,
director of the department’s  Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement , told reporters today.  At the forum, Salazar asked the industry whether two sets
of blind shear rams are needed to ensure the units don’t fail.  BP added double shear rams on all its Gulf of Mexico
operations in the standards adopted by the London-based company
before resuming work in the Gulf.  The blind shear rams at BP’s Macondo well in the Gulf
failed to complete a seal in April 2010 because they were jammed
by a portion of drill pipe knocked out of alignment in the
explosion, Oslo-based Det Norske Veritas, a management-risk
company, found in a report commissioned by the Interior
Department and published last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  