-- Wells Fargo Doubles Down on Mutual Funds as Rivals Wither
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-22T15:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/wells-fargo-doubles-down-on-mutual-funds-as-rivals-wither.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will double its
$444 billion asset-management unit within seven years by
expanding in international markets as wounded  European rivals 
retrench, according to division chief Mike Niedermeyer.  The firm will add foreign stock and bond strategies to its
U.S.-based mutual-fund unit, open six more Luxembourg-based
funds for offshore clients and wrest business from competitors,
Niedermeyer said in an interview. The San Francisco-based bank,
the biggest U.S. home lender and owner of the nation’s largest
branch network, also seeks to buy a business that would give
clients greater access to handpicked  hedge funds , he said.  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 58, is plowing
resources into businesses such as asset management as new global
 bank regulations  and record-low  interest rates  crimp profit.
Morgan Stanley and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sold U.S. mutual-fund
units in the past three years, and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  has sought
buyers for a division focused on the Americas.  “We’re at a tipping point for the industry,” Andrew Karolyi, a finance professor at  Cornell University ’s Johnson
Graduate School of Management, said in an interview. “You have
seen some banks saying they want to double down while you have
others saying we want out. Asset management, as a business, is
as tough as it’s ever been.”  Advantage Funds  Asset management serves institutional clients such as
pensions and endowments, sovereign-wealth funds and
corporations. It’s separate from the bank’s wealth-management
unit, which houses Wells Fargo’s retail brokerage and manages
funds for individuals. Managers are outlining the unit’s goals
today as part of the bank’s Investor Day  presentation , and the
stock rose as much as 3.3 percent in  New York .  Wells Fargo, with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , is among the last
of the major U.S. banks to own a mutual-fund business, managing
about $215 billion in money-market and  mutual funds  under the
Wells Fargo Advantage Funds name, Niedermeyer said. The
business, run by Karla Rabusch, was bolstered by Wells Fargo’s
2008 purchase of Wachovia Corp. and its Evergreen Investment
Management Co. unit, which added $67 billion in assets.  “Having a model and consistent long-term strategy is a key
issue,” said Niedermeyer, who joined Wells Fargo 24 years ago.
“If we do great work we will grow faster than the industry.”  The Advantage funds attracted or appreciated by about $14
billion in the year ended March 31, making it the 17th-largest
fund family, according to Morningstar. The fund had $101 billion
in long-term assets at the end of the first quarter, Wells Fargo
said. An additional $109 billion was held in money-market funds.  ‘Found Religion’  The bank was the world’s 28th-biggest asset manager at the
end of 2010, according to  research  by Pensions & Investments
magazine and consultant Towers Watson & Co. JPMorgan ranked
ninth and Bank of America was 21st.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  is the
world’s largest, overseeing $3.68 trillion, while Pacific
Investment Management Co. holds $258.7 billion in a single pool,
 Bill Gross ’ Total Return Fund.  Wells Fargo, the fourth-biggest bank by assets in the U.S.,
will have to overcome a perception that bank- and insurance-
owned mutual funds are among the most expensive, said Harry Milling, a Morningstar analyst. The company has “found
religion” more than others, yet still has work to do, he said.  “When you talk to board members of bank-owned funds you
hear they want to be competitive as far as fees,” Milling said.
“You don’t hear them wanting to be the lowest in the industry.
That’s not their game.”  Expense Ratio  The  Advantage Growth Fund (SGROX) , with about $10 billion in
assets, has an expense ratio of 1.31 percent for the primary
share class, Milling said, compared with a median of 0.77
percent for similar funds. It has gained 10 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Most client assets are invested by 36 teams, including 25
at Wells Capital Management, and 11 others that follow less
traditional strategies, such as European Credit Management Ltd.
and Galliard Capital Management, the unit’s  website  shows.  Those teams may have more to do as investors return to the
stock and bond markets after the financial crisis erased $27.9
trillion from global equity indexes in 2008 and led Bank of
America to sell its Columbia Management Group fund business in
2009. Morgan Stanley sold its retail-funds unit to Invesco Ltd.
a year later.  Investors moved $109.1 billion into U.S.-based mutual funds
this year through March 31, according to the  Investment Company
Institute . About $6.8 billion was moved into international stock
funds while $15.4 billion was withdrawn from U.S. domestic stock
funds, ICI said on its  website . Bond funds added $94.5 billion.  Retail Brokerage  The move into international markets represents one of Wells
Fargo’s “key growth areas,” Niedermeyer said. Eight of the
investment teams focus on non-U.S. markets, a shortcoming the
bank addressed Dec. 15 when it said it would acquire EverKey
Global Partners, which invests in global-equity strategies.  The bank will sell mutual funds in the U.S. through its
network of 15,000 advisers assembled through acquisitions,
including a $4.5 billion payment to Prudential Financial Inc. in
2009 for the remaining stake in a joint venture. The business
includes the former A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. franchise,
“historically one of the largest and most successful
distributors of mutual funds,” Burton Greenwald, a consultant,
said in an e-mail.  That may be less important than it once was as investors
are likely to demand access to products created by other fund
providers as well as Well Fargo, Greenwald said. The bank’s
funds must outperform the average to get recommendations from
its brokers because of perceived conflicts, he said.  Debt Crisis  “Pushing your own products to retail investors is no
longer popular,” said Sophie Schmitt, a senior analyst at Aite
Group LLC.  Morningstar assigns four or five stars to 52 percent of the
Wells Fargo Advantage funds, compared with about one-third for
the industry. More than 65 percent of the assets held in the
funds aren’t subject to a load, a charge tacked onto the sale of
the fund, according to Morningstar.  Niedermeyer wagers that Wells Fargo can woo institutional
clients from European firms grappling with that region’s
sovereign-debt crisis. The lender has eight salespeople in
 Europe  and plans to add five more, he said.  For Sale  Deutsche Bank sought to sell asset-management businesses
overseeing almost 400 billion euros ($513 billion) to Guggenheim
Partners LLC before talks broke down. The firms may reach a deal
for the bank’s real estate and infrastructure unit, the lender
said in a May 11  statement , while Dexia SA, the bailed-out
Franco-Belgian lender, is selling a unit that manages about 80
billion euros. The uncertainty led some European clients to move
money to Wells Fargo last year, Niedermeyer said.  Wells Fargo, which manages only about $2 billion in
offshore funds, can challenge firms such as BlackRock and Pimco
to be within the top 20 in the next five years, he said. The
bank could sell other products, including those that can be
pitched to small-and medium-sized college endowments.  Growth may invite scrutiny. Mike Mayo, an analyst at CLSA
Ltd., questioned executives on the bank’s earnings call last
month about whether investment-banking expansion represents
“mission creep” from their core commercial-banking business.  “Wells is quite focused on trying to revive that banking-
supermarket approach,” Aite’s Schmitt said. “This is an
expansion of that model.”  As recently as the 1990s, brokers, banks and insurance
companies dominated the top 20 spots among U.S. mutual fund
families, when money funds are included in total assets.  Net Outflows  It hasn’t always worked out. Citigroup Inc. is partially
dismantling itself after ex-CEO Sanford I. Weill tried to sell
 savings accounts , insurance and investments in the 1990s. It
sold its money-management business to  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  in 2005.  Banks also were forced to reimburse clients or watch assets
dwindle when the performance of funds suffered. Evergreen, when
it was owned by Wachovia, saw net outflows of $11 billion in
2008 after subprime mortgage losses forced it to close a bond
fund and bail out money-market fund investors.  “It’s certainly possible to have a genuinely valuable
asset-management business inside a big bank,” said Loren Fox, a
senior analyst at New York-based Strategic Insight, a mutual
fund research and consulting firm. “The issue is whether mutual
funds are something that will be just another product or whether
asset management is a core business that you are committed to
building to stand on its own two feet. Wells Fargo is making a
big commitment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  