-- West Africa Cocoa Areas Forecast to Get Rains to May 28
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-22T10:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/west-africa-cocoa-areas-forecast-to-get-rains-to-may-28.html
West Africa, the world’s largest
cocoa-producing region, will get rains over the next six days,
potentially helping pod development as harvesting of the smaller
of two annual crops starts in  Ivory Coast , according to the U.S.
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  Most of top growers Ivory Coast and  Ghana  will get at least
20 millimeters (0.7 inch) of rain by May 28, data on the NOAA
 website  show. The western region of Ivory Coast will get 30 to
40 millimeters in the period. Coastal areas in Ghana will
receive at least 30 millimeters, the data showed. The two
countries accounted for 69 percent of global production last
season, according to the London-based International Cocoa
Organization.  Rains may favor pod development after dry weather earlier
this year delayed harvesting of the Ivorian mid-crop. The mid-
crop, which usually starts in April, has begun and is off to a
slow start this year,  Laurent Pipitone , director of the economic
and statistics division at the ICCO, said last week.  “Cocoa specialists mentioned that the rain levels, despite
being ‘adequate,’ were still slightly below historical
averages,” Eric Sivry, London-based head of the agriculture
options brokerage at Marex Spectron Group, said in a report e-
mailed today. “They added that West African crops would be
delayed.”  Cocoa prices will climb in the third and fourth quarters
because of “tighter fundamentals” and concerns about supply
from Ivory Coast as the country implements a reform of its cocoa
industry, according to Rabobank International. The changes
include a plan to sell 70 percent of the 2012-13 crop before the
harvest starts in October. The forward sales began on Jan. 31.  Cocoa will average 1,600 pounds ($2,523) a ton in  London  in
the third quarter and 1,700 pounds in the following three
months, Rabobank estimates. Demand will outpace supplies by
89,000 tons next season, the bank said in a report e-mailed
yesterday.  The commodity was down 0.2 percent to 1,536 pounds a ton by
11:18 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 