-- Two Parties Left in Race for LME as CME Said Removed
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-05-22T16:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/two-parties-left-in-race-for-lme-as-cme-said-removed.html
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. are the two companies left
bidding for the  London  Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest
metals market, after the  CME Group Inc. (CME)  was said to be removed.  CME, the world’s biggest futures exchange, is no longer in
the running to buy the LME, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the information isn’t public. Two parties are still in the
bidding process, according to an e-mailed statement from the
bourse today, which didn’t name any companies.  Discussions with the two remaining bidders will “involve
obtaining a detailed understanding of their plans for the future
governance and operation of the market and the deliver-ability
of their respective proposals, as well as the value offered,”
the LME said in the statement. The process will continue over
the coming weeks, the bourse said.  The LME, which traded $15.4 trillion of industrial metals
contracts last year, received multiple proposals by the May 7
deadline for a takeover, the bourse said May 8. CME Group, NYSE
Euronext, ICE and Hong Kong Exchanges made offers for the
exchange, said seven people who declined to be identified. NYSE
Euronext, the biggest U.S. exchange owner, said last week it was
removed from the list of bidders.  Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for the LME, declined to
comment on CME’s removal.  Claire Miller , a spokeswoman for ICE
in London, declined to comment. A call made to a Hong Kong
Exchanges spokesman, outside of normal business hours, was not
answered.  Michael Shore , a CME Group spokesman, also declined to
comment.  Net Income  The LME, which handles more than 80 percent of industrial
metals futures, is valued at $1.3 billion and could get a higher
price, according to Greenwich, Connecticut-based Equity Research
Desk, an adviser to hedge funds. The bourse’s net income dropped
19 percent to 7.68 million pounds ($12.2 million) in 2011, it
said last week. Revenue climbed 21 percent to 61.2 million
pounds on expenses of 49.9 million pounds, up from 38.6 million
pounds in 2010. The exchange isn’t planning to pay dividends.  Any bid will have to be approved by more than 50 percent of
shareholders, with the owners of at least 75 percent of shares
backing the move. The exchange is owned by more than 60 of its
94 members.  Diverse Membership  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and family-
owned trading firm Metdist Ltd. are the three biggest
shareholders. Owners such as Amalgamated Metal Trading Ltd., one
of 12 dealers entitled to trade on the LME floor, trace their
roots to the foundation of the 135-year-old exchange. Mining
companies Rio Tinto Group and Codelco, stainless steelmaker
 Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V)  and  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the world’s
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, all have shares.  “A major difficulty for any new owner will be managing the
membership, which itself is very complex,” said Ruben Lee,
chief executive officer of Oxford Finance Group, a London-based
company specializing in financial and commodity markets. “To
succeed, you need a very fine political dance through all the
various needs of the different stakeholders. But in the end,
money will be able to trump a lot of any difficulties that might
arise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  