-- Yahoo Executive, Fund Manager Plead Guilty to Insider Trading
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/yahoo-executive-hedge-fund-manager-plead-guilty-u-s-says-1-.html
A former  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  executive and a
former mutual  fund manager  at a unit of  Ameriprise Financial
Inc. (AMP)  pleaded guilty to  insider trading  and resolved civil
complaints by federal securities regulators, the U.S. said.  Robert W. Kwok, Yahoo’s senior director of business
management, gave illegal tips to Reema D. Shah, a portfolio
manager at the Ameriprise unit, RiverSource Investments LLC,
about Yahoo’s quarterly earnings and potential transactions with
outside companies, Preet Bharara, U.S. Attorney for Manhattan,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Shah’s firm managed billions of dollars in mutual funds and
a hedge fund, and traded on Kwok’s information, according to the
statement. Kwok and Shah also yesterday settled related civil
cases against them brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  In exchange for the inside information, Shah gave Kwok
information about potential business transactions of other
publicly traded companies, Bharara said. Kwok, 36, of Danville,
 California , and Shah, 40, of Menlo Park, California, both
pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities fraud,
according to the statement. Kwok’s sentencing is scheduled for
Sept. 18 and Shah’s is set for May 24, Bharara said.  “Kwok and Shah played a game of you scratch my back and
I’ll scratch yours,” Scott W. Friestad, an SEC lawyer, said in
an e-mailed statement. “When corporate executives and mutual
fund professionals misuse their access to confidential
information, they undermine the integrity of our markets and
violate the trust placed in them by investors.”  Penalties in the SEC case and disgorgement will be
determined later by a court, the agency said in a statement.
Kwok and Shah are permanently barred from serving as officers or
directors at public companies, according to the statement.  Neither Kwok nor Shah could be reached at their home phone
numbers for comment.  Laura Birger, a lawyer representing Kwok, and Ted Cassman,
an attorney for Shah, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment on the pleas yesterday.  The cases are U.S. v. Shah and Kwok and Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Shah and Kwok, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  