-- Zuma Painting Defaced at Johannesburg Gallery Amid Court
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-22T14:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-22/zuma-painting-defaced-at-johannesburg-gallery-amid-court.html
Two men vandalized a painting of
South Africa’s President  Jacob Zuma  showing his genitals that is
the subject of a court challenge by the ruling  African National
Congress  party.  The men smeared paint on the portrait, known as “The
Spear,” at a Johannesburg gallery that depicts Zuma in black,
yellow and red in a pose similar to one in which former Russian
leader  Vladimir Lenin  was frequently shown in Soviet propaganda
posters, footage broadcast on eNews Channel showed today.  Police arrested two men, one aged 25 and the other 58, for
allegedly making crosses with red paint and smearing black paint
on the portrait, according to a statement posted on the police’s
website. Both will appear in court on May 24 and are likely to
face a charge of malicious damage to property, it said.  The South Gauteng High Court postponed an application to
May 24 to have the painting removed after the ANC said it
infringes on Zuma’s constitutional right to dignity and privacy.
The party will continue with its case on principle because the
president had been humiliated, spokesman Jackson Mthembu said in
an interview.  ANC supporters gathered outside the court to protest
against the portrait. The  South African Communist Party  and the
Congress of South African Trade Unions, both of which are ANC
allies, condemned the image. The gallery had refused to take
down the painting, which forms part of artist Brett Murray’s
“Hail to the Thief II” exhibition, saying this would be a form
of censorship.  ‘Disrespectful’  “It’s rude, it’s crude, it’s disrespectful, it’s racist,”
 Gwede Mantashe , the ANC’s secretary-general, told reporters in
Johannesburg yesterday.  Zuma, 70, has four wives and 21 children. He married his
latest wife last month and has been divorced once, while another
wife died. In February 2010, Zuma confirmed that he fathered a
child out of wedlock with the daughter of a friend, prompting
the opposition Democratic Alliance party to call for a vote of
no confidence against him.  The Johannesburg-based  City Press  newspaper has kept an
image of the painting on its website because ANC demands to
remove it are “a march away from progressive politics to
patriarchal conservatism,” editor Ferial Haffajee said in an
editorial.  The painting had been bought by an unidentified person in
 Germany  for 136,000 rand ($16,450), the Johannesburg-based
Sunday Times reported May 20.  Shower on Head  The picture “was very disgusting and dirty and
undignified,” Doris Mdalalose, a 70 year-old unemployed women
from Soweto, with a blanket in ANC colors wrapped around her
shoulders, said outside the court.  Zuma has sued media organizations several times, including
cartoonist Jonathan Shapiro for a cartoon of him preparing to
rape Lady Justice, an allusion to rape charges against him and
allegations that he was attacking  South Africa ’s judiciary. Zuma
was acquitted of the charges in 2006.  Shapiro has consistently depicted Zuma with a shower
attached to his head, a reference to the president’s testimony
in the case that he showered after having unprotected sex with
the woman to avoid contracting HIV.  “I wouldn’t like it myself, but if the constitution says
it’s allowed, then it’s fine,” Stanley Masinga, a 33-year-old
accountant in a black suit, said while watching the ANC protest.  Murray’s exhibition also includes a poster of the ANC’s
logo with the words “For Sale” stamped across it and a print
of Zuma captioned “Cash is King.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  