-- 
2-D Leads Box-Office Comeback Showing 3-D Miscast as Hollywood Savior

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/2-d-leads-box-office-comeback-showing-3-d-is-miscast-as-savior.html
Comedies and dramas filmed in the
old-fashioned two-dimensional format are leading Hollywood’s
summer box-office revival, calling into question studios’
investment in more costly 3-D extravaganzas.  The season’s biggest surprises include  Universal Pictures ’
“Fast Five,” a 2-D action film that relied on car chases and
shootouts to generate $206 million in U.S. ticket sales.
Outperformers also include a pair of raunchy comedies, “The
Hangover Part II” and “Bridesmaids,” and last weekend’s
science-fiction thriller “Super 8.”  Studios are finding that slapping 3-D technology onto a
film doesn’t guarantee audiences, and relying on the format can
be a drag on the stock. Production surged after  James Cameron ’s
“Avatar” became the top-grossing movie ever. In the rush to
capture premium ticket prices, Hollywood made pictures in three
dimensions without first mastering the technique, said Jeff Bock, an analyst with Exhibitor Relations Co.  “Attendance has been falling off for three years, and 3-D
was supposed to be the savior,” Bock, who is based in  Los
Angeles , said in an interview. “With the 3-D rush jobs we’ve
had over the past two years, people are getting an inferior
product.”  Among the recent 3-D disappointments are “Kung Fu Panda
2,” which drew 45 percent of its U.S. opening-weekend audience
in the format, and “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger
Tides,” with 46 percent. Globally,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
“Pirates” is the year’s biggest-grossing picture with a haul
of $913 million.  Stocks Drop  Investors have punished shares of companies whose fortunes
are tied to 3-D’s success. Glendale, California-based DreamWorks
Animation is down 16 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
since the May 26 opening of “Kung Fu Panda,” which sold a
smaller percentage of 3-D tickets than previous DreamWorks
movies.  RealD Inc. (RLD) , the Beverly Hills, California-based provider of
3-D exhibition equipment, has dropped 26 percent in the past
month in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, and San
Francisco-based  Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB) , a smaller competitor in
the format, is off 9.5 percent over the same period.  The percentage of box-office sales tends to vary widely
depending on whether audiences believe 3-D adds to the
experience, according to Martin Pyykkonen, an analyst with Wedge
Partners in Greenwood Village,  Colorado .  “Avatar,” released in 2009, generated 71 percent of its
opening-weekend sales from 3-D showings, according to  Rich Greenfield , an analyst with BTIG in New York. Audiences
conditioned to watching the “Pirates” movies didn’t consider
3-D essential to the story, Pyykkonen said.  Closing Gap  Warner Bros .’ “Hangover,” the year’s biggest-grossing
movie to date in the U.S. and Canada with $221 million, No. 2
“Pirates” and “Fast Five,” in third place, have helped to
close the gap in ticket sales from last year. As of last
weekend, the year-to-date decline narrowed to 8 percent from 15
percent since the May 1 start of Hollywood’s traditional summer
season, according to researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office.  Bock has predicted that the domestic box office will hit
$11 billion this year, up from $10.6 billion in 2010, in part
because of the extra $3 or so per ticket moviegoers pay for 3-D
and  Imax Corp. (IMAX)  widescreen viewings.  The ticket price may have been too high in some cases,
 Chase Carey , chief operating officer of  Rupert Murdoch ’s News
Corp., said on a March 7 conference call.  Producing a film in 3-D can add as much as 30 percent to
the budget for a live-action movie and as much as 20 percent for
animation, Pyykkonen said.  ‘Lantern,’ ‘Transformers’  More is on its way. Warner Bros.’ “Green Lantern,” with
Ryan Reynolds starring as the DC Comics character, is expected
to generate $50 million in ticket sales domestically when it
opens this weekend and $135 million during its theatrical run,
the forecast of researcher BoxOffice.com. The 3-D film cost
about $150 million to make, Internet Movie Database estimates.  Director Michael Bay’s “Transformers: Dark of the Moon”
may rekindle enthusiasm for the format, said Pyykkonen.  Audiences are drawn to Bay’s heavy use of visual effects,
just as they are to Cameron, who spent a decade developing the
camera system and techniques used to film “Avatar,” Pyykkonen
said. That movie generated $2.78 billion in global ticket sales
for  News Corp. (NWSA)   “Dark of the Moon,” the third in Bay’s series about a
race of robotic aliens, is set to be released on June 29 by
 Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s  Paramount Pictures  and stars Shia LaBeouf and
Rosie Huntington-Whiteley.  “It will be the next interesting test as to what the
market really thinks,” Pyykkonen said. “Does the buzz build
and say, ‘Hey, you’ve got to go see this because of the 3-D.’”  Growth Rate  Studios plan to release about 34 movies in 3-D this year
and 38 next year. Pyykkonen estimates that as many as 44 will be
distributed in 2013, and said he expects quality to improve.  “If you think of this in the longer term, this is going to
work and it’s going to be taken for granted,” Pyykkonen said.
“The growth rate may be slower.”  One other element in 3-D’s favor is that the format is
popular outside the U.S. and  Canada . Foreign sales account for
about two-thirds of the global box office for many of
Hollywood’s big-budget films, and more than 75 percent for some,
including “Pirates.” The global box office reached $31.8
billion in 2010, an 8.2 percent increase, according to the
Motion Picture Association of America.  “Internationally, the percentages are way higher” for 3-D
ticket sales, said  Michael Lewis , chief executive officer of
RealD. “The industry is spending a lot of energy figuring out
how to maximize the potential of 3-D. This is still a relatively
new medium.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  