-- 
A Father’s Day Lesson About Children, and Life

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-06-17T15:28:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/a-father-s-day-lesson-about-children-and-life-jeffrey-goldberg.html
The morning of Sept. 8, 2008,
was like most mornings for Thomas S. Vander Woude, a former
airline pilot who, in retirement, kept a farm in Nokesville,
 Virginia . He went to Mass, and then turned to the relentless
demands of his 26 acres. By his side was his youngest son,
Joseph, known as Josie, who was 20 at the time, and who had  Down
syndrome . Josie’s six older brothers had long ago moved out of
the house, but Josie was his father’s inseparable companion.  While Thomas was working, Josie was off in a different part
of the yard when a broken septic-tank cover gave way under his
feet, and he slid in. Vander Woude, from a distance, saw his son
fall. He understood right away that Josie was in mortal danger.
The tank was 8 feet deep, and filled almost to the top with
waste.  Vander Woude rushed to the hole, which measured 2 square
feet. He reached down to grab his panicked son, but without
success. A workman at the house saw what was happening and told
Vander Woude’s wife, Mary Ellen, who called  emergency services .
The workman and Mary Ellen rushed outside to help. By then,
Vander Woude had lowered himself into the tank. He treaded in
the sewage in an attempt to keep Josie’s head above the water
line, but Josie was still sinking.  A Deliberate Decision  So Thomas Vander Woude made a decision: He would hold his
breath, dive under the sewage, and lift Josie onto his
shoulders. When rescuers finally arrived, they pulled Josie out
of the tank; he was alive. But  Vander Woude , 66 years old, was
dead.  He had made the deliberate decision to risk drowning in
sewage in order to save the life of his child.  For a while, it wasn’t clear that Josie would survive,
either. He was in a coma, on a ventilator, suffering from double
pneumonia. But he lived. His oldest brother, who is also named
Thomas, told me that the physicians treating Josie were stunned
to see a person survive 20 minutes in a septic tank. “It is one
of the many miracles we have experienced,” he said.  I first read about Thomas Vander Woude’s death  in the
Washington Post  soon after he died, but this is the sort of
story that stays with you. The hellishness of his final moments
gives the story a kind of ghastly power. But there is also
something opposite: an intimation of nobility, and a lesson
about living.  Prism of Fatherhood  I understood the story of Vander Woude’s death through the
prism of fatherhood. I tell myself, as I imagine most fathers
do, that I would make any sacrifice, suffer any hardship or
humiliation or pain, for my children. If a physician told me
that one of them, God forbid, was seriously ill, and needed a
new heart to live, I would offer mine without hesitation. I
believe that every father I know would do the same. But, of
course, most fathers never have to face a moment when they must
choose between their lives and those of their children. If I
were to face such a test, I believe I would pass, but perhaps
I’m just flattering myself.  Another question arises from the story of Thomas Vander
Woude, one which has to do not with his death, but with his
life: How did he become the sort of man who could devise a plan
to save his drowning son, and then carry out that plan, knowing
all the while that it might mean his own death?  “If that was the only time Dad ever sacrificed for any of
us, this would be a very sad story,” his son Thomas told me.
“But his devotion to us was constant.”  Nature of Happiness  I met Thomas in the rectory of Queen of Apostles Catholic
Church, in Alexandria, Virginia, where he’s a priest. Five of
the Vander Woude brothers are married, and they have, among
them, 28 children. Josie, who has fully recovered from his
injuries, lives with his mother, Mary Ellen. (They just returned
from  Rome , where they attended the beatification of  Pope John Paul II .) The Rev. Vander Woude, a placid man with a gentle
smile, describes his father as someone who trained himself for
virtue, and who possessed a crucial understanding -- one that is
particularly rare in self-indulgent, self-actualizing America --
about the nature of happiness. He knew that joy is best found
not in the pursuit of pleasure, but in the execution of
responsibility.  Thomas Vander Woude Sr. was raised on a farm in  South
Dakota . As a young man, he joined the Navy, and was a pilot in
the  Vietnam War . After 16 years, he left the Navy to become a
commercial-airline pilot, and for many years he flew the
 Washington  to  New York  shuttle. But mainly he was a pious and
committed Catholic, who attended Mass every day, who provided
for the poor, and who knew, as his son describes it, that God
meant for him to live for his family.  A Father’s Love  “A father puts others ahead of himself,” the Rev. Vander
Woude said. “That was his belief. He never said that. He just
did it. He loved being a husband and being a father. Pride,
pleasure and possessions are where people go for happiness. But
my father first thought of God, and the devotion to the family,
the love, comes naturally from that.”  The Vander Woude sons loved sports, and so their father
became the coach of their teams. He arranged his flying
schedule, his entire life, so that he could be present in the
lives of his sons. “There’s no doubt in our minds, ever, what
his priority was,” another of his sons, Chris, told me. “He knew
what God wanted of him, and God wanted him to be a father.”  A Gift from God  Thomas and Mary Ellen considered Josie, in particular, to
be a gift from God. About 90 percent of Down syndrome babies are
aborted these days. This option wasn’t even a theoretical
possibility for the couple. “My mother was in her 40s when she
had Josie, but she didn’t have amniocentesis, because there was
never a question of not having the baby,” the Rev. Vander Woude
said.  The Vander Woudes weren’t plaster saints. Chris Vander
Woude, who is the athletic director at Christendom College in
Front Royal, Virginia, said that Josie caused his parents
worries and frustrations. But they never saw their youngest son
as a burden. “From the get-go, there was a lot of time and
energy focused on him, but my parents knew that it was their
role to love him, like they loved all of us. The truth is,
someone with Down syndrome is easier to love in a lot of ways,
because they’re so loving, because they assume the best about
people. But that didn’t matter. He was my father’s son, and
that’s all the reason my father needed to love him.”  Ultimate Responsibility  He went on, “We believe providentially that when Joseph was
born, that was the beginning of a process that would lead Dad to
perform his ultimate responsibility.”  I’m reasonably sure an atheist would sacrifice his life for
his child. But I also don’t doubt that Thomas Vander Woude’s
powerful faith cleared the path into the tank. A person who has
an articulated calling, who believes in something larger than
himself, could more immediately accept the gravity of the
moment.  “He went down there in peace,” the Rev. Vander Woude said.
“This is what he did. This is who he was. This was where his
life was taking him.”  I asked him to recall an image of his father at his
happiest. He told me of a family vacation, children and
grandchildren together, on the Outer Banks of  North Carolina .
They assigned a theme to each night of the trip. One night was
devoted to Tex-Mex food and country music. Josie, he said, is a
big country-music fan.  “What I remember is that Dad would dance with all his
granddaughters. That was just joy for him.”  A Secret  There’s a little secret about Father’s Day that I think a
lot of fathers understand, and that our children don’t. As much
as I love oddly shaped pancakes, and new grill mitts, and the
chance to sleep for an extra half-hour, it is all so
unnecessary. The joy of Father’s Day is the joy of every day:
the gift of being in the company of your children, and of living
for them in the way you are meant to live, in the way that
Thomas Vander Woude lived, for all of his sons.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 