-- 
AARP Backs Long-Term Social Security Cuts

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-17T19:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/aarp-says-it-will-back-social-security-cuts-to-ensure-solvency.html
AARP , a lobbying group for retirees,
said today it is willing to support cuts in Social Security over
“the long term” to shore up the program’s finances while
stressing its opposition to any benefit changes as part of
current efforts to slash the federal debt.  “We are open to talking about different options to
strengthen Social Security for the long term” including
“changes on the benefit side,” David Certner, the group’s
legislative director, said in an interview.  He denied a Wall Street Journal report that said AARP is
changing its policy, and some experts on both sides of the issue
agreed.  “They never ruled out there could be some cuts,” said
 Dean Baker , co-director of Center for Economic and Policy
Research in  Washington , which opposes benefit cuts. “That’s
been their position as long as I’ve been around.”  Bob Bixby , head of the Arlington, Virginia-based Concord
Coalition, which supports reductions, agreed that AARP has never
ruled them out.  The issue of trimming Social Security and Medicare benefits
for seniors has become supercharged as members of Congress are
trying to agree on a deficit reduction plan before an Aug. 2
deadline to raise the U.S.’s $14.3 trillion debt limit.
Lawmakers aren’t likely to include Social Security changes in
any agreement, with Democrats opposed to them.  Advocacy Groups  The Journal report prompted Social Security advocacy groups
to hold a conference call criticizing the AARP’s stance. “AARP
is not representing their members on this issue,” said Ed
Coyle, executive director of the Alliance for Retired Americans,
a 4-million-member group.  “Seniors of all political persuasions and even voters of
all age groups do not support cutting Social Security
benefits,” said Max Richtman, acting chief executive officer of
the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare.
“They are dragging this discussion of Social Security cuts back
into the debate on  deficit reduction  and that’s just plain
wrong.”  Social Security’s trustees reported last month that, with
waves of retiring  Baby Boomers  becoming eligible for benefits,
it won’t be able to pay them in full beginning in 2036.  AARP favors lifting a cap on the  payroll tax  that funds the
program, though it is willing to accept benefit cuts too,
Certner said.  Chief Executive Officer A. Barry  Rand  said in a statement
today that “any changes would be phased in slowly, over time,
and would not affect any current or near-term beneficiaries.”  “It has long been AARP’s policy that Social Security
should be strengthened to provide adequate benefits and that it
is sufficiently financed to ensure solvency with a stable  trust
fund  for the next 75 years,” Rand’s statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  