-- 
Labor-Rights Complaint Against Bahrain to Be Reviewed by U.S. Government

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-17T02:31:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/labor-rights-complaint-against-bahrain-to-be-reviewed-by-u-s-government.html
The U.S. Labor Department will
 review  a complaint against Bahrain filed by the AFL-CIO labor
federation, which said the Persian Gulf nation is violating
terms of a free-trade agreement with a crackdown on protests.  Bahrain has a continuing campaign to punish union activity
and is repressing government protests, which are backed by local
labor unions, according to the AFL-CIO filing.  “The egregious attacks on workers must end, and the
Bahraini government’s systematic discrimination against and
dismantling of unions must be reversed,”  Richard Trumka ,
president of the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation,
said yesterday in a statement. “Workers must be reinstated.
These actions directly violate the letter and the spirit of the
trade agreement.”  Bahrain’s government declared a three-month state of
emergency on March 15 after troops arrived to quell protests led
by members of the Shiite Muslim majority seeking increased
democracy and civil rights. Protests were inspired by the
toppling this year of longtime leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  The U.S. this week put Bahrain, an ally and home for the
U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, on a list of human-rights violators  to
be scrutinized by the UN Human Rights Council along with  Iran ,
 North Korea , Syria and  Zimbabwe .  The U.S. and Bahrain signed a free-trade agreement in 2006,
which included protections for labor. The Labor Department,
which issued the Federal Register notice asking for comments,
said it is seeking more information about whether Bahrain’s
actions violate the terms of that pact, and will make a public
report within 180 days.  “The decision to accept the submission for review is not
intended to indicate any determination as to the validity or
accuracy of the allegations contained in the submission,”
according to the notice.  A phone message left at the Bahrain Embassy in Washington
wasn’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  