-- 
Abu Dhabi Commercial Sells Malaysian Bank Stake to Aabar for $1.9 Billion

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-06-17T10:43:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/abu-dhabi-commercial-sells-malaysian-bank-stake-to-aabar-for-1-9-billion.html
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the
 United Arab Emirates ’ third-biggest bank, agreed to sell its
24.9 percent stake in Malaysian lender  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  to
state-owned Aabar Investments PJSC to free up capital.  Aabar Investments, owned by the  Abu Dhabi  government, will
pay 10.80 ringgit per share, they said in a joint statement
today. This values the deal at 5.9 billion ringgit ($1.9
billion), based on calculations by Bloomberg. That means Abu
Dhabi Commercial made a 51 percent gain after acquiring its
stake for 3.9 billion ringgit in 2008.  “We have benefited tremendously from our ownership of
RHB,” Abu Dhabi Commercial Chief Executive Officer Ala’a
Eraiqat said in the statement. “We are now clearly focused on
executing our strategy of being a UAE-centric bank.”  RHB, overtaken last month by Hong Leong Bank Bhd. as
 Malaysia ’s fourth-largest lender, is the subject of a takeover
battle between  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  and  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) 
A merger with either of these rivals could potentially create
Southeast Asia’s biggest bank by market value.  Malaysian lenders are consolidating amid intensifying
competition as more overseas lenders are granted licenses to
operate in the Southeast Asian nation. Bahrain’s Elaf Bank B.S.C.
was the latest to win an Islamic banking license on June 15.  Today’s deal means Abu Dhabi can remain a substantial
shareholder supportive of a potential merger, Malaysian Prime
Minister Najib Razak told reporters at a signing ceremony in
Putrajaya, outside of the Malaysian capital.  Premium Paid  “The sale will result in the release of capital,” Abu
Dhabi Commercial said in the statement.  The price paid is an 11 percent premium to RHB’s closing
share price of 9.75 ringgit in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  “We are impressed by the strong performance achieved by
RHB,” Aabar Investments Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Badawy Al-Husseiny said in the statement. “We are excited by the
opportunity to potentially participate in domestic consolidation
and regional expansion.”  Malayan Banking, the country’s biggest lender known also as
Maybank, and its largest local rival last month won separate
approvals from the Malaysian central bank to begin competing
merger talks with RHB.  The combined capitalization of Maybank and RHB would be
$29.2 billion, based on today’s closing share prices, exceeding
 Singapore ’s biggest lender DBS Group Holdings Bhd. CIMB and
RHB’s joint market value would be $28 billion, also higher than
DBS’s $26.2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  