-- 
ACA to Build Ethanol Mill to Meet Argentina 5% Blend Requirement

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-06-17T21:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/aca-to-build-ethanol-mill-to-meet-argentina-5-blend-requirement.html
Asociacion de Cooperativas
Argentinas , an Argentine farmers’ association, will build an $80
million corn-ethanol plant as distributors struggle to comply
with a law that they blend standard gasoline with 5 percent of
the renewable fuel.  The plant will be able to process 300,000 tons of corn into
125 million liters (33 million gallons) of fuel a year, Lucas
Amboage, technical manager for the association, known as ACA,
said in an interview. Construction is set to begin in October in
the city of Villa Maria in central Argentina, and is expected to
be complete by April 2013.  The output will help fuel distributors meet the 5 percent
blending requirement that was implemented at the start of last
year. Ethanol production in  Argentina  has been hindered because
banks have been reluctant to finance the construction of new
plants, said Carlos St. James, managing director at the Buenos
Aires-based renewable energy consulting firm Santiago & Sinclair
LLC.  “Banks in Argentina don’t want to offer 10-year loans,”
which are necessary for big construction projects, because of
the “country risk,” he said yesterday. “Within a 10 year
period you could have a devaluation of currency, a
nationalization or some kind of economic debacle” that would
prevent borrowers from repaying loans.  The 5 percent blending requirement is “not even close to
being met,” St. James said, and the current rate is about 2
percent.  ACA may seek funding from the  Inter-American Development
Bank , Amboage said. “The financing situation in Argentina is
very different from more developed countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  