-- 
Macedonia’s Government May Delay Eurobond Issue, Bogov Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-06-17T14:57:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/macedonia-s-government-may-delay-eurobond-issue-bogov-says-1-.html
Macedonia’s government has given no
“indication” about plans to sell Eurobonds in the second half
of this year, after elections delayed the sale earlier this
year, central bank Governor Dimitar Bogov said.  “For the time being, the Eurobond issue has been
postponed,” Bogov said an interview in Becici, Montenegro
today. “We’ll see whether the government will issue Eurobonds
in the second half. I have no indication yet they will.”  The former Yugoslav republic, which has been a European
Union candidate since 2005, planned to sell Eurobonds in the
first quarter of 2011 to repay early 220 million-euro loan from
a so-called precautionary  credit line  approved by the
 International Monetary Fund  in March.  Macedonian law bans debt issues by the government ahead of
elections, Bogov said. Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski and his
VMRO party were reelected in early parliamentary elections on
June 5.  Macedonia has no plans to tap further into the 390 million-
euro contingent IMF credit line, after becoming the first
country to borrow from such an arrangement, Bogov said. The fund
offers such credit lines at more lenient conditions to countries
with stable finances, assuming they won’t use them.  “There is no expectation of any event that would trigger
withdrawal of the remaining amount,” Bogov said. He took office
in May, replacing Petar Goshev, whose term in office ended.
Should there be no Eurobond sale, the country has a three-year
grace period after which it will start repaying the loan after
2014, he said.  Greek Crisis  The Balkan nation of 2 million people sees no threat from
the Greek debt crisis so far as the two Greek bank units in the
country, which account for 26 percent of total bank assets, have
“high solvency, excellent liquidity,” and they are not exposed
to their parent banks, Bogov said.  Macedonia’s economic growth forecast for the first quarter
is 5 percent and gross domestic product will expand between 3
percent and 4 percent in 2011 driven by exports and investment,
Bogov said. Inflation will accelerate to between 4.5 percent and
5 percent this year, fueled by higher global food and oil
prices.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net  