-- 
Transparency Is Solution to Europe’s Crisis: Matthew Winkler

-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-06-17T08:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/lack-of-transparency-hurts-european-banks-commentary-by-matthew-winkler.html
The  European Central Bank  allowed
itself to be deceived by a default in the making and now refuses
to share with the taxpaying citizens it represents the details
of the deception. Secret and opaque financing got  Europe  into a
mess that can only be resolved by the transparency of full
disclosure.  As European Union leaders debate a second aid package for
Greece, the crisis has widened to Ireland and  Portugal  and
challenges the viability of the confederation of the 17
countries sharing the euro. Greece may need as much as
45 billion euros ($63.5 billion) in new loans to avoid a default
even after it got a 110 billion euro lifeline last year from
European countries and the  International Monetary Fund .  Under the EU’s Freedom of Information rules, Bloomberg News
is suing the ECB to release documents showing how Greece used
secretive financial instruments in the family of derivatives to
paper over burgeoning and undisclosed indebtedness from the
central bank -- a pattern of obscure financing spanning at least
half a decade.  The two internal documents Bloomberg is requesting from the
ECB were drafted for the central bank’s six-member executive
board in  Frankfurt  last year.  The documents reveal what the ECB knew a year before the
first bailout for Greece was agreed upon and they can inform
citizens about the thinking of monetary officials before
taxpayer money was committed to save the country from default.
(The EU’s statistics office says it only received full
information about the swaps four months after the bailout.)  ‘Incendiary Instruments’  Boosting transparency on the derivatives not traded on any
exchange -- information that is hidden from European taxpayers
despite the scope of the potential liabilities -- would show how
governments have used such incendiary instruments to bet on
markets and may persuade nations to avoid using them ever again.  While we know how the interest-rate and currency swaps
added to  Greece ’s debt when they were struck, Greece has yet to
disclose the current valuations of the contracts or how much
money has been lost or made in the context of the country’s
attempt to repay its debts.  At a time when European governments and private investors
are being asked to contribute to another bailout for Greece, the
ECB’s secrecy leaves unanswered questions. Money flees secrecy,
and opacity engenders suspicion among investors and the public.  The stakes couldn’t be higher. The euro is the crowning
achievement of the European Union, which has maintained peace on
the continent and blended the economies of its 27 members in
ways undreamed of at its birth more than half a century ago. The
17 nations sharing the euro use one currency and live under one
monetary policy -- for better or for worse, as the Greek crisis
shows. The 13-year-old ECB is being tested as never before.  Precedent at Fed  The ECB case follows Bloomberg’s success in forcing the
U.S. Federal Reserve to disclose details of the emergency loans
it provided to banks in 2008.  Those disclosures showed that a European bank -- not a U.S.
one -- was the biggest borrower from the Fed’s main funding
source during the height of the 2008 panic. The documents also
revealed that Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
borrowed more often than they told investors. And the Bank of
China Ltd. and Arab Banking Corp., a Bahrain-based bank partly
owned by the Libyan Central Bank, both tapped the U.S. central
bank’s fund.  The Fed, and a group of the biggest U.S. banks that joined
in defense of the lawsuit, warned that the disclosures would
weaken Fed loan recipients and possibly lead to bank runs. More
than two months after the records were released, nothing of the
sort has occurred.  ‘Impenetrable Investments’  So-called hedging instruments such as interest-rate swaps
have been responsible for billions of dollars of losses for
government entities in the U.S., showing their danger.
Understanding the role investment banks played in offering these
impenetrable investments may help regulators as they write rules
for the $601 trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market .  The ECB owes a full accounting to member countries and
taxpayers whose money has propped up Greece and may yet be used
to support other EU countries. Transparency on this issue is the
only way we can make sure a debt crisis never again becomes
contagious.  ( Matthew Winkler  is the editor-in-chief of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are his own. This article appeared
earlier in the Wall Street Journal Europe.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Winkler in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Marty Schenker at   mschenker@bloomberg.net  