-- 
Afghan Efforts at Taliban Reconciliation Get Boost From UN

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-17T20:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/afghan-efforts-at-taliban-reconciliation-get-boost-from-un-1-.html
Efforts by  Afghanistan ’s government
to reconcile with the Taliban were boosted today by  United
Nations  Security Council action to facilitate the lifting of
sanctions on members of the radical Islamic militia who renounce
terrorism.  The  Security Council  voted 15 to 0 to adopt two resolutions
that will distinguish between the Taliban and terrorist group
al-Qaeda in the enforcement of the travel ban, asset freeze and
arms embargo imposed in 1999. The so-called Consolidated List of
Taliban and al-Qaeda individuals and entities will be split in
two, and administered by separate Security Council committees.  “Al-Qaeda and the Taliban have become different animals,
with different objectives and areas of operations,” UN
terrorism expert Richard Barrett said in an interview. “This
will provide the opportunity for the Taliban to engage with the
Afghan government.”  The government in Kabul has been frustrated by its
inability to influence enforcement of the sanctions, Barrett
said. The resolutions, recognizing the government’s “strong
desire to seek national reconciliation,” provide for
“consultations” with the  Security Council  on additions or
deletions from the lists.  “One of their complaints was that this whole process was
beyond their control and influence,” Barrett said. “If you are
trying to negotiate with people, it is important to show that if
they come across, reconcile with the government, you have some
power to get them off the sanctions list.”  ‘Humiliating Situation’  Barrett pointed out that four members of Afghanistan’s High
Peace Council that is working on reconciliation issues are on
the sanctions list. The government has requested that those
individuals, and about 44 others, be removed from the list. The
Security Council is weighing that request, Barrett said.  “We were sometimes in a humiliating situation,” Zahir Tanin, Afghanistan’s ambassador to the UN, said in an interview.
“People were ready to join the  peace process  and share the
future with Afghans, but we were not able to take their names
off the list. Now we can relate reconciliation with the
sanctions regime.”  The peace process has reached the stage of “practical
steps” toward an accord that will be encouraged by the Security
Council action, he said.  Consolidated List  There are 138 Taliban and 253 al-Qaeda individuals on the
current consolidated list, and 92 entities such as related
terrorist groups.  One change the resolutions made was to require unanimity in
the Security Council to override a delisting recommendation by
the sanctions committee ombudsman, Canadian Judge Kimberly
Prost, who reviews appeals submitted by listed individuals.  The U.S. has about 97,000 troops in Afghanistan fighting
alongside almost 50,000 soldiers from 47 other nations in an
effort to degrade the Taliban in its southern Afghanistan
stronghold while building up the central government’s ability to
secure the country.  The troops have been there since the U.S. toppled the
Taliban regime because of its support for al-Qaeda terrorists
who planned the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks.  “Today’s action shows that the Security Council can adapt
flexibly to evolving threats,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said
in a statement. The resolutions send a “clear message to the
Taliban that there is a future for those who separate from al-
Qaeda, renounce violence and abide by the Afghan constitution,”
she said, adding that the measures allow the council to “to
custom-tailor its response to the unique and persistent threat
posed by al-Qaeda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  