-- 
SABMiller Denies Africa Tax Allegations, Will Engage Regulatory Officials

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-17T15:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/african-officials-to-probe-sabmiller-tax-plan-wall-street-journal-reports.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
biggest brewer by volume, denied allegations that it dodged
taxes in some African countries and said it’s prepared to
discuss the matter with authorities.  Officials from  South Africa , Zambia, Tanzania,  Ghana  and
Mauritius are to meet this month to discuss tax payments made by
London-based SABMiller, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
Logan Wort of the African Tax Administration Forum. The meeting
will be held on June 28 in Cape Town in the wake of a report by
ActionAid, a U.K. non-profit group, which challenged the way the
brewer paid taxes in those countries, the newspaper said.  “SABMiller strongly refutes the allegations made in
ActionAid’s report,” the company said in an e-mailed response
to questions from Bloomberg News. “We do not engage in
aggressive tax planning in any part of our operations, and the
report includes a number of flawed and inaccurate assumptions.”  ActionAid said in November that SABMiller avoided paying
$31 million in taxes in Africa and  India  through legally
permissible tax-avoidance strategies.  SABMiller, which has stock-exchange listings in London and
Johannesburg, said it paid $2.1 billion in taxes to African
countries in the past financial year.  The African Tax Administration Forum’s Lebo Leshoro
confirmed by phone today that SABMiller will be discussed at the
June 28 meeting. The Pretoria-based organization didn’t return
calls from Bloomberg News seeking further information.  The forum, which was set up in 2008 to promote efficient
tax administration among 28 member states, has no statutory or
policy-making powers. It brings together heads of tax
administration to discuss African tax policy, its  website  shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 