-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise as Financial Companies Gain; RIM Tumbles

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-06-20T20:34:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/agrium-bombardier-may-move-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for the first
time in four days as equities rebounded from their lowest prices
relative to earnings since August, led by financial companies
and raw-materials producers.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  climbed 2.5 percent after an
analyst at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  raised his rating on the
insurer.  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , Canada’s second-largest fertilizer
producer, advanced 4.6 percent after saying retail sales and
higher fertilizer prices will increase earnings. BlackBerry
maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  fell 6.7 percent, extending its
loss to a second session, after cutting its profit forecasts.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 67.75
points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,857.70. The S&P/TSX fell 7.3
percent this month through June 17 to a seven-month low as
weaker-than-forecast data on U.S. manufacturing and industrial
production and an intensifying European debt crisis fanned
concern that growth will slow. S&P/TSX stocks traded at an
average price-to-earnings multiple of 18.14, the lowest since
Aug. 26.  “We’re experiencing some bearish fatigue,” said Gerry Brockelsby, a  money manager  at Marquest Asset Management Inc. in
Toronto, which oversees C$250 million ($255 million). “The
valuations are looking fine. The bad news is built into the
market.”  Manulife,  North America ’s fourth-biggest insurer, increased
2.5 percent to C$15.95 after closing at a six-month low June 17.
Doug Young, an analyst at TD, raised his rating to “buy” after
having a “hold” rating on the shares for 11 months.  Power Corp.  All other S&P/TSX insurers climbed, as did seven of the
eight banks in the index. Power Corp. of  Canada , the Desmarais
family’s financial holding company, gained 1.6 percent from a
nine-month low to C$26.07. TD, the country’s second-biggest
lender by assets, rose 0.8 percent to C$78.92.  Fertilizer producers rallied today after Agrium raised its
second-quarter profit forecast to a range of $4.10 a share to
$4.40 a share from last month’s estimate of $3.38 a share to
$3.88 a share.  Horst Hueniken, an analyst at Stifel Financial Corp., said
in a note to clients that investors should buy fertilizer
stocks. Last week’s decline in industry shares was an
overreaction to the U.S. Senate’s vote to eliminate an ethanol
tax break, he said.  Agrium gained 4.6 percent, the most this year, to C$81.63.
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer by market value, advanced 1.8 percent to
C$50.62.  Alternative Investment  Gold and silver producers advanced as European leaders
meeting in  Luxembourg  failed to reach an agreement on a second
bailout of  Greece .  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-largest
gold producer by market value, increased 2.3 percent to C$46.44.
 Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , Canada’s fourth-biggest precious-metals
company by market value, climbed 3.6 percent to C$30.55.  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , which mines in  China , surged 5.6
percent to C$8.35 after saying it will buy back up to 5.7
percent of its shares. Shares of the Vancouver-based company had
slumped 49 percent from April 8 through June 17.  Uranium producers retreated after U.S. Interior Secretary
 Ken Salazar  extended a moratorium on uranium mining on
government-owned land near the Grand Canyon.  Cameco Corp. (CCO) , the
world’s largest producer of the nuclear fuel, fell for a seventh
day, slipping 2.5 percent to C$22.74. Denison Mines Ltd.
decreased 7.8 percent to C$1.66, the lowest price since
September.  Analyst Downgrade  RIM completed its biggest two-day decline since September
2008 after  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at AllianceBernstein
Holding LP, cut the stock to “underperform” from “market
perform.” The shares dropped 6.7 percent today to C$25.41.  Shares of the Waterloo, Ontario-based company plunged 22
percent June 17, after the company cut its earnings forecasts.
RIM is losing a war in smartphones to Apple Inc. and devices
using Google Inc.’s Android operating system, Ferragu said in a
note to clients.  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the forestry company fighting a short
seller’s assertions of financial manipulation, sank 14 percent
to C$2.73 after closing at a five-year low yesterday.  “Inconsistencies” have been found in the valuation of
Sino-Forest’s holdings in China’s Yunnan province, Canada’s
Globe and Mail said June 18, citing Chinese government officials
and forestry experts it didn’t identify. In a statement, the
company called the report an “incorrect portrayal.”  The S&P/TSX Telecom Services Index rallied the most in 15
months. The index has gained 8.7 percent this year as investors
have sought stocks with higher-than-average dividend yields.  BCE Inc. (BCE) , Canada’s largest phone company, advanced 2.5
percent to C$38.12.  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , the country’s
biggest wireless carrier, increased 1.8 percent to C$35.97.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  