-- 
Air France Insists on Repair Rights in Airbus-Boeing Contest

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-06-17T19:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/air-france-seeks-overhaul-rights-in-airbus-boeing-order-contest.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, weighing
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 against the Airbus SAS 350 for a 100-plane
order, said it will insist on offering its own maintenance
services for the aircraft and engine models it purchases.  Overhaul and support rights for the Air France Industries
division is “a subject discussed” with manufacturers including
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc, Boeing and Airbus, Chief Executive
Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon said in an interview.  “We insist upon and will get what we need to remain a
significant player in this business,” he said in  Washington .  Rolls-Royce, the sole A350 engine-maker, is refusing to
allow Air France to offer maintenance to other airlines, two
people said last month, declining to be identified because the
talks are confidential. The $20 billion plane purchase being
prepared by Air France may include both the Airbus and Boeing
787s equipped with  General Electric Co. (GE)  turbines, they said.  Europe ’s biggest airline is seeking to expand its  Air
France Industries  unit, one of a dwindling number of in-house
service shops that compete with the plane and engine makers for
repair work. The strategy is at odds with the latest Boeing and
Airbus aircraft programs, which promised suppliers more after-
sales profit in return for bigger upfront investments.  Rolls-Royce spokesman Richard Hedges said the company had
no comment and GE didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  Rolls is balking at Air France’s request to allow it to
overhaul Trent engines as part of a deal for the Airbus plane,
the people said last month. The enginemaker’s position may shift
plans at Air France to divide the purchase of about 100 long-
range jets between the 787 and A350, they said.  GE Willing  The French airline doesn’t currently service any Rolls-
Royce turbines. Its fleet is equipped solely with engines from
GE or the U.S. company’s joint ventures with  Safran SA (SAF)  and
United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney, according to data
from aviation research firm Ascend.  GE, which lets Air France Industries service its existing
models, is more willing to extend that right to the 787’s GEnx
engines, the people also said. The mid-sized Boeing plane is due
to enter service around September, two years before the A350.  Air France Industries, like the maintenance units of
Deutsche Lufthansa AG and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , counts on
revenue from servicing other carriers to help cover costs. Other
airlines accounted for one-third of maintenance business last
year, when revenue at the division grew 8 percent.  Among aerospace suppliers, enginemakers have the most to
gain from service revenues because jet turbines need more
frequent maintenance and part replacements than airframes. The
share of the Rolls-Royce engine fleet covered by its TotalCare
maintenance contracts rose to 76 percent last year from 55
percent in 2007, according to the company’s annual reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 Jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  