-- 
Laird Will Close Handset-Antenna Unit, Maintains Forecasts

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-17T15:57:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/laird-will-close-handset-antenna-unit-maintains-forecasts.html
Laird Plc (LRD) , a maker of mobile-phone
electronic shields that rejected an offer from  Cooper Industries
Plc (CBE) , said it will close its handset-antenna unit, which has been
breaking even at best.  Laird makes antennas for  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , once its biggest
customer. The closure won’t affect its full-year forecasts as
demand for other products is improving, the London-based company
said in a Regulatory News Service statement today.  The announcement follows Cooper Industries’ statement
yesterday that Laird turned down a 493 million-pound ($798
million) offer. Laird said today it’s more diversified than
previously. In March, it said last year’s revenue from Nokia
dropped to 19 percent, from 40 percent in 2009, and today it
said that contribution will be minimal now.  “This decisive action will allow us to focus better on the
rest of our businesses and to concentrate on continuing to
strengthen our leading positions in high-growth markets,” Laird
said in the statement.  Laird rose 8.4 pence, or 4.5 percent, to 197.3 pence in
 London , after rising the most in more than two decades
yesterday. The shares have risen 14 percent so far this year,
giving the company a market value of 525.4 million pounds.  Michael Blogg, an analyst at Arbuthnot Securities, said
shareholders would probably be happy with an offer close to
Cooper’s 185 pence per share, citing Laird’s “poor track
record” and its business as a maker of parts for wireless and
electronics products.  ‘Not Particularly Attractive’  “This is not a particularly attractive business to be in,
even if the rest of the portfolio, after exiting handset
antennas, is currently in a growth phase,” he said in a note to
investors. He has no recommendation on the stock. “An auction
must be the best hope for achieving greater value.”  Laird said it will take a charge to cover costs of closing
the phone-antenna unit, yet the closure and sale of assets and
inventory will add about 20 million pounds to earnings. The unit
broke even in the first quarter and sales declined after that,
the company said.  Laird also said its second-quarter comparable sales,
excluding handset antennas, will probably be higher than this
year’s first quarter and last year’s second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  