-- 
Alberto Contador Has the Right to Defend Tour de France Title, UCI Says

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-17T02:29:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/alberto-contador-has-the-right-to-defend-tour-de-france-title-uci-says.html
Alberto Contador  has the right to
defend his Tour de France title next month while cycling’s world
governing body challenges the Spanish federation’s decision to
acquit him of doping in the race last year.  The International Cycling Union, or UCI, said yesterday
that the three-time Tour winner, who was cleared of wrongdoing
by the Spanish cycling federation after testing positive for
clenbuterol at the 2010 race, is free to “take part in any
competition insofar as he has not been found guilty” by the
Court of Arbitration for Sport.  The case reached the highest tribunal in sports after the
UCI and  World Anti-Doping Agency  appealed Contador’s acquittal
to the Lausanne, Switzerland-based court, which will hear the
matter Aug. 1-3, a week after the  Tour de France  ends. The
hearing originally was set for June 6-8. The court postponed it
to allow witnesses to take part.  “The UCI recognizes the legitimacy of the request made by
Mr. Contador’s defense team, and has accepted that request in
the interests of guaranteeing the rider a fair trial,” the
cycling body said in a release. “However, the UCI also
perfectly understands why the timetable set by the Court of
Arbitration for Sport has caused some disappointment, even
incomprehension, among many observers within the cycling
community as well as the general public.”  Contador, 28, faces a possible two-year ban and loss of his
2010 Tour de France title if the court finds against him. The
UCI’s management committee echoed the view of International
Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge that Contador be
presumed innocent until a verdict is rendered, the UCI added.  Beef Blamed  The Spanish rider, who won the Giro d’Italia in May, blamed
contaminated beef for his positive test for the banned stimulant
while winning his third Tour.  Tests found he had 50 picograms per milliliter of
clenbuterol in his body on the last rest day of the 2010 race. A
picogram is one trillionth of a gram.  Clenbuterol is used to treat respiratory disorders such as
asthma and can increase aerobic capacity by improving the flow
of oxygen in the bloodstream. Farmers sometimes use it illegally
to bulk up cattle more quickly.  The Tour de  France  starts July 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  