-- 
America Movil, Brasil Foods: Latin America Preview

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-17T20:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/america-movil-brasil-foods-latin-america-preview-correct-.html
(Corrects third paragraph of story originally published
June 15 to show only one member voted against  Brasil Foods 
deal.)  The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  The MSCI Latin America Index rose 1.1 percent to 4,352.33.  Brazil   BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3)  (BRFS3 BS): Brazil’s antitrust
regulator, known as Cade, is scheduled to reconvene today to
rule on Brasil Foods’ acquisition of Sadia SA. One of five
members of Cade voted last week to block the two-year-old deal.
The shares climbed 1.6 percent to 24.48 reais.  Chile   Aguas Andinas SA (AGUAS/A)  (AGUAS/A CC): Chile’s government will
price today a total of 1.83 billion Class A shares in the
country’s largest water utility. Aguas Andinas fell 1.4 percent
to 260 pesos.  Mexico  America Movil  SAB (AMXL MM): The wireless carrier
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim  said its 2-for-1 stock
split will be effective June 29 for its Mexican shares and June
30 for its U.S. shares, according to a U.S. regulatory filing.
The shares advanced 1.3 percent to 29.45 pesos.  Grupo Carso SAB (GCARSOA1 MM): The holding company
controlled by billionaire Carlos Slim was raised to “neutral”
from “underweight” at HSBC Holdings Plc. The brokerage has a
share-price estimate of 43 pesos. The stock climbed 0.1 percent
to 38.58 pesos.  Grupo Modelo SAB de CV (GMODELOC)  : Mexico’s largest beer
maker discussed with its board of directors a proposal to make a
joint bid with Molson Coors Brewing Co. for Foster’s Group Ltd.,
though it didn’t put the plan up for a vote at a meeting this
week, said a person with knowledge of the matter. The maker of
Corona beer may still be considering an offer for Foster’s, said
the person. The shares added 0.4 percent to 71.03 pesos.  Peru  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO)  : The Phoenix-based company
said it will seek talks with the government of President-elect
Ollanta Humala, which takes office July 28, on its Tia Maria
copper project. The project had been canceled by the current
government. The stock rose 1.3 percent to $32.10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 dpapadopoulos@bloomberg.net  