-- 
Manchester United Travels to West Brom in Premier League Opener

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-17T09:17:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/manchester-united-travels-to-west-brom-in-premier-league-opener.html
Manchester United  will begin the
defense of its Premier League title with a trip to West Brom and
runner-up Chelsea visits Stoke on the opening weekend, according
to the 2011-12 season fixture list released today.  Swansea, the Welsh team promoted to the Premier League
after winning last month’s play-off final, has a tough opening
day assignment at  Manchester City , the F.A. Cup winner owned by
a billionaire member of the Abu Dhabi royal family. Championship
winner Queens Park Rangers has a home game with Bolton and the
other promoted team, Norwich, goes to Wigan. The season starts 
Aug. 13.  United last season won a record 19th English championship,
and its 12th, Premier League title under manager  Alex Ferguson 
last season. It’s been tipped to retain the title by bookmakers,
including Ladbrokes, which rates it a 7-4 chance, ahead of
Chelsea at 5-2 and Manchester City at 7-2.  Liverpool, whose 18-championship record United surpassed,
opens with a home game against Sunderland and 13-time champion
Arsenal, whose manager Arsene Wenger has come under increasing
pressure amid a trophy drought stretching back to 2005, will go
to Newcastle.  Several teams are likely to feature refreshed squads.
Liverpool’s new owner Fenway Sports Group has pledged millions
of pounds to manager  Kenny Dalglish  for new talent.  ‘Desire to Win’  He spent 55 million pounds ($88.7 million) in January on
strikers  Luis Suarez  and Andy Carroll after  Fernando Torres  was
sold to Chelsea for a record 50 million pounds.  Jordan
Henderson , a 20-year-old midfield player, joined for a reported
20 million pounds last week. More are on the way.  “You’re seeing the desire to win and the desire to compete
in the transfer market,” Billy Hogan, managing director of 
Fenway Sports Marketing, the group’s commercial arm, said in an
interview. “We would expect to have a couple more additions as
the summer progresses.”  United has also started its recruitment. It bought
Blackburn’s 19-year-old English defender Phil Jones and has been
linked to several other stars. Its U.S. owners have pledged
funds from the team’s 100 million pounds cash surplus on
Ferguson’s rebuilding efforts. Chelsea, which has yet to replace
fired manager  Carlo Ancelotti , is also in the market.  Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp yesterday reacted angrily
to reports Chelsea offered 22 million pounds for midfielder Luka
Modric.  “If there has been a bid of £22m, that is ridiculous,”
Redknapp told the  BBC . “There are people being sold for £20m
who are not fit to lace Luka’s boots.”  Notable Games  Tottenham travels to United on the second weekend of the
season, which features several notable games, including
Liverpool’s trip to Arsenal, a derby between Newcastle and
Sunderland as well as Roberto Martinez returning to Swansea, the
team that gave him a start in soccer management.  Alex McLeish, named today as the new manager of  Aston
Villa , starts with an away match at Fulham, who’ll also have a
new manager  Martin Jol  in charge for the first time.  The first Manchester United-Chelsea game is slated for the
weekend of Sept. 17 and the Blues face a potentially tough close
to the season with away trips to Arsenal and Liverpool in the
final four weeks of the campaign. United finishes away at
Sunderland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  