-- 
Manchester City Prepares $48 Million Modric Bid, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-17T06:15:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/manchester-city-prepares-48-million-modric-bid-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  City’s Modric Move  Manchester City  is preparing a bid of about 30 million
pounds ($48.3 million) for Tottenham’s Luka Modric after Spurs
manager  Harry Redknapp  described Chelsea’s 22 million-pound
offer as “ridiculous,” the  Daily Mail   reported .  While Redknapp echoed Tottenham Chairman Daniel Levy’s
assertion that the Croatia midfielder is not for sale, the Mail
said that high-level discussions have taken place between City
and Tottenham. A counter bid from Chelsea and an offer from
Manchester United are expected to follow, the newspaper added.  Open to United  Modric would be open to joining Manchester United if the
Premier League champion enters the bidding and Tottenham allows
him to consider a move to Old Trafford, the Guardian  reported ,
citing Nikky Vuksan, Modric’s representative.  “If that was the Spurs position then we would be happy to
sit with the club and discuss for the future,” Vuksan was cited
as saying. “Any offer that comes for him, it’s up to the
decision of Tottenham Hotspur if they want to reject it or
accept it.”  Sanchez Auction  Chelsea joined  Manchester United  and Manchester City in the
race to sign Chilean forward Alexis Sanchez from Italian Serie A
club Udinese, the Daily Mirror  reported .  Udinese is trying to start an auction to drive up the price
for the 22-year-old Sanchez to 32 million pounds with European
champion Barcelona, Juventus and  Inter Milan  also interested,
the Mirror said.  Chelsea Coach  Guus Hiddink  is facing late competition from Porto coach
Andre Villas-Boas for the manager’s job at Chelsea, the  Daily
Telegraph   reported .  Porto President Pinta da Costa was in  London  this week at
the same time as Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich , raising the
outside prospect that the Blues may try to hire Villas-Boas, who
has a 15 million-euro ($21.2 million) release clause in his
contract, the newspaper added.  Arsenal Additions  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  is set to complete the
signing of Ivory Coast striker Gervinho in the next 48 hours,
the Mirror  reported . The Gunners agreed on a 10.6 million-pound
fee with French champion Lille for the 24-year-old, who will
join on a four-year contract, the newspaper said.  Wenger will step up his attempts to sign Blackburn central
defender Christopher Samba next week and is also seeking to
acquire Shakhtar Donetsk’s Brazilian midfielder Willian in a
deal that would take Denilson the other way, the Mirror added.  Liverpool Signing  Liverpool is close to completing the signing of Sylvain
Marveaux, the former France under-21 winger, from Rennes on a
free transfer, the Sun  reported . The 25-year-old Marveaux, who
favors the left side, will join the Reds on a five-year contract
worth 60,000 pounds a week, the newspaper added.  United Offer  Manchester United made an opening bid of 10.5 million euros
for French defender Raphael Varane, the Independent  reported .
United’s main obstacle is convincing the 18-year-old that he
will get first-team opportunities at Old Trafford should he
decide to leave French club Lens, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  