-- 
Apple Price Target Cut By Oppenheimer Analyst on Possible IPhone Delay

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-21T20:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/apple-is-said-to-vie-with-google-in-bidding-for-nortel-networks-patents.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may not release the next
model of its iPhone until late September or October, which would
lead to slower September sales, said Oppenheimer & Co. analyst
Ittai Kidron as he cut his price target on the company.  Kidron, who maintained his “outperform” rating on Apple,
reduced his 12 to 18 month target on the stock to $420 from $450
and his expectations for iPhone sales in the quarter ending in
September to 19 million units from 20.5 million units.  Apple became the fourth-largest mobile-phone maker by unit
shipments last quarter after entering the handset market in 2007
with the debut of the iPhone. Apple accounted for 5 percent of
shipments, up from 2.8 percent a year earlier, according to
researcher IDC. The success of the iPhone and the iPad tablet
helped Apple supplant  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as the world’s most
valuable technology company last year.  “We’ve been modeling a full month of new iPhone sales in
September and now believe it’s more prudent to model a late
September, October launch,” he wrote in the  note . “This
suggests possible modest quarter-on-quarter growth trends in
September, and not the strong growth we previously modeled.”  Apple rose $9.98, or 3.2 percent, to $325.30 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock is little
changed this year.  Kidron also wrote that a less expensive “mini-iPhone” is
critical to Apple expanding its smartphone market share.  A slowdown in iPhone sales growth may also hurt Apple’s
profitability as iPads, which have smaller profit margins than
iPhones, become a greater percentage of the overall sales,
Kidron said.  “While good iPad demand is a positive, a heavier mix of
iPads means margin pressure,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  