-- 
Areva’s Lauvergeon Denied Third Term as France Names Oursel as New Chief

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-06-17T08:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/areva-s-lauvergeon-denied-third-term.html
Areva SA Chief Executive Officer
 Anne Lauvergeon  was denied a third term after the French
government replaced her weeks before her contract expires,
denting the career of one France’s most high-profile executives.  Lauvergeon, 51, will be succeeded at the world’s largest
maker of nuclear plants by Luc Oursel, Areva’s head of marketing
and projects, President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government said late
yesterday. Lauvergeon this week repeated her desire to extend
her tenure to a third term.  The decision ends years of speculation about Lauvergeon’s
career, and comes as the future of atomic energy is called into
question following the nuclear disaster in  Japan  in March. Her
tenure at the state-controlled company was marred by
construction delays and cost overruns on a nuclear plant in
Finland, as well as spats with Electricite de  France  SA, Areva’s
biggest customer, over contracts, products and export
strategies.  Oursel will “put into action the plan to improve the
company’s performance and build its competitiveness and
development,” the government said in a statement.  Oursel’s previous jobs include posts in government and at
Schneider Electric SA and logistics company Geodis. He joined
Areva in 2007 and took charge of its nuclear operations in 2010
before becoming chief operating officer in charge of marketing,
projects and the international business at the start of this
year.  Atomic Agency  Lauvergeon, trained as a physicist at the Ecole des Mines
de Paris, worked at the French atomic energy agency in the 1980s
before joining the staff of former President François
Mitterrand. She then became a partner at what is now called
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  In 1999, then-President  Jacques Chirac  tapped her to
run Cogema, a state-owned nuclear fuel business.  In 2001, Lauvergeon engineered the three-way merger that
turned Paris-based Areva into a one-stop shop selling nuclear
technology, fuels and services. She extended the company’s
uranium mine portfolio with the $2.5 billion purchase of  South
Africa ’s UraMin Inc. in 2007, and has lifted investment in
nuclear fuel production.  Under Lauvergeon’s leadership, Areva also designed the so-
called evolutionary pressurized reactor, an advanced plant under
construction in Finland, France and  China . While the technology
is more complex, it has safety features including a double
concrete shell and core catcher in case of a meltdown.  Sarkozy Offer  Lauvergeon, who turned down Sarkozy’s offer to become a
government minister in 2007, has also resisted calls for a
merger between Areva and French turbine and train-maker Alstom
SA in recent years, and has refused to allow EDF to get seats on
Areva’s board to preserve the nuclear company’s independence.  Areva’s supervisory board in January gave three of its
members a mandate to prepare for “the renewal or succession”
of executives whose terms end in June, fanning speculation about
a possible shakeup at the top of the company.  The Olkiluoto 3 project in  Finland  has forced Paris-based
Areva to set aside 2.6 billion euros ($3.7 billion) of
provisions since the start of the project in 2005. Areva expects
the construction of the first-of-a-kind 1,650 megawatt nuclear
reactor to be completed by the end of 2012, more than three
years behind scheduled.  Shares of Areva have lost 28 percent this year, hurt by the
nuclear accident in Fukushima, Japan. The company has dropped
its targets for revenue, margins and cash generation for this
year and next after the catastrophe. France owns more than 80
percent of Areva.  Areva had previously predicted “significant” backlog
growth, rising revenue and an operating margin of more than 5
percent for 2011. For 2012, the company had targeted revenue of
12 billion euros, a double-digit operating margin, and a
“significantly” positive free operating cash flow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  