-- 
Marks’s Oaktree Files for IPO to Follow U.S.-Listed Private-Equity Rivals

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/marks-s-oaktree-files-to-raise-up-to-100-million-in-ipo-of-debt-investor.html
Oaktree Capital Management LP, the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, filed to sell shares
in an initial public offering, following private-equity rival
Apollo Global Management LLC which went public in March.  The firm, which hasn’t set a price range or the number of
shares it will sell, registered for an IPO of $100 million. That
is probably a placeholder to calculate filing fees, and the
final amount may vary. Proceeds from the sale by  Howard Marks ’s
firm will be used to buy interests from principals, employees
and investors, Los Angeles-based Oaktree said yesterday in a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Oaktree, which managed more than $80 billion as of March
31, according to the filing, is pursuing an offering after mixed
results from leveraged-buyout firms  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Apollo
and KKR & Co. since going public. Oaktree raised about $1
billion in May 2007 when it sold a 15 percent stake on the
private exchange run by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , a transaction
valuing the company at $6.3 billion.  Oaktree was started in 1995 by Chairman Marks and six
partners from Los Angeles-based investment firm TCW Group Inc.
Marks, 65, a billionaire who owns about one-sixth of Oaktree,
named the firm for the English translation of his  Santa Barbara ,
 California , weekend home, Las Encinitas.  The firm’s 17 distressed-debt funds averaged annual gains
of 19 percent after fees for the past 22 years, about 7
percentage points better than its peers tracked by Boston-based
consulting firm Cambridge Associates LLC.  Blackstone, Apollo  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm,
garnered $4.1 billion in its 2007 IPO, a year before the
failures of Bear Stearns Cos. and  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.
jolted financial markets. The shares have fallen 46 percent
below their IPO price, even after gaining 18 percent year-to-
date. Apollo has declined 16 percent from its March 29 offering
that generated $565 million. KKR, which gained a U.S. listing in
July 2010, has risen 48 percent in  New York  trading.  All three competitors are based in New York.  Opportunities for making money in distressed investing
dwindled in the past few years as the economy improved.  “There are times when it is important to invest
cautiously, and there are times when it’s important to invest
aggressively,” Marks said in an interview before the filing.
“A big part of the job is knowing where we are and choosing
between those two. We believe that compared to one year, two
years, maybe three years ago, this is the time to invest
cautiously.”  Returning Cash  In January and April, Marks returned a total of $4.4
billion to investors in his $11 billion OCM Opportunities Fund
VIIB, the largest distressed-debt pool in history. Oaktree had
invested about $6 billion in the most senior debt of failing
companies during the 15 weeks following Lehman Brothers’
bankruptcy in September 2008, generating a gross annual return
of 31 percent for the fund since its inception.  About 40 percent of Oaktree’s assets are in distressed
debt, 25 percent are in corporate bonds and 18 percent are
devoted to so-called control investing, under which Oaktree
takes ownership of firms by buying their debt or equity. Oaktree
runs 16 strategies and has invested in troubled media company
Tribune Co., movie-theater chain  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  and
 CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , the small-business lender that came out of
bankruptcy in December 2009.  Thirty-nine percent of the money Oaktree oversees comes
from public pools led by pensions and sovereign-wealth funds,
and 29 percent is from corporations. The firm’s other clients
include endowments, foundations, insurance companies, wealthy
individuals and mutual funds.  Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are listed as the IPO
underwriters. The shares will trade on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol OAK.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  