-- 
Harris Miller Resigns as CEO of For-Profit Colleges Group

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-17T19:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/harris-miller-resigns-as-ceo-of-for-profit-colleges-group-1-.html
Harris N. Miller resigned as chief
executive and president of the Association of Private Sector
Colleges and Universities, the industry group representing for-
profit colleges in the U.S.  Miller’s resignation is effective today, the group’s board
said in an e-mailed statement. Brian Moran, the association’s
executive vice president of government affairs and general
counsel, will serve as interim president.  Miller, 59, came to the trade group in February 2007 after
losing the 2006 Democratic primary for a U.S. Senate seat in
 Virginia  to James Webb. The Education Department on June 2
published its “gainful employment” rules that restrict
government funds for education companies. Miller’s group led a
lobbying campaign against the rules, which were softened from a
draft version released last year.  The push to defeat the rules “brought all the resources of
our sector together, and it included a lot of support from
people in the minority community and the business community,”
Miller said today in an interview.  “We put maximum effort into
representing the students.”  The Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index of 13
companies fell less than 1 percent at 3:20 p.m. New York time.  Jacquelyn Muller, a spokeswoman for Education Management
Co., Kent Jenkins, a spokesman for  Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO) , and
Mark Spencer, a spokesman for Career Education Corp., declined
to comment. Lauren Littlefield, a spokeswoman for ITT Education
Services Inc., and Ron Iori, a spokesman for the Washington Post
Co.’s Kaplan Higher Education business, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails.  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , owner of the University of Phoenix and
the biggest U.S. for-profit college, isn’t a member of the
group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  