-- 
Asian Currencies Decline as Debt Crisis in Greece Reduces Demand in Region

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-06-17T22:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/asian-currencies-drop-this-week-as-greece-debt-crisis-concern-damps-demand.html
Asian currencies declined this week,
led by the biggest five-day drop in  Indonesia ’s rupiah this year,
as concern that  Greece  will default on its debt reduced demand
for emerging-market assets.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks fell to its
lowest level in almost three months yesterday as overseas
investors sold $1.5 billion more equities than they bought this
week in South Korea, Taiwan and  Thailand , exchange data showed.
European Union finance ministers will meet tomorrow after they
failed to agree to a German-led push for bondholders to shoulder
part of the cost of a new aid package for Greece this week.  “The main driver for the decline in Asian currencies has
been the unfolding European debt crisis,” said Mirza Baig, a
Singapore-based currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG.  The rupiah slid 0.9 percent this week to 8,596 per dollar
in Jakarta yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s ringgit lost 0.4 percent to 3.0315 and the Philippine
peso weakened 0.7 percent to 43.60.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, advanced
0.1 percent this week. It touched 117.85 on June 16, the lowest
level since May 26.  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, was cited in the German newspaper
Tagesspiegel as saying a “hard haircut” for investors in Greek
securities would risk contagion to other European countries.  Finance Minister Fired  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou fired his finance
minister in a Cabinet overhaul yesterday aimed at fending off a
party rebellion and ensuring the passage of austerity measures
needed for a bailout.  “Concern about global growth and the euro debt issue is
all coming together and weighing on investors’ minds,” said
 Prakriti Sofat , an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  Singapore .  Thailand’s baht touched its weakest level in more than
three months yesterday on concern elections slated for July 3
will spark protests. The Thai vote will pit Prime Minister
Abhisit Vejjajiva’s Democrat party against the Pheu Thai party
led by Yingluck Shinawatra, the sister of Thaksin Shinawatra who
was ousted in a 2006 coup.  The baht dropped 0.6 percent to 30.57 per dollar this week
and reached 30.66 yesterday, the lowest level since Feb. 28.  “When you closely follow the situation surrounding the
Thai election, you see some news and comments that raise concern
about potential unrest,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a currency trader
at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok.  Elsewhere,  South Korea ’s won rose 0.2 percent to 1,081.50
per dollar this week and Singapore’s currency dropped 0.2
percent to S$1.2346, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Taiwan’s dollar slipped 0.6 percent to NT$28.95 and  India ’s
rupee declined 0.3 percent to 44.87.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  