-- 
Asian Stocks Post Longest Series of Weekly Losses Since 2004

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-17T22:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/asian-stocks-tumble-posting-longest-series-of-weekly-losses-since-2004.html
Asian stocks tumbled, dragging the
region’s key benchmark index to its longest series of weekly
losses in seven years, on concern faltering U.S. economic growth
and Greece’s worsening sovereign debt crisis will derail the
global economic recovery.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the Hong Kong-based clothier that
counts  Europe  as its biggest source of revenue, slumped 8.2
percent this week.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s third-
biggest mobile phone maker by sales, plunged 8.3 percent in
Seoul. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s No. 1 carmaker, dropped
3.8 percent in  Tokyo  after forecasting a drop in profit as
 Japan ’s record earthquake disrupted production.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 1.9 percent to 129.60
this week amid concern the global economic recovery may be
derailed as manufacturing in  New York  unexpectedly shrank and
Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou fired his finance
minister in a Cabinet overhaul aimed at fending off a party
rebellion and ensuring the passage of austerity measures needed
for a bailout.  “Investors still get nightmares from the events of 2008
and nobody wants to see an encore,” said Prasad Patkar, who
helps manage about $1.7 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd.
in Sydney. “Europe has the potential to set off another global
credit crisis, which is the biggest worry.”  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 1.7 percent this week.
South Korea’s Kospi index dropped 0.7 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 1.7 percent.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
declined 3.2 percent. The gauge entered a so-called correction
on June 16 after falling more than 10 percent from its recent
high on April 8.  Europe Deadlock  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index declined 2.3 percent after
the central bank ordered lenders to set aside more cash as
reserves after inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in
almost three years in May.  The MSCI Asian gauge’s seven-week slump exceeded a six-week
streak of declines in the aftermath of the collapse in Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, on speculation Greece will
default on its debt payments.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said that a
default by Greece is “almost certain” and could drive the  U.S.
economy  into recession following the failure of European Union
officials to break a deadlock on negotiations for a second Greek
aid plan.  “The problem you have is that it’s extremely unlikely the
political system will work” in a way that solves Greece’s
crisis, Greenspan, 85, said in an interview with Charlie Rose in
New York on June 16. “The chances of Greece not defaulting are
very small.”  ‘Riot Point’  Esprit plunged 8.2 percent through the week to HK$25.65 in
Hong Kong.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates container
facilities at Piraeus, Greece’s largest port, dropped 5.3
percent to HK$13.24.  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that counts
Europe as its market, decreased 2 percent to 3,690 yen in Tokyo.  “It’s another riot point in markets with the EU debt
crisis intensifying and growth losing significant momentum,”
said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist for AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“It looks like there’s still more downside in markets.”  Exporters dropped after reports showed manufacturing in the
New York region unexpectedly shrank in June and confidence among
U.S. homebuilders slumped to the lowest level in nine months.  Sales in U.S.  LG Electronics, which gets about 30 percent of sales from
the U.S., fell 8.3 percent to 79,800 won in Seoul.  Li & Fung
Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest supplier of toys to retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp., tumbled 12
percent to HK$14.14 in Hong Kong. Honda Motor Co., a carmaker
that counts  North America  as its main source of revenue, lost
1.9 percent to 2,927 yen in Tokyo.  HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese maker of smartphones that use
operating systems from Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp., slumped
14 percent to NT$998. Macquarie Group Ltd. on June 15 lowered
its rating on the stock to “neutral” from “outperform,”
saying competition from makers of low-cost handsets will
increase. UBS AG removed the stock on its list of preferred
technology stocks.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-biggest maker
of mobile phones by sales, fell 3.8 percent to 819,000 won.
Research In Motion Ltd., whose BlackBerry phones are losing
market share to Apple Inc.’s iPhone, said on June 16 quarterly
revenue may drop for the first time in nine years.  ‘Wall of Worry’  “There’s really a wall of worry out there at the moment,”
said Matt Riordan, who helps manage close to $7 billion in
Sydney at Paradice Investment Management Pty. “It’s hard to
build an optimistic story. The one ray of hope may be the extent
to which this is a lull that’s been caused by temporary
issues.”  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest automaker, declined
3.8 percent to 3,175 yen. The company said on June 10 net income
may fall 31 percent to 280 billion yen ($3.5 billion) in the
year ending March 31 from a year earlier after Japan’s record
earthquake disrupted production and sales. The company said
yesterday it’s working with parts makers to restore supply of 30
types of components.  The Nikkei has plunged 10 percent since March 10, the day
before the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami that devastated
Japan’s northeastern coast, triggering the worst nuclear
accident in 25 years, disrupting supply chains, and leaving more
than 23,000 people dead or missing.  Japan Reconstruction  “The government’s reconstruction policy isn’t moving
ahead,” said Naoteru Teraoka, general manager at Tokyo-based
Chuo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees about $28
billion. “Even before the quake, the domestic economy was weak
and you had a lot of firms dependant on overseas markets. Now,
with government in such confusion, investing in the domestic
market makes even less sense.”  Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s ruling Democratic Party of Japan
on June 15 proposed scaling back a second disaster
reconstruction package to 2 trillion yen ($25 billion), or half
of the size of the first one. Kan two weeks ago survived a no-
confidence vote by pledging to resign once the crisis from the
March earthquake and the meltdowns at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant are contained.  Shimizu Corp. (1803) , Japan’s biggest construction company by
sales, declined 7.6 percent to 318 yen, leading builders lower.
Smaller rival  Kajima Corp. (1812)  sank 4.3 percent to 222 yen.  Obayashi
Corp. (1802)  plunged 5.9 percent to 336 yen.  Among stocks that advanced, Tokyo Electric surged 59
percent to 302 yen, the biggest gain on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index. The Tokyo Stock Exchange raised the collateral
requirement for short sales of the utility to 50 percent from 30
percent, discouraging speculators by making the trade more
expensive.  The utility has lost 86 percent of its value since its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant was destroyed on March 11.
Tokyo Electric is the worst-performing stock on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average since the quake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 