-- 
Asian Stocks Cap Biggest Weekly Losing Streak in Seven Years on Greece

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-17T10:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/asia-stocks-rise-as-u-s-job-data-tempers-concern-at-pace-of-global-growth.html
Asian stocks fell, capping a
benchmark index’s longest weekly losing streak since 2004, amid
concern that  Greece  may default on its sovereign debt and
potentially derail a global economic recovery.  Esprit Holdings Ltd., a global fashion retailer that gets
most of its revenue from  Europe , slid 4.1 percent in Hong Kong.
Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas
producer, sank 3.8 percent. Samsung Electronics Co. slumped 3.4
percent in Seoul after  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , which makes
BlackBerry phones, said quarterly revenue may drop.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.4 percent to 129.30
as of 7:02 p.m. in Tokyo, after earlier gaining as much as 0.3
percent. The gauge has lost 2.1 percent this week.  With the Greece situation, “the biggest fear is the
unknown,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1
billion in global equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.
“What are the consequences for other highly indebted European
Union constituents, what write-downs will European banks be
forced to incur, and what will be the consequence of that? The
ripple effects of a default are numerous.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge rounded out its seventh straight
weekly decline amid concern that a recovery from the global
recession may be derailed by Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and
 China ’s steps to control inflation. That exceeds the six-week
streak that occurred in the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  ‘Contagion And ‘Fear’  About three stocks dropped on the gauge for each that
advanced. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average lost 0.6 percent.
South Korea’s Kospi Index fell 0.7 percent, while Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index retreated 1.2 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index closed 0.1 percent higher, having risen as much as 1
percent earlier in the day.  “Contagion is the big fear,” said Jason Teh, a Sydney-
based  fund manager  who helps manage about $3 billion at
Investors Mutual Ltd. “The stock market is pricing in some of
that fear.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent
today. In  New York  yesterday, the index added 0.2 percent after
fewer people than expected filed claims for unemployment
benefits and housing starts exceeded forecasts.  Esprit slid 4.1 percent to HK$25.65 in  Hong Kong  amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis won’t be resolved as leaders meet
today to discuss a rescue for Greece.  Default Chances  Woodside sank 3.8 percent to A$40.80 in Sydney as crude oil
in New York dropped as much as 0.8 percent today. Woodside also
fell after saying it expects its Pluto liquefied natural gas
project to cost 6.4 percent more and start about six months
later than previously estimated.  In Seoul, Hanjin Shipping Co., South Korea’s largest
shipping company, slumped 5 percent to 21,650 won.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will discuss a package for Greece, where a
default is “almost certain” and could help drive the  U.S.
economy  into recession, according to  Alan Greenspan , former
Federal Reserve chairman.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called on his allies in
parliament to back austerity measures needed to qualify for
international aid and avoid a sovereign-debt default.  “The problem you have is that it’s extremely unlikely the
political system will work” in a way that solves Greece’s
crisis, Greenspan, 85, said in an interview with Charlie Rose in
New York. “The chances of Greece not defaulting are very
small.”  ‘Hard Haircut’  Separately, European Union Economic and Monetary
Commissioner Olli Rehn said he is “confident” Greece will
receive the next tranche of aid in early July, saying he has
received assurances from the  International Monetary Fund .  A “hard haircut” for investors in Greek securities would
risk contagion to other European countries and have
unpredictable knock-on effects, Jean-Claude Juncker, head of the
euro-region finance ministers group, was cited as saying in an
interview with newspaper Tagesspiegel.  “There are several ugly scenarios that could ensue from a
Greek default,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350
million at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney.  “European banks would face solvency pressure, and
governments would potentially be forced to fund bank or other
sovereign bailouts. That would tighten credit access and raise
flow-on solvency fears around the world. Because of this, I
think EU members will ultimately agree on a less risky course of
action.”  Tech slide  Technology stocks slid the most among 10 industry groups on
the Asia-Pacific gauge today after Research In Motion, whose
BlackBerry phones are losing sales to Apple Inc.’s iPhone, said
quarterly revenue may drop for the first time in nine years.
Samsung slumped 3.4 percent to 819,000 won in  Seoul .  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. dropped 6.1 percent to 24,650 won
in Seoul after Korea Investment & Securities Co. cut its share-
price estimate, saying the company’s second-quarter earnings
will fall short of expectations.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 5.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 0.8 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 3.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.2 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.8 times for the S&P 500
and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  Billabong International Ltd., which gets almost half its
revenue from the Americas, gained 1.3 percent to A$6.19 in
Sydney after the U.S. economic reports, which indicated the
world’s biggest economy may still be recovering.  James Hardie
Industries SE (JHX) , the largest seller of home siding in the U.S.,
gained 1.1 percent to A$5.41.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 