-- 
Aston Villa Hires McLeish as Third Manager in Nine Months Amid Protests

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-17T09:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/aston-villa-hires-mcleish-as-third-manager-in-nine-months-amid-protests.html
Aston Villa appointed  Alex McLeish 
as manager, five days after he resigned as coach of the Premier
League soccer team’s archrival Birmingham.  McLeish, 52, will assume his duties with immediate effect,
Villa said in a statement on its  website . He becomes the seven-
time English champion’s third manager in nine months after
 Martin O’Neill  resigned five days before the start of last
season and  Gerard Houllier  stepped down on June 1 because of
heart problems.  “We believe we have appointed the right man for the job,”
Villa Chief Executive Officer Paul Faulkner said in the
statement. “Alex meets the criteria we set out at the beginning
of our search which was based on proven Premier League
experience, leadership, a hard-working ethic and, most
importantly, a shared vision for  Aston Villa .”  Villa interviewed the Scot following his resignation from
Birmingham, which came three weeks after the Blues were
relegated from  England ’s elite division. The approach led to a
claim from Birmingham three days ago that Villa had breached
Premier League rules with a “ tap up attempt .”  Birmingham had demanded 5.4 million pounds ($8.7 million)
in compensation to cover the remaining two years of McLeish’s
contract, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported. The two clubs
have agreed a compensation package worth 2 million pounds, the
 Daily Mail  reported today.  Fan Protests  The prospect of McLeish joining from its city rival had
prompted some Villa supporters to protest this week. About 500
fans gathered outside the club’s  Villa Park  stadium two days ago
to voice their opposition, while nearly 18,000 people have
expressed support for a  Facebook page  titled “Aston Villa
Supporters -- We don’t want Alex McLeish.”  “I know that some of our fans have voiced concerns and I
can understand why,” McLeish said. “It will be up to me to
convince you that I am the right man to drive the club forward
and I intend to give absolutely everything to prove that I can
be a success.”  Villa owner  Randy Lerner  turned his attention to McLeish
after Roberto Martinez opted to stay at Wigan last week. Steve McClaren,  Rafael Benitez  and Mark Hughes were also linked with a
move to Villa Park.  McLeish had been at Birmingham since 2007 following
previous spells as a manager with Motherwell, Hibernian, Rangers
and the Scotland national team.  He’ll be charged with bringing stability to a club that
finished nine points above the relegation positions in ninth
place last season. Villa won its most recent league championship
30 years ago and its last major trophy was the 1996 League Cup.  Villa will open the 2011-2012 Premier League season at
Fulham on Aug. 13, pitting McLeish against  Martin Jol , another
newly appointed manager. It’s the first time since 2006 that
Villa started the campaign on the road.  “Our objective is to compete as strongly as we possibly
can,” Faulkner added. “Alex’s vast experience and proven
abilities demonstrate clearly that he is a strong leader and an
ambitious man and we are looking forward very much to the
exciting new season about to start.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  