-- 
Hayward’s Vallares Raises $2.2 Billion in IPO

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-06-17T08:38:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/hayward-s-vallares-raises-more-than-expected-2-2-billion-in-ipo.html
Vallares Plc, the investment vehicle
backed by former  BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward ,
raised 1.35 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) in a share sale today,
more than originally planned.  The company, also sponsored by financiers  Nathaniel Rothschild  and Tom Daniel and former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
banker Julian Metherell, sold 133 million shares at 10 pounds
each after initially targeting 1 billion pounds. The 1.35
billion pounds raised includes 100 million pounds from the four
founders, the company said in a statement in London today.  Vallares will seek to buy a company or asset with an
enterprise value of 3 billion to 8 billion pounds within two
years, the statement said. The initial public offering is a
comeback for Hayward, who left BP in October after the worst  oil
spill  in U.S. history at the company’s Macondo well in the  Gulf
of Mexico . He may be put in charge of any company that Vallares
acquires, Metherell said today.  “It is heartening to receive the backing of so many
investors and to reach the fund-raising target so quickly,”
Hayward said in a statement. “This demonstrates the confidence
investors have in the strong fundamentals of the resources
sector and our focus will now turn to searching for suitable
acquisition opportunities.”  Glencore IPO  The shares fell 0.5 percent to 995 pence as of 9:04 a.m. in
the first day of trading on the London Stock Exchange today. The
placing comes one month after commodities trader Glencore
International Plc first sold shares. Glencore has dropped more
than 10 percent since its May 19 IPO.  The Vallares listing received the most support from funds
in the U.S. and the U.K., and some sovereign wealth funds in the
 Middle East  are also represented on the register, Metherell said
on a conference call with journalists in London.  Vallares has a “pipeline of potential deals” and will
focus on emerging markets such as  Russia ,  Latin America ,  Africa 
or the Middle East, Hayward said in a June 9 interview, without
identifying any specific targets.  The four founders have committed 100 million pounds of
capital to the company, 80 million pounds of which is ordinary
shares. If the company fails to find a deal in the next two
years, the cost of running the company in the period would be
covered by the founders’ equity, while other investors will get
all or most of their money back, Metherell said.  ‘Significant Skin’  “From an investor point of view, they can see that we have
significant skin in the game,” Metherell said. The founders are
set to receive 6.67 percent of share capital on completion of
the first transaction. Metherell declined to say what the
founders’ ownership percentage is in Vallares after the IPO.  Vallares is modeled on Rothschild’s Vallar Plc, which
raised 707.2 million pounds in a July IPO to buy mining and
commodity assets, Vallar agreed in November to invest $3 billion
in Indonesian coal companies PT Bumi Resources and PT Berau Coal
Energy in a stock and cash transaction.  The board of directors will be chaired by Rodney Chase,
former chairman of Petrofac Plc, and the board will include Jim
Leng, former chairman of Corus Group Plc. Credit Suisse,
JPMorgan Cazenove and Evolution Securities advised on the share
placing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  