-- 
Bank of Spain Rejects Calls to Extend Deadline for Cajas

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-06-17T11:16:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/bank-of-spain-rejects-calls-to-extend-deadline-for-cajas.html
The Bank of  Spain ’s deputy governor,
Javier Ariztegui, rejected suggestions that it should change
deadlines for savings banks to recapitalize, saying market
conditions call for “clear policies.”  The government has set a Sept. 30 target for the cajas, as
the savings banks are known, to reach new capital levels, with
the possibility of allowing an extra six months for lenders that
have started the process of an initial public offering. Asked
about calls from caja executives for changes to the rules,
Ariztegui said that would be bad for Spain.  “The market situation is tense and difficult and that
demands clear policies,” he said today at a conference in
Santander, northern Spain, that was also attended by caja chiefs
earlier this week. “Extending deadlines, making criteria more
flexible, and adopting positions that might be comfortable for
some institutions clashes with that.”  Spain is fighting to distance itself from Greece and
Ireland as it tries to convince investors the cost of shoring up
its banking system won’t overburden the public finances. It
tightened capital rules for lenders in February and gave them
until the end of September to meet the new requirements or face
partial nationalization.  The gap between Spanish and German borrowing costs widened
to as much as 282 basis points yesterday, the most since
January, on growing expectations of a Greek default. It eased to
260 basis points today from a closing level of 274 yesterday.  The existing option of the six-month extension is only a
“possibility,” and it will be up to authorities to approve it
or not, Ariztegui said. The law says authorities “will be able
to, not that they will have to” grant an extension.  The Bank of Spain is confident that the process will be
completed on Sept. 30, he said, and Spain will “go into the
autumn with all our homework done.”  Bankia, the new commercial lender arising from a merger led
by  Caja Madrid , plans to list in the coming weeks, as does Banca
Civica. If they manage to list in July it would be
“magnificent,”  Ariztegui said. It would be “good for the
nation and the financial system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  