-- 
Bank of Korea May Need to Slow Pace of Rate Increases, Board Member Says

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-06-17T06:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/bank-of-korea-may-need-to-slow-pace-of-rate-increases-board-member-says.html
The  Bank of Korea  may need to slow
the pace of interest-rate increases after its fifth move since
July 2010 last week because of rising risks to the global
economic outlook, a board member said.  “The external conditions are much more uncertain -- if the
uncertainty deepens, we may have to slow down our pace,” Kang Myung Hun, one of six policy makers who votes on rates, said in
an interview at his office in Seoul yesterday. Kang also cited
the danger of boosting rates so quickly that the bank detonates
a household-debt “bomb” that causes a property-market crash.  Kang’s view reflects concern across  Asia  that the world
economic outlook is deteriorating, with the  Reserve Bank  of
 India  yesterday citing increased unease over the European debt
situation.  China  and the  Philippines  have opted for raising
bank-reserve ratios in the past week rather than benchmark
lending rates.  Inflation pressures have prompted Asian central banks to be
among the quickest to withdraw monetary stimulus as growth
accelerated following the 2008 world recession, and Kang
yesterday indicated the BOK will have more work to do.  “I don’t think we can tackle mounting inflation
expectations with this one hike,” said Kang, 57, referring to
the BOK’s rate increase on June 10. “Although I voted for an
increase this time, this does not mean that I’m more optimistic
about the economic outlook,” he also said.  Stocks Decline  South  Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index of stocks has retreated
six of the past seven weeks, part of a global drop in equities
as investors discount a deteriorating economic outlook. The U.S.
 unemployment rate  climbed above 9 percent in May, adding to
headwinds for the recovery of the world’s largest economy.  “My biggest worry is the  U.S. economy ,” Kang said. “A
double-dip slowdown is not likely. But if the U.S. goes into a
deeper soft patch, we may have to move much more slowly with
fewer steps.”  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board raised
the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate to 3.25 percent last
week as consumer-price gains exceeded the bank’s 4 percent
target limit since January and core inflation excluding volatile
food and energy items accelerated to a two-year high.  South Korea ’s economy expanded 1.3 percent in the three
months through March, the fastest since the second quarter of
2010. The unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to a six-month low
of 3.3 percent in May, countering slowdowns in industrial
production growth and exports. The won has also gained 4.5
percent against the dollar in the past three months, threatening
the profits of exporters.  IMF Call  The  International Monetary Fund  today urged South Korea to
pursue “further steady monetary tightening” to combat
inflation, adding that “monetary conditions remain loose.” The
fund expects the economy to expand 4.5 percent this year and 4.2
percent in 2012, according to a report released by the nation’s
finance ministry in Gwacheon, south of  Seoul .  Kang, a Seoul National University graduate, holds a PhD in
economics from the State University of New York at  Albany . He
spent most of his career in academia before joining the central
bank board in late April 2008 with the finance ministry’s
recommendation.  Kang is viewed as “the most dovish” of the six-member
board, according to Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  Singapore . He has been the lone dissenter,
or one of only two dissenters, in favor of cutting rates or
holding them instead of raising them, in eight of 39 rate
decisions since he joined.  More Communication  Kang also said that the central bank needs to communicate
more effectively with investors on its policy direction after
economists’ median forecasts of rate decisions have been wrong
for seven of the past 12 meetings.  “I’m surprised that market has been wrong so often in
predicting the rate decision,” he said. “At the same time,
market players should remember that the decision is currently
made by six members, not only by the governor.”  Kang said that while higher  interest rates  are needed to
help deflate South Korea’s record household debt levels, a
careful and comprehensive response is needed to avoid causing a
crisis. Household debt rose to a record 801.4 trillion won ($738
billion) in the first three months of this year.  “A sharp increase in interest rates may burst the
household-debt problem,” Kang said. “If the debt-bomb blows,
builders and lenders will be crippled and  property market  will
crash when people start to sell off their homes to repay debt.”  The board member indicated that a “neutral” level for the
BOK’s benchmark rate, a term that refers to a stance that
fosters growth without causing inflation to accelerate, is less
than 4 percent.  “It should be higher than the current 3.25 percent but it
may not be as high as 4 percent as others say,” Kang said.
“The estimate derives from the past growth and inflation
trajectory but we may have to figure out a new normal level
after the global financial crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  