-- 
Batista’s OGX Gets Offers for Stakes in Brazilian Projects; Shares Advance

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 
2011-06-17T21:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/batista-s-ogx-gets-offers-for-stakes-in-brazilian-projects-shares-advance.html
OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
the oil company controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , said it’s receiving offers for stakes in its Brazilian
crude and natural-gas projects and expects a sale this year. The
stock rose the most in a month.  OGX is negotiating with oil companies and investment funds
to sell a minority stake in the Campos Basin where the company
has had a 100 percent success rate drilling for oil and plans to
start production in October, Chief Executive Officer Paulo Mendonca said late yesterday in an interview in Rio de Janeiro.  Buyers are also approaching the company to invest in its
gas fields in Parnaiba, where the company declared two deposits
commercially viable in May, he said. Talks to sell a minority
stake in Campos are “more advanced” than at Parnaiba, he said.  “Everyone wants it, the large companies and the large
funds,” Mendonca said. “It’s a stamp of approval.”  OGX climbed 52 centavos, or 3.8 percent, to 14.29 reais.
The stock has fallen 29 percent so far this year.  OGX is in a stronger position with potential buyers after
selling $2.56 billion in bonds last month, removing the need for
a partner to finance investments, Mendonca said. OGX plans to
produce 1.38 million barrels a day in 2019 as it develops 10.8
billion barrels of potential resources in  Brazil  and Colombia.  ‘Market Will Like’  “It will be someone the market is going to like,”
Mendonca said, referring to potential buyers. “In the oil
business, the more money you have, the better.”  Brazil’s oil and gas industry generated a record volume of
mergers and acquisitions in 2010 after companies including BP
Plc,  Sinochem Group  and China Petrochemical Corp. bought oil
assets. The country, home to the largest discovery in the
Western Hemisphere in the past three decades, plans to more than
double production by 2020.  Sovereign wealth funds are also buying Brazilian oil
industry assets. Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state
investment company, paid $400 million for a 14.3 percent stake
in the oil services unit of Brazil’s Odebrecht SA last October.
 Capital Group International  bought a 5.1 percent stake in
Queiroz Galvao Exploracao e Producao in March.  International Companies  International oil companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total
SA (TOT) , BP and  Statoil ASA (STL)  are also looking to expand in Brazil.  Sinochem paid the equivalent of about $15 dollars for each
barrel of reserves last year when it bought a 40 percent stake
in Statoil’s Peregrino project near OGX’s Campos discoveries.  That’s setting a benchmark for Batista, said  Anisa Redman ,
an oil analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York , who said OGX’s
current market value is equivalent to $4.50 for each barrel.  Batista “has indicated a strong preference for at least
$15-a-barrel valuation,” Redman said in a telephone interview
from New York. “It’s only logical he will not sell at anywhere
below $4.50 a barrel, because that is where the shares are
trading.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  