-- 
Belgium Rejects Heirs’ Claim for Kokoschka Sold in Nazi Era

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-06-17T13:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/belgium-rejects-banker-heirs-claim-for-kokoschka-work-sold-in-nazi-era.html
A Belgian panel rejected a claim
made by the heirs of Victor von Klemperer, a Jewish banker
persecuted by the Nazis, for a portrait by Oskar Kokoschka that
hangs in the Museum of Fine Arts in Ghent.  The 1914 “Portrait of the Physician Ludwig Adler” was
sold by von Klemperer, once the director of Dresdner Bank AG’s
branch in Dresden,  Germany , in 1937 or 1938. Von Klemperer had
been forced by the Nazis into retirement in 1934 and escaped to
 Africa  with his wife in 1938. His remaining valuables were
confiscated from his home after his departure.  The panel commissioned by the city of Ghent, which owns the
painting, said it found no evidence that the sale was made under
duress and said von Klemperer’s children had made no attempt to
claim the painting before 2004. It also argued the museum bought
the artwork in good faith and has legal title.  “There is no identifiable ground to restitute the painting
or compensate it in whole or in part,” the panel said in its
62-page report obtained by Bloomberg News. “It cannot be
established that we are dealing with a forced sale.”  Belgium  is one of 44 nations that signed the 1998 non-
binding Washington Principles, under which countries agreed to
seek a “just and fair solution” with the heirs for artworks
looted by the Nazis or lost in forced sales or sales made under
duress.  Nazi Persecution  Von Klemperer bought the painting in 1931 and sold it to
Herbert Kurz of Chemnitz. The Belgian report concluded that the
main reason he sold it was because his wife didn’t like it,
although it concedes that by the time of the 1937 or 1938 sale,
von Klemperer had lost a substantial portion of his income
because of Nazi persecution. Ghent acquired the painting from
 Marlborough Fine Art Ltd. , a  London  dealer, in 1987.  Under German law, the assumption is that any sales of
artworks by Jews in the Nazi era were made under duress,
according to the heirs’ lawyer, Sabine Rudolph of  Cramer von
Clausbruch Steinmeier & Cramer  in Dresden.  “They couldn’t have taken the picture with them to
Africa,” Rudolph said by telephone from Dresden. “They would
have been happy to find a buyer. This was a sale under duress at
the very least.”  Von Klemperer´s New York-based grandson and one of his
heirs, Victor von Klemperer, said in a 2009 interview that it is
possible his grandfather was liquidating his assets to pay
emigration taxes.  Kokoschka is considered one of the three great Viennese
painters of his time, along with Gustav Klimt and  Egon Schiele .
A Kokoschka portrait sold for almost $3 million at Christie’s
International in London in February, according to the  Artnet 
database.  Ludwig Adler was a Viennese gynecologist. The portrait
shows him in three-quarter profile, reading a book that he
grasps firmly in both hands.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  