-- 
Best Buy Expands Cloud-Based Online Music Platform to U.S.

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-06-17T16:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/best-buy-expands-cloud-based-online-music-platform-to-u-s-supplier-says.html
Best Buy Co., the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, is expanding a U.K. online music
platform to the U.S. to challenge Amazon Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in
so-called cloud-based offerings, the technology supplier said.  Best Buy’s U.S.  Music Cloud  service, powered by Catch Media
Inc., is available for mobile devices such as Research In Motion
Ltd.’s BlackBerry smartphone and those using  Android  technology,
Catch Media Chief Executive Officer Yaacov Ben-Yaacov said today
in a phone interview.  The platform, marketed as My Music Anywhere in the U.K., is
designed allow users to stream content they have purchased to a
computer, mobile phone or tablet, eliminating the need to
transfer and store computer files,  Beverly Hills , California-
based Catch Media said in a June 14  statement . The service is
similar to Amazon’s Cloud Player, introduced in late March, and
Apple’s iCloud platform, which will be rolled out this fall.  Best Buy has yet to formally announce the U.S. service,
though Music Cloud can be downloaded at Google Inc.’s Android-
platform online application store. Voicemail messages seeking
comment from Scott Morris, a spokesman for Richfield, Minnesota-
based Best Buy, and at the company’s press relations phone
number weren’t immediately answered.  Cloud computing allows users to store data such as digital
music collections online. My Music Anywhere has been available
in the U.K. for about a year and is offered at Best Buy and
 Carphone Warehouse Group Plc (CPW)  outlets. Catch Media said the
service is now available on all Android-powered devices in
addition to BlackBerry units and Apple’s iOS platforms.  Closely held Catch Media has a combination of music-
industry licenses for Music Cloud, including agreements with
major record labels, Ben-Yaacov said.  Record companies  have
struck licensing deals with music-streaming sites such as
Spotify Ltd., Rdio Inc. and Music Unlimited to counter the
effects of piracy and a drop in purchases of compact discs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  