-- 
Biden Says U.S. Deficit Talks Seek Signal With $4 Trillion in Savings

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/biden-says-lawmakers-determined-to-find-4-trillion-cuts-in-deficit-talks.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said he and
a group of U.S. lawmakers trying to hash out a deficit-reduction
plan are determined to find $4 trillion in savings and prove to
financial markets around the world that the government is
serious about tackling the nation’s debt.  “What is the shtick out there? This is a dysfunctional
place, can’t get anything done,” Biden told reporters late
yesterday after the group’s third closed-door meeting this week.
“The single most important thing to do for the markets is to
convince them that ‘no, no, that’s not true, we can handle
difficult decisions and make them.’”  He said “everybody wants an agreement -- there is no
principal in that room that doesn’t want to get an agreement
that bends the curve on the long-term debt, that is sufficiently
realistic to get us to $4 trillion over a decade or so in terms
of reductions.”  Much of yesterday’s meeting centered on entitlement
programs unrelated to health care, said House Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat and
another member of the group, said it is pushing to reach a deal
by early July. The aim is to reach a budget-reduction deal in
time for Congress to meet an Aug. 2 deadline for raising the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit.  “We’ve very serious about seeing if we can come to some
resolution,” said Cantor.  ‘Around the Clock’  Lawmakers said they plan to pick up the pace of
negotiations, with as many as four meetings next week. “We’ve
told people to take bigger chunks of time out of their
calendar,” said Biden. “This next week we’re going to be going
basically, the staff, around the clock.”  The group focused today on possible spending cuts for
military and federal workers’ pensions and programs including
agriculture, said  Van Hollen . Such mandatory non-health spending
accounts for about 12 percent of the federal budget,
underscoring the difficulty of cutting trillions of dollars over
the next 10 years.  The meeting ended hours after the Senate voted, with 33
Republicans in support, to end a tax break for ethanol
production -- a proposal that had been long stalled amid
concerns it would amount to raising taxes. Van Hollen called the
vote a “good sign” that “people are willing to close special-
interest corporate loopholes for the purpose of deficit
reduction.”  Senator’s Skepticism  Earlier yesterday Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, had expressed skepticism that
Biden’s group would tackle the politically sensitive entitlement
programs experts say will fuel the government’s long-term debt
woes.  “I’m concerned they will come up with a plan that doesn’t
fundamentally change the trajectory of our debt but just gets by
this debt limit vote,” he told reporters. “That would be a
real missed opportunity.”  Biden said the group has “gone through a first serious
scrub of each of the categories that make up the total federal
budget,” with each side identifying which areas they could
compromise on if a final deal appears possible. “There are
differences that are going to have to be bridged that won’t
occur until the end,” he said.  Said Van Hollen: “We’ve got a long way to go here before
we resolve the toughest issues.”  Avoiding Default  Republicans are insisting on trillions in savings in
exchange for their votes to increase the debt ceiling, which is
needed to avoid a first-ever government default. Democrats say
major changes to Medicare, the long-term driver of the debt, are
off the table, while Republicans have dug in against tax
increases.  Biden expressed confidence that any deal reached by the
group could clear Congress, though he said it couldn’t pass
without broad bipartisan support.  “There’s no way you can could think of anything where you
could have it delivered by only Democrats and there’s no way you
can have any agreement that’s only going to be delivered by
Republicans,” he said.  “At the end of the day we’re going to have to decide on
what is good for the country that actually gets the rest of the
world saying ‘these guys are getting their house in order,
they’re on the right track,” Biden said.  “It has to be real, there has to be a real down payment
and there has to be a real path that people believe ‘Yes, it’s
possible, it’s probable they’ll get at the end of 10 years $4
trillion.”  Possible Compromises  According to an analysis by the nonpartisan  Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget  in Washington, there are areas of
overlap in debt-reduction plans proposed by  House Republicans 
and the White House, making them fodder for a possible
compromise.  These include: eliminating some interest subsidies on
 student loans , which could save $20 billion to $65 billion over
10 years; changing the way the  Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation  collects fees, to save $5 billion to $10 billion;
selling excess federal property for $10 billion to $15 billion;
and reducing health-care fraud and overpayments, at $10 billion
to $35 billion.  Even with these savings, achieving $2 trillion over 10
years remains elusive unless lawmakers tackle Medicare, said Ed Lorenzen, senior adviser at the budget policy research center.
“If you’re not dealing with the health entitlements in a
significant way or adding in revenues, it’s going to be hard”
to find significant savings, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  