-- 
Biggest Distressed Debt Investor Marks Europe With 19% Returns

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-06-17T21:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/biggest-distressed-debt-investor-marks-europe-after-22-years-of-19-return.html
Howard Marks  was failing miserably.
It was 1977, and the research group he oversaw at Citibank had
recommended Nifty 50 stocks that lost 90 percent of their value
over the previous decade.  Then Peter Vermilye, Citibank’s chief investment officer,
gave Marks an option: He could quit research and start a fund
focusing on convertible bonds, a niche where neither the New
York bank nor Marks had any experience. He jumped at the chance.  “It changed my life,” says Marks, who with his light-
brown tortoiseshell glasses and spiky, sandy-colored hair looks
younger than his 65 years. “If he hadn’t pushed me out of the
research job, where would I be today?”  Marks is now chairman of Oaktree Capital Management LP, the
biggest distressed-debt investor in the world, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its August issue. Oaktree oversees more than
$80 billion for pension funds from  Massachusetts  to  Florida  and
the world’s biggest sovereign-wealth funds, such as China
Investment Corp. Oaktree’s 17 distressed-debt funds have
averaged annual gains of 19 percent after fees for the past 22
years -- about 7 percentage points better than its peers tracked
by Boston-based consulting firm Cambridge Associates LLC.  ‘Most Important Thing’  Oaktree is likely to get even more prominent as it goes
ahead with a plan to list shares on the  New York  Stock Exchange.
The company registered today for an IPO of $100 million, without
setting a price range or the number of shares it aims to sell.
In May 2007, Oaktree raised about $1 billion, selling a 15
percent stake on a private  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  exchange
open to sophisticated investors. The transaction valued the
whole company at $6.3 billion.  Marks has come so far from his days at Citibank that he’s
now selling his investing philosophy in a book, The Most
Important Thing, which was published in May by Columbia
University Press. In an interview in his downtown  Los Angeles 
office, from which he has a view of the iconic Hollywood sign,
Marks says his strategy is to find bargains such as troubled
media company Tribune Co., movie theater chain  Regal
Entertainment Group (RGC)  and  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , the small-business
lender that emerged from bankruptcy in 2009.  “We don’t expect to be able to hit the bottom,” Marks
says. “All we care about is that we’re buying cheap. If it gets
cheaper, we buy more. Eventually, it’ll work out -- so long as
we are right.”  Conflicts of Interest  Marks has built his career on choosing bargains correctly,
investors say.  “The secret is having the capital and courage when things
look pretty gloomy to say, ‘This will work,’” says George Siguler, whose New York-based Siguler Guff & Co. manages about
$10 billion in private equity and distressed debt, including
investments in Oaktree. “They raise much bigger funds when they
see the timing or opportunity is great and much smaller funds at
other times. It’s a discipline not everybody has.”  Once Marks takes Oaktree public, it may be harder for him
to maintain that self-control, Oaktree investor James Hoover
says. “There are inherent conflicts of interest when an
investment firm goes public,” says Hoover, founder of Dauphin
Capital Partners and chief investment officer of Elizabethtown
College in  Pennsylvania .  “To appease shareholders of the company, you’re going to
expand the product offerings. You might be less discriminating
about the size of the funds. The bigger the size, the more fees
are paid.”  Mixed Record  Private-equity stocks have a mixed record on the NYSE, too.
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity firm,
went public in 2007, shortly before the global financial crisis,
raising $4.1 billion. Its shares remained 46 percent below their
IPO price, even after gaining 18 percent year-to-date. Apollo
Global Management LLC fell 16 percent from its March 29
offering, which raised $565 million.  The exception is KKR & Co., which went public in July 2010
and rose 48 percent in New York trading. Marks declined to
comment on news reports in May that valued Oaktree, of which he
owns about one-sixth, at $8 billion to $9 billion.  An IPO comes at a time when opportunities for making money
in distressed investing are scarcer than they were a few years
ago. In January and April, Marks returned a total of $4.4
billion to investors in his $11 billion OCM Opportunities Fund
VIIB -- the biggest distressed-debt fund in history.  Investing After Lehman  Oaktree had raised money for the fund in May 2008 and
invested about $6 billion of it in the most senior debt of
failing companies during the 15 weeks following  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s bankruptcy in September of that year. Oaktree
paid roughly 50 cents on the dollar for the debt and generated a
gross annual return of 31 percent for the fund since its
inception. Marks and Oaktree partner Bruce Karsh declined to
name the companies whose debt the fund bought.  In April, Marks finished raising about $2.6 billion for his
newest distressed fund, which is 76 percent smaller than
Opportunities Fund VIIB.  Not all of Oaktree’s forays have been successful. Three of
its funds that used leverage had their losses amplified
following the market’s decline in 2008, forcing investors to
allocate more money as their value plunged. Oaktree is now
liquidating the funds -- a high-yield-plus fund, one in European
credit opportunities and one focused on  Japan  -- even after they
rebounded last year, returning more than 10 percent after fees,
according to Oaktree’s year-end letter to investors.  $8 Billion to Invest  Oaktree has more than $8 billion in so-called dry powder to
invest, about 15 percent of the $55 billion in total capital
available for distressed managers around the world, says Tim Friedman, spokesman for London-based research group Preqin Ltd.
Aside from having 40 percent of its investments in distressed
assets, 25 percent is in corporate debt, while 18 percent comes
from so-called control investing, under which Oaktree takes
ownership of firms by buying their debt or equity. In all,
Oaktree now runs 16 different strategies.  “His investment philosophy is simple and unwavering: ‘buy
low and sell high,’” says bond manager  Jeffrey Gundlach , who
knows Marks from his days at TCW Group Inc., where Gundlach was
investment chief. “I’ve heard him say time and time again:
‘There’s no such thing as a bad asset. It’s a question of
pricing.’” When Gundlach started his own firm, DoubleLine
Capital LP, Oaktree took a 22 percent stake.  Rego Park, Queens  Marks formed his investing philosophy in the 1980s, after
Vermilye approved his transfer to Los Angeles, where he ran
Citibank’s convertible- and high-yield-bond funds. At the time,
Michael Milken was pioneering the junk-bond market that fueled a
boom in deal making based on debt. Marks moved to TCW in 1985,
running two funds, one investing in high-yield bonds and the
other in convertible securities.  Raised in Rego Park, a middle-class neighborhood of
attached redbrick homes in Queens, New York, Marks was the son
of an accountant and a homemaker. He attended the Wharton School
of the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia, where he
abandoned plans to become an accountant after taking some
finance classes.  He minored in Japanese Studies, where he learned about
mujo, which he defines as the acceptance of the inevitability of
change, helping to form his investment philosophy.  “It was the first time I was really stimulated by what I
was doing academically,” says Marks, who later obtained an MBA
in accounting and marketing from the Booth School of Business at
the University of Chicago. “The teacher required writing. And
that’s when I started to care about writing.” Marks endowed a
writing center at Penn that was named after him in 2007.  Rambling Memos  At TCW, Marks began sending out rambling memos to customers
about his investing philosophy, interspersed with anecdotes
about his family. In 1995, Marks and six partners, including
Karsh, started Oaktree, the English translation of the name of
his Santa Barbara,  California , weekend home, Las Encinitas.  His first $2.5 billion came from TCW, which hired Oaktree
to continue managing the funds Marks had run there. Now, 39
percent of the money Oaktree manages comes from public funds,
while 29 percent is from corporations. The rest of the clients
include endowments, foundations, insurance companies, wealthy
individuals and mutual funds.  While Marks is the public face of Oaktree, Karsh is the
“quiet secret” behind the scenes, says Ken Moelis, CEO of
investment bank Moelis & Co., which worked on some Oaktree
deals. “If you say the name Bruce, people know you’re talking
about Bruce Springsteen,” Moelis says. “There’s one Bruce in
music and one Bruce in distressed. He’s just a solid guy who
does his homework and thinks through timing.”  Karsh Joins  Karsh was 31 in 1987, when he pitched the idea of a
distressed fund to Marks. Karsh, a former assistant to
billionaire philanthropist  Eli Broad , whose insurance company
SunAmerica Inc. had been a TCW client, joined TCW that year and
helped to raise $100 million for its first distressed fund,
which started up in 1988.  William T. Spitz, former chief investment officer of
Vanderbilt University, invested in Marks’s second distressed-
debt fund, which was started in 1990. Spitz saw an opportunity
to buy firms’ debt that had lost value as the junk-bond market
collapsed following a securities fraud scandal that sent Milken
to jail for 22 months and the 1989 breakdown of a leveraged-
buyout deal for United Airlines Inc. Gains on the fund before
fees were more than 40 percent a year.  “He was one of the first people smart enough to look at
less-efficient asset categories,” says Spitz, who worked for
Marks at Citibank before investing with him. “There weren’t
many managers who did it, and there weren’t many institutions
investing.”  Betting on Movie Theaters  Oaktree began investing in movie theater chains in 1999.
Oaktree teamed up with Denver billionaire Philip Anschutz to
take control of Regal Entertainment, buying $800 million of
senior bank debt and then forcing the company into a prepackaged
bankruptcy. Within two years, the partners earned back their
original investment, along with a $715 million special dividend
and a 78 percent stake in a company valued at $2.8 billion,
according to the Journal of Private Equity, a trade publication.
Oaktree funds also bought stakes in Landmark Theatres and Loews
Cineplex Entertainment.  It was only after the dot-com bust that Marks gained
notoriety for his memos. On Jan. 3, 2000, he sounded a warning
in a piece entitled “Bubble.com.”  ‘Freight Train’  “To say technology, Internet and telecommunications stocks
are too high and about to decline is comparable today to
standing in front of a freight train,” wrote Marks, whose
office bookshelves are peppered with investment books such as
Yale University endowment chief David Swensen’s Pioneering
Portfolio Management as well as copies of several books about a
drug smuggler of no relation named  Howard Marks . “To say they
have benefited from a boom of colossal proportions and should be
examined skeptically is something I feel like I owe you.” As
markets crashed in March, he received his first response in 10
years.  TCW’s managers seized on the opportunity, Karsh says.  “This was a tech, telecom bubble that burst; there were a
lot of power companies and bankruptcies of companies involved in
corporate scandals like Enron, WorldCom and Adelphia,” Karsh
says. “For two years in a row, there were double-digit default
rates in the high-yield-bond market. We had a sense it was
coming. We raised our biggest fund ever and took maximum
advantage.” In 2002, Marks bought debt of downgraded
telecommunications companies including  Qwest Communications
International Inc. (Q)  and  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)   Newspaper Investment  A few years later, as the newspaper industry faltered,
Oaktree invested an undisclosed amount in Tribune’s senior
loans, which the Chicago Tribune publisher had used in 2007 to
buy out shareholders and go private. Oaktree is one of three
lenders that hold more than a combined $3.38 billion of the
roughly $8 billion in loans Tribune took out as part of the LBO,
according to court documents.  Under Tribune’s proposed reorganization plan, the three
lenders will trade the debt they hold for at least a 30 percent
stake in the newspaper publisher once it exits bankruptcy.
Oaktree’s share will be at least 10 percent, according to
documents filed with the Federal Communications Commission.
Marks displays a figurine of a dodo in his office, a 2009 gift
from Tribune Chairman Sam Zell. “This one is obviously about
survival of the fittest in a tough capital market,” Marks says
of the gift.  Protein Diet  At times, Oaktree will invest in a single company in
multiple ways. In July 2009, Oaktree joined a group of investors
bailing out CIT with a $3 billion emergency loan after the U.S.
declined to rescue the New York lender for a second time.
Oaktree also participated in an exit facility and bought CIT’s
bonds.  Today, Marks divides his time between  London , Los Angeles
and New York, sending his investing missives to Oaktree’s 1,800
clients worldwide. He keeps in shape with calisthenics and a
yoga-inspired stretching regimen. After finding the vegan diet
prescribed by his wife, Nancy, to be too rigid to follow while
traveling, he’s sticking with the protein, vegetables and beans
suggested by his son, Andrew, who works at a hedge fund in New
York. His daughter, Jane, works in New York too, in the art
world.  Oaktree is targeting its newest investment pools in small
and midsize deals in  Europe  and in real estate, the next fronts
for distressed investors, two people briefed on the firm’s plans
say. Oaktree believes companies in Europe, where several
countries have been forced to restructure their debt, are likely
to come under pressure to sell assets to raise capital, one
person says. Distressed investing in Europe has been less
competitive than in the U.S., the person says.  Europe, Real Estate  Oaktree’s European fund will aim to raise $2 billion to $3
billion. Oaktree is also eyeing property transactions in the
U.S., where it expects owners to sell their holdings after
paying top dollar for them in the real-estate boom of 2005 to
2007, the other person says. That fund will total about $1
billion. Marks declined to give details of those funds.  “There are times when it is important to invest
cautiously, and there are times when it’s important to invest
aggressively,” Marks says. “A big part of the job is knowing
where we are and choosing between those two. We believe that
compared to one year, two years, maybe three years ago, this is
the time to invest cautiously.”  As Marks’s company does its IPO, bargain-hunting investors
will have to make a similar decision: whether or not the time is
right to buy Oaktree stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Ussyndicate1 Ussyndicate1 at 
 ussyndicate1@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Chae at 
 cchae1@bloomberg.net  