-- 
Pershing Square’s Ackman Said to Consider Selling Shares in Hedge Fund

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-06-17T16:08:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/bill-ackman-said-to-consider-selling-shares-in-hedge-fund-to-raise-capital.html
Bill Ackman , known for investing in
companies to press for changes, is considering selling shares in
a hedge fund to secure more permanent capital for investments,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  An initial public offering of a fund overseas is among the
options Ackman, founder of New York-based Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, has considered since the start of the
year, said the person who asked not to be named because the
information is confidential. There are no plans to sell shares
in the firm, the person said.  “If we could increase the amount of our capital that is
permanent, it would enable us to be more opportunistic during
times of market and investor distress, and would also enable us
to take larger stakes in a greater number of holdings,” Ackman
said in a May 25 client letter.  Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP in  London  and Third
Point LLC in New York are among the  hedge funds  that sold shares
in individual funds to the public. Such listings mean hedge
funds don’t have to worry about investors pulling cash through
redemptions.  Brevan Howard, run by  Alan Howard , raised about $1 billion
in March 2007 with an IPO in BH Macro Ltd., the first listing of
a hedge fund on the London Stock Exchange. Third Point, run by
 Daniel Loeb , four months later raised $525 million, or about 24
percent less than its target, in a share sale for one of its
funds on the London bourse.  AR Magazine reported Ackman’s plans yesterday. Bethany
Norvell, a spokeswoman for Pershing Square, declined to comment.  Activist Investor  Ackman, 45, invests in companies he deems undervalued and
then urges changes he says will boost shareholder returns. In
the past year, he has bought stakes in Fortune Brands Inc., the
maker of Jim Beam bourbon and Titleist golf balls, and J.C.
Penney Co., the third-largest department store chain in the U.S.  Money from employees and other affiliates account for about
8 percent of Pershing Square’s assets, according to the investor
letter. The hedge fund manages about $10 billion.  “Over the long term, we believe that we can increase the
probability of our success by increasing the proportion of our
capital that is permanent,” Ackman said in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  