-- 
Billionaire Cisneros to Team With Chinese Banks in Latin America Oil, Gold

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-06-17T15:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/billionaire-cisneros-to-team-with-china-banks-in-latin-america.html
Venezuelan billionaire Gustavo Cisneros is setting up joint ventures with Chinese banks to
carry out investment in Latin American commodities industries.  The chairman of  Cisneros Group of Companies , who is
relinquishing operations of the firm to his youngest daughter
Adriana, said he aims to push through projects delayed by state
inefficiencies through partnerships in energy, agriculture and
metals. Deals may take place in countries including  Brazil ,
 Colombia ,  Mexico  and Panama, Cisneros said.  “You’ll probably see in the next year or two a lot of
Cisneros China or China Cisneros in  Latin America  and it’s going
to be whatever comes, whether it’s oil, gold or big cattle
operations,” Cisneros, 66, said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . “They understand they
don’t have the knowledge to run these businesses. They need
results now and we can provide results.”  Cisneros, who first traveled to China about 30 years ago
with billionaire philanthropist David Rockefeller, is expanding
into deals with the Chinese after shedding beverage and
consumer-goods companies and America Online Latin America since
the early 1990s to focus on his  Venevision  television network.
Banks in China, the third-largest source of foreign direct
investment in Latin America, lent Brazil’s state-run  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  $10 billion in 2009 in exchange for oil supplies,
among credit provided to secure resources from the region.  China Development Bank   Since 2007, government-owned China Development Bank has
lent more than $68 billion to Venezuela, Turkmenistan, Ecuador,
Brazil and  Russia  in exchange for crude and gas shipments. Liu Kegu, a bank adviser, said in a Jan. 15 interview that the
lender would extend credit to Chile, Peru and some African
nations.  China Investment Corp., the country’s $300 billion
sovereign wealth fund, is targeting mining, real estate and
infrastructure investments in the Americas, Felix Chee, the
fund’s representative in  Canada , said at a CFA Society
Conference in Toronto today. The fund has three “active deals”
under consideration, he said.  Export-Import Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s policy
lender specializing in cross-border trade and investment, and
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  agreed  last year to tie up with
Inter-American Development Bank to expand their trade finance
activities in Latin America.  ICBC in Brazil  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the nation’s
largest commercial lender, said in April it intends to set up a
full-service bank in Sao Paulo and become the second Chinese
lender after Bank of China Ltd. to have a branch in Brazil.  Beijing-based spokespeople at China Development Bank,
Export-Import Bank and Bank of China didn’t answer calls to
their offices, while ICBC’s Beijing-based press officer Wang
Zhenning declined to comment.  “The fact is, China needs to do heavy investments,” said
Cisneros, who has homes in New York, Miami, the  Dominican
Republic  and  Spain . “If we put together our talents for new
businesses in Brazil, Colombia, Mexico -- something that has an
interest for China -- we can match those interests and do very
well.”  China  accounts for 9 percent of foreign direct investment
in Latin America, trailing only the U.S. and Holland, according
to the  United Nations ’ Economic Commission for Latin America and
the Caribbean.  Cisneros also is operating in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy in a partnership with  China Central Television  to
broadcast original television content and to provide expertise
in producing local programs.  Hispanic Market  The Cisneros Group, which took in $1.5 billion of revenue
in 2010 and has its headquarters in Miami, also is expanding
businesses aimed at the U.S. Hispanic market as well as in
nations across  Africa  and the  Middle East . Telenovelas, a type
of Spanish-language soap opera, produced by Cisneros will begin
to air in Iran and Afghanistan this year, said Adriana Cisneros de Griffin, who sat next to her father during the hour-long
interview.  Cisneros Group provides Univision, the leading Spanish-
language broadcaster in the U.S., with 40 percent of its
content, and the airing of the Eva Luna telenovela in 2010 was
more successful than the company anticipated, she said.  Soap Operas  “There were more people seeing TV in Spanish, our soap
operas in the U.S., at moments than seeing NBC, CBS or Fox,”
said the 31-year-old vice chairwoman and director of strategy.
“With Univision we designed an interactive strategy that
resulted in our last show having 9.7 million viewers; we thought
our audience was 7 million.”  Cisneros’ youngest daughter, who spent hours as a child in
Venevision television studios and traveled with her father to
bring  DirecTV (DTV)  to Latin America when she was 13, handles the
company’s Brazilian business while her father focuses on China
and long-term strategy. A graduate of Columbia University and
New York University who resides in  Manhattan , the younger
Cisneros is creating interactive online programs and working
with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  on mobile programming.  “Media has become a really interesting part of the market
to be in, everything happening with digital interaction is
fascinating, everyone trying to make a business model around all
of that,” she said. “But it’s fast-changing and we keep
changing our strategy for interactive and digital on a monthly
basis and I think we have to because that’s the new nature of
the beast. What we’ll be able to do with our content in the
coming years is amazing.”  Inheritance  Gustavo Cisneros inherited the company from his father in
1970 and took over a fortune built by expanding Venevision and
representing U.S. brands such as Studebaker, PepsiCo and Burger
King in Venezuela. Cisneros and his family are worth $4.2
billion, according to Forbes magazine. The 58-year-old company
employs about 8,000 workers.  The group was one of the largest bottlers of Purchase, New
York-based PepsiCo Inc. products outside the U.S. until the
1990s, when Cisneros and his brother Ricardo decided to switch
to Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  They sold the carbonated beverage
business a year later.  In Venezuela, Cisneros Group has the largest privately
owned television network, a local baseball team and through
Cerveceria Regional SA continues to compete with the largest
brewer, Caracas-based  Empresas Polar SA , for market share. Polar
now has a joint venture with PepsiCo.  Cisneros said he chose his youngest daughter to succeed him
because she showed an interest in media and a passion for trying
to run the business. The elder daughter, Carolina, has dedicated
herself to her five children, while his son Guillermo handles
family finances, Cisneros said.  Sense of Duty  Adriana said she always knew she wanted to be in media,
“but I thought I would come work for my family when I was 40
and not 25. When I saw my brother didn’t want to take the
position that he was groomed for, out of sense of duty I said
let’s do it sooner than later.”  Both are optimistic about the outlook for their business in
Latin America.  “We have the best decade of Latin America ahead of us, of
course this or that happening, but the numbers objectively,”
Cisneros said before being interrupted by his daughter.  “It’s our decade,” she said.  “It’s going to be fantastic,” Cisneros continued. “Any
way you look at it, politically, economically, culturally, Latin
America has come into its own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in New York at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  