-- 
Bini Smaghi Says Private-Sector Involvement Can Hurt Taxpayers

-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-06-17T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/bini-smaghi-says-private-sector-involvement-can-hurt-taxpayers.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said involving the private
sector in a sovereign bailout can be detrimental to taxpayers.  The failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. “proved that
if private-sector involvement is applied in the wrong way, the
taxpayer will in the end pay more,” Bini Smaghi said in a
speech in Stockholm today. “Short-term speculative investors
benefit from perverse forms of private-sector involvement, while
long-term investors are punished. That doesn’t sound very clever
to me.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy said today a solution based on the Vienna
initiative of 2009, which encouraged creditors to roll over
expiring bonds, could be a model for helping Greece. The
statement comes after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
opened a rift with the ECB earlier this month when he insisted
that investors participate in a Greek rescue. The ECB opposes
any option that could trigger a  credit event , including a
restructuring.  “One reason for debt restructuring, which is often made by
some theoretical economists, is that it helps financial markets
to function better and it eliminates moral hazard,” Bini Smaghi
said. “The problem with this view is that it totally omits the
broader impact on the markets. Trying to eliminate moral hazard
in the middle of a systemic crisis is like shooting yourself in
the foot. Think about it: did the failure of Lehman Brothers
make markets work better, or worse? Did it reduce moral
hazard?”  Lehman Collapse  The collapse of  Lehman Brothers  in September 2008 sparked
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, freezing
credit markets worldwide as investors fled all but the safest
government debt. It contributed to $2 trillion in writedowns and
losses at the world’s biggest financial institutions, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, and forced central banks to cut
 interest rates  to record lows as economies around the world
slipped into recession.  Bini Smaghi said euro-area governments and the ECB each
have specific roles in helping Greece, Ireland and Portugal out
of crisis.  “The solution to these three cases entails a specific role
to be played by the fiscal authority of the respective
countries, the fiscal authorities of the other countries
supporting the adjustment program in those countries and the
ECB,” Bini Smaghi said. “The responsibilities for monetary
policy and for fiscal policy have to remain quite separate.”  The ECB “can only lend to sound institutions and against
appropriate collateral,” Bini Smaghi said. “The
appropriateness of the collateral depends in particular on
whether the country under stress follows rigorously” the
adjustment program designed by the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  and “is on track to regain  market
access .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in  Stockholm  at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  