-- 
Blackboard Shareholders Seen Losing 50% Gain With Private Equity: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-06-17T21:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/blackboard-shareholders-seen-losing-50-gain-with-private-equity-real-m-a.html
Blackboard Inc. (BBBB)  shareholders may
lose out on a 50 percent gain as private equity buyers circle
the maker of online educational software.  Providence Equity Partners  is in the lead to acquire
Blackboard, a person with knowledge of the situation said this
week. Leveraged buyout firms have paid a median of 10.7 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
for software companies in the last three years, as other buyers
spent 15.4 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Based
on Washington-based Blackboard’s estimated 2012 Ebitda, a
private equity takeover may amount to $1.53 billion, or $43.78 a
share instead of the $64.40 a non-financial buyer would pay.  While LBO firms may be lured by Blackboard’s lack of long-
term debt and the room to boost operating margins that are a
third of the industry average, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
says they may not pay as much as a buyer in the same business
because there aren’t as many overlapping costs to cut.
Blackboard, the most expensive educational  software company 
relative to earnings, slid 13 percent to $42.61 through
yesterday since reaching a three-year high in April as it hired
Barclays Plc to field unsolicited acquisition proposals.  “It would be tough for Blackboard to get over $50 on a
 private equity  deal,” said Mike Malouf, a Boston-based analyst
for Craig-Hallum. “A strategic investor could always, and
probably most likely would, pay more. The price private equity
can offer might not be attractive enough for Blackboard
management.”  Private Equity Discussions  The discussions with Blackboard, which has also been
considering a bid from private equity firm Hellman & Friedman
LLC, could unravel and may not result in an agreement, said the
person familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified
because the process is private.  Michael Stanton, a spokesman for Blackboard, said the
company doesn’t comment on valuation. Lucy Neugart, a
spokeswoman at Providence, Rhode Island-based Providence, and
Mary Beth Grover, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Hellman
& Friedman, declined to comment.  Blackboard makes software that lets teachers in
kindergarten through 12th grade and university professors post
course materials, conduct discussions and distribute assignments
online. The company, founded in 1997, has expanded offerings to
include a messaging service called Blackboard Connect and
Blackboard Transact, a payment product that allows college
students to use their identification cards for purchases on and
off campus.  Software Takeovers  In software industry takeovers greater than $500 million in
the last three years, private equity firms paid a median of 10.7
times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show. With analysts
estimating that Blackboard’s Ebitda will rise to $153.7 million
next year, that industry multiple would equate to an equity
value for Blackboard of $1.53 billion plus $111 million in net
debt. Its market value was $1.49 billion as of yesterday.  Companies that aren’t private equity firms have completed
12 acquisitions of public software targets in that time at a
median of 15.4 times Ebitda, the data show. At that level,
Blackboard’s equity may be valued at $2.26 billion. A deal for
$64.40 a share would mean a 51 percent return for investors who
bought at yesterday’s closing stock price.  “Clearly the market is taking it as somewhat of a
disappointment because it’s private equity as opposed to a
strategic,” said  Eric Green , a Philadelphia-based portfolio
manager at Penn Capital Management, which oversees $6.5 billion.
“The value to another company could have been greater and other
companies could have paid more.”  Strategic Buyers  Green said he has sold most of his fund’s Blackboard shares
since the company said it was exploring a possible sale.  After Blackboard disclosed the hiring of Barclays as a
financial adviser on April 19, the stock rose 31 percent in
three days to $48.80. It then fell 13 percent through yesterday.  Blackboard slipped 4.3 percent to $40.76 in New York today.  “With the stock reacting the way it is, its investors
believe a strategic buyer is less and less likely,” said Amy Junker, an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee .
“The question becomes, what would a private equity buyer be
willing to pay?”  A buyout firm may be able to offer between $44 and $48 a
share, said Brandon Dobell, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in
 Chicago . Non-financial acquirers could pay $6 a share more
because they could cut up to $20 million in costs and obtain
financing at lower rates, he said.  Private Equity Bid  Tom Roderick, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Chicago, estimated that an industry buyer could offer as much as
$65 a share, while a private equity firm may only bid as high as
$55, according to an April 28 report.  “They’re not going to take anything in the $40s,” he said
in an interview yesterday. “I just don’t see that happening.”  Blackboard has boosted revenue for eight straight years as
more universities started using its course management system. In
2012, sales are projected to rise 12 percent to $602 million,
based on analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, the smallest
increase in data going back to 2002.  Before Blackboard disclosed the hiring of Barclays, the
shares had declined 17 percent in the prior 12 months as the
Russell 2000 Technology Index climbed 31 percent.  While short interest is down from a high in October, almost
23 percent of shares available for trading are still being
shorted, according to London-based research firm  Data Explorers .
Short selling is the practice of selling borrowed stock on the
bet the price will decline.  Education Spending  “The biggest negative on the stock, and this is reflected
in the high short interest, is that they’ve lost some market
share over the last few years to open-source competitors,”
including  Moodle  and  Sakai , said Scott Berg, an analyst at Feltl
& Co. in  Minneapolis . Also, state and local education budgets
have been under pressure since the U.S. recession, he said.  Blackboard’s 4.7 percent operating margin in the last 12
months is the lowest among educational software makers with
market values above $100 million, besides  Rosetta Stone Inc. (RST) ,
which didn’t post a profit in that period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The industry averaged 16 percent, the
data show.  Still, Blackboard is the most expensive relative to its
earnings in the group. It’s valued at 19.6 times Ebitda in the
past 12 months and 170 times net income, the data show.  “What makes them attractive is that they don’t have any
debt and they’re dominant in what they do,” Penn Capital’s
Green said. “It’s been somewhat of a disappointment over the
last couple of years. Other management could potentially turn
things around over there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  New York  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 