-- 
Brasil Foods Antitrust Vote Should Go Beyond Prices, Cade’s Lima Says

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-06-17T17:14:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/brasil-foods-antitrust-vote-should-go-beyond-prices-cade-s-lima-says.html
Brazil’s antitrust regulators can’t
block  BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) ’s takeover of Sadia SA based solely
on domestic price increases, said Luiz Augusto Lima, the federal
prosecutor at the agency.  Cade, as the agency is known, needs to take into account
the deal’s economic benefits when deciding whether to approve
the takeover that created the world’s biggest poultry exporter,
Lima said today in an interview from Brasilia.  “The council must take into account not only consumers’
interests, but also social, economic development, exports, jobs,
and gains to the society,” Lima said.  Brasil Foods  is offering to negotiate an agreement with
Cade to save the $3.8 billion takeover about two years after the
combination was formed from Perdigao SA’s takeover of Sadia.
Chief Executive Officer Jose Antonio do Prado Fay wants time to
discuss possible solutions after commissioner Carlos Ragazzo
said the company wields too much market power.  Lima said he doesn’t rule out taking the agency’s decision
to court at a later date.  “At this moment, I won’t be going to court because of good
judgment as I didn’t have access to all documents pertaining to
the case,” he said.  Brazilian antitrust regulators postponed a final decision
on the merger June 15, after commissioner Ricardo Ruiz said the
company asked for more time to negotiate an agreement.  Brazil ’s
antitrust agency will vote on the deal July 13, commissioner
Olavo Chinaglia said yesterday.  Currency Losses  Brasil Foods bought Sadia in 2009 after the bigger rival
booked more than 3 billion reais ($1.88 billion) in wrong-way
currency bets, following the Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.
collapse. The deal was supported by Brazilian pension funds of
state-run companies, which collectively owned 22 percent of
Perdigao and now hold a 23 percent stake in Brasil Foods.  Brasil Foods rose 5 centavos, or 0.2 percent, to 24.75
reais in Sao Paulo trading at 1:11 p.m. New York time. The stock
has gained for four days, after losing $2.2 billion in market
value since May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  