-- 
Brazil Sports Minister Backs Soccer Head Teixeira After BBC Accusations

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-06-17T16:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/brazil-sports-minister-backs-soccer-head-teixeira-after-bbc-accusations.html
Brazil ’s Sports Minister Orlando Silva said that the head of the country’s soccer federation is
likely to remain in his post through the 2014 World Cup even
though he’s among  FIFA  executives accused of corruption.  Ricardo Teixeira was alleged in a British Broadcasting
Corp. program in May to have been the beneficiary of bribes paid
by FIFA’s bankrupt former marketing partner ISL. The  BBC  also
named other officials, including Joao Havelange, FIFA’s former
president and Teixeira’s one-time father-in-law.  Silva, in an interview June 15 in Sao Paulo, said the 63-
year-old Teixeira must be presumed innocent because he isn’t
being investigated for the alleged misconduct by FIFA or
Brazilian authorities.  “To name names doesn’t help, the allegations need to be
investigated,” said Silva, who is overseeing Brazil’s
preparations to host the  World Cup  and 2016 Summer Olympics.
“The most likely outcome is that Ricardo Teixeira will stay in
his job.”  Rodrigo Paiva, director of public relations at the
Brazilian soccer federation said the group wouldn’t comment on
“unfounded allegations.”  The Zurich-based FIFA, which gets $4 billion from its
quadrennial  soccer tournament , has found itself engulfed with
corruption claims against several of its top executives. Mohamed Bin Hammam, the head of soccer in  Asia , and FIFA Vice President
 Jack Warner , were suspended by the body pending an investigation
into claims they offered Caribbean officials $40,000 in cash
each to choose Bin Hammam over incumbent Sepp Blatter in a
presidential election.  Former Federal Bureau of Investigation director Louis Freeh
has been hired to look into the case. The results of the inquiry
are expected at the end of the month. The claims have rattled
FIFA’s sponsors and partner organizations like European soccer
governing body, UEFA.  FIFA and Romario  The  International Olympic Committee  confirmed in a
statement today it’s looking into Havelange, 95, who headed FIFA
between 1974 and 1998 and remains its longest serving member.
The organization is also looking into claims made by the BBC
against another official, Issa Hayatou, who’s head of soccer in
 Africa .  Its ethics commission “has received supporting documents
from the BBC and is now in the process of verifying the
authenticity of the material that has been gathered so far,”
the IOC statement said.  Teixeira has faced corruption allegations in the past.  Brazil’s Congress investigated him for allegedly profiting
from contracts signed between the country’s soccer federation
and Nike Inc. After a three year inquiry, the Senate approved a
report detailing financial irregularities by 17 of the country’s
top soccer officials, including Teixeira.  Federal prosecutors said there wasn’t enough evidence in
the 1,600-page report that detailed allegations of  money
laundering ,  tax evasion  and the falsification of documents to
take the matter to trial.  Romario de Souza Faria, the best player in 1994 USA World
Cup, and a lawmaker in Brazil’s parliament, said last month that
Teixeira should appear before Congress to answer all the
allegations leveled against him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
Joao Oliveira in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  