-- 
Brooklyn Money Manager Gets 20 Years in Prison for 30-Year Ponzi Scheme

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-17T18:38:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/brooklyn-money-manager-gets-20-years-in-prison-for-30-year-ponzi-scheme.html
Philip Barry, a  money manager  from
 Brooklyn , New York, was sentenced to 20 years in prison for
running a $45 million Ponzi scheme that defrauded hundreds of
investors over three decades.  Barry, 53, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge
Raymond J. Dearie in Brooklyn. After a one-week trial in
November, a jury convicted him on all the counts he faced -- one
of  securities fraud  and 33 of mail fraud.  “I hurt a lot of people,” Barry told Dearie before being
sentenced. “I do not wish to hide how bad it was.”  Barry, a resident of the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn,
began accepting money in 1978 from investors, guaranteeing
fictional annual profits, according to prosecutors in the office
of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch. Instead, he used new investors’
money to pay earlier ones, prosecutors said. His fraud is
believed to be the longest-lasting  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history,
they said.  In a separate action, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said Barry diverted some of the investor money to a
mail-order pornography business. In April, the SEC asked the
court to dismiss a libel suit Barry brought over the accusation.  One of Barry’s lawyers, Michael D. Weil, declined to
comment on the sentence.  No Lavish Lifestyle  Lisa Hoyes, another lawyer for Barry, argued in court that
her client should get the 15-year sentence recommended by the
Department of Probation, in part because he never used the money
for a lavish lifestyle.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey A. Goldberg asked Dearie to
impose a sentence between 27 and 34 years, which is what federal
guidelines called for.  Goldberg noted that Bay Ridge, where Barry worked out of a
storefront, isn’t a wealthy neighborhood and most of his victims
were working class -- mechanics, police officers, teachers and
nurses.  “Phil Barry is a thief,” one victim, Frances Monteleone,
a registered nurse, told Dearie. “Phil Barry stole my money and
he also stole my future.”  Monteleone said she invested $215,000 of her divorce
settlement with Barry.  “No one plans to get lost in the woods, it just happens
one step at a time,” Barry said before he was sentenced. “I
will lawfully and diligently resume work to make restitution to
my victims on the first day that this court will allow.”  800 Investors  Barry was accused of luring more than 800 investors into
his Leverage Group, which claimed to be investing in  stock
options . His reported ending balance of more than $45 million
far exceeded assets actually held, producing “substantial
losses” for many investors, according to prosecutors.  Each December, Barry would figure a “guaranteed” rate of
return for the following year, ranging from 12.55 percent to 16
percent, prosecutors said. When investors tried to withdraw
money from their accounts, checks would often be returned due to
insufficient funds or, in some cases, Barry ignored their
requests altogether, prosecutors said.  “Philip Barry began lying to his clients and betraying
their trust almost right away,” Goldberg, the prosecutor, said
in court today.  In August 2008, Barry went to federal prosecutors and told
them he was invested only in land rather than options and that
he couldn’t get approvals to develop the property, according to
court papers. After an investigation, he was arrested in
September 2009.  Auctioned Land  The land, which prosecutors said Barry bought for himself,
was auctioned off for $6.6 million in 2009 after he declared
bankruptcy the previous year, according to the government.  “It is a sad story of predatory conduct that is almost
unimaginable,” Dearie said in sentencing Barry.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Barry, 09-cr-0833, the SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Barry, 09-cv-3860,
and Barry’s suit against the SEC is Barry v. SEC, 10-cv-4071,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 