-- 
Brown Pledges to Seek Republican Tax Votes After Vetoing California Budget

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-06-17T17:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/brown-vows-to-seek-tax-extensions-after-california-budget-veto.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown , who
failed to win Republican support of tax extensions in six months
of negotiations, said he’d “move heaven and earth” in another
attempt after vetoing a budget lacking the provision.  Brown, a Democrat who pledged to solve California’s fiscal
malfunctions without gimmicks, didn’t say how he’d get the
Republican backing needed to pass his plan. His budget  veto  was
the first in state history.  “I’m going to do everything I can, I’ll move heaven and
earth, to get those votes,” Brown told reporters yesterday in
Los Angeles.  Without a budget, the biggest issuer of municipal debt in
the U.S. is unable to borrow from  Wall Street  to pay bills when
its fiscal year starts July 1. Brown said the spending plan
written by fellow Democrats, only the second in 25 years to meet
a constitutional deadline, used legally doubtful techniques to
paper-over a $10 billion deficit.  Brown didn’t immediately veto all of the so-called trailer
bills that accompanied the budget, including one that calls for
sales-tax collections by online retailers including  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  for purchases by state residents. He said he’s still
reviewing the measures.  Brown wants lawmakers to bridge the deficit by extending
tax and fee increases that are set to expire June 30, to avert
deeper spending cuts to schools and public safety. The governor
needs to persuade at least two Republicans in each legislative
chamber to back his plan before it can pass.  One-Time Fixes  The Democrats’ plan relied on a variety of one-time fixes
to fill the gap, such as delaying $3 billion in school aid for
four months, pushing it into the next fiscal years, and
optimistic revenue projections.  “The budget I have received is not a balanced solution,”
Brown said in his veto message. “It continues big deficits for
years to come and adds billions of dollars of new debt. It also
contains legally questionable maneuvers, costly borrowing and
unrealistic savings. Finally, it is not financeable and
therefore will not allow us to meet our obligations.”  Brown began the year facing a $26 billion deficit through
June 2012. Spending cuts passed in March and better-than-
expected revenue narrowed the projected gap to $10 billion.  Democrats were able to pass their plan with a simple
majority thanks to a November voter initiative that lowered the
threshold from two-thirds. Lawmakers for the first time faced
the loss of salary and per-diem pay for every day they failed to
meet a June 15 deadline to send the plan to the governor.  Requirements for Pay  Controller John Chiang, who issues state paychecks, said
yesterday he’s analyzing the Democrat’s budget to determine if
it met requirements for them to be paid. The law’s language
requires legislators to send the governor a balanced budget; it
doesn’t say it must be enacted to clear that threshold.  “We clearly met the obligation to pass an on-time
budget,” Assembly Speaker John Perez, a  Los Angeles  Democrat,
told reporters in  Sacramento .  California needs a budget in place in order to borrow what
has been projected to be about $7 billion of revenue
anticipation notes, short-term municipal debt known as RANs,
that the state offers annually when cash is low. The debt is
repaid from later tax collections.  “Although the governor’s veto risks a protracted budget
negotiation process that we believe could stress the state’s
cash position, it is not clear to us that the budget package he
vetoed would have averted cash problems,”  Standard & Poor’s 
said today in a report.  Vendor Pay  Without a budget by July 1, Chiang can’t pay lawmakers or
the more than 1,000 legislative workers and gubernatorial
appointees. They would get any money owed once the spending plan
is signed.  Chiang also can’t pay vendors who sell goods and services
to the state, or send subsidies to community colleges, health
clinics, foster-care parents, nursing homes and daycare centers.  Republicans have jockeyed for concessions on spending
levels, cuts to government pensions and business and
environmental regulations in exchange for their support to put
Brown’s tax extensions on a statewide ballot.  “Californians deserve a budget that stands the test of
time, and that requires the real reforms that they are demanding
-- meaningful pension reform, a spending limit and business-
regulation relief for  job creation ,” said Senator Bob Dutton,
the Republican minority leader from Rancho Cucamonga.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in Los Angeles at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  