-- 
Dombret Sees 2% to 3% Capital Buffer for 30 Largest Banks

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-06-17T14:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/bundesbank-s-dombret-sees-2-3-surcharge-for-30-largest-banks.html
Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret expects capital buffers of 2 to 3 percentage points for
banks deemed too-big-to-fail because their collapse could
endanger the wider financial system and hurt economic growth.  Regulators “should start with only those institutions that
are indisputably of global systemic relevance. I expect this to
be a group of some 25 to 30 banks -- not more and not less,”
Dombret said today in a speech in Eltville,  Germany . “I expect
that at the end of the day the amount of additional capital
required from a SIFI will be related to its systemic importance
and will in all likelihood lie somewhere between 2 and 3
percent.”  The Group of 20 nations agreed in November that
systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs, should
face tougher capital rules than other banks, increasing their
ability to take losses without failing. The extra reserve
requirement would go beyond capital rules for internationally
active lenders published last year that require banks to hold
core capital equivalent to 7 percent of their risk-weighted
assets.  Federal Reserve  Governments are split over how to toughen bank capital
rules following the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. The  Federal Reserve  has backed a graduated surcharge
with a maximum of 3 percentage points, a person familiar with
the talks said last week. Financial shares fell when traders
interpreted June 3 remarks by Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo as
leaving the door open to surcharges of as much as 7 percentage
points.  The  Basel  Committee on Banking Supervision has been charged
by the Financial Stability Board with drafting the requirements.
The surcharge figures will be discussed further at meetings next
week in Basel,  Switzerland , with some countries pushing for
weaker requirements, people familiar with the matter said
yesterday.  “As experience is gained, we might later extend the
framework in an appropriate manner to other SIFIs,” Dombret,
who acts as Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann’s deputy in the
Financial Stability Board, said. This might include “financial
institutions of domestic relevance, financial market
infrastructures, insurance companies and other non-bank
financial institutions.”  Contingent Capital  The surcharge would take the form of a boost to capital the
systemically important banks must hold and would apply to
financial institutions whose collapse would harm the global
economy. A list of such banks hasn’t been disclosed.  Dombret said while common equity appears to be the
“natural choice” for additional charges, other instruments
such as contingent capital should be included. “Contingent
capital, when properly designed, is likely to represent a major
step forward in providing additional loss absorbency,” Dombret
said.  Contingent convertible bonds, or CoCos, automatically
become equity when capital falls below preset levels and Swiss
banks such as  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  sold the bonds this year to
strengthen their finances.  Restructuring, Resolution Regimes  “It is indispensable to finalize, and then implement
without delay, the FSB framework for dealing with SIFIs,”
Dombret added. “Secondly, we have to introduce internationally
compatible restructuring and resolution regimes for financial
institutions to allow them to exit the market in an orderly
fashion without causing a breakdown of the system.”  Banks among the 30 largest by market value include  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , UBS AG,  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , according to Bloomberg data.  The Basel Committee is planning a sliding scale that would
be split up into several so-called buckets, into which different
lenders would be placed. Banks wouldn’t initially face the
highest surcharge, which is intended as a deterrent to
expansion, a person familiar with the negotiations said
yesterday.  Dombret said one difficulty is accurately identifying SIFIs
based on criteria such as size, interconnectedness,
substitutability and complexity.  ING Range  ING Groep NV (INGA)  Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said on a
call with analysts today that the Netherlands largest financial
services company expects to face a surcharge. The “first
indications we have is that we will be a SIFI but in the lower
ranges,” of the sliding scale, he said.  Proposals have been made for the surcharges banks will face
 run “from 0.5 percent to the top, like 3 percent,” Hommen
said.  The  Financial Times  reported today that the surcharge would
cover around 30 of the world’s biggest banks, citing three
people briefed on the discussions. Under plans being considered
by global regulators, Citigroup, JPMorgan, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank, HSBC,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, RBS, and
Barclays would face capital surcharges of 2.5 percentage points,
the FT said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit
Suisse Group AG would be in the next tier of the sliding scale,
facing surcharges of 2 percentage points. Another 10 to 15 banks
are likely to face surcharges ranging from 0.5 to 2 percentage
points, the FT reported.  The Basel Committee is also considering setting capital
requirements of as much as 3.5 percentage points that the
largest banks may face if they grow bigger, two people familiar
with the talks said yesterday.  The committee’s intention is that the surcharges applied
to individual banks would be regularly updated in light of
lenders’ changing profiles, the people said. The Basel
committee’s press office declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 