-- 
Cadavers at $2.50 Lured Americans to 1830s Paris: Lewis Lapham

-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/cadavers-at-2-50-kids-cheaper-lured-americans-to-paris-lewis-lapham.html
At noon, the cadavers were delivered
to the dissecting rooms at the Amphitheatre d’Anatomie -- carts
had arrived earlier and dumped the bodies of naked men and women
on the pavement outside. Corpses came cheap: An adult cost 6
francs or about $2.50; a child could be had for less.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  The amphitheater was big enough for 600 students. They
smoked cigars to offset the nauseating smell of putrefaction and
walked gingerly to avoid slipping on the fragments of flesh
littering the floor. Larger pieces were fed to caged dogs.  It was a scene that in the 1830s drew students from all
over to Paris, the medical capital of the world. Oliver Wendell
Holmes, one of the first Americans trained in the new clinical
methods, wrote that to understand anatomy, he’d cut his subject
“into inch pieces.” He could not have done so anywhere else,
he added.  Upon returning to the U.S., Holmes taught at  Harvard
Medical School  until 1882, expounding the benefits of
dissection, the microscope and the stethoscope, all of which
were largely unknown in the U.S.  I spoke with Pulitzer Prize-winning historian David McCullough, author of “The Greater Journey: Americans in
Paris,” on the following topics:  1. Off to the City of Light  2. Ambitious to Excel  3. European Masterpieces  4. Pleasure From Work  5. French Resilience  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 