-- 
Canada April Wholesale Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-17T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/canada-april-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of Canada's wholesale trade report for April from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales edged down 0.1% to $46.8 billion in
April, following a 0.3% gain in March. After an upward
trend in the second half of 2010, sales have remained
relatively flat so far this year.  In volume terms, wholesale sales declined 0.3% in
April.  Mixed results among the subsectors  In April, gains in three of the seven subsectors were
offset by declines in the four others, particularly in the
miscellaneous and the building material and supplies
subsectors.  The miscellaneous subsector accounted for the largest
decline in April, with sales falling 3.6%. All of the
component industries declined, with agricultural supplies
accounting for half of the drop. Poor weather and spring
flooding in  Canada  and the  United States  may have
contributed to lower sales of fertilizer and seeds in
April. International merchandise trade data for April
showed an 11% decline in exports of fertilizers and
fertilizer materials.  The building material and supplies subsector (-1.3%)
posted its second consecutive decrease. Among the
industries in this subsector, the lumber, millwork,
hardware and other supplies industry declined the most.
This coincided with a drop in construction activities in
Canada and lower lumber exports to the United States.  The two other declines in April were in the motor
vehicle and parts and the farm product subsectors.  The largest gain was in the personal and household
goods subsector (+1.8%), followed by the food, beverage
and tobacco products subsector (+1.2%). Most of the
industries in these two subsectors posted increased sales.  Despite the increase in April, sales of personal and
household goods have been relatively flat since the
beginning of 2010. This reflects weak  consumer spending  on
furniture, furnishings and household equipment and
maintenance.  Wholesale sales down in half of the provinces  Sales were down in five provinces in April.  In dollar terms,  Alberta  (-3.8%) and Saskatchewan 
(-10.6%) reported the largest sales declines in April. 
Lower sales in the agricultural supplies and the farm, 
lawn and garden machinery and equipment industries were 
the main contributors.  British Columbia (-0.9%) registered its third
consecutive decline in April.  Ontario, which accounts for about half of Canada's
total wholesale sales, increased 0.9% in April. Sales in
 Quebec  rose 1.7%. The increases in these provinces were
attributable to higher sales of personal and household
goods and food, beverage and tobacco products.  Inventories continue to rise  Inventories rose 1.8% to $56.1 billion in April. This
was the fourth consecutive increase for inventories.  In April, higher inventory levels were reported by
wholesalers in 16 of the 25 industries, led by the farm,
lawn, garden, machinery and equipment industries (+14.7%).  The inventory-to-sales ratio increased from 1.18 in
March to 1.20 in April.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time
in months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to
remain at their current level.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the
prices of goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is
a chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  