-- 
Canada First Quarter International Investment Position (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-17T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/canada-first-quarter-international-investment-position-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international investment position report for the
first quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Canada's net international indebtedness increased $13.5
billion to $209.7 billion at the end of the first quarter.
This marked the eight consecutive quarter of decline in
Canada's net international investment position. Canada's
international liabilities were up $22.6 billion on ongoing
strong foreign investment in Canadian securities, in line
with the current account deficit. Growth in international
assets was constrained by the downward revaluation effect
of the appreciation of the Canadian dollar in the quarter.  The appreciation of the Canadian dollar accounted for a
$19.8 billion downward revaluation on foreign currency
denominated international assets, partially offsetting the
effect of Canadian investment abroad in the quarter.
Foreign currency denominated liabilities were affected to
a lesser extent, with a downward revaluation of $11.4
billion. Over the quarter, the Canadian dollar appreciated
2.6% against the US dollar and 5.1% against the Japanese
Yen, but depreciated 3.1% against the Euro and 0.3%
against the British pound.  Net direct investment position declines further  Canada 's net foreign direct investment position
declined further, down $8.4 billion in the first quarter
to a net asset position of $46.7 billion. Canadian direct
investment flows abroad amounted to $13.1 billion, but
these were partly offset by the downward revaluation
effect of an appreciating Canadian dollar. On the
liability side, the level of foreign direct investment in
Canada was up $10.0 billion in the quarter on increased
investment inflows from abroad.  Net investment position on securities continues to weaken  Canada's net portfolio position also fell further in
the first quarter to a net debt position of $352.1
billion, led by strong foreign purchases of Canadian
securities. Non-residents further increased their holdings
of Canadian securities in the first quarter by $10.8
billion, with investment split between Canadian bonds and
equities. However, the revaluation effect on foreign
currency denominated Canadian debt instruments moderated
the increase. On the other side of the ledger, the value
of Canadian holdings of foreign securities was down $4.6
billion in the first quarter. This largely reflected a
downward exchange rate revaluation of $5.5 billion.  The net investment position on securities has been
deteriorating since the global financial crisis. This
reflected Canadian sales of foreign debt securities
starting in the second half of 2007, and the strong
foreign purchases of Canadian debt instruments that began
in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result, the net
foreign debt position on portfolio investments in the
first quarter reached levels last seen in the late 1990s.  Increase in net foreign debt larger when securities are
valued at market prices  Canada's net international investment position can also
be calculated with tradable securities valued at market
prices. By this measure, Canada's net foreign debt
increased by $22.3 billion to $206.2 billion.  During the first quarter, Canadian equity markets
posted stronger gains than foreign equity markets. In
addition, non-resident acquisitions of Canadian stocks
exceeded Canadian purchases of foreign stocks. As a
result, non-resident investor holdings of Canadian
equities rose by $30.8 billion, compared with an increase
of $14.3 billion in Canadian investor holdings of foreign
equity assets.  Note to readers  Annual and quarterly data have been revised for the
reference years 2008 to 2010, and are consistent with
Balance of Payments data released May 30, 2011. This is in
keeping with the general policy to revise national
accounts statistics at the time of the first quarter data
release. In general, the revisions reflect more current
sources of information arising from annual surveys and
administrative data.  Definition  The international investment position presents the
value and composition of Canada's assets and liabilities
to the rest of the world. Canada's net international
investment position is the difference between these
foreign assets and liabilities. The excess of
international liabilities over assets can be referred to
as Canada's net foreign debt; the excess of international
assets over liabilities can be referred to as Canada's net
foreign assets. The valuation of the assets and
liabilities in the international investment position are
measured at book value, unless otherwise stated. Book
value represents the value of assets and liabilities
recorded in the books of the enterprise in which the
investment is made.  Currency valuation  The value of assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currency are converted to Canadian dollars at the
end of each period for which a balance sheet is
calculated. Most of Canada's foreign assets are
denominated in foreign currencies while less than half of
Canada's international liabilities are in foreign
currencies. When the Canadian dollar is appreciating in
value, the restatement of the value of these assets and
liabilities in Canadian dollars lowers the recorded value.
The opposite is true when the Canadian dollar is
depreciating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  