-- 
Canada’s Oil Deals Falling Most Since 2003 as Crude Rallies

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/canada-s-oil-deals-falling-most-since-2003-as-crude-rallies.html
Purchases of Canadian energy
companies and assets are slackening as crude hovers near $100 a
barrel and natural gas languishes after a three-year rout.  The gain in oil has made prices for oil reserves more
expensive, limiting potential buyers, while analysts forecast
natural gas will stay below $6 per million British thermal units
for the next three years, less than half the July 2008 peak. A
total of 231 million barrels of oil and gas reserves have been
sold this year through May 18, less than half the 482 million
barrels in the same period in 2010, according to National Bank
Financial Inc.  The value of oil and gas deals in Canada -- which rivals
 Mexico  as the U.S.’s biggest foreign oil supplier -- plunged 35
percent to $11 billion through June 15, the biggest drop since
2003, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The merger slowdown,
which also affects the U.S., is having a deeper impact in  Canada 
because energy accounts for almost 7 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the Energy Council of Canada.  “It’s a much more selective buyer and seller
environment,” said Trevor Loose, an investment banker with
National Bank in Calgary.  The  energy industry  represents 4.6 percent of the  U.S.
economy .  Gas prices are set to remain near record low levels for the
coming years, making it difficult for companies to recoup their
investments, especially for smaller companies, Loose said.  Crude Rises  Crude-oil futures touched a 31-month high of $114.83 a
barrel on May 2 and have gained 24 percent in the past year. Oil
for July delivery rose 0.2 percent on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange.  Gas prices  have fallen 1.8 percent this year and are
about a third of their peak of $13.58 in July 2008.  Gains in the price of crude over the past 12 months
followed by a recent decline have made “a few people nervous,”
said Michael Black, a Calgary-based partner with law firm Fasken
Martineau DuMoulin LLP who advises companies on energy deals.  “Demand growth in  China  and the U.S. is also uncertain and
this helps pile on the negative views.” That may limit the
potential for transactions this year, Black said.  Prices for oil assets in  Alberta , Canada’s energy-rich
province, have soared. The average price per acre has risen to
C$3,110.85 from a previous high of C$2,185.03 in July 2010, the
government said on June 1. Alberta sells leases to land to
fossil-fuel developers.  PetroChina, Encana  The largest energy deal in Canada in 2011 has been
PetroChina Co.’s acquisition of  Encana Corp. (ECA) ’s natural-gas
assets in British Columbia’s Horn River region. Excluding the
C$5.4 billion ($5.5 billion) deal announced in February, the
overall value of transactions is down by a third, according to
National Bank figures, compared with same period last year.  RBC Capital Markets  leads banks working on Canadian oil and
gas transactions this year, with 10 deals valued at $6.5 billion.
That compares with $5.7 billion for Jefferies Group Inc.,
according to Bloomberg data.  While transactions have slowed, there are still several
targets that may be attractive for potential buyers, said Chris Damas, a Barrie, Ontario-based analyst with BCMI Research.
Takeover candidates include Meg Energy Corp., Athabasca Oil
Sands Corp. and  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , he said.  “Nexen is a value play,” Damas said. “There is no
significant shareholder and there would likely be no contest if
someone stepped in to buy. It’s basically on sale.”  Patti Lewis, a Nexen spokeswoman, did not return calls from
Bloomberg seeking comment.  Alberta’s Reserves  Nexen, valued at about C$10.8 billion, and partner  Opti
Canada Inc. (OPC)  have failed to meet production targets at their Long
Lake oil-sands project, the company has said, contributing to a
10 percent decline in Nexen’s shares this year.  While transactions have been slow this year, sales of oil
and gas assets will likely attract foreign buyers in the coming
years, Alberta Energy Minister Ron Liepert said in a May 17
interview in New York.  With 173 billion barrels of recoverable reserves of oil,
the third-largest in the world after  Saudi Arabia  and Venezuela,
Alberta offers access to energy resources on a scale not
available anywhere else in the world, he said, even with higher
extraction costs compared with conventional reserves.  “What you’re going to see is continued Asian investment
partners,” Liepert said, referring to the PetroChina purchase
of Encana assets.  Oil Sands  The Canadian Energy Research Institute expects Canada’s oil
sands to attract C$2.08 trillion in investments over the next 25
years, making it the largest engineering undertaking on earth.
Chinese investors may contribute significantly to that
investment in the coming years, said Wenran Jiang, a University
of Alberta professor and senior fellow at the  Asia  Pacific
Foundation.  “So far China’s overseas M&A investment has been really
small,” Jiang said in an interview. “The Chinese would love to
get into the Canadian energy market.” Though they’re “not
willing to buy at any price.”  Encana and  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  have both said they’re
looking for partners to help develop their gas and oil resources.
Cenovus, Canada’s fifth-largest energy company, is discussing
partnership opportunities with companies from Asia, the U.S. and
Canada for a deal worth “billions” of dollars, Chief Executive
Officer Brian Ferguson said in an April 27 interview.  Total, Suncor  Total S.A. concluded an agreement worth C$1.75 billion in
December with Suncor Energy Inc. to jointly develop bitumen
reserves in Alberta.  “We need to share because it’s cheaper,” said Total S.A.
Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie in Calgary on May
19.  The partnership, which provides  Europe ’s third-biggest oil
producer with 200,000 barrels per day of production by 2020, may
be a harbinger of agreements between other companies.  Korea National Oil Corp. said March 21 it would pay $1.55
billion to  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  for a joint-venture stake in
the Eagle Ford shale-rock formation in  Texas .  On June 2, Petronas Nasional Bhd, Malaysia’s state-owned
oil company, made its entry into Canada by agreeing to pay
 Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  as much as C$1.07 billion for
stakes in natural-gas fields that may eventually be able to
export the fuel to Asia.  Before deals pick up,  oil prices  may have to fall, said
BCMI Research’s Damas. “Buyers need to see light at the end of
the tunnel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 