-- 
Carbon Falls to Lowest Price Since March 14 Ahead of EU Vote

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-17T08:07:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/carbon-falls-to-lowest-price-since-march-14-ahead-of-eu-vote.html
European Union carbon dropped for a
fourth day to the lowest price since March 14 as member states
prepared to vote on draft rules to improve the security of the
world’s biggest emissions market after a spate of permit thefts
earlier this year.  The regulation on the single EU carbon registry, designed
by the European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm in
Brussels, will improve protection against abuse and fraud. It’ll
also facilitate the creation and transfer to the  European
Investment Bank  of permits from a special post-2012 reserve
valued at around 5 billion euros ($7.1 billion), which the EIB
will then sell to raise funds for emissions-avoiding
technologies.  EU carbon permits for delivery in December dropped as much
as 1.5 percent to 15.86 euros a metric ton today on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London , extending their loss to 5.8
percent this month. The contract is near its weakest level since
March 11, when an earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  caused the
Fukushima nuclear disaster.  The EU Climate Change Committee, composed of national
government representatives and chaired by the commission, will
vote on the registry regulation after a discussion scheduled to
take place from 9:40 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Brussels time, according
to a meeting agenda.  Support for the draft is key to the security of the carbon
market, Jos Delbeke, director general for climate at the
European Commission, said last week.  24-Hour Delay  One issue still under discussion is a proposed 24-hour
delay in transfer of carbon allowances between registry
accounts, he said. Others include a provision on the finality of
registry transfers, which is needed to avoid “severe market
disturbance,” and the non-disclosure of carbon permit serial
numbers to market participants, he said.  The proposal to hide serial numbers brings “important
drawbacks” and EU nations and the commission should consider
the issues at stake very carefully when voting, the European
Federation of Energy Traders wrote in a letter to Delbeke
yesterday. The Carbon Markets & Investors’ Association said in a
statement that the commission plan “does not provide enough
certainty” and is opposed by “many” unspecified EU nations.  The Leipzig, Germany-based European Energy Exchange AG,
said earlier this week the rules proposed by the commission to
protect for the first time traders that inadvertently receive
stolen carbon allowances will help underpin trading.  The EU is seeking to boost the security of its emissions
market after computer hackers in January illegally transferred
around 2 million allowances. Spot trading ground to a halt for
15 days following the theft as the commission ordered an EU-wide
suspension of national registries that track transactions in
carbon permits.  Single Registry  The system of national registries in the region’s cap-and
trade program will be replaced by a single EU registry in the
next trading period starting in 2013, known as the third phase.  The regulation on the single registry scheduled for vote
today includes a provision that would allow bringing forward
sales of 300 million permits from the  New Entrant Reserve , known
as NER300. It will enable the transfer of third-phase CO2
allowances to the EIB before the registry is fully operational.  The EIB is due to begin selling the allowances one month
after receiving them and sales will take place in regular
intervals and at least every second week. The commission has
said it will be able to deliver the NER300 permits to the bank
when the regulation on the registry enters into force.  Following approval by the Climate Change Committee, the
commission proposal would require three months of scrutiny by
the EU nations and the European Parliament before formal
adoption. Decisions taken under this regulatory procedure, often
referred to as comitology, usually take four or five months to
become binding.  The NER300 allowances, which are expected to be sold by the
EIB by the end of next year, are not for use in the second phase
of the ETS, but can at the earliest be used to cover emissions
in 2013, the commission has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandro Vitelli at   avitelli1@bloomberg.net  