-- 
Carrefour Falls After Saying French Profit Missed Forecasts

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-06-17T13:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/carrefour-plunges-on-missed-forecasts.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, fell the most in more than six months in Paris
trading after saying that first-half results in  France  were
below management expectations.  The shares dropped as much as 6.5 percent, or 1.80 euros,
to 25.95 euros, the lowest price since March 2009.  First-half operating income in France fell about 35
percent, a Carrefour spokesman said. The profit revision, the
third since November, precedes a shareholder meeting on June 21.
The Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based retailer will seek
approval to spin off its Dia discount chain in  Madrid , a plan it
claims will boost value for investors.  The reduced forecast “is another piece of bad news,”
Arnaud Joly, an analyst at Cheuvreux in Paris, wrote in a note
today. “A break-up scenario, partial or total, cannot be ruled
out” should plans to revamp superstores in western  Europe  fail,
he said. Joly has an “outperform” rating on the shares.  Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson has prioritized
improving Carrefour’s performance in France, its biggest market,
after a decade in which sales barely grew. He is seeking to turn
the company around via a 1.5 billion-euro ($2.1 billion) revamp
of 500 superstores, or hypermarkets in western Europe, betting
lower prices and more own-label goods will stoke demand.  Domestic Business  Noel Prioux will be the new executive director for France,
Carrefour said yesterday. Olofsson, who took direct control of
the domestic business in May, will continue to oversee the
unit’s operations and has charged Prioux with implementing a
recovery plan, the company said. France accounts for 43 percent
of Carrefour’s revenue.  The grocer also named Thomas Hubner, 53, as head of Europe,
succeeding Prioux, who had been appointed to the role in April.
Prioux, 51, replaces James McCann, who left the company in May
after little more than a year in charge of the domestic unit,
Carrefour’s biggest.  “Carrefour’s first-half warning comes after persistently
low levels of food inflation in France and the group’s continued
lag in market share,”  James Grzinic , an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in  London , wrote in a note dated yesterday.  The stock was down 2.1 percent at 27.17 euros as of 3 p.m.
local time, valuing Carrefour at 18.5 billion euros.  Carrefour, which said first-quarter sales rose 3.9 percent
to 24.7 billion euros, is suffering from a “still competitive
environment in France,” analysts at UniCredit including
Fabienne Caron in London wrote in a note today. They rate the
stock a “hold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 