-- 
Cemig May Invest in Renova to Expand in Brazilian Wind Market

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-06-17T21:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/cemig-may-invest-in-renova-to-expand-in-brazilian-wind-market.html
(Corrects to say capacity numbers in final paragraph
include projects under development.)  Companhia Energetica de Minas
Gerais, the Brazilian state-controlled utility, may invest in
 Renova Energia SA (RNEW11)  to consolidate its foothold in the nation’s
expanding market for wind power, according to a regulatory
filing.  Talks with Cemig’s Light SA unit are “ongoing” and
“confidential,” Renova said today in the filing with  Brazil ’s
stock regulator, after Valor Economico SA published a story
yesterday that said Light would acquire a 50 percent stake in
the Sao Paulo-based renewable energy developer.  At least two other electricity producers in Brazil are
pursuing acquisitions of clean energy developers to position
themselves for an anticipated boom in wind farms.  “Utilities want to enter wind now so they have the know-
how and scale” to “be more aggressive in future auctions,”
for power contracts, Ricardo Correa, an analyst at Rio de
Janeiro-based brokerage Ativa SA Corretora, said today in a
phone interview.  Renova was awarded contracts for 14 wind farms in a
government-organized auction for wind projects in 2009 and
another six in an auction in 2010, according to the Sao Paulo-
based electricity trading board  Camara de Comercializacao de
Energia Eletrica , known as CCEE. The wind farms have a combined
capacity of 423 megawatts.  Renova also owns three small hydroelectric plants with a
combined capacity of 41.8 megawatts in Bahia. Cemig has minority
stakes in three wind farms in Ceara, in the country’s northeast.
Renova rose 9.7 percent to 34.15 reais in  Sao Paulo  trading this
week.  ‘Calling the Shots’  Light, a Rio de Janeiro utility, is negotiating the
possible purchase of a stake in Renova, and “it’s Cemig that’s
calling the shots here,” Correa said. Cemig owns about 27.8
percent of the shares in Light and has been “aggressively,”
buying up assets in transmission and now wind.  Antonia Velez, investor relations director for Cemig, which
produces about 7 percent of the country’s electricity, said it
was too early to say whether an investment in Renova would be a
“partnership of a merger.”  Other Brazilian utilities are buying renewable energy
companies. Cia. Paranaense de Energia-Copel, of Curitiba,
received approval to purchase a 49.9 percent stake in four wind
farms owned by Dreen Brasil Investimentos e Participacoes SA,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday.  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3)  said April 7 it had agreed to buy Jantus
SL, a holding company for Fortaleza-based wind farm owner SIIF
Energies do Brasil Ltda. Sao Paulo-based CPFL is also forming a
renewable energy company with Energias Renovaveis SA that plans
to build 4,375 megawatts of renewable energy projects, 45
percent of which would come from wind, according to a company
presentation.  Developing Market  The wind market is still developing in Brazil and not as
lucrative as in other countries, Correa said.  Prices for wind power contracts averaged 131 reais ($82) a
megawatt-hour in two August auctions, the cheapest average rate
for wind sold through government incentive programs anywhere in
the world according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Renova’s
power contracts were on average 121 reais, 7,6 percent lower,
according to CCEE.  High Costs  Construction costs for Brazilian wind farms can be 20
percent higher than in  Europe  and the U.S., Roberto Honczar, who
was then Renova’s chief financial officer, said in an interview
in March. He has since left the company.  “Cemig isn’t worried about generating value,” from
Renova’s wind projects, Correa said. “It wants to position
itself for future growth,” he said.  Brazil has 51 wind farms amounting to about 1 gigawatt of
installed capacity, up from 587 megawatts at the end of 2009,
according to New Energy Finance. The national energy agency
Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica  expects  to have 12 gigawatts
online by the end of the decade.  “Brazil’s wind market still hasn’t really taken off,”
Correa said. The U.S. has 133 gigawatts of wind capacity in
operation or under development and  China  has 159 gigawatts,
according to New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  