-- 
China Credit Squeeze Leads to Surging Rates for Small Companies

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-17T10:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/china-credit-squeeze-leads-to-surging-rates-for-small-companies.html
Smaller privately owned companies in
 China ’s Zhejiang province are paying almost five times the
central bank’s benchmark borrowing rate on loans from non-
banking institutions, a local government report said.  The companies are paying interest rates of 25 percent to 30
percent a year on such loans, according to a report from the
Zhejiang bureau for small and medium-sized enterprises posted on
its website June 15. The People’s Bank of China’s benchmark one-
year lending rate, which has been raised four times since
September to help curb inflation, is currently 6.31 percent.  China’s campaign to rein in consumer prices, which climbed
last month at the fastest pace in almost three years, has made
it harder for smaller companies to fund their businesses. In
addition to raising  interest rates , the PBOC has ordered
commercial banks to keep more of their deposits at the central
bank, curbing the amount they can lend. The credit squeeze has
forced many companies to borrow outside the official banking
system and may bankrupt smaller businesses.  “A slight change in the wind can lead to these companies
not being able to survive,” said Zhou Dewen, head of the small
and medium-sized enterprises association in Wenzhou, a coastal
city in Zhejiang province. “Most small and medium-sized
enterprises here make products like cigarette lighters, apparel
and footwear. Their gross margins are as low as one percent.”  Banks in Zhejiang have also raised the interest rates they
charge on loans to smaller businesses by as much as 30 percent,
according to the provincial bureau.  First-quarter exports by the province’s small and medium-
sized businesses fell 5.3 percent from a year earlier to 178
billion yuan ($27.5 billion), according to the report. China’s
total exports in the first quarter climbed 26.5 percent.  --Emma Dong. Editors:  John Liu , Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Emma Dong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7717 or
 edong10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  