-- 
China Falls Short of Bond-Auction Targets for the Second Time This Year

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-17T03:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/china-falls-short-of-bond-auction-target-for-second-time-this-year-1-.html
China’s  finance ministry  failed to
draw enough bids for a bond sale for a second time this year as
the central bank steps up efforts to rein in inflation.  The ministry sold 13.35 billion yuan ($2.1 billion) of one-
year bonds, falling short of its 20 billion yuan target,
according to traders at finance companies required to underwrite
the debt. The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of interbank
funding availability, jumped to a four-month high of 6.88
percent yesterday, after the People’s Bank of China ordered
banks to set aside more cash as reserves for a sixth time this
year on June 14.  “The auction was affected by tighter liquidity brought by
the reserve-ratio hike,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “The high
auction yield represents investor expectations for a near-term
policy rate hike.”  The average yield at the sale was 3.9576 percent, according
to the traders who asked not to be identified. That compared
with the median estimate of 3.35 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey. The highest winning-bid yield was 4.0821 percent, said
the traders.  Demand for short-term debt is cooling as the central bank
raises  interest rates  and lenders’ reserve requirements to quell
inflation that’s exceeded the official 4 percent target every
month this year. Consumer prices climbed 5.5 percent in May from
a year earlier, the most in 34 months, the statistics bureau
said June 14.  Debt Offer Scrapped  China  Development Bank Corp. yesterday scrapped a 20
billion yuan issue of floating-rate securities due to “market
conditions,” according to a statement on Chinabond, the
nation’s biggest debt clearing house.  The yield on the 2.77 percent government bond due May 2012
surged 25 basis points to 3.59 percent as of 11:43 a.m. in
 Shanghai , according to the Interbank Funding Center. That was
the biggest jump since the note began trading on May 12. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The finance ministry in January published a list of 59
underwriters required to bid at its debt sales, including
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp.,
China Citic Bank Corp., Postal Savings Bank of China, Industrial
Bank Co., Guotai Junan Securities Co. and BOC International
(China) Ltd.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, Simon Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Judy Chen in
Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or  xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 