-- 
China Regulator ‘Aware’ of Concerns on Chinese Firms’ Accounting

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   V i n c e n t   J i a n g
-- 
2011-06-17T09:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/china-regulator-aware-of-concerns-on-chinese-firms-accounting.html
The  China Securities Regulatory
Commission  said it’s “aware” of the concerns other regulators
have over the financial accounts of some Chinese companies
listed overseas and has been in touch with them.  “We have been in touch with other foreign regulators
regularly as usual,” Yao Feng, deputy director general of the
CSRC’s department of accounting, said today while attending a
conference held by the  Hong Kong  Institute of Certified Public
Accountants. “We are aware of the concerns.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has revoked the
registrations of eight China-based companies since December, and
more than 24 have disclosed auditor resignations or accounting
problems since March, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  wrote in an
April 27 letter. Regulators and investors have increased
scrutiny of Chinese companies traded overseas amid accounting
allegations against Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd., Chaoda
Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd. and Sino-Forest Corp.  “If you look at it from a company’s perspective,
especially for those who are based in the mainland, they are not
used to this level of regular investigation now being voiced by
short sellers and U.S law firms,” Ian Parker, capital markets
group ( China ), KPMG LLP, said at the same Hong Kong conference.  Muddy Waters LLC, a short-seller, said in a report this
month that Sino-Forest Corp., a Hong Kong-and Mississauga,
Ontario-based operator of tree farms, overstated its timberland
holdings. Sino-Forest, which trades in Toronto, denied the
claims.  The SEC has halted trading in firms such as Guangzhou,
China-based  Heli Electronics Corp. (HELI)  and  Rino International Corp. (RINO) 
of Dalian, China, in the past few months.  Shares of  Real Gold Mining Ltd. (246) , a Chinese gold producer
listed in Hong Kong, have been suspended since May 27 after the
 South China Morning Post  said the company may have filed two
different sets of accounts.  Real Gold said in a statement on June 1 that it was in
talks with the Hong Kong stock exchange over the newspaper
report and is “confident that it will be able to fully address
the stock exchange’s queries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  