-- 
China, India Want Rich-Nation Emissions to Peak Before 2013

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-06-17T10:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/china-india-want-rich-nation-emissions-to-peak-before-2013-1-.html
Brazil ,  China , India and other
emerging nations said greenhouse-gas output from developed
nations “should peak without any delay no later than 2012.”  Developed countries should cut emissions 50 percent below
1990 levels by 2020 under an extended  Kyoto Protocol , the
countries  said in a submission  yesterday to the United Nations-
overseen climate talks in Bonn. “They should have peaked before
2000,” according to the document.  The submission highlights disagreement between emerging
nations and developed countries in the climate-protection talks.
The U.S. has said it’s unwilling to join an extended Kyoto
Protocol unless emerging nations also participate.  Developing nations, including the African group, Argentina,
Iran, Lebanon, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand and Uruguay said
rich nations “shall not resort to any form of unilateral trade
and other trade-related measures against goods and services from
developing country parties on any grounds related to  climate
change .”  They also sought easier access to technology related to
climate protection. “Specific and urgent measures shall be
taken by developed country parties to enhance the development
and transfer of technologies at different stages of the
technology cycle covered by intellectual property rights to
developing country parties.”  The emerging nations sought softer rules for themselves,
partly because they have not contributed as much of the heat-
trapping gases in the atmosphere.  “The time frame for peaking will be much longer in
developing countries in order to ensure sufficient time for and
equitable access to sustainable development, and bearing in mind
that social and economic development and poverty eradication are
the first and overriding priorities of  developing countries .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  