-- 
China Sovereign Wealth Fund Said to Consider Naming Li Keping as Co-Head

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-17T03:45:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/china-sovereign-wealth-fund-said-to-consider-naming-li-keping-as-co-head.html
China  Investment Corp. may name Li Keping, currently an executive at the country’s national pension
manager, a new co-head of the sovereign wealth fund, said two
CIC executives with direct knowledge of the matter.  Li, a vice chairman at the  National Social Security Fund ,
has been working out of CIC’s offices in Beijing for the past
few days, said the fund executives who declined to be identified
as the matter is confidential. An official announcement may be
made soon that Li will help oversee investments and be at an
equal level with Vice Chairman and President Gao Xiqing, the
officials said. Gao reports to Chairman  Lou Jiwei . A CIC
spokesman wasn’t immediately available to comment.  The appointment is part of a personnel reshuffle that also
includes plans to move more of CIC’s investment managers to CIC
International, its newly established Hong Kong unit, the
executives said. The fund aims to base more employees overseas
to bid for deals as competition from other Chinese investors
increases, according to the executives.  CIC is the world’s fifth-biggest country fund with $332.4
billion of assets, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund
Institute. China’s SAFE Investment Co. manages $347.1 billion,
the fourth largest, the research company said.  The Chinese fund plans to move Managing Director Winston Ma
to  Canada  to bolster investment bids for natural resources
assets, a company official with direct knowledge of the matter
said in May. Ma, who is part of the special investments
department at CIC, was appointed deputy head of the fund’s only
office outside the Greater China region last month, according to
the official.  --Eva Woo. Editors: Andreea Papuc,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Eva Woo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7537 or
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  