-- 
China Wealth Fuels ‘Frightening’ Hong Kong Home Price Surges, Tsang Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   P e t r i e   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-06-17T08:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/china-wealth-fuels-frightening-hong-kong-home-price-surges-tsang-says.html
Hong Kong  home prices are “quite
frightening” as China’s growing wealth fuels increases of 2
percent a month and the government may introduce more measures
to slow the  property market , Chief Executive Donald Tsang said.  Buyers from mainland China of property in Hong Kong are
exacerbating the territory’s shortage of land for development,
leading to government efforts to curb speculation in the city’s
real estate market, Tsang said in an interview in  Melbourne 
today. Mainland China doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau or  Taiwan .  “Over the last 30 months, across this period of financial
crisis, property prices continue to grow at 2 percent a month,
which is quite frightening,” he said. “We will do more to slow
it down. But we believe in the market though. We don’t want to
do anything that would destroy the market completely.”  Tsang and other government officials have in the past year
warned of an asset bubble in the Chinese city, where  home prices 
have surged more than 70 percent since the beginning of 2009 on
record low interest rates and an influx of buyers from other
parts of China. Since late 2009, the government has raised
minimum down payments and deposits for mortgage borrowers,
increased land supply and imposed additional transaction taxes
to curb real estate value.  Buyers from overseas and other Chinese cities accounted for
about a third of luxury home transactions in the first quarter
of this year, according to  Centaline Property Agency Ltd. , the
city’s biggest privately held realtor. Savills Plc ranks Hong
Kong as the most expensive place to buy an apartment.  ‘Heavy Demand’  “There’s a critical shortage of land supply over this
period,” Tsang said. “At the same time, there’s heavy demand
from investors both in Hong Kong and from abroad, and
particularly of mainland  China .”  The most recent measures, announced a week ago, include
requiring borrowers whose income is primarily from outside Hong
Kong to deposit an extra 10 percent when they buy properties
unless they can demonstrate a “close connection” to the city.
The government will add more than 20,000 homes this year and may
offer more land for residential projects, Tsang said.  “As the renminbi, the Chinese currency, keeps appreciating,
Chinese buyers will only be getting relatively richer and this
trend is beyond the control of Hong Kong’s government,” said
Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Hong Kong home prices fell 1.01 percent in the week ended
June 12, the biggest weekly drop in six months, according to an
index compiled by Centaline.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which measures the stock
performance of seven Hong Kong developers, lost 2.6 percent this
week, extending this year’s decline to 10 percent. The benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  is down 5.8 percent this year.  ‘Volatile’ Market  The property market has been “volatile” since November
and there are signs of “renewed exuberance” after the market
cooled down in March and April,  Norman Chan , the chief executive
of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the city’s de facto central
bank, said in a June 10 briefing announcing the measures. Chan
earlier warned about the risk of a “credit-fueled property
bubble.”  Property transactions fell for a fifth straight month in
May after Hong Kong banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  began
raising mortgage lending rates in October.  Prices may drop 10 percent to 20 percent in 2012 and a
further 10 percent in 2013 on rising rates,  Andrew Lawrence , a
Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays Capital , said last week.  -With assistance from Sophie Leung, Michelle Yun, Shraysi Tandon
in Hong Kong. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  