-- 
Citigroup Revises BOE Rate Forecast, Sees Slower Tightening

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/citigroup-revises-boe-rate-forecast-sees-slower-tightening.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  changed its forecast
for  Bank of England  interest-rate increases and said policy
makers will raise borrowing costs at a slower pace than
previously expected.  The central bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
will start raising its benchmark rate from a record low of 0.5
percent in November or December, increasing the rate only once
this year by 25 basis points, Citigroup economists including
 Michael Saunders  in  London  said in an e-mailed note yesterday.
They previously forecast two increases this year.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said this week that
policy makers are right to keep rates on hold as the surge in
inflation to 4.5 percent, more than twice the bank’s 2 percent
target, is temporary. While King said borrowing costs will have
to rise to more normal levels at some point, the timing is
“simply impossible” to know.  Citigroup sees the key rate at 1.25 percent at the end of
2012 and 2 percent at the end of 2013. It previously forecast
the rate would rise to 2 percent by the end of next year and 3
percent at end-2013.  “With mixed economic data, euro-area tremors, and the
governor’s evident reluctance to hike rates, we are -- rather
belatedly -- scaling back our forecasts for MPC tightening,”
Saunders said in the note. “This long period of low  interest
rates  will help rebalance the economy via the weak pound, but
also will reinforce the prospects of a further extended
inflation overshoot.”.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and ABN Amro Bank NV pushed back their
forecasts for the first U.K. rate increase in the past few
weeks, with the latter now projecting no move until 2012.
Investors have scaled back bets on the month that the bank will
next increase rates to May 2012, according to forward contracts
on the sterling overnight interbank average. On June 1, traders
were betting on an increase in February, data from Tullett
Prebon Plc showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  