-- 
Colombia Central Bank May Ignore Pressure by President and Increase Rates

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-06-17T14:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/colombia-s-bank-may-ignore-pressure-by-santos-and-raise-rates.html
Traders are betting  Colombia ’s
central bank will raise the benchmark interest rate to as high
as 5 percent by year-end, ignoring President Juan Manuel Santos
call for policy makers to pause and preserve growth.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark short-term bond due
August 2012 has risen 29 basis points to 5.27 percent since
Santos on May 31 made what he called a “respectful request”
for policy makers to keep the key rate on hold at 4 percent. The
gap between yields on the securities due 2012 and the nation’s
bonds due 2024 shows that borrowing costs need to rise further
to control inflation that breached the 3 percent midpoint of the
bank’s target range in May, according to Interbolsa SA’s Pedro Ospina.  The additional tightening will begin today, when Banco de
la Republica is expected to raise the overnight rate by a
quarter point for the fifth straight meeting to 4.25 percent,
according to 22 of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s
likely to anger businesses on concern growth will slow and also
exporters who say higher rates attract more investment behind
the peso’s 6.7 percent rally this year.  “Independently of what Santos says, the bank will continue
to lift” rates, said Ospina, a fixed-income analyst at
Colombia’s biggest brokerage. “Santos’s remark is entirely
political. He wants to appease businesses and distance himself
from what some see as an unpopular decision.”  Economists expect a year-end benchmark rate of as high as 5
percent, as indicated by the average estimate of 4.82 percent in
a central bank survey published last week.  Presidents, Exporters  Pressure has been building on Santos to slow the pace of
rate increases by  exporters  who are worried that higher rates
could attract more investment to the Andean nation and extend
the biggest rally this year among the six most-traded Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Colombia’s biggest business association, known as  ANDI ,
said in a May 31 e-mailed statement that a new increase in rates
is “inconvenient.” Rate increases are determined “with models
that seem not to consult with the country’s reality,” ANDI
said.  “Exporters are worried about rate increases because they
widen the spread even further between Colombia and developed
nations, bringing in more cash and pressuring the peso,” said
 David Aldana , an analyst at Ultrabursatiles SA brokerage.  Former President  Alvaro Uribe  frequently urged the bank, to
take steps to weaken the currency. Santos’s predecessor argued
that the strong peso forced exporters to cut jobs as they
received fewer pesos for goods such as flowers and coffee sold
abroad.  ‘Practically a Given’  The central bank, founded in 1923, has been independent
under the constitution since 1991, when it was given the mission
of fighting inflation. Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry
who is also president of the central bank’s seven-member board,
has one vote in the rate decision.  Elsewhere in the region, the central banks of Mexico, Chile
and  Peru  are also independent of the government. Banco Central
do Brasil, while in practice operates autonomously, doesn’t
enjoy formal independence.  Citing the delayed effect of interest rate increases on
 consumer spending  and prices and the likelihood that  South
America ’s fourth-biggest economy is operating near its
potential, the central bank said in  minutes  of the May 30
monetary policy meeting that “the Board of Directors felt the
move toward a less expansive monetary policy must continue.”  “The increase is practically a given since the minutes
didn’t show one single dovish argument,” said Munir Jalil,
chief economist at Citigroup’s Colombia unit.  Growth, Inflation  With its emergence from recession in 2009, Colombia’s
economy has expanded for seven consecutive quarters. According
to the median forecast of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
the $285 billion economy grew 4.9 percent year on year in the
first quarter. The national statistics agency publishes its
first quarter growth report June 23.  Surging foreign  investment  in its mining and energy
industries will boost annual economic growth to as high as 6
percent this year, according to the government, from 4.3 percent
in 2010, building pressure on the central bank to keep inflation
expectations anchored around its target.  Annual inflation quickened to 3.02 percent in May, from
2.84 percent the previous month, and up from a five-decade low
of 1.84 percent a year earlier. Colombia’s real interest rate
after inflation, at 0.98 percent, is the lowest in  Latin America 
among nations that target inflation.  Calm, Flattening  Core inflation , which excludes food prices, slowed to 0.09
percent in May compared with 0.14 percent a year ago, bolstering
confidence the central bank will keep consumer price under
control.  “The market is calm regarding 2011 inflation readings,”
said Ricardo Bernal, head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Serfinco SA. The bank “still needs to continue raising. With
real interest rates at such low levels, you can’t expect the
economy to continue growing without pressuring inflation.”  The gap between yields on the government fixed-rate bonds
due July 2024 and the securities due August 2012 dropped to 258
basis points, or 2.58 percentage points, on June 15. That’s its
lowest level since Feb. 2, 2010.  “The TES curve still has room to flatten,” said Ospina,
who forecasts the gap may fall to 230 basis points within a
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  