-- 
Colombia’s Central Bank Ignores Santos Pressure and Raises Rate to 4.25%

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-06-17T21:47:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/colombia-s-central-bank-ignores-santos-pressure-and-raises-rate-to-4-25-.html
Colombia’s central bank raised its
borrowing costs for a fifth month, ignoring President  Juan Manuel Santos ’s call for policy makers to pause and preserve
growth.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
increased the benchmark interest rate by a quarter point to 4.25
percent today, meeting expectations of 22 of 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Traders are expecting the bank to raise
the rate to as high as 5 percent by year-end.  “This increase is meant to maintain inflation within the
target range for this year and next and to help avoid future
financial imbalances,” the bank said in a statement announcing
its majority decision.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark short-term bond due
August 2012 has risen 23 basis points to 5.21 percent since
Santos made on May 31 what he called a “respectful request”
for policy makers to hold the key rate at 4 percent. The gap
between yields on the securities due 2012 and the nation’s bonds
due 2024 shows that borrowing costs need to rise further to
control inflation that breached the 3 percent midpoint of the
bank’s target range in May, according to Interbolsa SA’s Pedro Ospina.  “Independently of what Santos says, the bank will continue
to lift” rates, said Ospina, a fixed-income analyst at
 Colombia ’s biggest brokerage. “Santos’s remark is entirely
political. He wants to appease businesses and distance himself
from what some see as an unpopular decision.”  Probe, Rate Outlook  Absent from the statement this month was wording from
previous months “the move toward a less expansive monetary
policy must continue,” indicating next month there might be a
pause, said brokerage Correval SA in a statement.  Uribe said the government will investigate why a report
about the rate decision, correctly predicting the increase,
appeared on the news website Portafolio before being announced
publicly. Central bank spokeswoman Maria Andrea Diaz said she
spoke with the company’s director and was told that the report
was a mistake.  Today’s rate increase is likely to anger businesses on
concern growth will slow and also exporters who say higher rates
attract more investment behind the peso’s 6.5 percent rally this
year.  Economists expect a year-end benchmark rate of as high as 5
percent, as indicated by the average estimate of 4.82 percent in
a central bank  survey  published last week.  Presidents, Exporters  Pressure has been building on Santos to slow the pace of
rate increases by exporters who are worried that higher rates
could attract more investment to the Andean nation that’s behind
the biggest rally this year among the six most-traded Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Colombia’s biggest business association, known as  ANDI ,
said in a May 31 e-mailed statement that a new increase in rates
is “inconvenient.” Rate increases are determined “with models
that seem not to consult with the country’s reality,” ANDI
said.  “Exporters are worried about rate increases because they
widen the spread even further between Colombia and developed
nations, bringing in more cash and pressuring the peso,” said
 David Aldana , an analyst at Ultrabursatiles SA brokerage.  Former President  Alvaro Uribe  frequently urged the bank to
take steps to weaken the currency. Santos’s predecessor argued
that the strong peso forced exporters to cut jobs as they
received fewer pesos for goods such as flowers and coffee sold
abroad.  ‘Practically a Given’  The central bank, founded in 1923, has been independent
under the constitution since 1991, when it was given the mission
of fighting inflation. Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry
who is also president of the central bank’s seven-member board,
has one vote in the rate decision.  Elsewhere in the region, the central banks of Chile and
 Peru  are also independent of the government. Banco Central do
Brasil, while in practice operates autonomously, doesn’t enjoy
formal independence.  Citing the delayed effect of interest rate increases on
consumer spending and prices, and the likelihood that  South
America ’s fourth-biggest economy is operating near its
potential, the central bank said in minutes of the May 30
monetary policy meeting that “the Board of Directors felt the
move toward a less expansive monetary policy must continue.”  Calm, Flattening  With its emergence from recession in 2009, Colombia’s
economy has expanded for seven consecutive quarters. According
to the median forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
the $285 billion economy grew 5 percent year on year in the
first quarter. The national statistics agency publishes its
first quarter growth report June 23.  Colombia’s economy “isn’t overheating, it’s warming,”
Echeverry said after the decision was announced.  Surging foreign investment in its mining and energy
industries will boost annual economic growth to as high as 6
percent this year, according to the government, from 4.3 percent
in 2010, building pressure on the central bank to keep inflation
expectations anchored around its target.  Annual inflation quickened to 3.02 percent in May, from a
2.84 percent the previous month, and up from a five-decade low
of 1.84 percent a year earlier. Colombia’s real interest rate
after inflation, at 0.98 percent, is the lowest in  Latin America 
among nations that target inflation.  The annual rate was “mainly explained by an increase in
food prices,” the bank said in its statement today.  Core Inflation  Core inflation, which excludes food prices, slowed to 0.09
percent in May compared with 0.14 percent a year ago, bolstering
confidence the central bank will keep consumer price under
control.  “The market is calm regarding 2011 inflation readings,”
said Ricardo Bernal, head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Serfinco SA. The bank “still needs to continue raising. With
real interest rates at such low levels, you can’t expect the
economy to continue growing without pressuring inflation.”  The gap between yields on the government fixed-rate bonds
due July 2024 and the securities due August 2012 dropped to 258
basis points, or 2.58 percentage points, on June 15. That’s its
lowest level since Feb. 2, 2010.  “The TES curve still has room to flatten,” said Ospina,
who forecasts the gap may fall to 230 basis points within a
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  