-- 
Cornell Loses Second Endowment Manager Since May as Regan Exits

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/cornell-loses-second-endowment-manager-since-may-as-regan-leaves.html
Cornell University , whose investment
chief stepped down May 1, is losing its second endowment manager
in two months as John Regan is leaving to start a new business.  Regan, 42, was one of two senior investment officers at
Cornell’s $5.28 billion fund, which gained 19.3 percent from
July through April, the Ithaca,  New York  school said in a
statement posted on its website and dated June 15.  Regan is leaving to start Permanens Capital Advisors, an
asset management firm that will seek to attract money from
institutional investors. Michael Abbott, who was named chief
investment officer last year after the departure of James Walsh,
stepped down May 1 over differences about how to run the
college’s business, the school said last month.  “We are all very grateful to J.R. for his dedicated work
while in Cornell’s employ and deeply appreciate his many
contributions to the growth of Cornell’s endowment,” David Skorton, the school’s president, said in the statement. “We
wish him every success in the new venture.”  Regan is starting Permanens with Joseph Steinberg,
president of  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  The new firm, which will
also serve as a family office for Steinberg, will start
investing $300 million from July 1, Regan said in an interview.  ‘Doing Everything’  “We are doing everything for our first endowment client,”
a school in the southern U.S., Regan said in an interview
yesterday, declining to name the endowment. “We are building
their investment policy statement, their  asset allocation , their
governances and their investment committee.”  Permanens will invest across asset classes, Regan said.  He met Steinberg during the financial crisis, triggered by
the  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  bankruptcy, when they worked
together on the $21 million endowment of  Poly Prep Country Day
School , the Brooklyn school that teaches students from nursery
through 12th grade.  Leucadia’s investments include a mortgage joint venture
with  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., a 28 percent
stake in Jefferies Group Inc., a timber company in Idaho and a
casino in Biloxi,  Mississippi . Steinberg held 9.81 percent of
the company as of May 16, according to Bloomberg data.  Cornell is a member of the Ivy League of eight colleges in
the northeastern U.S. As global capital markets shrunk after
Lehman’s bankruptcy, endowments tumbled, causing universities to
cut jobs, freeze salaries and postpone building projects.
Cornell lost 26 percent in the year ended June 2009, similar to
declines at  Harvard University  and Yale University, the two
richest schools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 