-- 
MBIA-BofA, Credit Suisse, Bayer, Microsoft in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-17T12:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/credit-suisse-bayer-eiib-heineken-microsoft-in-court-news.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  hid potential losses of as
much as $950 million on commercial real estate debt as it sought
 New York  regulators’ approval to restructure its insurance
business in 2008, banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  UBS
AG (UBSN)  claimed in court papers.  New York insurance regulators were given an internal
presentation that included “manual overrides” of loan data
that dropped potential losses from the debt to zero, the banks
said in a brief that was filed in redacted form in March and
unsealed yesterday in state court in  Manhattan .  When making its case to the regulators, MBIA, once the
world’s biggest bond insurer, deleted parts of a presentation
originally given in November 2008 to the company board’s credit
risk committee. Those deletions showed that in a “more
stressful economic environment” the insurer could have losses
from the debt as much as $950 million, according to the court
papers.  The banks’ claim is “absolutely false” and regulators
were told of both the overrides and the impact they had on loss
projections,  Marc Kasowitz , a lawyer for MBIA, said in an
interview yesterday.  “The evidence is clear and unequivocal that all of the
issues with respect to these overrides were clearly and
unequivocally communicated to the insurance department, and the
insurance department acknowledges that,” he said. “It was not
just disclosed, but it was discussed.”  Eric Dinallo , then the state’s insurance superintendent,
approved the split in 2009, allowing Armonk, New York-based MBIA
to move its guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of the
unit that insured some of Wall Street’s riskiest mortgage debt.  Bank of America, UBS and other institutions sued MBIA and
the state under New York’s Article 78, which allows court review
of state administrative decisions. The banks say the
restructuring allowed MBIA to move $5 billion from the company’s
MBIA Insurance Corp. unit into a new insurer in a bid to revive
its business of guaranteeing state and municipal debt.  Kasowitz said a trial is expected in early 2012.  “We’re completely confident that the proceeding is going
to uphold and approve the determination of the superintendent of
insurance in approving the transformation,” he said.  The Article 78 case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-
2009, New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  ‘Hedge Fund Paymasters’ Bought Inside Tips From Jiau  A former  Primary Global Research LLC  consultant got friends
at  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to give her
financial data she sold to her “hedge fund paymasters,” a
prosecutor told a jury.  “This was a brazen insider-trading scheme, and at the
heart of it was Winifred Jiau,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Avi
Weitzman said yesterday in closing arguments at her trial in
Manhattan federal court. “Just like her hedge fund clients, she
did it for the money,” he said.  Jiau, 43, is charged with illegally passing nonpublic
financial information about the two  Santa Clara , California-
based technology companies to hedge fund managers. She’s the
first of the so-called expert networkers to go on trial since
the U.S. charged at least a dozen people beginning in November.  Jiau, of Fremont,  California , is charged with  securities
fraud  and conspiracy to commit securities fraud. If convicted
she faces as long as 25 years in prison.  Weitzman said Jiau befriended Sonny Nguyen, then a senior
financial analyst for Nvidia, and Stanley Ng, an accountant with
Marvell, to obtain the information she then sold.  Nguyen testified for the prosecution as one of three
cooperating witnesses. He pleaded guilty to federal charges in
May. Ng was placed on administrative leave by Marvell in January
after he refused to cooperate with an internal investigation,
court records show.  Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio
manager, testified that he had a secret agreement with Samir
Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management LP, to
pay Primary Global for exclusive access to Jiau.  Joanna Hendon, Jiau’s lawyer, told the jury that despite
the government’s assertion her client was at the center of the
insider-trading scheme, Barai and Freeman had many other sources
of inside information. There was no evidence they considered her
tips serious enough to base trades upon, she said.  She showed jurors the raft of e-mails concerning Marvell
financial information which was sent by another person the
portfolio managers nicknamed “10-K” because Freeman said his
tips were as complicated as a company’s filing. Hendon also
presented jurors with Jiau’s trading records that showed she
lost tens of thousands of dollars when she traded in Marvell and
Nvidia stock.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the
case, told jurors yesterday that they will hear a rebuttal
summation from a prosecutor today and then he will instruct them
on the law. They will then begin their deliberations, he said.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 1:11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Debit-Card Swipe-Fee Cap ‘Not Traditional,’ Bank Lawyer Argues  A planned cap on the debit-card swipe fees charged to
merchants by the biggest U.S. banks is “discriminatory,” a
lawyer for one of the affected banks told a U.S. appeals court
panel.  Timothy D. Kelly, a lawyer for TCF National Bank, told the
St. Louis-based court yesterday that it should reverse a trial
judge’s decision denying the bank’s bid to block the cap while
the lender challenges its legality. The provision is scheduled
to take effect July 21.  The limit on per-transaction charges is part of the Dodd-
Frank financial overhaul. Banks with more than $10 billion in
assets won’t be allowed to collect more than the cost of
providing the service, making profit impossible, TCF claims.  “Below-cost rates and widespread exemptions are not
traditional rate regulation,” Kelly told the three-judge panel.  TCF, a Sioux Falls,  South Dakota , unit of  TCF Financial
Corp. (TCB) , sued last year seeking to invalidate the measure, arguing
it violates the U.S. Constitution’s promises that the government
will not confiscate private property without just compensation
and of equal protection under the law.  The federal government has “unlimited discretion” to
regulate the U.S. banking industry, Justice Department lawyer
Lindsey Powell told the judges, in defense of the regulation.  The as-yet-unannounced rate is to be fixed by the  Federal
Reserve . It’s part of a regulatory program intended “to restore
to reasonable levels” fees charged to merchants and, through
them, to consumers, attorneys for the government argued in
appellate filings.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is the lead
defendant in the TCF suit, which also names Vice Chairman  Janet
Yellen , four Fed governors and Acting Comptroller of the
Currency  John Walsh .  The lower-court case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-
cv-04149, U.S. District Court, District of South Dakota (Sioux
Falls). The appeal is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 11-1805,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Eighth Circuit ( St. Louis ).  For more, click here.  Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Should Go to Prison Now, U.S. Says  Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker  Eric Butler , whose
conspiracy conviction for fraudulently selling securities was
upheld June 15, should go immediately to prison, the U.S. said.  The U.S. Court of Appeals upheld two conspiracy convictions
against Butler. It reversed a securities-fraud conviction,
ruling that  Brooklyn , New York, was the wrong venue for the
trial on the charge.  “In light of the Court of Appeals’ decision, the
government now moves for the defendant’s immediate remand,”
U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch in Brooklyn said yesterday in a
court filing. The appeals court said Butler needs to be
resentenced, and Lynch asked for a court date for that “as soon
as possible.”  Butler and his partner  Julian Tzolov  were accused of
intentionally misleading clients about securities purchased on
their behalf, falsely claiming they were backed by federally
guaranteed student loans.  The men told clients the investments, actually backed by
riskier corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a safe
alternative to  bank deposits  or money-market funds, according to
Lynch’s office. Victims’ losses were more than $1.1 billion,
according to the government.  Steven F. Molo, a lawyer for Butler at MoloLamken LLP in
Manhattan, didn’t return a call for comment on Lynch’s request.  In January 2010, U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein
sentenced Butler to five years in prison on each count, to be
served concurrently. He has been out on bail pending his appeal.
Butler, who was found guilty at a trial in 2009, also was fined
$5 million on the securities-fraud conviction.  The appeals court rejected the government’s argument that
Butler could be tried for securities fraud in the Eastern
District of New York because he and Tzolov flew out of  John F.
Kennedy International Airport  in Queens, which is part of the
district, to meet with clients they defrauded.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The appeal is U.S. v.
Tzolov, 10-562, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Bayer Loses U.S. High Court Case on Baycol Class-Action Suit  The U.S. Supreme Court cleared the way for two West
Virginians to seek class-action status in a suit against a  Bayer
AG (BAYN)  unit over its withdrawn cholesterol drug Baycol.  The justices yesterday unanimously overturned a decision
that said the pair was bound by a ruling rejecting a West
Virginia class-action bid in an earlier Baycol suit.  Keith Smith and Shirley Sperlazza are seeking to sue Bayer
Corp. on behalf of all West Virginians who took Baycol. They
said they shouldn’t be bound by the earlier ruling because they
weren’t involved in that case.  Bayer withdrew Baycol from the market in August 2001. The
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said Baycol was linked to
rhabdomyolysis, a sometimes-fatal muscle breakdown disorder.  The case is Smith v. Bayer, 09-1205, U.S. Supreme Court
( Washington ).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Ex-IMF Chief Strauss-Kahn Told Police He Had Immunity  Former International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-
Kahn told police he had diplomatic immunity when he was first
detained at a New York airport, according to a filing by
Manhattan prosecutors.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, who is awaiting trial on charges of
sexually assaulting and attempting to rape a Manhattan hotel
maid on May 14, made the statement after police stopped him at
John F. Kennedy International Airport the day of the alleged
attack, according to the disclosure form sent yesterday to New
York State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus in Manhattan, who
is presiding over the case.  “We would like you to come with us,” Detective Diwan
Maharaj told Strauss-Kahn on the jetway before taking him to the
Port Authority Police precinct at the airport about 5 p.m.  “I have diplomatic immunity,” Strauss-Kahn said while
being handcuffed, according to the filing.  “Where is your passport?” Maharaj asked.  “It’s not in this passport, I have a second passport,”
Strauss-Kahn said.  Strauss-Kahn has a laissez-passer travel document issued by
the  United Nations . The UN modifies laissez-passer agreements
based on the  status  of the relevant organization and its
officials.  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers, Bill Taylor and  Benjamin Brafman ,
haven’t claimed their client enjoys diplomatic immunity. After
surrendering his French passport to the district attorney’s
office, his lawyers said they would get the laissez-passer,
which was in Strauss-Kahn’s Washington office, and turn it over.  Brafman didn’t respond to an e-mail about yesterday’s
filing.  For more, click here.  Algosaibi Overwhelmed by Claims, Lawyer Says Can’t Pay EIIB  European Islamic Investment Bank Plc (EIIB)  is seeking payment of
its $78 million claim against Saudi investment firm Ahmad Hamad
Algosaibi & Brothers Co. without a trial.  EIIB, which filed its claim on behalf of a group of other
banks, sought the ruling from a London judge after Algosaibi
admitted June 15 liability in another case where  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and four other banks are seeking $250 million from the
company. Algosaibi, which has defaulted on its debt, said there
isn’t enough money to go around.  “They would like to pay, but they are unable,” Ewan
McQuater, Algosaibi’s lawyer, said at yesterday’s hearing. The
company “is overwhelmed” by demands for payment, he said.  EIIB, a London-based lender whose deals comply with Sharia
law, in March lost a bid to join the HSBC case before trial
began. HSBC’s lawsuit stems from the largest Saudi default to
come out of the credit crunch and includes claims by British
Arab Commercial Bank Ltd., Arab Banking Corp. and  Credit
Agricole SA. (ACA)  Algosaibi dropped its defense of the HSBC case
after deciding it would probably lose if the 10-week trial
continued.  Jim Courtovich, a spokesman for Al-Khobar, Saudi Arabia-
based Algosaibi, declined to comment on EIIB’s request for
summary judgment.  The company has said Maan al-Sanea, an Algosaibi family
relation and founder of Saudi conglomerate  Saad Group ,
wrongfully got about $9.2 billion of loans in Algosaibi’s name.
The company is suing him in other jurisdictions. Litigation
under way in the Cayman Islands could ultimately affect more
than 100 banks that made loans to Algosaibi.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Toshiba Among Display Makers Sued for Price Fixing  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Sharp Corp. and at least 13 other makers of
liquid-crystal displays were sued by retailer  P.C. Richard & Son
Inc.  over claims they conspired to fix prices.  Beginning about 1996, the companies “met in person or
communicated by other means to agree on LCD product prices and
the amount of LCD products each would produce,” according to
the complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Brooklyn, New
York.  In addition to Farmingdale, New York-based P.C. Richard,
the suit was filed by Pontiac, Michigan-based ABC Appliance
Inc., which runs retailer ABC Warehouse, and Marta Cooperative
of America Inc., a buying cooperative based in Scottsdale,
 Arizona .  Seven of the defendants have admitted to participating in
the conspiracy and paid millions of dollars in criminal fines,
according to the lawsuit. Best Buy Co., the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, sued the display makers last
year.  Keisuke Oomori, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Toshiba, said
the company is checking on the matter. Miyuki Nakayama, a
spokeswoman for  Osaka , Japan-based Sharp, declined to comment.  The case is P.C. Richard & Son Long Island Corp. v. AU
Optronics Corp., 11-2903, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of New York (Brooklyn).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Heineken Wins Cut to EU Beer Cartel Fine in Court Ruling  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-largest brewer by volume,
and Bavaria NV won bids to reduce antitrust fines levied by the
European Union.  The EU General Court cut Heineken’s fine to 198 million
euros ($280 million) from 219.3 million euros and Bavaria’s fine
to 20.7 million euros from 22.8 million euros. The Luxembourg-
based court said the European Commission failed to prove the
extent of the cartel.  “The commission has not proved that the infringement
concerned the occasional coordination of commercial conditions,
other than prices, offered to individual customers in the on-
trade segment,” said the court. Handwritten notes on which the
commission relied included references that “are sporadic and
brief” about which the companies “have put forward a plausible
alternative explanation.”  The commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, fined the two
brewers and Dutch rival Royal Grolsch NV in April 2007 for
coordinating prices in the Netherlands from at least 1996 to
1999. InBev NV, which has since merged with Anheuser-Busch Cos.
to become the world’s largest brewer, escaped a fine after
tipping off EU officials.  The court largely confirmed the commission’s decision to
impose “deterrent fines” in an important market for consumers,
Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the Brussels-based regulator,
said in an e-mail.  “We are disappointed that the general court has not
accepted all of our arguments, but we appreciate that the court
has reduced the amount of the original fine,” Jean-Francois van
Boxmeer, chief executive officer of Heineken, said in the
statement. The company said it “will consider its options”
after it has studied the ruling.  The cases are T-235/07, Bavaria v. Commission; T-240/07,
Heineken Nederland and Heineken v. Commission.  Edison, Air Liquide EU Rulings May Aid Fine Cuts, Lawyers Say  Edison SpA (EDN)  and  Air Liquide SA (AI) ’s successful challenges to
European Union antitrust fines may aid companies seeking to
avoid paying fines for competition violations committed by
subsidiaries, lawyers said.  Edison yesterday won a EU court challenge to a 58.1
million-euro ($82 million) antitrust fine based on errors
committed by EU regulators. Air Liquide SA, the world’s biggest
producer of industrial gases, also won its bid to overturn the
EU’s decision of collusion in the cartel.  The  EU General Court  in Luxembourg said regulators failed
to consider evidence submitted by Edison showing it didn’t have
decisive influence over units involved in the cartel. The
European Commission in April slashed a fine against
ArcelorMittal SA by 80 percent, saying they couldn’t force the
company to pay fines imposed on several of the steelmakers’
units.  “Until today’s judgment no parent company had ever before
managed to escape liability,” said Alfonso Lamadrid, a lawyer
at Garrigues in Brussels. “This is one of the most common
grounds of appeal.”  The court also reduced  Solvay SA (SOLB) ’s fine in the case to
139.5 million euros, from 167 million euros.  FMC Corp. (FMC)  lost an
appeal to overturn or cut a 25 million-euro penalty.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the Brussels-based
antitrust agency, said the regulator carefully asses the
decision  “The general court confirmed the correctness of the
commission’s decision as regards parental liability,” by
upholding regulators’ decision to require two other companies in
the cartel, FMC and SNIA SpA, to pay their units’ fines, she
said.  Brussels-based Solvay, the world’s largest soda-ash maker,
got the highest penalty of 167 million euros plus a 26 million-
euro fine for Solvay Solexis, which it acquired from Edison in
2002. Erik De Leye, a spokesman for Solvay, had no immediate
comment on yesterday’s fine reduction.  The cases are: T-185/06, L’Air Liquide v. Commission; T-
186/06, Solvay v. Commission; T-191/06, FMC Foret v. Commission;
T-192/06, Caffaro v. Commission; T-194/06, SNIA v. Commission;
T-195/06, Solvay Solexis v Commission; T-196/06, Edison v.
Commission; T-197/06, FMC v. Commission.  For more, click here.  Facebook Message Juror Gets Eight-Month Sentence in U.K.  An English juror was jailed for eight months after she used
Facebook Inc.’s social-networking service to contact a defendant
in a drug case and discussed the jury’s deliberations.  Joanne Fraill, 40, was sentenced yesterday by the Chief
Justice Igor Judge and two other judges. She admitted to
contempt of court at a hearing earlier this week.  “Her contact with the acquitted defendant as well as her
repeated searches on the Internet constituted flagrant breaches
of the orders made by the judge for the proper conduct of the
trial,” Judge said.  This is the first time someone has been punished for
contempt of court because of contact over the Internet,
according to U.K. Solicitor General Edward Garnier, who
prosecuted the case.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Boeing Case Jets Obama Lawyer From Obscurity  Appearing under threat of a subpoena isn’t the only reason
Lafe Solomon may be uncomfortable when U.S. lawmakers question
unfair-labor charges he brought against  Boeing Co. (BA)  today.  The uproar over cases he’s filed since President  Barack
Obama  named him acting general counsel of the  National Labor
Relations Board  a year ago was a shock after 39 years of
relative anonymity as a career employee with the federal agency,
Solomon said.  “I’ve gone from one or two Google pages to hundreds,”
Solomon, 61, said in an interview with Bloomberg Government.
“Nothing really prepared me for the nonlegal parts of this job.
I never could have imagined any of this, ever.”  Solomon has become a public enemy to business groups and
their Republican allies, especially after his April 20 complaint
saying Boeing built a nonunion assembly plant for its new 787
Dreamliner in  South Carolina  in retaliation for work stoppages
by unions at its Seattle-area production hub. Boeing, the
world’s largest aerospace company, has denied such motives.  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, headed
by Republican Representative Darrell Issa of California, is
holding today’s session in North Charleston, site of the plant.
The hearing’s title indicates the reception Solomon may receive:
“Unionization Through Regulation: The NLRB’s Holding Pattern on
Free Enterprise.”  “The committee has made it clear that it is their
intention to subpoena me if I do not voluntarily appear,”
Solomon wrote in a June 10 letter to Issa. Solomon said he would
show up even though he was concerned about lawmakers questioning
“an agency acting in its quasi-judicial capacity about its
decisions in a pending case.”  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court News  Judge Hearing Google Suit Over Microsoft Contract Tough on U.S.  U.S. Judge Susan G. Braden, who will rule on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
challenge to an Interior Department plan to buy  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
products, pushes agencies to prove contracts are awarded in fair
competitions, court records show.  The 62-year-old judge is weighing Google’s allegation that
the department improperly favored Microsoft for a planned $59.3
million e-mail services contract. The companies are vying for a
foothold in the U.S. government cloud-computing market, valued
at as much as $20 billion.  A George W. Bush nominee who joined the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims in 2003, Braden’s experience as a litigator has
translated into a no-nonsense judicial style that focuses on the
facts, lawyers and former clerks said.  “The judge does not mince words,” David Nasse, a former
clerk, told Bloomberg Government. “She’s incredibly thorough.
If you’re not prepared, and you don’t know the facts of your
case, she’s going to let you know that.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  