-- 
Crude Oil Falls to Near a Four-Month Low on European Debt Crisis, Economy

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-06-17T20:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/crude-oil-falls-to-near-a-four-month-low-on-european-debt-crisis-economy.html
Crude oil dropped to the lowest
price in four months in  New York  on doubts European efforts to
resolve the Greek debt crisis will succeed, and on concern of
reduced economic growth and fuel demand.  Futures fell 2 percent as Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  attempted to get the country’s parliament to pass
austerity measures needed for a bailout. The  International
Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for U.S. growth in 2011. Oil
tumbled 6.3 percent this week as U.S. manufacturers turned
pessimistic and fuel consumption dropped.  “There are still a lot of questions about the Greek
bailout and what that will mean for the demand picture,” said
 Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .
“The oil market seems more skeptical about the debt crisis than
the equity market. A lot of technical damage was done to the
market this week.”  Crude oil for July delivery dropped $1.94 to $93.01 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement price since Feb. 18. Today’s move capped the biggest
weekly decline in six weeks.  Brent oil for August delivery declined 81 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session $113.21 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. The price is 44 percent higher than
a year ago.  Oil in New York traded in a $10 range for more than five
weeks until this week. Futures stayed between $95.02 and $104.60
from May 9 through June 14. The contract dipped below the 200-
day moving average of $92.22 in intraday trading today for the
first time since September.  “Oil has broken important support this week,” said  Peter Beutel , the president of Cameron Hanover Inc., an energy
advisory company in  New Canaan , Connecticut. “We may be on
course to test $85.”  Greek Rescue Plan  Futures pared losses earlier when German Chancellor Angela Merkel moderated previous conditions for supporting a Greek
rescue plan. European finance ministers next meet on Greece in
Luxembourg on June 19 and June 20, followed by a Brussels summit
of European Union leaders June 23 and June 24.  U.S. oil supplies rose to the highest level in 31 years for
the month of May as refineries processed less crude amid a
decline in gasoline demand, according to the  American Petroleum
Institute . Inventories increased for a fifth consecutive month
to 367.6 million barrels, a record in data going back to 1980,
the industry-funded group said today in a monthly report.  “We still aren’t sure about the economic consequences of
the Greek debt crisis for  Europe ,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “Commodity markets are still pricing in the
negative economic outlook.”  Revised Projection  The IMF cut its U.S. growth projection, warning of further
setbacks to the economic recovery, along with potential
contagion from the European debt crisis.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.5 percent this year and 2.7
percent in 2012, down from the 2.8 percent and 2.9 percent
projected in April, the IMF said today, citing higher commodity
prices and bad weather in the first quarter and a weak housing
market. The Washington-based fund sees the world economy
expanding 4.3 percent this year, down from 4.4 percent in April.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment in the U.S. fell to 71.8 in June
from 74.3 a month earlier. The gauge was projected to slip to
74, according to the median estimate of 67 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The index averaged 89 in the five years
leading up to the recession that began in December 2007.  Chinese Retail  Chinese retail sales growth slowed to 16.9 percent in May,
less than the average of the past five years and a figure that’s
inflated by soaring prices for food, according to government
data released this week.  The U.S. and  China  were responsible for 32 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to BP Plc’s Statistical
Review of World Energy on June 8.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  refuses to step down, a
Russian envoy said after talks with government officials,
including Prime Minister Baghdadi Mahmudi, in Tripoli. A
rebellion has cut production in the North African country by
almost 90 percent, according to Bloomberg estimates.  “The prime minister said Qaddafi doesn’t intend to
resign,”  Mikhail Margelov  said by phone from Tunis, the capital
of neighboring Tunisia, a day after meeting with the Libyan
officials. “For the government of Tripoli, they aren’t prepared
to discuss the future of Qaddafi.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 629,070
contracts as of 3:36 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 692,012
contracts yesterday, 3.9 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.55 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  