-- 
DIRTT Wants Office Renovators to Outsource Floors and Walls

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-06-17T20:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/dirtt-wants-office-renovators-to-outsource-floors-and-walls.html
The call that would rattle any small manufacturer came at 7 in
the morning on a Monday in 2008. The truck scheduled to deliver a $25,000 order for
customized glass office walls to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in  Seattle  had
been stolen.  Minutes later,  DIRTT  Chief Executive Officer Mogens Smed ordered the modular office
maker’s factory in Calgary to recreate the walls. The replacements shipped Thursday,
and the foundation’s 250-square-foot renovation was ready on Saturday. “There was
some disbelief,” says DIRTT salesman Michael Iannone, describing foundation officials
when they saw the new rooms. Once convinced about the robbery of the originals, the
foundation went on to place three more orders over the next two years, says Iannone.  Founded in 2004, DIRTT pioneered a software-driven operation. It starts with customers
creating a 3D model online of their order with DIRTT’s walls of glass, wood, or high-
gloss plastic. When the customer places an order for a design, the software sends the
specifications to machines in one of DIRTT’s two factories. “If you can package
technology with off-site modular construction, there’s an exponential increase in
efficiency,” says Tom Hardiman, executive director of the Modular Building Institute, a
Charlottesville, Va.-based trade group. “That seems to be where DIRTT is hitting it.”  Shrinking Office-Construction Market  The fast-growing 564-employee company is benefiting from a shrinking office-
construction market in the U.S. Since the height of the U.S. real estate bubble in 2007,
the amount of money spent on office construction has plummeted from $53.8 billion to a
projected $22 billion this year, according to researcher IHS  Global Insight . In 2010,
DIRTT’s revenue topped $100 million for the first time and could reach $134 million this
year and $175 million in 2012, according to Chief Financial Officer Scott Jenkins.  DIRTT’s walls and floors, designed by company co-founder Geoff Gosling, 50, snap
into place much like Legos. Walls can be reconfigured as needed to create smaller or
larger offices. If a company moves, it can reassemble the components in the new
location. About 80 percent of DIRTT’s business is in existing office buildings. Customers
range from  Google (GOOG)  to Levi Strauss to the Fort Sam Houston military base in
 Texas .  Before co-founding DIRTT, Gosling worked at Calgary-based Evans Consoles
designing control rooms for 911  call centers  and air traffic control operations, among
other spaces where functionality is crucial. Gosling, who earned a master’s in
environmental design from the University of Calgary in 1991, says offices appealed to
him because he liked the idea of designing “environments that have not been given their
due,” he says.  One fan of Gosling’s work is Jim Prendergast, partner at architectural firm Goettsch
Partners in  Chicago . In 2009, he designed a new 14-floor headquarters for Jenner &
Block, a 470-attorney  law firm  there. The law firm chose DIRTT over rivals Teknion and
Haworth for its detachable walls’ aesthetics. He says installations took three weeks or
less per floor, about half the time of conventional construction.  Mixed Environmental Impact  Modular office construction’s environmental impact is mixed. While components can be
reused, the products require more resources to make than conventional walls. For
example, to produce the aluminum in DIRTT’s products, the energy use is eight times
higher than for the steel in traditional construction, according to data compiled by
environmental researchers at the University of Bath in the  United Kingdom . Companies
that do not change an office for years would be “greener” sticking with conventional
construction, says Nadav Malin, president of Building Green in Brattleboro, Vt., which
does consulting for the  construction industry .  Gosling and co-founders Barrie Loberg and Smed met at Evans Consoles in 2003, the
year Smed took over as chief executive officer after leaving Haworth in  Grand Rapids ,
Mich. (In 2000, Haworth had bought Smed’s office furniture business in Calgary, SMED
International, for $300 million Canadian, or about $201 million U.S. at the time.) Smed
hankered to run his own company again and convinced the other two to join him in
starting DIRTT, which stands for Doing It Right This Time. Loberg developed the DIRTT
software, named Ice, with some help from Gosling’s brother James, creator of the Java
code used extensively in building business software. Ice is licensed to more than a
dozen manufacturers through DIRTT’s subsidiary, Ice Edge Business Solutions.  In March, DIRTT raised $22 million in funding from venture capital firms led by San
Francisco-based Expansion Capital Partners. The funding will be used to open two new
DIRTT factories in Phoenix and Houston, Jenkins says. New interior products are in
development for the health-care industry, which is expected to grow with the aging baby
boom generation. DIRTT is looking for distributors in the  United Arab Emirates ,  Saudi
Arabia ,  China , and  India  to launch its product overseas, which the company believes
could account for 20 percent of its business in five years. “That would be 20 percent of a
billion dollars in sales,” Jenkins says.  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  