-- 
Boehner Criticizes Obama on Libya Rationale in `Robust' War-Powers Debate

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-18T04:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/dispute-over-libya-nags-president-who-wanted-congress-to-have-more-power.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  is
accusing the White House of deciding to “conceal” a Justice
Department opinion that contradicts President  Barack Obama ’s
argument that the U.S. mission in Libya doesn’t need
congressional authorization to continue.  The Ohio Republican released a statement last night after
Obama declined in a letter to Boehner to address the Justice
Department’s Office of Legal Counsel’s views on whether the War
Powers Resolution of 1973 applies to the mission. Obama takes
the position it doesn’t apply because the U.S. is serving a
support role to the NATO-led mission that does not meet the
definition of “hostilities” that requires congressional
approval.  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  earlier said there
had been internal debate among advisers to the president as to
the interpretation of the statute. The New York Times reported
late yesterday that Obama had overruled the views of Pentagon
General Counsel Jeh Johnson and the acting head of the  Justice
Department ’s Office of Legal Counsel, Caroline Krass, that the
resolution did apply. The Times reported that White House
Counsel Bob Bauer, State Department legal adviser Harold Koh and
others countered that it didn’t apply and that Obama sided with
the latter camp.  There was a “full airing of views within the
administration and a robust process” that led Obama to his
decision that the war powers law didn’t apply, White House
spokesman Eric Schultz said in an e-mailed response to questions.
He declined to release the Justice Department’s position or
discuss individual attorneys’ advice.  Intense Debate  Schultz said the resolution has been “subject to intense
debate” since its enactment in 1973 that that “it should come
as no surprise that there would be some disagreements” inside
the administration as to how the law applied.  Justice Department spokesman  Matthew Miller  declined to
confirm details of the OLC position. “Our views were heard, as
were other views, and the president then made the decision as
was appropriate for him to do,” he said in an e-mail.  The U.S. mission in Libya is pitting Boehner and Obama from
opposite sides of the argument over when the War Powers
Resolution applies. Boehner once called the resolution
“constitutionally suspect,” and Obama, when he was a senator,
argued that Congress must have the “backbone” to stand up to
presidents when they want to send troops into battle.  Standoff Escalates  The standoff has escalated since the administration
produced its 32-page report on June 15 laying out the
president’s rationale for committing U.S. forces to an air
campaign with NATO allies against Muammar Qaddafi’s troops
without congressional approval.  Boehner has said the House will look at options to force
Obama’s hand, including cutting off funding for the operation or
blocking unrelated White House priorities. Democratic Senator
Richard Durbin of  Illinois , a close ally of Obama, said Congress
should go ahead and give its support for military operations
against Qaddafi’s regime.  “The right thing to do is for Congress to approve of the
president’s action, make it official,” Durbin said. “Whether
it’s necessary, if it includes reference to it and makes it
clear that we are acting consistent with the War Powers Act,
that’s what I’m looking for.”  The  War Powers Resolution , passed in 1973 in reaction to
U.S. involvement in  Vietnam , has been at the center of struggles
between presidents of both parties and Congress ever since.  Supporters and Critics  Even supporters of Obama and U.S. action against Qaddafi
were critical of the administration’s argument that the
president doesn’t need congressional authorization. In its
report to Congress, the administration said the resolution
doesn’t apply to the  Libya  mission because the U.S. is primarily
in a support role and isn’t engaged in hostilities as defined in
the law.  Boehner rejected the administration’s reasoning, saying in
his statement last night that “the White House’s suggestion
that there are no ‘hostilities’ taking place in Libya defies
rational thought. Now, its decision to conceal the opinion of
the OLC raises even more concerns.”  “Over the coming week, our members will review all options
available to hold the administration to account,” Boehner said.  Still, the White House report repeated that the
administration would welcome a resolution that a bipartisan
group of senators has drafted to “confirm that both branches
are united in their commitment to supporting the aspirations of
the Libyan people for political reform and self-government.”  ‘Hard to Swallow’  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican and one of the
sponsors of the resolution, said he found Obama’s legal argument
“hard to swallow.” Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , the top
Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, called
Obama’s stance “both legally dubious and unwise.”  Representative Jim Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat, said
Boehner “has a legitimate point.”  “It’s all about separation of powers,” Clyburn said.  Boehner’s objections are joined by antiwar Democrats such
as Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich, who with nine other
lawmakers has filed a lawsuit challenging the president’s
authority to carry out the mission.  Kucinich said yesterday he’ll move to end funds for
continued U.S. military support for the Libya operation when the
House takes up on the annual defense-appropriations measure next
week.  ‘Direct Challenge’  “In a direct challenge to Congress, the administration is
continuing the war despite its inability to provide a
constitutional or legal justification for bypassing” lawmakers,
Kucinich said in a  statement.   An earlier Kucinich amendment to order an end to the U.S.
role in the Libya mission in 15 days was defeated on June 3,
though it drew support from 87 Republicans and 61 Democrats.  McCain warned his fellow Republicans against trying to
block the mission, saying they need to ask themselves if they
want to appear to take sides with Qaddafi against Obama.  “The administration may assert that we are not engaged in
hostilities in Libya, but the Senate should go on record as
authorizing these operations,” he said in the text of a speech
delivered on the Senate floor June 16.  Obama, 49, ordered military action against Qaddafi’s regime
in March, saying he was acting to keep a “tyrant” from killing
civilians protesting his rule. Since then the mission’s lead has
been transferred to the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization .  Oil Reserves  The conflict in Libya, which has Africa’s largest proven
oil reserves, followed uprisings elsewhere in North Africa and
the  Middle East  that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .  Violence in the region has helped push up  oil prices , and
futures are up 22 percent from a year ago. Crude oil for July
delivery dropped $1.94 to $93.01 a barrel.  Obama, a Democrat, and Boehner have argued opposite sides
of the issue in the past.  Boehner, 61, in 1999 spoke against invoking the War Powers
Resolution to constrain then-President  Bill Clinton ’s decision
to initiate a NATO air campaign in  Kosovo . Boehner said it would
tie the hands of future presidents in responding to crises.  Obama’s remarks were made in a 2007 speech at DePaul
University in  Chicago . An opponent of the  Iraq war , Obama said
the War Powers Resolution was written to make sure Congress
wouldn’t be “duped” into a war.  Scholars such as Mark Rozell, a public policy professor and
expert on presidential powers at  George Mason University  in
Arlington,  Virginia , said Obama may be on thin legal ground now.  Rozell described Obama’s rationale in the White House
report as “clever, legalistic language” that relies on “bad
precedents” over the past four decades in which Congress
ultimately didn’t punish presidents for acting without their
consent. “The president overreached his constitutional
authority,” he said.  Louis Fisher , who worked for four decades as a specialist
on separation of powers and constitutional law with the Library
of Congress, said Obama miscalculated.  “If it had been a week or two, it would be OK,” but as
the conflict stretches into months, “now it’s not OK. I think
he’s been giving the back of his hand to Congress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  