-- 
Dollar Won’t Gain on Greek Crisis Due to Fed’s Policy, Axel Merk Says

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-06-17T21:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/dollar-won-t-gain-on-greek-crisis-due-to-fed-s-policy-axel-merk-says.html
The turmoil in the euro zone from
the Greek debt crisis won’t spur appreciation of the dollar
because of  Federal Reserve  policy, according to Axel Merk,
president and chief investment officer at Merk Investments LLC.  “It’s because the Federal Reserve, in both word and
action, is pursuing a weak-dollar policy,” Merk said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with
 Tom Keene . “In the euro zone, you have these problems precisely
because less money is being spent and printed.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  lowered the central bank’s
target federal fund rate to a range of zero and 0.25 in December
2008 and began increasing its balance sheet to $1.75 trillion
through March 2010 in a plan known as quantitative easing. A
second round of $600 billion of asset purchases, dubbed QE2,
began in November last year and is scheduled to conclude this
month.  The Fed’s U.S Trade-Weighted Major Currency Dollar Index,
which measures the dollar’s performance against seven
currencies, fell to a record low of 68.2405 on May 2.  The slumping dollar has spurred exports, helping President
 Barack Obama  toward his stated goal of doubling U.S. exports.
U.S. exports reached a record high of $175.56 Billion in April.  “Bernanke has said going off the gold standard in the
Great Depression has helped the U.S. recover from the Great
Depression faster,” Palo Alto, California-based Merk said.
“Somebody is of the other trade of this and that is the euro
zone.”  The euro rose 0.7 percent to 1.4302 against the dollar at
4:57 p.m. in New York after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
agreed to compromise and work with the  European Central Bank  on
a debt plan for Greece.  The euro zone, along with export-heavy countries such as
Japan, doesn’t require strong economic growth to have a strong
currency, unlike the U.S., Merk said.  Japan  has had “lousy
economic growth for the last 20 years,” but its currency, the
yen, is strong, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Joe Ragazzo
in New York at   jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@blooomberg.net  