-- 
Dollar’s Decade-Long Bear Market is Ending, Citigroup’s Fitzpatrick Says

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-17T21:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/dollar-s-decade-long-bear-market-is-ending-as-growth-slows-citigroup-says.html
The dollar is poised to reverse its
almost decade-long bear market trend as global growth slows,
Europe’s debt problems worsen and the  Federal Reserve  ends its
asset-buying program, according to Citigroup Inc.  The dollar may stop weakening, as it has since the 2000-
2002 period, and enter a bull market for the first time since
1995,  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief technical analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in New York, said in a note to clients.  “Slowly but surely things have been building up,”
Fitzpatrick said in a telephone interview. “We started to
notice one by one all of these dynamics coming together in terms
of the way the dollar was trading, the way equities were
trading.”  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of its six major trading partners, has fallen 38
percent since reaching a high of 121.020 in July 2001. It traded
at 75.012 at 4:49 p.m. in  New York .  The Fed this month will end a $600 billion Treasury-buying
program it implemented in November in an effort to stimulate the
 U.S. economy . The central bank is unlikely to introduce another
such program, Fitzpatrick said. As equities, commodities, and
currencies linked to growth underperform, the dollar will
benefit, he added.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the week little
changed after falling for six straight weeks. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB index of raw materials dropped 3.6 percent
this week, the most since the five days ended May 6.  Sovereign Debt  European leaders are working to finalize a second rescue
package for  Greece , which may need to rollover maturing bonds to
avoid a default. Moody’s Investors Service placed  Italy ’s Aa2-
sovereign rating on review for possible downgrade, signaling
concern about the contagion effects of Greece’s crisis.  “None of the above suggests a very pretty picture ahead
and in a lot of instances suggests a possible reversal of the
position of the abundant  U.S. dollar  supply and flow of money
out of the U.S. and a possible reversal of the ‘monster carry
trade’ of the U.S. dollar as a funding currency to the world,”
Fitzpatrick wrote.  Low  interest rates  in the U.S. make the dollar ideal as a
funding currency to buy higher-yielding assets elsewhere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  