-- 
U.S. Leading Indicators Probably Rose in May

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/leading-economic-indicators-in-u-s-probably-increased-in-sign-of-rebound.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
probably rebounded in May after declining for the first time in
almost a year, a sign economic growth may pick up by the end of
2011, economists forecast a report will show today.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 0.3 percent after a 0.3 percent decline
in April, according to the median estimate of 51 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Another report may show  consumer
confidence  was little changed this month.  Manufacturing and the rest of the economy may benefit in
coming months from cheaper fuel prices and the easing of supply
bottlenecks stemming from the earthquake in Japan. An expansion
the  Federal Reserve  says is “moderate” may ensure  interest
rates  stay close to zero until early 2012.  “We should expect to see some pickup in growth in coming
months as temporary factors are unwound,” said  Paul Ashworth ,
chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto. “But
growth is going to be fairly muted.”  The Conference Board’s report is due at 10 a.m. in  New
York . Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a decline of
0.4 percent to a gain of 0.7 percent.  The Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary estimate
for June may show confidence eased to 74 from 74.3 at the end of
the previous month, according to economists surveyed before the
9:55 a.m. release. The index averaged 89.1 during the last
expansion that ended in December 2007.  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times. The Conference Board estimates new
orders for  consumer goods , bookings for capital goods and  money
supply  adjusted for inflation.  Interest Rates  Among the known components, those pointing to growth in May
were: a positive spread between short- and long-term interest
rates, rising consumer expectations, an increase in stocks and a
gain in building permits. A decline in supplier deliveries
weighed on the index.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index averaged 1,338.31 in May,
up 0.5 percent from April. Stocks have since tumbled on concerns
of slowing global growth and possible European defaults.  Limited employment gains help explain why consumer
sentiment is restrained. Employers boosted payrolls by 54,000
workers in May after a 232,000 increase the prior month, figures
from the Labor Department showed on June 3.  The economy grew at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the
first quarter, down from 3.1 percent in the previous three
months. Economists have been downgrading forecasts as recent
data have shown manufacturing, consumer and business sentiment
weakening.  Japan  Earthquake  Supply-chain disruptions from Japan’s earthquake and
tsunami in March prompted production and sales of U.S. cars to
slow in May, while gasoline prices that approached $4 a gallon
and further declines in  home prices  squeezed  consumer spending .  Gasoline prices have since receded and supply chains are
being restored, helping carmakers such as Ford Motor Co. renew
production.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, said its
North American vehicle production will return to normal in
August as parts suppliers recover from Japan’s record
earthquake.  “The light at the end of the tunnel is glowing brighter
for us, represented by this significant improvement in our
production situation,” John Mendel, executive vice president of
U.S. sales, said in a statement May 26.  Toyota Motor Corp. yesterday said vehicle production at its
North American plants is recovering faster than planned and will
return to normal in September.  Full output of eight models, including Camry and Corolla
cars, Sienna minivans and Highlander sport-utility vehicles, was
restored June 6, and Tundra and Tacoma pickups and RAV4 and
Lexus RX SUVs will reach that level by September, said  Bob
Carter , group vice president of U.S. sales.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  