-- 
Earnings, Liquidity to Drive Stock Rebound, Sarasin-Alpen Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-06-17T07:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/earnings-liquidity-to-drive-stock-rebound-sarasin-alpen-says.html
Jignesh Shah, executive director at
Sarasin-Alpen ( India ) Private Ltd., a unit of the Swiss wealth
manager controlled by Rabobank Groep, comments on the outlook
for Indian stocks.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
lost 0.6 percent to 17,885.99 at 12:35 p.m. in Mumbai, set for
its lowest close in three weeks.  On stocks outlook:  “The Sensex is trading at 14.5 times its current-year
earnings. Low return on equity has been a drag. Equity indices
seemed fairly valued from the near-term perspective and there is
no short-term positive trigger in the offing. Foreign
institutional investors have been modest sellers for the last
couple of days. Any further significant gain in indices would be
on account of improvement in visibility of earnings growth or
global liquidity.”  On macro positives:  “The longer-term growth story is positive as it is built
on structural pillars like a high domestic savings rate and
higher capital formation rate. The domestic savings rate was
33.7 percent of GDP and capital formation was at 36.5 percent of
GDP for the financial year ending March 31, 2010. The
demographic dividend, scope for infrastructure growth,
urbanization and robust consumption patterns are likely to
continue.”  On major concerns:  “The current investment environment has a few headwinds.
Higher global  oil prices  raise a fiscal risk if not passed over
to consumers fully. However, if passed over there will be a risk
of higher inflation. RBI’s stance on monetary tightening is
expected to continue. Corporate profitability will be impacted
because of high material and finance costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  