-- 
Medvedev Promises Mass Sell-Off to Boost Election Chances

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a ,   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-06-18T10:32:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/medvedev-promises-mass-sell-off-to-boost-chances-against-putin.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
pledged to give up government control of some of the biggest
state companies, burnishing his investor-friendly credentials as
he bids for a second term next year.  “The dominance of state-controlled companies in a
considerable number of industries” is making  Russia  less
competitive, Medvedev said at the St. Petersburg International
Economic Forum yesterday, ordering an expanded privatization
plan by Aug. 1. “This economic model is dangerous for the
future.”  Medvedev, 45, a former corporate lawyer, has pledged to
fight corruption and reduce the state’s role in the economy to
attract foreign investment and reduce Russia’s reliance on
energy exports. While he’s seeking a second term as president,
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who picked Medvedev as his
successor in 2008, hasn’t ruled out a return to the Kremlin in
2012 elections.  “This is fantastic as an idea, let’s see how it will work
out in practice,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said of the president’s
initiative. “Medvedev is trying to create a more positive aura
around himself before the elections.”  Russia has until now planned to sell minority stakes in
companies including OAO Rosneft, the largest oil producer, and
the two largest banks, OAO Sberbank and VTB Group from 2011 to
2013. Medvedev’s economic adviser,  Arkady Dvorkovich , said the
government stake in Rosneft could fall beneath 50 percent and to
zero in VTB.  Selling Assets  Under the government’s existing plans, it would raise at
least 1 trillion rubles ($36 billion) by selling state assets
over the next three years. Russia seeks to boost proceeds from
asset sales by 50 percent to 450 billion rubles next year and
expects to collect at least the same amount annually in 2013 and
2014, Dvorkovich told reporters.  “We don’t know the timeline of the privatization,
really,” Andrey Solovyev, head of debt capital markets at VTB
Capital, said in an interview. “It might be a very long period
of time, done step by step. It won’t be an immediate sea-
change.”  The state should give up majority stakes and in some cases
blocking stakes of more than 25 percent in the main state-owned
enterprises, Medvedev said. State control may still be necessary
for companies that have monopoly infrastructure and are
essential to the nation’s security, he added.  Under Putin’s presidency from 2000 to 2008, the government
increased state ownership in strategic industries, including oil
and gas.  ‘State Capitalism’  “We had a stage of development tied with strengthening the
role of state in economy. Now the potential of this way is
exhausted.” Medvedev said. “We aren’t building state
capitalism.”  Medvedev is trying to combat Russia’s reputation as the
world’s most corrupt major economy amid investor uncertainty
about the future of his ruling tandem with Putin. Citigroup
Inc.’s  Vikram Pandit , Bank of America Corp.’s  Brian T. Moynihan ,
Blackstone Group’s  Stephen Schwarzman  and Deutsche Bank AG’s
Josef Ackermann are among the  business  leaders at St. Petersburg
for the annual economic  forum .  “This is more evidence that the government is determined
to transfer state companies into private hands,”  Roland Nash ,
chief investment strategist at Verno Capital, a Moscow hedge
fund that manages about $140 million, said in an interview.
“It’s got to be positive.”  Prison Sentence  Rosneft controls most of the former assets of Yukos Oil
Co., once Russia’s biggest oil company, which was declared
bankrupt and sold in pieces after facing $30 billion of tax
claims during Putin’s presidency. Former Yukos owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky was convicted of fraud and  tax evasion  in 2005 and
oil embezzlement in December 2010, pushing his sentence to 13
years.  Medvedev earlier this year ordered eight Cabinet members,
including several Putin allies, to surrender by July 1 their
positions on the boards of state companies they regulate. Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  stepped down as chairman of Rosneft
in April.  Putin and his supporters favor the status quo over
modernization, and this makes it impossible to accelerate
economic growth to the level of competing emerging market
powers,  Igor Yurgens , a Medvedev adviser, said in an interview
at the  St. Petersburg  forum.  Russia’s economy expanded 4.1 percent from a year earlier
in the first quarter, compared with 9.7 percent growth in  China 
and 7.8 percent in  India . Medvedev said in a January interview
at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , that Russia
sought to boost growth to 8 percent to 10 percent within five
years.  ‘Take it Easy’  “That’s the stability party for you, those who say take it
easy, don’t go out of your way because we are OK with our 4
percent growth in GDP,” Yurgens told Bloomberg Television. “We
have to do some bold steps forward in privatization.”  Russia sold 10 percent of VTB in February and has picked
advisers for sales of minority stakes in the largest lender, OAO
Sberbank, and OAO Sovcomflot, the biggest Russian shipper.  Holdings in Sovcomflot, Sberbank, OAO Novorossiysk
Commercial Sea Port and  Murmansk Commercial Seaport  are slated
to be sold this year, Alexei Uvarov, head of the economy
ministry’s property department, said on May 4. The government
expects to offer stakes in OAO RusHydro, VTB Group and Federal
Grid Co. next year before proceeding with the sale of Rosneft,
OAO Russian Railways and Russian Agricultural Bank in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in St. Petersburg at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in St. Petersburg at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in St. Petersburg at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net ; 