-- 
Emerging Stocks Head for Three-Month Low on Greece Debt Crisis Concerns

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-17T21:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/emerging-stocks-head-for-three-month-low-on-greece-debt-crisis-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day, sending the benchmark index to a three-month low, as
technology companies tumbled and investors speculated  Greece ’s
debt crisis will slow economic growth in Europe.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.3 percent to
1,103.74 at 5 p.m. New York time, the lowest close since March
18. The gauge dropped 2.2 percent this week. MSCI’s index of
emerging-market technology stocks sank 1.7 percent today  after
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. and LG Display Co. retreated. Russia’s
Micex Index lost 1.5 percent as oil fell, while South Africa’s
benchmark stock index slid 1.1 percent.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said a
default by Greece is “almost certain,” while  Germany ’s Angela Merkel and France’s Nicolas Sarkozy endorsed a plan to roll over
maturing Greek debt. Waterloo, Ontario-based Research In Motion
Ltd. fueled the selloff in technology stocks after saying
revenue may drop for the first time in nine years.  “The wall of worry seems to be getting higher and higher
for investors in the short term,”  Shane Oliver , head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd, said in an e-
mailed note. “The problems in Greece have intensified.”  Brazil ’s Bovespa index rose 0.3 percent as reports showed
consumer prices declined more than forecast. OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, the oil company controlled by billionaire Eike
Batista, rose the most in a month after saying it’s receiving
offers for stakes in its Brazilian crude and natural-gas
projects and expects a sale this year.  The MSCI gauge of emerging markets has fallen 4.1 percent
this year, compared with a less than 0.1 percent gain in the
MSCI World Index of developed-nation stocks. Shares in the MSCI
emerging index are valued at 10 times analysts’ 12-month
earnings estimates, the lowest level since March 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging Outflows  Emerging-market equity mutual funds had net withdrawals of
about $829 million during the week ended June 15, Citigroup Inc.
strategists led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today, citing
data compiled by EPFR Global.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 320, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index. The gauge closed at the highest level since
Aug. 31 yesterday. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of
credit-default swaps for emerging  Europe , the  Middle East  and
Africa declined four basis points to 204, according to CMA in
London.  Emerging-market stocks pared some of their declines after
French President Sarkozy, speaking at a press conference in
Berlin with German  Chancellor Merkel , said the so-called Vienna
initiative for eastern Europe in 2009, which encouraged
creditors to roll over expiring bonds, could be a model for
helping Greece. The index had fallen as much as 0.8 percent.  Poland, Hungary  Poland’s WIG20 gained 0.6 percent and the Czech PX Index
gained 0.2 percent. Hungary’s BUX Index added 0.1 percent.  Russia’s Micex retreated for a fifth day, as OAO Gazprom
and OAO Lukoil declined. Crude for July delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  dropped as much as $3.11 to $91.84 a barrel.  Hynix retreated 6.1 percent in  Seoul  after Korea Investment
& Securities Co. said second-quarter profit will miss estimates,
while LG Display sank 6.8 percent as UBS AG cut its rating on
the liquid-crystal-display industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  