-- 
EON Looks Beyond EU as ‘Patchwork’ Regulations Risk Profits

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-06-17T07:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/eon-looks-beyond-eu-as-patchwork-regulations-risk-profits.html
EON AG may redirect investment
outside the European Union because the region’s “patchwork” of
energy regulations combined with the world’s strictest limits on
 greenhouse gases  could shrink profits.  Germany ’s biggest power utility is also targeting
opportunities in natural gas production, liquefaction and
shipping to benefit from increased LNG demand after the
Fukushima nuclear crisis in  Japan , Jorgen Kildahl, EON’s
management-board member responsible for generation and trading,
said in a London interview in June 15.  The company is looking beyond its traditional base as
utilities face losses from Germany’s decision to switch off its
nuclear reactors by 2022. Investments in alternatives including
coal for baseload power and renewables are hampered by rules
that change frequently and sometimes contradict each other from
one country to the next, Kildahl said.  “It’s not straightforward building coal in Germany,” he
said. “If you can’t build coal, you can’t build new grid. You
can’t do onshore wind. We would just like to know what we can
do.”  Governments have introduced incentives to promote spending
on alternative energy only to roll them back when the burden on
consumers becomes too heavy. Italy on May 5 approved cuts that
progressively reduce incentives for photovoltaic energy. The
U.K. and  Spain  also slashed solar tariffs.  ‘Political Signals’  Germany yesterday announced it had scrapped a plan to trim
subsidized solar prices after new installations fell short of a
target. This month the government said it would reduce
incentives for wind power, and that land-based generators would
lose more than offshore turbines.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  bowed to political pressure after
an earthquake in March triggered the disaster in Japan and
agreed to shut the country’s nuclear fleet, abandoning an
election promise to extend the life of atomic reactors.  “We don’t act upon political signals,” Kildahl said. “We
act upon frameworks that have been stable for some time.”  EON likes gas because it can be increasingly shipped
anywhere in the world where it can fetch the best price, Kildahl
said. Global gas demand growth will “increase strongly,”
rising 2.4 percent a year to 3.8 trillion cubic meters in 2016,
the  International Energy Agency  said in a report yesterday.  “Looking at the gas market as a global commodity I think
is very interesting,” Kildahl said. “We already see now how
huge volumes of energy are moved around the globe. I see no
reason why that should not continue.”  Asset Sale  EON announced a plan in November to sell 15 billion euros
of assets through 2013 to reduce debt and fund expansion in the
U.S. and  Russia . Kildahl declined to say which countries the
company is targeting.  “We don’t rule out investing in  Europe , but some common
European regulatory framework would be very welcome,” he said.  The costly changes needed in energy production and
distribution must be driven by clear rules that are consistent
for many years, he said. Carbon budgets being implemented by the
U.K. through 2027 and beyond might be a “step in the right
direction” were they mirrored across the 27-member bloc.  It’s not just the climate that’s at risk but security of
 energy supply , “which is clearly the responsibility of the
governments,” Kildahl said. “The power and energy market is
very physical. Either you have enough power or you have too
little. And if you have too little, it’s a huge problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  