-- 
Mercator Poslovni Says Agrokor Is Interested in an Alliance

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-06-17T13:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/mercator-poslovni-says-agrokor-is-interested-in-an-alliance-1-.html
Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d. of
Slovenia, the largest supermarket chain in the Balkans, will
start talks on an alliance with Croatian rival Agrokor d.d.,
which failed to acquire a minority stake last month.  Agrokor, based in Zagreb, “expressed interest in forming
an alliance in retail operations and this was our intention when
we bid for a minority stake,” Ivica Todoric, Agrokor’s
president, wrote in a letter to Ziga Debeljak, Mercator’s chief
executive officer.  The letter, published by Mercator in a  statement  to the
Ljubljana stock exchange, was in response to an invitation by
Mercator in March to form an alliance. At that point, Pivovarna
Lasko Group d.d., which owns the Slovenian company, was offering
a 23 percent stake.  Pivovarna Lasko (PILR)  rejected an offer of 221 euros ($316) per
share in May because the competition regulator wouldn’t allow
Lasko to dispose freely of its holding, in effect blocking the
sale. Now, Lasko has formed a group with other investors,
including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and Nova Kreditna Banka
Maribor d.d., to sell a majority of Mercator.  Slovenian banks, which need to improve their capital
positions, dented by the 2009 recession, are selling assets
seized from companies unable to repay their debt. Lasko also
needs to sell some businesses, to pay off 400 million euros of
debt this year.  Mercator continued to rise for a third consecutive day in
Ljubljana. The stock rose 1.85 euros, or 1 percent, to 178 euros
at 12:49 at the Ljubljana stock exchange, the highest level
since March 30. The shares have gained about 13 percent this
year, giving Mercator a market value of 670 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  