-- 
Eritrea Denies Backing Rebels Jailed for Planning Ethiopian Summit Attack

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-17T08:29:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/eritrea-denies-backing-rebels-jailed-for-planning-ethiopian-summit-attack.html
Eritrea denied providing support to
an Ethiopian rebel group that had 14 members jailed earlier this
month for a plot to bomb an African Union summit.  Ethiopia ’s government said on June 9 that members of the
Oromo Liberation Front who received sentences ranging from nine
years to life for attempting to attack the January summit in
 Addis Ababa  were trained and backed by the Eritrean government.  “Any allegation claiming that the opposition in Ethiopia or
the region as a whole are sponsored by Eritrea’s material and
military assistance is but an act of pure recrimination that
totally lacks concrete evidence,” Eritrea’s Foreign Ministry
said in a statement e-mailed yesterday. “Eritrea has nothing to
do with Ethiopia’s internal problems.”  The OLF has waged a 38-year campaign for autonomy in
Oromia, the biggest of Ethiopia’s nine federal states, on behalf
of the Oromo ethnic group. The rebel group has denied any
involvement in a plot to attack the summit.  In April, Ethiopia’s Foreign Ministry said it will back
Eritrean rebels trying to overthrow the government of Eritrean
President Isaias Afewerki unless that country changes its
policies of regional destabilization. Eritrea’s ambassador to
the  African Union , Girma Asmerom, denied his country is
fomenting instability and said the stance was “pure aggression
and a declaration of war.”  Eritreans voted in a 1993 referendum for independence from
Ethiopia. The two countries fought a 1998-2000 border conflict
in which an estimated 70,000 people were killed, according
to the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group . Skirmishes
between Ethiopian and Eritrean troops occasionally break out
along their 912-kilometer (567-mile) border.  Evidence of Terrorism  “Evidence abounds all over the world” that Eritrea supports
terrorism, Ethiopian State Minister of Communications Shimeles Kemal said in a phone interview yesterday from Addis Ababa.  “The accused have testified in an open court how they were
trained and supported by Eritrea, they even identified
intelligence officers in Eritrea,” he said. The statement by the
Eritrean Foreign Ministry was a “desperate act on behalf of a
regime which is increasingly isolated by the international
community due to its delinquent behavior.”  The  United Nations Security Council  in December 2009 voted
13-1 in favor of sanctions against Eritrea, including an arms
embargo, travel restrictions and an asset freeze, partly for
supporting al-Shabaab, a Somalia-based terrorist organization
that the U.S. accuses of having links to al-Qaeda.  The sanctions were imposed because of Eritrea’s stance in
rejecting Western-backed military intervention in the wartorn
nation and calling for a “Somalia-owned, all inclusive”
political solution, Girma said in an interview in Addis Ababa.  “Under law, you are supposed to be innocent until proven
guilty,” he said yesterday. “No one has brought any evidence of
Eritrean support for al-Shabaab. The resolution was unjustified,
immoral and illegal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 