-- 
Merkel Agrees to Voluntary Bondholder Role

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-06-17T15:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/merkel-says-she-s-prepared-to-work-with-ecb-on-investor-role-in-greece.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  retreated
from German demands that bondholders be forced to shoulder a
“substantial” share of a Greek rescue, saying she’ll work with
the  European Central Bank  to avoid disrupting markets.  “We would like to have a participation of private
creditors on a voluntary basis,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin today at a joint press conference with French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy . This “should be worked out jointly with the
ECB and there shouldn’t be any dispute with the ECB on this.”  The euro, stocks and Greek bonds rallied as Merkel and
Sarkozy signaled a reconciliation between German calls for
investors to help rescue  Greece  with warnings from the ECB and
 France  that a compulsory move risked triggering the euro area’s
first sovereign default. Attention now shifts to  Athens , where
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  overhauled his Cabinet to try
and secure passage of austerity measures needed for a bailout.  Merkel declined to give a date for the detail of the aid
package to be worked out, saying the matter must be resolved
“as quickly as possible.” European finance ministers next meet
on Greece in Luxembourg on June 19-20, followed by a Brussels
summit of European Union leaders on June 23-24.  The finance chiefs will probably “find an agreement that
the IMF and the Europeans can pay out the next tranche to
Greece, given that the key ingredients of the next program are
known,” German Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. The program should be
completed by their next scheduled meeting on July 11, he said.  Vienna Initiative  “The aim is involvement of the private sector on a
voluntary basis, and for that the Vienna Initiative, as it’s
called, is a good basis,” Merkel said. “I think we can achieve
something on this basis.”  Echoing the Vienna plan, used during the financial crisis
of 2009 for eastern European units of banks to maintain their
exposure, would involve encouraging creditors to roll over
expiring bonds, buying time for Greece until its austerity
program shows results or until a permanent rescue fund kicks in
from mid-2013. A rollover involves reinvesting the proceeds from
maturing bonds in new securities.  “This is a breakthrough,” Sarkozy said. “Finally we have
found a solution for an involvement of the private sector on a
voluntary basis,” he said. “What we decided just now is
precisely in the spirit of what was decided in Vienna.”  Greek Yields Plunge  Greek two-year notes surged, driving the yield down 168
basis points to 28.01 percent as of 3:37 p.m. in  London , paring
a weekly increase that pushed it above 30 percent yesterday for
the first time since the euro’s introduction.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.4 percent after
falling as much as 1 percent, and the euro gained 0.7 percent
against the dollar, rebounding from a 0.5 percent slide.  Merkel now faces the task of convincing her own coalition
and the public that private investors can be swayed to share the
burden in Greece with taxpayers. After a pounding in five state
elections this year and facing another two votes in September,
ruling lawmakers had shown little appetite for backing down.  Klaus-Peter Flosbach, the financial policy spokesman in
parliament for Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc, indicated the
coalition’s stance may be easing in line with Merkel.  ‘Adequate Degree’  “The coalition has agreed to support further aid for
Greece only if private creditors participate to an adequate
degree,” Flosbach said today in an e-mailed statement after
Merkel spoke. “We want them to participate to the furthest
possible extent, but not to such a degree that it would spark a
much worse crisis in the euro zone. If the government finds a
solution to this area of conflict -- we’ll back it.”  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lower-house
lawmakers in a speech seven days ago that the government “has
to insist on the participation of the private sector.” Yet his
demands that bond maturities be extended by seven years ran into
ECB resistance and credit-rating company warnings the move was
tantamount to default, stalling efforts to craft an aid package
earlier this week.  Merkel’s government is now “open” to discussing ways to
achieve “voluntary, substantial, reliable and quantifiable”
private-sector involvement, Deputy Finance Minister Asmussen
said, adding that Merkel and Schaeuble are “on the same page”
on this and working with the ECB to make it happen.  “There will be a rescue package and  Germany  will back
down,” accepting a solution that involves “largely lip service
by the large euro-area banks,” Henrik Enderlein, a political
economist at the Hertie School of Governance in Berlin, said by
phone. “And then it’s just a matter of presentation and of
marketing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Berlin  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  