-- 
Vale’s $1.1 Billion Target Metorex Gets Unsolicited Interest

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-06-17T16:48:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/metorex-says-it-received-unsolicited-non-binding-expression-of-interest.html
Metorex Ltd. (MTX) , the target of a $1.1
billion takeover bid from  Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE) , received an
unsolicited approach from another party.  “There is currently no certainty that Metorex will receive
a firm intention to make an offer from the alternate party,”
Johannesburg-based Metorex said today in a statement.   Vale, seeking to boost copper output almost fivefold to 1
million metric tons by 2015, bid 7.35 rand ($1.08) a share for
Metorex on April 8 in a transaction giving the Rio de Janeiro-
based company the Democratic Republic of Congo’s Ruashi open-pit
mine and the Chibuluma copper development in  Zambia .  Metorex rose 4.9 percent to 7.66 rand, the highest closing
level since Oct. 17, 2008, as of 5 p.m. in Johannesburg trading.  “You can see from the price that the people in the know,
and there are always people in the know, are obviously impressed
by the quality of the bidder,” Vestact Securities Ltd. Managing
Director Paul Theron said by phone from Johannesburg today.
“Vale are not idiots. You can assume that they recognize a good
value case,” he said, adding the company’s offer would send a
signal to others highlighting the value of the investment.  Legal Battle  The bidder may be Chinese, Johannesburg-based news website
 Miningmx  reported today.  Other companies operating in Congo include  First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. (FM)  and Eurasian Natural Resources Corp.  First Quantum, the Canadian company in a legal battle with
Congo over its Kolwezi mining license and assets, isn’t involved
in the offer for Metorex, company President  Clive Newall  said in
an e-mailed response to queries. “Definitely not us.”  Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman at ENRC, wouldn’t comment.
The London-based company, whose copper units include Central
African Mining & Exploration Co. in Congo and Chambishi Metals
Plc in Zambia, bought rights to the Kolwezi project in August.
The deal prompted First Quantum to seek more than $1 billion in
compensation.  A Vale official in  Rio de Janeiro , who declined to be
identified citing corporate policy, said the company wouldn’t
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net 
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  