-- 
EU Ministers Set to Clear Way for Pending Greek Aid Payment, Germany Says

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-06-17T12:50:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/eu-finance-chiefs-are-set-to-clear-way-for-greek-aid-payment-germany-says.html
European finance chiefs are set to
clear the way for a pending aid payment to  Greece  after Germany
signaled a retreat on its demand to extend Greek debt
maturities, a German deputy finance minister said.  An emergency meeting in Luxembourg June 19 will probably
“find an agreement that the IMF and the Europeans can pay out
the next tranche to Greece, given that the key ingredients of
the next program are known,” Germany’s Joerg Asmussen said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. “There is a regular euro
zone finance ministers’ meeting on the 11th of July and I think
there the program should be finalized.”  Asmussen, Wolfgang Schaeuble’s deputy for economic,
financial and European affairs, spoke from Brussels as
Chancellor Angel Merkel indicated that Germany was dropping an
insistence that bondholders be forced to shoulder a
“substantial” share of a Greek rescue. She said she will work
with the  European Central Bank  to avoid disrupting markets.  Schaeuble’s demands that bond maturities be extended by
seven years met ECB resistance and credit-rating company
warnings that the move was tantamount to default, stalling
efforts to craft an aid package this week.  The signs of flexibility from Germany sent the euro up by
as much as 0.7 percent to $1.43 and boosted European stocks and
Greek bonds.  Merkel’s government wants the private-sector involvement to
be “voluntary, substantial, reliable and quantifiable,”
Asmussen said. Merkel and Schaeuble are “on the same page” and
working with the ECB to make it happen, he said.  IMF Loan  Greece’s immediate concern is to obtain 8.7 billion euros
from  Europe  and 3.3 billion euros from the  International
Monetary Fund  in July, promised as part of last year’s aid
package to stave off the euro area’s first default.  European estimates put Greece’s 2012-14 financing gap at as
much as 170 billion euros. It would be filled by about 45
billion euros of loans, plus around 57 billion euros in unspent
aid from the 2010 bailout, roughly 30 billion euros in asset-
sale proceeds and about 30 billion euros from creditors.  A year after the bailout that aimed to stop the spread of
the debt crisis, Greece remains mired in a third year of
recession, shut out of financial markets and saddled with the
biggest debt load in the euro’s history.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold 10-year Greek
 government bonds  relative to German bunds of similar maturity
reached a record 15.43 percentage points today. The country’s
two-year securities yield about 30 percent.  ‘Default Event’  “What we need to provide as European finance ministers is
an overall package” that includes “fiscal adjustment in
Greece, with reliable privatization efforts in Greece and then
private sector involvement that satisfies the condition that
it’s voluntary, that we’re not creating a default event, but
that at the same time is so substantial that we can reduce the
official financing need for Greece,” said Asmussen.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  reshuffled his
cabinet today, replacing Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  with Evangelos Venizelos. The premier will seek
a confidence vote in parliament, expected next week, as he
battles to get his own lawmakers to pass further austerity
measures demanded by the European Union, ECB and International
Monetary Fund.  Pressure on euro-area governments to craft a rescue plan
intensified this week after  Standard & Poor’s  slapped Greece
with the world’s lowest credit rating. Moody’s placed the
ratings of  BNP Paribas (BNP) , France’s biggest bank, and local rivals
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  Credit Agricole  under reviews that will
focus on their holdings of Greek public and private debt.  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met in Berlin
as pressure increased to reach an accord on a rescue package.  “If technical details remain open to get this operational,
this can then be worked out until September,” Asmussen said.
“The main work has to be done until mid-July to give assurance
to the markets before the summer break in Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin at   rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in  London  at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story: James
Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  