-- 
EU Must Give Greece Aid to Avoid Default, Ackermann Says

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-06-17T12:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/eu-has-to-give-more-funds-to-greece-deutsche-s-ackermann-says.html
Greece  should “absolutely not
default” and the European Union needs to provide more aid to
the country if required, according to  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann .  “We have to help them,” Ackermann, 63, the head of
Germany’s biggest bank, said in an interview at the St.
Petersburg International Forum. “If they need more funds, we
have to provide for them.”  Ackermann’s warnings came as European officials tried to
reach an agreement on a second Greek rescue to avoid the euro-
area’s first default. Chancellor Angela Merkel today retreated
from German demands that bondholders be forced to shoulder a
“substantial” share of a Greek rescue, saying she’ll work with
the  European Central Bank  to avoid disrupting markets.  A debt rollover modeled on the so-called Vienna Initiative
was a “good basis” for enrolling investors voluntarily to help
Greece, Merkel told reporters in Berlin today at a joint press
conference with French President Nicolas Sarkozy.  The euro strengthened and Greek bonds rallied as Merkel and
Sarkozy signaled a reconciliation between German calls for
investors to help bail out Greece with warnings from the ECB and
France that a compulsory move risked triggering a spread of the
crisis. Attention now shifts to  Athens , where Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  overhauled his Cabinet to ensure the passage
of austerity measures needed for a bailout.  ‘Whatever is Necessary’  Ackermann, speaking in a panel discussion in  St.
Petersburg , said  Europe  will do “whatever is necessary” to
save the euro. In addition to Greece raising taxes and cutting
its deficit, an economic program is necessary to help the
country overcome its debt problems, he said.  “We have to make it more attractive for investment,” he
said. “Something like a Marshall Plan might be an idea.”  The Marshall Plan refers to the U.S.-sponsored program
implemented after World War II to aide European countries
rebuild their economies.  Deutsche Bank had net sovereign risks related to Greece of
1.6 billion euros ($2.3 billion) at the end of last year, the
bank said in March. German lenders’ total foreign claims vis-a-
vis Greece, including its banks and companies, was 25.1 billion
euros in March, with 9.91 billion euros public sector debt,
according to Bundesbank data published earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at   eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  