-- 
EU to Discuss Greek Plan That Skirts Default Risk

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-06-19T11:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/eu-prepares-new-greece-aid-as-merkel-backs-ecb.html
European finance ministers meet
today to hammer out a new Greek bailout package watertight
enough to avoid triggering a default that German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  says would be uncontrollable.  Officials must figure out how to design a plan that will
encourage investors to roll over expiring Greek debt after
Merkel on June 17 ended a standoff with the  European Central
Bank  over restructuring the country’s debt load. Talks start at
6 p.m. in Luxembourg and continue tomorrow. EU leaders meet on
June 23-24, where Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero expects a “political commitment” to aid Greece.  “Now comes the tricky part,” said Tullia Bucco, an
economist at Unicredit Global Research in Milan. “This proposal
is fraught with difficulties in identifying ways to provide
banks with incentives to rollover their bonds. Any deterioration
in bond conditions via new coupons below market rates would be
seen by rating agencies as the trigger of a  credit event .”  Stocks, bonds and the euro jumped after Merkel on June 17
ended a feud with the ECB that roiled markets. Highlighting the
risks still facing the euro region, Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  must win a parliamentary confidence vote this week
that could delay the next austerity round, and Moody’s Investors
Service said on June 17 it may cut its Aa2 rating on  Italy .  Lehman Experience  Merkel said yesterday in Berlin that policy makers must
make sure the Greek crisis doesn’t infect the rest of the euro
region and spark a new global financial crisis.  “We all lived through  Lehman Brothers ,” she told a
meeting of activists from her ruling  Christian Democrat  party.
“I don’t want another such threat to emanate from  Europe . We
wouldn’t be able to control an insolvency.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
today’s talks, says the ECB must agree on a new Greek plan.  “If we made a move that would be rejected by the ECB, by
the rating agencies and therefore the financial markets, we risk
setting the euro area aflame,” La Libre Belgique quoted Juncker
as saying in an interview published yesterday.  German officials have indicated that a final agreement on
Greece may not come until July 11.  Form of Default  The risk is that any accord will still be classified as a
form of default by rating companies, effectively cutting Greek
banks off from emergency ECB funding.  Fitch Ratings  said on June
15 that a rollover would prompt it to cut  Greece ’s sovereign
rating to “restricted default.” The bonds themselves would
still avoid default and be left at “a low non-investment grade
probably in the region of CCC,” it said.  Dutch central bank Governor Nout Wellink told NRC in an
interview published yesterday that banks and pension funds may
lose money if they contribute on a voluntary basis to another
Greek rescue.  Greek debt is graded B+ at Fitch.  Standard & Poor’s  on June
13 cut its rating on Greece by three levels to CCC, branding it
with the world’s lowest debt grade.  EU officials have discussed incentives for investors to
reinvest the proceeds of their maturing bonds into new debt,
according to people familiar with the situation. They include
giving investors preferred status, higher coupon payments or
collateral as inducements to buy bonds replacing Greek debt
maturing between 2012 and 2014, they said.  The yield on Greece’s two-year bond, which topped 30
percent for the first time on June 16, fell 90 basis points to
28.79 percent the next day. The signs of flexibility from
 Germany  sent the euro up as much as 1 percent to $1.4339.  Zapatero Prediction  Spain ’s Zapatero said in  St. Petersburg  yesterday that he
expects investors to contribute voluntarily to a new Greek
rescue in a “commonsense” way.  Merkel said on June 17 she is now willing to accept that
the so-called Vienna initiative of 2009, which encouraged
western banks to continue funding their eastern European units,
may be a model for private-investor participation in the new
Greek aid package.  That marked a reversal from the position set out by her
finance minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who had insisted that
Greek bond maturities be extended by seven years. The approach
met ECB resistance and led to credit-rating company warnings
that the move was tantamount to default, stalling efforts to
craft an aid package.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said today in Kiel,
Germany, that a widening of global imbalances poses challenges
for international policy makers. He didn’t speak about Greece.  Cabinet Changes  Officials will be meeting two days after Papandreou
announced a Cabinet reshuffle that included replacing Finance
Minister  George Papaconstantinou  in a bid to get rebelling
allies to back the 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) austerity plan
that the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  have made a
condition for new aid.  Papandreou named Evangelos Venizelos, his defense minister
and a former rival for leadership of the ruling Socialist party,
to replace Papaconstantinou. He then called for a vote of
confidence in his new government that will probably be held the
evening of June 21.  Today, Papandreou said he requested the confidence vote to
be able to have a stronger hand in talks with the EU. Greece is
at a “critical crossroads” and its debt and deficit are a
national problem that require national coordination, he said at
the beginning of a three-day debate in Athens on the motion.  ‘Genuine Problem’  Greece’s inability to return to the markets next year for
financing is an “unforeseen threat” and the government is in
talks with other EU nations to find a solution for the country’s
funding needs, Papandreou said.  “The new government has a duty to complete the talks,” he
told lawmakers in comments televised live on state-run Vouli TV.
“It is a genuine problem.”  Greek opposition leader Antonis Samaras, leader of  New
Democracy , the largest opposition party, said he won’t back
Papandreou in the confidence vote and demanded early elections.  Merkel is still pushing for private investors to play a
“substantial” role in any new package, without specifying what
that would look like.  “Let us try to get together a substantial contribution in
this participation of private creditors,” she said in Berlin
yesterday. “But we don’t do this on the street, we don’t do
this in press conferences, we do this in serious talks with
those making the contribution.”  European estimates put Greece’s 2012-14 financing gap at as
much as 170 billion euros ($243 billion). It would be filled by
about 45 billion euros of loans, plus 57 billion euros in
unspent aid from the 2010 bailout, roughly 30 billion euros in
asset-sale proceeds and about 30 billion euros from creditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  