-- 
EU’s Almunia to Monitor Bank of Ireland, Allied Irish ‘Duopoly’

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-06-17T14:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/eu-s-almunia-to-monitor-bank-of-ireland-allied-irish-duopoly-.html
Bank of Ireland Plc and  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK) , will require “close surveillance” from European
Union authorities because they will control Irish banking, the
EU’s antitrust chief said.  The two lenders will work in a “de facto duopoly in the
Irish market” as a result of Ireland’s strategy for the debt-
plagued nation’s banking industry,  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s
competition commissioner, said in the text of a Dublin speech
today.  “This prospect will require close surveillance, because
duopoly may hamper competition in Ireland’s banking market,” he
said, adding that he will work with national authorities to help
ensure rivals aren’t shut out.  Two other lenders,  Anglo Irish Bank  Corp. and Irish
Nationwide Building Society, will be merged and wound down over
a 10-year period and Almunia said he would approve Irish aid for
both of them “by the end of this month.” Foreign-owned banks
including KBC Groep NV and Rabobank have reduced Irish
operations while Lloyds Banking Group Plc quit the country as
bad debts surged amid Ireland’s worst recession on record.  Dan Loughrey, a spokesman for Bank of Ireland in Dublin,
said the Irish banking market “is very competitive and will
remain so.”  Allied Irish Banks declined to immediately comment and
Irish Nationwide declined to comment. Anglo Irish didn’t
immediately respond to a call and an e-mail.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said yesterday that
senior bondholders should share in the losses of Anglo Irish
Bank and Irish Nationwide, reversing a policy of protecting
owners of senior securities.  Banks’ restructuring plans must show “sufficient burden-
sharing” for the costs of the rescue, Almunia said in the
speech. He didn’t say whether all bondholders should share the
costs.  The ECB is against imposing losses on investors. President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Feb. 7 that so-called haircuts
aren’t part of a plan to reduce Ireland’s debt load.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 