-- 
EU States Back Rules on $7 Billion CO2 Reserve, Prices Fall

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-17T18:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/eu-states-backs-rules-on-co2-trade-security-7-billion-reserve.html
European Union governments approved
a regulation that enables bringing forward sales of permits from
a 5 billion-euro ($7.2 billion) reserve and boosts the security
of the world’s biggest carbon market.  EU carbon allowances dropped as much as 3 percent to a more
than three-month low of 15.61 euros a metric ton after a vote on
the regulation that will pave the way for the European
Commission to create and transfer to the European Investment
Bank 300 million permits around October. The EIB will then sell
the permits.  “The vote in the committee was a clear signal that the EIB
will start selling before the end of this year and that’s
clearly bearish for prices,” Carine Hemery, a Paris-based
analyst at Orbeo, said by phone. “We don’t expect carbon to
rebound above 16 euros next week.”  The volume to be sold from the post-2012 reserve under the
EU emissions trading system is about 15 percent of the average
annual ceiling of 2.08 billion metric tons in the 2008-2012
period. The EIB said on April 4 that it is considering the sale
of permits through auctions, on an exchange, in over-the-counter
transactions or “a combination of channels.”  The EU decided in 2008 to use the reserve for new entrants
to the bloc’s cap-and-trade program to raise funds for carbon-
capture and renewable-energy projects. The EU emissions-trading
system, known as the ETS, is the cornerstone of  Europe ’s climate
plan and imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000 utilities
and manufacturers, including Electricite de France SA, Europe’s
biggest power generator and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the
continent’s largest oil company.  Third-Phase Allowances  Started in 2005 with a three-year trading period, the ETS
is now in a second phase that ends in 2012 and will enter a
third stage from 2013 through 2020. The regulation approved
today enables transfer of third-phase allowances to the EIB
before a single EU registry to track transactions in the next
trading period is fully operational.  The European Commission plans to deliver permits from the
so-called NER300 reserve to the EIB when the regulation enters
into force following a three-month scrutiny by the governments
and the European Parliament, said Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate
spokesman for the commission.  Decisions taken under this regulatory procedure, often
referred to as comitology, usually take four to five months to
become binding.  The EIB is due to begin selling the allowances one month
after receiving them and sales will take place in regular
intervals and at least every second week. The sales may start
this year, depending on “final practicalities related to
delivery,” Nick Antonovics, a Brussels-based spokesman for the
EIB, said after the committee vote today.  Permit Prices  Carbon permits for delivery in December closed 2.8 percent
lower at 15.65 euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London , also hurt by concerns that  Greece ’s debt crisis will
slow economic growth in Europe.  Under an agreement with the commission, the EIB will sell
the first tranche of 200 million allowances before the first
award decisions to projects competing for the funding are made,
with the verdicts to be announced in the second half of 2012.
The maximum period for the sales is nine months. The remaining
100 million allowances will be sold before the next phase of the
ETS begins in 2013.  The NER300 allowances are not for use in the second phase
of the ETS, and can at the earliest be used to cover emissions
in 2013, according to  the commission .  Computer Hackers  The regulation on the single EU carbon registry approved
today will also improve shields against abuse and fraud after a
spate of permit thefts in past months.  The EU is seeking better protection for its emissions-
trading system after computer hackers in January illegally
transferred around 2 million allowances. Spot trading ground to
a halt for 15 days following the theft as the commission ordered
an EU-wide suspension of national registries that track
transactions in carbon permits.  EU governments’ support for the security measures today has
“certainly strengthened the integrity of the European carbon
market,” Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said in a
statement in Brussels.  Avoiding Fraud  “Comprehensive preventive measures to avoid fraud will be
introduced,” including the introduction of a trusted-account
list and “strengthened know-your-customer checks,” the
commission said. The regulation also warrants the finality of
permit transfers and introduces a 24-hour delay in some transfer
of allowances between registry accounts.  “The regulation ensures that the market would be less
disrupted if fraud were to occur,” the commission said.
“Allowances will be fully fungible for compensation claims,
which means that an allowance can be substituted by any other
allowance, if there were a legal claim.”  The commission also won support for its proposal to
prohibit the disclosure of serial numbers of carbon permits to
market participants, a proposal criticized by the European
Federation of Energy Traders.  While the EFET said yesterday that the proposal to hide
serial numbers brings “important drawbacks” and called on
member states to carefully consider the issues at stake, the
Leipzig, Germany-based European Energy Exchange AG said the
rules proposed by the commission will help underpin trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  