-- 
EU Says U.S., China Not Offering Enough to Allow Kyoto Extension

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-06-17T13:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/eu-says-u-s-china-not-offering-enough-to-allow-kyoto-extension.html
The European Union said industrial
nations including the U.S. and  China  are not offering enough
measures to reduce emissions, preventing the EU extending its
own carbon commitments under the Kyoto Protocol treaty.  The U.S. and China, which are negotiating climate
commitments outside the 1997  Kyoto treaty , haven’t provided
enough information on the climate obligations they will accept
to allow the EU to make a second commitment under Kyoto, Juergen
Lefevere, acting head of the European Union delegation at
climate talks in Bonn, said in an interview.  “It’s very, very hard to see what the meat on the deal is
going to be,” Lefevere said. “It’s a question we’ve been
asking at every single meeting and we’re not getting a response
to the question.”  EU officials want to see details on monitoring and the
legal form of commitments as well as the level of emissions cuts
that other major industrial economies are prepared to agree
before extending its own commitment under Kyoto.  Japan, Russia and  Canada  have said they won’t renew Kyoto
obligations when they expire next year. The U.S. never ratified
the treaty, and China, the world’s largest emitter, was given no
cap under the agreement because it’s classified as developing
economy.  Japanese negotiator Akira Yamada said yesterday his country
aims to secure a broader agreement including the major emitters
as soon as possible.  Asked how close those countries are to meeting the EU’s
conditions, Lefevere said: “Not close enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Bonn at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net 
Catherine Airlie in Bonn at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  