-- 
European April Exports Rose on China, Defying Strong Euro

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-17T09:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/european-april-exports-rose-on-china-defying-strong-euro-1-.html
European exports rose in April on
greater demand from the U.S. and  China , shrugging off the
effects of a stronger euro.  Exports from the economy of the 17 nations that use the
euro rose a seasonally adjusted 0.6 percent from March, when
they increased by the same amount, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. Euro-region
construction output rose 0.7 percent from the previous month,
when it declined 0.1 percent, a separate report showed.  The  European Central Bank  revised up its growth forecast
for this year on June 9, predicting expansion of 1.9 percent
after a previous estimate of 1.7 percent on “the ongoing
expansion in the world economy.” Even so, the recovery may
struggle to maintain momentum as the 15 percent appreciation of
the euro against the dollar makes goods manufactured in the euro
region more expensive and higher  oil prices  boost companies’
input prices.  “Exports are particularly driven by  Germany , which doesn’t
compete solely on price but on highly specialized products,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“At the same time, the stronger euro will start to bite in the
coming months, damping growth, even though it won’t slide back
into recession.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4168 at 11:03 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.3 percent.  ‘Strong Global Demand’  The German economy, the main driver of the European
economy, will expand at the fastest pace since the country’s
reunification as domestic demand picks up, the RWI economic
institute said yesterday.  German carmakers are hiring because of booming demand in
China for high-end vehicles. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG Chief
Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said on May 12 that the
Munich-based company will hire about 2,000 workers over the
course of the year, more than half of them in Germany, “in
light of strong global demand for BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce
brand vehicles.”  Euro-area imports rose a seasonally adjusted 1.1 percent in
April and the trade deficit widened to 2.9 billion euros ($4.1
billion) from 2.2 billion euros in the previous month, today’s
report showed.  Euro-area exports to the U.S. rose 20 percent in the year
through March from the year-earlier period, while shipments to
the U.K., the euro area’s largest market, increased 14 percent.
Exports to China surged 31 percent.  China’s Customs General Administration reported on June 10
that imports from the European Union rose 28.5 percent in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  