-- 
European Stocks Decline for Seventh Week; Celesio, Carrefour Shares Tumble

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/european-stocks-decline-for-seventh-week-celesio-carrefour-shares-tumble.html
European stocks fell, with the
benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index declining for a seventh week,
as concern mounted that the European Union may delay a second
rescue plan for Greece.  Celesio AG posted the biggest decline among companies on
the Stoxx 600, tumbling 20 percent, as Europe’s largest drug
wholesaler said profit this year may fall as government measures
across the continent and more competition in  Germany  hurt
results. Alpha Bank SA and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA, soared more
than 5 percent, as Greek banks were among shares posting the
biggest rally on the Stoxx 600.  The Stoxx 600 index retreated 0.4 percent to 267.17 this
week for its longest weekly losing streak since 2008. European
stocks pared their weekly loss after German Chancellor Angela Merkel signaled a willingness to compromise on demands that
bondholders shoulder part of a Greek rescue and  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said a “breakthrough” had been made on the Mediterranean
country’s debt crisis.  “It may prevent a  credit event  and subsequent contagion,”
said Atif Latif, the director of trading at Guardian
Stockbrokers in  London . “We see this as a small step towards an
agreement.”  Merkel said on June 17 that she’ll work with the  European
Central Bank  to resolve the crisis. Almost $4 trillion has been
erased from the value of global equities since this year’s peak
on May 1, amid signs the  U.S. economy  was struggling to rebound
and concern that Greece’s credit crisis may spread.  “We would like to have a participation of private
creditors on a voluntary basis,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin at a joint press conference with Sarkozy. “This worked
out jointly with the ECB. There shouldn’t be any dispute with
the ECB on this.”  Greece  Government Reshuffle  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  earlier named
Evangelos Venizelos as finance minister in a cabinet overhaul
aimed at fending off a rebellion in the ruling Pasok party and
passing austerity measures. Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said that a Greek default is “almost certain” and
may drive the U.S. into recession.  “As the Greek saga unravels, we believe investors are not
rewarded for taking risk,” Fredrik Nerbrand, the head of global
asset allocation at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, wrote in a
report. “For now, our main focus is capital preservation.”  Cash Holdings Climb  Global investors increased their cash holdings to the
highest in a year this month and reduced their holdings of
equities and commodities, according to a BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research survey of investors conducted from June 3 to
June 9. A net 18 percent of 282 respondents were “overweight”
cash, the highest since June 2010, according to the survey. The
282 respondents managed a combined $828 billion.  In the U.S., the Conference Board’s gauge of leading
indicators, which measures the outlook for the next three to six
months, rose 0.8 percent, the New York-based group said. That
beat the average economist forecast for an increase of 0.3
percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  Celesio AG tumbled 20 percent. The company forecast that it
will generate annual earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of just more than 600 million
euros ($860 million). Analyst predictions for this year ranged
from 630 million euros to 690 million euros.  Carrefour SA (CA)  sank 6.5 percent after the world’s second-
largest retailer by sales said first-half results in  France  fell
short of management’s expectations.  Alpha Bank, Eurobank  Alpha Bank  jumped 5.4 percent and EFG Eurobank Ergasias
soared 5.3 percent.  Zodiac Aerospace (ZC)  rallied 8.3 percent after increasing its
sales forecast. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research subsequently
upgraded its recommendation on the shares to “buy” from
“underperform.”  Carmakers across Europe climbed. Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG gained 3 percent, Daimler AG rose 1.6 percent and Volkswagen
AG advanced 3.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  