-- 
Euro Overnight Libor Advances on Greek Concern Before Merkel

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-06-17T14:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/euro-overnight-libor-advances-on-greek-concern-before-merkel.html
The rate that London-based banks say
they charge each other for overnight loans in euros rose for a
second consecutive day amid mounting concern that lenders face
losses on their holdings of Greek debt.  The  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor, in euros
climbed to 1.293 percent today from 1.257 percent yesterday,
when it increased almost five basis points, according to data
from the British Bankers’ Association. That’s signaling lenders
are protecting against a deterioration in their peers’
creditworthiness as European officials struggle to contain
Greece’s debt crisis.  Contributing banks send their indicative rates to the BBA
by 11:00 a.m. in London. That was just as German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  was saying she would work with the  European
Central Bank  to avoid disrupting markets amid negotiations over
the role bondholders should play in a Greek rescue.  “There’s still some concern over counterparty risk,” said
 Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “Merkel’s comments have
eased some of the tension. Uncertainty still remains until we
get a concrete plan with all the main parties on board.”  Merkel, speaking at a joint press conference in Berlin with
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , said that a debt rollover
modeled on the so-called Vienna Initiative was a “good basis”
for enlisting investors voluntarily to help Greece.  The yield on Greek 10-year securities rose to as much as
18.35 percent, the most since the euro’s introduction in 1999,
before falling 85 basis points from yesterday’s close to 17.10
percent as of 3:27 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  