-- 
Most European Stocks Climb; Greek Banks Rise as Carrefour Slides

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-06-17T15:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/european-stock-index-futures-decline-carrefour-tod-s-celesio-may-slide.html
Most European stocks gained as
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  retreated from demands that
bondholders shoulder a “substantial” part of the cost of a
Greek rescue.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  soared 8.5 percent. Banca
Popolare di Milano Scrl jumped 12 percent following a report
that BNP Paribas SA made an offer for the bank.  Carrefour SA (CA) 
slumped 1.7 percent after saying results in  France  failed to
meet the company’s own expectations.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 0.3 percent to 267.43
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . Even so, the benchmark has
dropped 8.2 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 17 as a
slowdown in U.S. job creation suggested the economic recovery is
faltering and speculation grew that Greece will fail to repay
all of its debt. The index declined 0.3 percent this week, its
seventh straight week retreat for the longest losing streak
since 2008. Volatility may be unusually high today as index
options expire throughout  Europe .  “The fact that  Germany  is getting more involved is helping
the market,” said  Arnaud Scarpaci , a  fund manager  at Agilis
Gestion SA in Paris, which oversees about $110 million. “It’s a
relief. Takeover rumors also are helping stocks. With weak
valuations, there are clearly buying opportunities.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  fired his finance
minister in a Cabinet overhaul aimed at fending off a rebellion
from within the ruling Pasok party and ensuring the passage of
austerity measures needed to qualify for a bailout. European
stocks fell to a three-month low yesterday after Papandreou said
he would reshuffle the Cabinet and seek a confidence vote.  Merkel, Sarkozy Meeting  European stocks rallied as Merkel signaled a willingness to
compromise on German demands that bondholders shoulder a
“substantial” share of a Greek rescue, saying she’ll work with
the  European Central Bank  to resolve the Mediterranean nation’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  “We would like to have a participation of private
creditors on a voluntary basis,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin today at a joint press conference with French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy . “This should be worked out jointly with the
ECB. There shouldn’t be any dispute with the ECB on this.”  Sarkozy said a “breakthrough” had been made on the Greek
debt crisis, following his meeting with Merkel.  Greece ’s ASE Index surged 3.8 percent, the largest gain of
17 West European markets trading today. National Bank of Greece,
the country’s largest lender, jumped 8.5 percent to 4.75 euros,
while EFG Eurobank Ergasias soared 9.3 percent to 3.17 euros.
Alpha Bank SA rallied 6.4 percent to 3.32 euros.  National benchmark indexes rose in all but one of the
western European markets trading today. France’s CAC 40 Index
and Germany’s DAX Index climbed 0.8 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index increased 0.3 percent.  U.S. Leading Indicators  In the U.S., the Conference Board’s gauge of leading
indicators, which measures the outlook for the next three to six
months, rose 0.8 percent, the New York-based group said today.
That beat the average economist forecast for an increase of 0.3
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Banca Popolare di Milano soared 12 percent to 1.76 euros.
 BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA was reported to have made an all-cash offer to
buy the Italian lender by Finanza & Mercati. The newspaper
didn’t say where it got the information. Popolare di Milano said
it wasn’t aware of any offer from the French lender. A Rome-
based spokesman for BNP Paribas didn’t immediately return calls
from Bloomberg.  Carrefour sank 1.7 percent to 27.29 euros after the world’s
second-largest retailer by sales said first-half results fell
short of management’s expectations.  Celesio, Yara Fall  Celesio AG (CLS1)  plunged 15 percent to 12.74 euros after Europe’s
biggest drug wholesaler said profit may fall this year as
“government measures” across the continent and increased
competition in Germany hurt results.  Yara International ASA (YAR) , the largest maker of nitrogen
fertilizers, slid 2.6 percent to 305.20 kroner. The  U.S. Senate 
voted to eliminate a tax credit and a tariff that subsidized
ethanol production.  Zodiac Aerospace (ZC)  jumped 5.6 percent to 57.57 euros. The
French maker of seats, galleys, toilets and baggage storage
compartments for commercial aircraft reported nine-month sales
of 2.02 billion euros ($2.9 billion), up from 1.55 billion euros
a year earlier, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 