-- 
Stocks Rise, Euro Strengthens on Greece Rescue Progesss as Crude Oil Falls

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-17T20:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/euro-weakens-before-eu-leaders-meet-on-greece-rescue-oil-metals-advance.html
Stocks rose and U.S. benchmark
indexes snapped a six-week slide, while the euro climbed, on
signs of progress for a Greek rescue and improvement in a gauge
of economic indicators. Oil slid to a four-month low.  The  S&P 500  added 0.3 percent to 1,271.50 at 4 p.m. in New
York, leaving it up less than 0.1 percent for the week. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.2 percent. The euro gained 0.7
percent to $1.4302. Greek bonds surged, while Treasuries pared
their earlier losses, with the 10-year note’s yield up less than
one basis point at 2.94 percent. Oil sank 2 percent to $93.01 a
barrel, helping send the S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities down
for a third day to its lowest level in four months.  U.S. equities advanced for a fourth day this week as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today she’ll work with the
 European Central Bank  to resolve the crisis, suggesting she’ll
temper a demand that bondholders shoulder a “substantial”
share of Greek aid. Stocks extended early gains as the
Conference Board’s index of leading economic indicators climbed
at more than twice the rate forecast by economists.  “Somebody is going to have to give the Greeks a hand or
they will default,” said  David Kelly , who helps oversee about
$445 billion as chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in
New York. “Having stared over the precipice of another
financial crisis, the Germans have realized the implications of
it. The Europeans are capable of reducing uncertainty coming out
of Greece. Over the next few months we’ll see better economic
numbers. That should push the stock market higher.”  Almost $4 trillion has been erased from the value of global
equities since this year’s peak on May 1, amid signs the  U.S.
economy  was struggling to rebound and concern that  Greece ’s
credit crisis may spread.  Threatening 2011 Gain  The S&P 500 has fallen 6.8 percent from an almost three-
year high at the end of April. The slump followed reports
showing business activity cooled more than forecast, sales of
existing homes unexpectedly dropped and growth in industrial
production stopped. The decline threatened the 2011 gain for the
S&P 500 and drove its valuation this week to as low as 12.7
times estimated earnings for 2011, the cheapest level in almost
a year. The index ended today with a 1.1 percent year-today
advance.  The gain today in U.S. stocks erased what potentially would
have been a seventh straight weekly loss for the S&P 500, the
longest slump in a decade. The Conference Board’s LEI signaled
that economic growth may pick up by the end of 2011. The gauge
of the outlook for the next three to six months rose 0.8 percent
after a revised 0.4 percent decline in April. Economists
forecast a 0.3 percent gain, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer Confidence   Stocks maintained gains in morning trading even after the
Thomson Reuters/ University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment in the U.S. fell to 71.8 in June from 74.3 a
month earlier, trailing the median projection of 74 in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The S&P 500 briefly erased its gain in the final hour of
trading after Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut Italy’s
credit rating, spurring concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen. The benchmark index resumed its advance after turning
negative for less than a minute.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Microsoft Corp. and AT&T Inc. climbed
at least 1 percent to help lead gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average .  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the maker of the BlackBerry
smartphone, sank 21 percent for its biggest drop in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading since 2008 after forecasting second-quarter
revenue and profit that missed analysts’ estimates. The company
said it will cut jobs as a lack of new models prompts consumers
to buy rival devices.  European Shares  About three stocks rose for every one that declined in the
Stoxx 600. National Bank of Greece SA jumped 8.5 percent, and
Societe Generale SA climbed 2.5 percent.  Carrefour SA (CA)  sank 1.7 percent after the world’s second-
biggest retailer by sales said results in  France  failed to meet
its expectations. Celesio AG tumbled 15 percent as Europe’s
biggest drug wholesaler said its profit may drop.  The euro strengthened against all but two its 16 most-
traded counterparts, advancing 0.8 percent versus the Swiss
franc. European Union finance ministers agreed on June 14 to
convene again on June 19 after failing to hammer out a deal on
fresh aid to Greece. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said a
“breakthrough” had been made on the Greek debt crisis
following a meeting with Merkel today.  ‘Voluntary Basis’  “We would like to have a participation of private
creditors on a voluntary basis,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin at a press conference with Sarkozy. “This should be
worked out jointly with the ECB. There shouldn’t be any dispute
with the ECB on this.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  earlier named
Evangelos Venizelos as finance minister in a Cabinet overhaul
aimed at fending off a party rebellion and passing austerity
measures. Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said
yesterday a Greek default is “almost certain” and may drive
the U.S. into recession.  The Greek two-year note yield fell 90 basis points to 28.79
percent, after earlier rising to 29.77 percent. The cost of
insuring the country’s debt fell, with credit-default swaps on
Greece at 1,932.75 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. in  London ,
retreating from a record 2,237 basis points yesterday, according
to CMA. The Portuguese two-year debt yield decreased five basis
points to 13.03 percent, while Irish yields fell 28 basis
points.  Commodities Slump  The GSCI index of commodities fell 0.8 percent, slipping
for a third day and reaching the lowest since February, on
declines in oil, gasoline and heating oil.  Crude oil reached the lowest level in almost four months in
 New York . U.S. oil supplies rose to the highest level in 31
years for the month of May as refineries processed less crude
amid a decline in gasoline demand, according to the  American
Petroleum Institute .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.3 percent, set for
the lowest close since March 18. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares
Index retreated 1.1 percent after South African markets were
closed yesterday for a holiday, while  Russia ’s Micex Index
tumbled 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  