-- 
Euro Strengthens After Germany’s Merkel Agrees to a Greek Debt Compromise

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-06-17T21:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/euro-advances-against-dollar-reversing-earlier-decline-amid-greek-concern.html
The euro gained versus the dollar by
the most in two weeks after German Chancellor Angela Merkel
agreed to compromise and work with the  European Central Bank  on
a debt plan for Greece.  The shared currency strengthened against a majority of its
16 most-traded peers after Merkel retreated from German demands
that bondholders be forced to shoulder a “substantial” share
of a Greek rescue, easing concern the region’s sovereign debt
problems will worsen. The euro pared its gains after Moody’s
Investors Service said Italy’s bond rating may be cut.
Currencies link to risk advanced as stocks gained, while the
dollar dropped on concern the economic recovery is faltering.  “The latest events seem to have eased some of the
immediate market stresses concerning Greece and the periphery,”
said  Robert Lynch , head of currency strategy for HSBC Holdings
Plc in  New York . “Not only did it relieve downward pressure on
the euro, but it’s also allowing some semblance of increased
risk appetite back into the market.”  The euro rose 0.7 percent to $1.4306 at 5 p.m. in New York,
after weakening to $1.4128. It appreciated as much as 1 percent,
the biggest intraday jump since June 3. Today’s gain pared the
euro’s second-straight weekly decline versus the dollar to 0.3
percent. The shared currency also reversed an earlier 0.7
percent drop against the yen to end the day little changed at
114.52. The dollar lost 0.7 percent to 80.05 yen.  2011 Gain  The 17-nation currency has gained 2.5 percent this year
against nine other developed-nation currencies, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has
declined 4.8 percent, while the yen has lost 3.4 percent.  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries rose as stocks
advanced, boosting appetite for higher-yielding assets. The  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index of equities rose 0.6 percent.  Australia ’s dollar erased earlier losses against its U.S.
counterpart, adding 0.6 percent to $1.0623.  South Africa ’s rand
led gains against the dollar among the major currencies,
strengthening 1.3 percent to 6.7619 after two days of declines.  The euro-area’s currency fell earlier on concern a
potential Greek debt default may spread to other indebted
nations in the 17-member bloc. The euro reversed losses after
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said a “breakthrough” had
been made on the Greek debt crisis, following a meeting with
Merkel, who said she’ll work with the European Central Bank to
avoid disrupting markets.  Vienna Plan  “The aim is involvement of the private sector on a
voluntary basis, and for that the Vienna Initiative, as it’s
called, is a good basis,” Merkel said. “I think we can achieve
something on this basis.” A rollover involves reinvesting the
proceeds from maturing bonds in new securities.  Adopting the Vienna plan, used during the financial crisis
of 2009 for eastern European units of banks to maintain their
exposure, would involve encouraging creditors to roll over
expiring bonds, buying time for  Greece  until its austerity
program shows results or until a permanent rescue fund kicks in
from mid-2013.  Greek bonds rallied and European stocks reversed losses as
attention shifted to  Athens , where Prime Minister  George Papandreou  overhauled his Cabinet as he struggles to gain
parliamentary approval for a 78 billion euro ($111.5 billion)
five-year package of budget cuts and asset sales by July.  Progress Report  “If Sarkozy and Merkel are indicating that there is
progress in  Europe , then you know that there is progress and
that’s what the market wanted to see,” said  David Watt , senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit
in Toronto.  The cost of insuring Greek debt still headed for a record
weekly jump. Credit-default swaps on Greece were at 1,956 basis
points, up from 1,563 last week, according to CMA. The contracts
went as high as 2,237 basis points yesterday.  Italy ’s Aa2 local and foreign currency government bond
ratings may be cut by Moody’s, the company said.  “With the focus squarely on the  euro zone , Italy being
placed on review by Moody’s does highlight the idea that there
are a number of issues affecting Europe,” said  Omer Esiner ,
chief market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage. “There are a number of
headwinds to Europe’s recovery and even some of the core euro-
zone economies are facing serious challenges, including Italy.”  Economic Indicators  The dollar remained lower after a report showed U.S.
consumer sentiment was lower than forecast in June, while an
index of leading economic indicators rose in May.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment decreased to 71.8 from 74.3 in May.
Economists forecast a reading of 74, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 0.8 percent after a revised 0.4 percent
decline in April, the New York-based group said today.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent gain, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “U.S. consumer confidence is concerning and will be
concerning for the  Federal Reserve  next week,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in
Toronto. “The Fed next week will increasingly become a focus
point.”  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of its six major trade partners, dropped 1 percent to
74.993. The Fed’s policy-making Federal Open Market Committee
will meet June 21-22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  