-- 
Leveraged Loan Prices Poised to Fall for Sixth Week on Greek Debt Crisis

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 
2011-06-17T14:50:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/leveraged-loan-prices-poised-to-fall-for-sixth-week-on-greek-debt-crisis.html
Leveraged loan prices in the U.S.
are poised to fall for a sixth consecutive week, led by Caesars
Entertainment Corp., the world’s biggest casino operator, and
 First Data  Corp. amid concerns that  Greece  may default and signs
of a slowing economy.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index
has declined for 12 consecutive days to 94.32 cents on the
dollar in a six week slump not seen since December 2008 and the
longest daily losing streak in almost five years. Caesars $3
billion  term loan  declined this week by 1.36 percent to 89.66
cents on the dollar, according to data provider Markit Group
Ltd. A $4.3 billion loan for First Data Corp., the credit card
processor acquired by KKR & Co. in 2007, fell by 0.51 percent to
92.33 cents this week.  The decline underscores that senior secured loans are also
not immune from investor fleeing from all assets but the safest
 government bonds  as the  European Central Bank  tries to contain a
sovereign debt crisis. Confidence is also eroding on signs that
the expansion of the world’s largest economy has slowed.  “Everybody’s eyes are on the Greek contagion,” said Adam Vengrow, head of credit sales and trading at Cantor Fitzgerald &
Co. in New York. It’s putting “leaky and gradual pressure” on
loans, he said.  Caesars, formerly known as Harrah’s Entertainment Inc., was
taken private by  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management LLC and
 David Bonderman ’s TPG Capital for $30.7 billion in 2008. Its
term loan is also the biggest decliner since the end of April,
falling 4.17 percent, according to Markit. First Data’s debt
declined by 2.73 percent since the end of April.  High-yield, high-risk loans are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Greek Austerity Plan  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is trying to rally
support for austerity plans aimed at preventing a sovereign
default after European Union talks on a new bailout plan
stalled, and worries grew that its debt crisis could spread.  Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut the rating of
 France ’s biggest banks, BNP Paribas SA and Societe Generale SA,
because of their investments in Greece. The yield on the Greek
2-year bond topped 30 percent for the first time yesterday,
while the cost of protecting the country against default climbed
280 basis points to a record 2,050 basis points, according to
prices compiled by CMA.  Americans’ views on the economy soured in June amid worries
about unemployment, inflation and the slump in housing,
according to the Bloomberg consumer comfort report. Confidence
among factories also eroded as manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region contracted unexpectedly this month.  Macroeconomic factors that are being priced into risky
assets have worked “all the way” into an asset class that is
senior secured, said Otis Casey, a director and loans market
analyst at Markit Group Ltd.  Loan Inflows  The amount of retail cash flowing into loan funds slowed to
the lowest level in 40 weeks, according to a June 15 research
report from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Mutual funds tied to bank loans had $113 million of inflows
last week, while high-yield bonds had outflows of $545 million,
an earlier Bank of America report showed.  “As the market grapples with weak economic data in the US
and turmoil out of peripheral  Europe , fund flow trends in high
yield have seen a marked shift in sentiment recently, with U.S.
high-yield mutual funds recording outflows in the prior two
weeks,” Oleg Melentyev and Mike Cho, analysts at Bank of
America, wrote in a June 15 report.  Loan inflows this week increased to $196 million, while
high-yield “saw very large outflows” of $1.3 billion, the
analysts said in a report yesterday.  “A Healthy Improvement”  A total $311 billion of leveraged loans have been raised so
far this year, up from $169.5 billion during the same time last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The adjustment we’ve seen in the loan market in the last
few weeks actually is a healthy improvement,” said Rob Dial,
a managing director at  New York  Life Investments.
When “issuers are trading at rich prices, like in the first
quarter, we don’t feel like we’re getting value,” he said.  The S&P/LSTA U.S loan index, which tracks the 100 largest
dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, reached a high
this year of 96.48 cents on Feb. 14, as inflows into bank loan
funds was surging. Mutual fund inflows became “very strong” in
December and continued to pick up “dramatically” in January
and February, said Dial, adding that the capital pouring into
the asset class did not “match up with the available new
issue.”  Cumulus Loan  Cumulus Media Inc. is seeking $2.4 billion in loans to help
finance its acquisition of Citadel Broadcasting Corp. and to
refinance debt, a person with knowledge of the matter said
earlier this week.  Dole Food Co. said June 13 that it’s seeking $1.25 billion
in loans to refinance its existing senior secured credit lines,
while Cellular South Inc., a wireless communication provider, is
also seeking $800 million in loans for a refinancing.  Returns this year to leveraged loan investors have fallen
to 1.87 percent, from about 3 percent at the end of April,
according to the S&P’s loan index. Historically, the loan market
has returned about 5 percent, said Markit’s Casey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  