-- 
Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Butler Likely to Get Same Sentence

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-17T17:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/ex-credit-suisse-broker-likely-to-get-same-sentence-judge-says.html
Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker
 Eric Butler  is likely to receive the same five-year sentence
after a federal appeals court overturned his  securities-fraud 
conviction earlier this week, a judge said today.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York on June 15 overturned
Butler’s securities-fraud conviction, ruling that Brooklyn was
the wrong venue for the trial on the charge. The appeals court
upheld Butler’s conviction on two conspiracy counts.  The appeals panel said that, because of its decision,
Butler will have to be resentenced. In January 2010, U.S.
District Judge Jack B. Weinstein sentenced Butler to five years
in prison on each count, to be served concurrently. He has been
out on bail pending his appeal.  “While the matter is open, it is unlikely that the
sentencing terms on Counts One and Three will be changed from
five years’ imprisonment, concurrent,” Weinstein said in an
order today.  Butler and his partner  Julian Tzolov  were accused of
intentionally misleading clients about securities purchased on
their behalf, falsely claiming they were backed by federally
guaranteed student loans.  $1.1 Billion Losses  The men told clients the investments, actually backed by
riskier corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a safe
alternative to  bank deposits  or money-market funds, according to
Lynch’s office. Victims’ losses were more than $1.1 billion,
according to the government.  The appeals court rejected the government’s argument that
Butler could be tried for securities fraud in the Eastern
District of New York because he and Tzolov flew out of John F.
Kennedy International Airport in Queens, which is part of the
district, to meet with the clients they defrauded.  Brooklyn is also in the Eastern District. The appeals panel
said the alleged fraud took place in Credit Suisse’s office in
 Manhattan , which is in the Southern District of  New York .  U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said in a motion this week that
Butler should go immediately to prison and asked Weinstein to
set a court date as soon as possible. The judge today scheduled
arguments in the case for June 28 and said Butler should be
prepared for “immediate incarceration.”  ‘Pyrrhic Victory’  Weinstein said Butler may be retried in the Eastern
District of New York on the securities-fraud charge if testimony
by Tzolov establishes that some elements of the crime were
carried out at the airport. Butler may face a longer sentence if
he is indicted, tried and convicted in the Southern District of
New York, the judge said.  “Possibly, then, defendant’s favorable judgment on appeal
would be Pyrrhic victory at best, or a disaster at worst,”
Weinstein said. He said Butler should consider withdrawing his
objection to trying the case in the Eastern District of New
York.  Butler and Tzolov were indicted in 2008. Tzolov, a native
of  Bulgaria , fled the U.S. before being returned from  Spain  in
July 2009 and pleading guilty. He testified against Butler. On
June 7, Tzolov was sentenced to four years in prison, with 1 1/2
years of that for bail jumping.  Steven Molo, an attorney representing Butler, didn’t
immediately return a message left at his office seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ). The appeal is U.S. v.
Tzolov, 10-562, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  