-- 
Facebook Claimant Paul Ceglia Passed Polygraph Test, Lawyers Say in Papers

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/facebook-claimant-paul-ceglia-passed-lie-detector-test-lawyers-say.html
Paul Ceglia , who says that a 2003
contract entitles him to half the Facebook Inc. holdings of the
company’s co-founder and chief executive officer,  Mark Zuckerberg , showed no deception on a polygraph test about his
claim last week, his lawyers said in a court filing.  The June 11 test was disclosed in papers filed yesterday by
Ceglia’s lawyers opposing Facebook’s request that it be allowed
to immediately inspect the original of the alleged contract and
the e-mails Ceglia claims he exchanged with Zuckerberg in 2003
and 2004, before being required to turn over any evidence to
Ceglia.  “I respectfully suggest that Mark Zuckerberg undergo the
same polygraph examination I have in order to expose who is
really telling the truth,” Ceglia, 37, said in a sworn
statement submitted yesterday to the federal court in Buffalo,
 New York , where his suit is pending.  In yesterday’s filing, Ceglia’s lawyers asked the court to
order both sides to turn over evidence to determine whether the
contract is genuine, including all of Zuckerberg’s documents, e-
mails and instant messages relating to Facebook before July 30,
2004. Ceglia asked the court to order both sides into mediation.  Ceglia hasn’t shown the original contract publicly or to
representatives of Facebook. The two-page document is in a bank
safe-deposit box in Hornell, New York, according to Ceglia’s
lawyers.  Stake in Facebook  Ceglia claims he is entitled to a multibillion-dollar stake
in Facebook. The closely held company may be worth $69.3
billion, according to Sharespost.com, an online marketplace for
investments in companies that aren’t publicly traded.  Palo Alto ,
California-based Facebook runs the world’s biggest social-
networking site.  In its June 2 request, Facebook called Ceglia “a hustler”
who has engaged in various swindles over the past several years.
The company said Ceglia’s claimed contract is “an amateurish
forgery” and the e-mails fabricated. Facebook argued it needed
to examine the documents immediately to put an end to a fraud on
the court.  “Ceglia’s lawsuit is a shell game, shifting and changing
with every filing,”  Orin Snyder , a lawyer for Facebook and
Zuckerberg, said in a statement responding to Ceglia’s filing
yesterday. “Ceglia does not dispute that he has a track record
of forging documents to rip people off.”  ‘Terrible Toll’  Snyder said polygraphs are easily manipulated and routinely
disregarded by courts.  “This case and the tactics of Mark and  Facebook  have taken
and continue to take a terrible toll on me, my wife, our two
sons, and even our parents,” Ceglia said in his sworn statement
filed yesterday. “I have been repeatedly called a liar in the
press and in the papers filed by defendants in this action.”  Ceglia sat for the polygraph test on June 11 in the Erie
County, New York, office of Michael Pliszka, who administered
the test, according to the court papers.  “The questions asked during the polygraph examination were
designed to determine whether Mr. Ceglia had fraudulently forged
or doctored the agreement,” Pliszka said. “It is my opinion
that the examination results are classified as ‘No Deception
Indicated.’”  In his statement, Ceglia said he and Zuckerberg met in the
lobby of a hotel in  Boston  on April 28, 2003, and signed the
contract, which Ceglia prepared by cutting and pasting from two
different forms.  Document Testing  Ceglia’s lawyers proposed subjecting the original contract
to testing, which would be conducted by a mutually agreed or
court-appointed expert, to determine the age of the ink on the
contract. The necessary tests would destroy part of the
document, they said.  Included in yesterday’s filing are the opinions of two
document experts and a computer expert.  John Evans, a computer expert hired by Ceglia, said his
firm took from him 169 floppy discs, 1,075 compact discs and two
computer hard drives. One of the floppy discs has three
Microsoft Word documents containing copies of e-mail
correspondence between Ceglia and Zuckerberg. Ceglia said he
copied the messages from his Internet-based msn.com e-mail.  In an amended complaint filed in April, Ceglia quoted from
e-mails he said he exchanged with Zuckerberg, which he said
support his claim that the two men formed a partnership that
gave Ceglia half-ownership of Facebook when it was started in
2004.  Zuckerberg said in a court filing that Ceglia hired him in
2003 to do Web-development services for StreetFax.com, a
business Ceglia was trying to start at the time. Zuckerberg,
then a student at  Harvard University , signed a contract drafted
by Ceglia, which referred only to the StreetFax work, he said.
The contract made no mention of Facebook, which Zuckerberg
started months later, he said.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan  at 
9245 or  rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 