-- 
Failure Guru Probing Japan’s Nuclear Catastrophe for Lessons Not Culprits

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e ,   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-06-18T06:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/failure-guru-probes-nuclear-disaster-for-lessons-not-culprits.html
Engineering professor Yotaro Hatamura has built a career on failure.  The 70-year-old academic at the University of  Tokyo  founded
the nonprofit  Association for the Study of Failure  in 2002,
which has members including Tokyo Electric Power Co., the owner
of the Fukushima plant at the center of the biggest nuclear
accident since Chernobyl.  Tokyo Electric is now the subject of Hatamura’s next study.
He was appointed by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  last month as head
of the 10-member team to conduct an “impartial and
multifaceted” investigation into what went wrong at the
Fukushima nuclear plant and how to prevent a repeat. He made a
visit to the station yesterday.  His objectives are similar to those of U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s commission on the BP Plc Gulf of Mexico oil spill
in 2010, which in January recommended “urgent reform” of
government rules and oil industry practices. The independent
Fukushima investigation team has the authority to question
officials at  Tokyo Electric  and government leaders including the
prime minister.  Independent of Influence  “I won’t be influenced by the positions of others or
considerations of profit or loss,” Hatamura said at the team’s
inaugural meeting on June 7 attended by Kan.  Hatamura also indicated his team will probe whether an
earthquake-prone country such as Japan should have an  energy
policy  built around atomic power. Because of the inherent
dangers in nuclear power, it’s a mistake to treat it as being
“safe,” he said at the meeting.  Trade Minister Banri Kaieda today said he may allow
utilities to restart nuclear generators that had been shut down
for routine maintenance. There are negatives to suspending all
nuclear power, he said at a press briefing in Tokyo, citing an
expected “gap” in power supply and demand in  Japan ’s coming
summer months.  Tokyo Electric halted water decontamination today after
five hours because a cesium-absorption unit needed replacement
sooner than expected. The utility doesn’t know when it will be
able to restart the system, Junichi Matsumoto, a spokesman for
the utility, said at a news conference.  Water Contamination  Decontamination to reduce radiation in about 105 million
liters (28 million gallons) of water in basements and trenches
at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant was halted after the
level of cesium in the absorption unit reached 4.7 millisieverts
of radiation, Matsumoto said. The units generally need
replacement at a level of 4 millisieverts, and the company had
expected the unit to last about a month, he said.  On his return from Fukushima last night, Hatamura recounted
a conversation with the plant’s manager, Masao Yoshida.
“Yoshida told me that he could not imagine that such a big
tsunami could come after an earthquake,” he told reporters in
Tokyo. “From our discussions, I gathered that no one at the
plant could imagine that such a tsunami would occur.”  Hatamura declined to be interviewed for this story.  Failure Database  The academic, who received his Ph.D in industrial
mechanical engineering from the  University of Tokyo  in 1973,
began his work studying human error after finding his students
were more interested in learning how engineering projects can go
wrong, according to the publisher of his book “Learning from
Failure.”  The  Failure Knowledge Database  that Hatamura set up has
studied 1,175 accidents using a method that focuses on design
flaws, human error and how designers fail to see future changes
in use.  Hatamura’s database has a case study of Tokyo Electric and
its falsification of nuclear plant maintenance records, which
the utility known as Tepco admitted in 2002. The study concludes
the faked reports resulted from lack of quality control and
proper risk management. He also examined the derailment of a
 commuter train  in Amagasaki, western Japan that killed 107
people in 2005, according to the database.  Design Mistakes  Central to his research is the way machines are used over
time and how designers fail to predict how the equipment will be
adapted.  That showed in his investigation into the death of a six-
year-old boy crushed in a revolving door in the Roppongi Hills
building in central Tokyo in 2004.  The door technology was imported from  Europe  and modified
before it was installed, Hatamura wrote in his study of the
incident published with  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  Where European designers
had built the doors using aluminum to reduce weight and
therefore their revolving force, the Japanese version used
stainless steel to improve aesthetics and make them stronger.  The changes increased the “jamming force” of the door
beyond the limit at which a human skull will crush, according to
the report. The study concluded that “tacit knowledge” about
the relationship between weight and revolving force was lost
when the technology was imported by Japanese companies.  “Especially when a machine is automatic, the user’s lack
of a sense of responsibility is leading to accidents that we did
not see before,” he said in his report on the incident.  Crippling Blows  The Fukushima station suffered three reactor meltdowns
after an earthquake and tsunami on March 11 knocked out power
and backup generators, crippling its cooling systems.  The disaster displaced 50,000 households in the evacuation
zone because of radiation leaks. Japan in April raised the
severity rating of the crisis to 7, the highest on an
international scale and the same as the Chernobyl disaster.  Tepco has been criticized its slow response to the accident
and publishing erroneous radiation data, while the government-
run Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency has been blamed for not
ensuring the utility heeded warnings that a tsunami could
overwhelm the plant’s defenses.  Municipal authorities in Fukushima City have expanded
radiation monitoring to 1,045 spots, from 100 observed earlier,
the Yomiuri newspaper reported today. Concern rose among local
residents after reports of so-called radiation hot spots outside
the government-mandated exclusion zone around the plant,
according to the report.  What, Not Who  While Hatamura has said the Fukushima probe will focus on
what went wrong and not who is responsible, he will need to
convince Tepco and government officials to tell all they know.  “The challenge will be how much information the people
concerned will be willing to disclose,” said Shinichi Kamata, a
professor of organization and strategy at the National Defense
Academy of Japan, who serves on the safety advisory group of
Japan Airlines Corp. with Hatamura.  The inclusion of a former chief prosecutor, a retired chief
judge and a lawyer in Hatamura’s team raises concern that some
investigators may want to identify individuals responsible, said
Shigeru Haga, a professor of industrial psychology at Rikkyo
University in Tokyo.  “I’m concerned they may hunt for suspects,” said Haga,
fellow member of the Japan Airlines advisory group.  Debate for Courts  Other members of the panel include academics, a former
diplomat, a radiology specialist, a writer and the mayor of a
town in Fukushima prefecture.  Who is responsible is a debate for the courts, said Tomoaki Iwai, a political science professor at Nihon University.  “There may be lawsuits for legal judgments,” he said.
“The purpose of this committee is to prevent an accident like
this from happening again and set a safety standard for the
future.”  Japan’s government pledged on June 7 “fundamental
revision” of its nuclear safety rules and will create an
independent regulator to prevent a repeat of the disaster.  A national debate is needed on the “whole concept of
nuclear power generation,” the cornerstone of the country’s
energy policy after World War II, the government said.  For Hatamura, accidents occur when the “human perception
of risk” changes, he said in an  East Japan Railway Co. (9020)  report
in 2006.  “We want this study into Fukushima to be something
valuable 100 years from now,” he said this month. “This
accident not only affects Japan but also people in the rest of
the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  