-- 
Failing Schools? On Waivers, It’s Congress That’s Flunking: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-17T16:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/failing-schools-on-waivers-it-s-congress-that-s-flunking-view.html
No Child Left Behind, the  package of
federal education reforms  approved in 2001 is now in dire need
of reform itself. On June 10,  Arne Duncan , the U.S. secretary of
education, said he might take things into his own hands if
Congress doesn’t act.  What needs fixing? A lot -- starting most urgently with a
requirement that all students achieve proficiency in math and
English by 2014. If that provision isn’t changed, public schools
whose students fail to meet the new standards will face federal
sanctions, which range from allowing parents to transfer their
children to shutting down the school. Duncan estimates that  80
percent  of schools would now fail to achieve the standard.  Duncan is considering granting waivers to states that will
exempt them from the proficiency standards -- provided the
states adopt the Obama administration’s education priorities
under its Race to the Top grant competition. These include
charter-school expansion and better tracking of school and
teacher performance.  Critics say that Duncan is overstepping the executive
branch’s authority and threatening Congress’s legislative role.
If so, it’s a threat worth making.  Senator  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat who heads the
education committee, warned that “given the bipartisan
commitment in Congress to fixing No Child Left Behind, it seems
premature at this point to take steps outside the legislative
process.”  Actually, that process has produced little but legislative
paralysis. In the past few years, individual legislators have
made a handful of failed attempts to modify NCLB. Yet no bill
has been introduced this year in either chamber.  Forced to Act  President  Barack Obama  insists that unless a re-
authorization bill reaches his desk by the fall, the executive
branch will be forced to act. He is right: With just two years
remaining on the proficiency mandate, 800,000 at-risk schools
can’t be left in limbo, wondering what consequences they will
face for falling short of the mandates.  Granting waivers on this one issue doesn’t mean letting
underperforming schools and states off the hook. Progress won’t
come through blind adherence to outdated rules but by
encouraging innovation that works at the state and local level.
About  40 states  pledged new reforms in the past year, many of
which will necessitate new (and better) standardized tests.  NCLB was never perfect. But its guiding concept -- that all
children can learn if given adequate schooling -- put the U.S.
on the right path.  Whether the Education Department or Congress takes the lead
in loosening NCLB’s strictures, the federal approach to school
reform must keep advancing, with its focus on three primary
goals: creating incentives for states to find their own ways to
reach high national standards, improving teacher performance and
administrative leadership, and insisting on more transparency so
that parents and communities truly know what kind of progress
their schools are making.  Rigor is needed, but when it comes to the universal
proficiency requirement, so is a little flexibility.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials . 