-- 
Falabella, Cencosud Drop Unwarranted as Celfin Recommends Chile Retailers

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 
2011-06-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/falabella-drop-unwarranted-as-celfin-recommends-chile-retailers.html
Cencosud SA and  SACI Falabella (FALAB) , the
two largest Chilean retailers, fell more than warranted by their
profit outlook after shares posted their biggest decline since
2008, the chairman of Chile’s biggest stock brokerage said.  Cencosud and Falabella have slumped more than 10 percent
this week after smaller retailer  Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR)  announced
irregular credit practices that may require $424 million in
loan-loss provisions. La Polar’s losses, after executives
changed terms on non-performing  consumer credit  without
consulting clients, are the result of the company’s own
corporate governance rather than an industry-wide practice, Juan Andres Camus, chairman of Celfin Capital SA, said yesterday from
Bloomberg’s Santiago offices.  “This fall, without a doubt, represents an investment
opportunity,” said Camus, whose company oversees about $10
billion in assets. “These companies are very well managed. I
don’t see this as a systemic problem.”  Cencosud and Falabella, both based in Santiago, are trading
at the smallest premium to the MSCI EM Latin America Index in
more than three months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Falabella, the nation’s largest retailer by market value, trades
at 25 times trailing profit, the lowest level since April 14,
while Cencosud, the second largest, fetches 24 times, the lowest
since March 17. The Latin American gauge has a ratio of 11.1.  Falabella and Cencosud have fallen 14 percent and 15
percent, respectively, this year while  Chile ’s Ipsa index has
declined 8.1 percent and the MSCI EM Latin America Index has
dropped 8.4 percent.  No Controller  La Polar, which unlike rivals has no clear controlling
shareholder as all of its shares trade freely, said June 9 that
it may have to raise provisions for bad loans by 200 billion
pesos ($424 million). La Polar, based in Santiago, has been on a
trading halt since June 13 after plunging 39 percent.  The company is still calculating the exact amount of
provisions and has offered new terms to clients affected by
unilateral changes, Chairman Heriberto Urzua told reporters
yesterday. La Polar hired a unit of  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  to
audit its consumer loans portfolio and expects to have a final
provisions figure in three months, it said June 13.  Chilean authorities are taking steps to protect the
financial system, investors and members of the public and will
investigate any related criminal acts in the case, Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in Santiago last night.
The government may modify lending rules for retailers, Deputy
Finance Minister Rodrigo Alvarez said yesterday.  Empresas Hites SA (HITES) , which like La Polar caters to middle-and
lower-income earners, is down a record 20 percent this week.
 Ripley Corp SA (RIPLEY) , which also owns department stores, has fallen 11
percent, the biggest weekly decline since October 2008.  New Share Sale  “We know that other retailers that give credit and we have
a great conviction that their credit practices are acceptable
and their credit condition is truthful and well-informed,”
Camus said. “There was an omission of information within the
organization but I don’t think it’s generalized.”  La Polar plans to proceed with a June 22 shareholder
meeting to discuss the sale of $400 million in new shares, Urzua
said. The company planned to use the funds for its expansions
and shore up its finances, according to a May 27 statement,
before the irregularities were announced.  “Completing this capital increase is critical to have a
company that continues operating,” Camus said. “If it doesn’t
happen, bondholders will be facing a problem.”  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold La
Polar’s inflation-indexed bonds due in 2012 instead of similar-
maturity central bank debt jumped to 1,894 basis points, or
18.94 percentage points, on June 10, compared with 1.54
percentage points on May 25 when the bonds last traded,
according to data from the Santiago exchange.  Celfin was Chile’s largest stock brokerage by transaction
volume at the end of last year, according to data posted on the
Santiago exchange’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net 
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  