-- 
Falcone’s LightSquared, Sprint Agree to 15-Year Network Accord

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/falcone-s-lightsquared-venture-reaches-a-15-year-network-deal-with-sprint.html
Billionaire Philip Falcone’s
LightSquared Inc. reached a 15-year deal with  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  to share network expansion costs and equipment, and to
provide high-speed wireless service to the phone company.  Falcone told Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund
investors yesterday about the accord in a letter obtained by
Bloomberg News. The companies were discussing a deal valued at
as much as $20 billion, people familiar with the matter said
earlier this month.  “LightSquared and Sprint will jointly develop, deploy and
operate LightSquared’s 4G LTE network,” according to the
letter. “Sprint will become a significant customer of
LightSquared’s 4G LTE network.”  The deal is an important step forward for Falcone, whose
effort to challenge  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  was met with
skepticism after plans for LightSquared emerged in government
filings about 15 months ago. Falcone is gambling more than 60
percent of his hedge fund on LightSquared.  “This deal is a huge positive for Harbinger investors
simply because it represents such a large proportion of his
hedge fund,” said Don Steinbrugge, managing partner of Agecroft
Partners LLC, a Richmond, Virginia-based firm that advises  hedge
funds  and investors. “It’s a step in the right direction given
all the uncertainty surrounding this investment.”  Sprint’s Challenge  For Sprint, the deal would provide a new source of revenue
as the third-largest U.S. wireless company struggles to compete
with bigger rivals. AT&T is trying to acquire  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA unit, which would let it pass Verizon Wireless
to become the country’s No. 1 wireless operator. Sprint Chief
Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  is fighting to block the deal, which
needs government approval, arguing it would stifle competition.  Sprint, which has lost contract customers in 14 of the past
15 quarters, has pledged $5 billion to upgrade its network over
the next three to five years. The company can use LightSquared’s
network to lessen the load on its own network as data demand has
skyrocketed, an issue that has plagued other carriers.  Hesse said last month Sprint was in talks with  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)  on a similar network deal. Kirkland, Washington-based
Clearwire provides Sprint’s fourth-generation wireless service.  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint fell 2 cents to $5.19
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have gained 23 percent this year.  GPS Questions  LightSquared CEO Sanjiv Ahuja said in a June 10 televised
interview with “Bloomberg West” that his company had held
discussions with Sprint.  Bill White , a Sprint spokesman, and
 Steve Bruce , a spokesman for New York-based Harbinger, declined
to comment.  “This gets LightSquared to their goal of nationwide
coverage much more quickly than if they were going to build it
out on their own,”  Chris Larsen , a Piper Jaffray & Co. analyst
in  New York , said in an interview.  The Federal Communications Commission has asked that
LightSquared study whether its network interferes with global-
positioning systems. The company has commissioned a study of the
issue, due July 1.  “LightSquared will have to resolve these issues with GPS
before Sprint can make full use of that extra capacity,” said
Larsen, who rates Sprint “overweight.”  Separately, LightSquared will announce as soon as next week
it will begin soliciting bids to sell wireless service from its
satellite to governments or other agencies to help supplement
their earth-based emergency and first-responder networks, said a
person familiar with the matter.  The satellite service would serve as a backup for the
terrestrial networks in the case of emergencies that knock out
equipment on the ground, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the plans aren’t yet public. LightSquared
launched the satellite in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  