-- 
Faster Inflation Causes ‘Trade Down’ to McDonald’s, Wal-Mart

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/faster-inflation-causes-trade-down-to-mcdonald-s-wal-mart.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  are getting a boost from value-minded consumers as rising
commodity costs constrain discretionary income and confidence in
the economy wanes.  Energy and food costs have risen 19 percent and 4 percent
since December, according to the Labor Department. That caused
real disposable income, or the money left over after taxes and
adjusted for inflation, to remain unchanged. The confluence of
higher prices and unemployment at 9.1 percent has become
especially acute for households making less than $75,000 a year,
according to  David Schick , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
in Baltimore.  “More-persistent inflation is affecting  consumer
confidence ,” Schick said. “This may cause low-to-middle income
consumers to trade down when shopping at retailers.”  The shift is similar to 2008, when commodity prices also
soared, according to Christopher Low, chief economist at First
Horizon National Corp.’s FTN Financial in New York.  “Real  consumer spending  began slowing gradually in
November of last year and has now slowed to a standstill in the
second quarter,” Low said.  Shoppers at  BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ)  are changing behavior,
such as making different food choices to stay within their
budget, Chief Executive Officer Laura Sen said on a May 18
conference call.  The Westborough, Massachusetts-based company’s members
“will routinely shift their purchase patterns from item to item
and even within categories,” Sen said. “They might trade down
from beef to chicken or ground meats.”  Discount Prices  Wal-Mart’s discount prices are “getting more customers to
show up” and buy more while in the stores, Wal-Mart West
President Raul Vazquez said at the June 3 annual meeting.  Expectations about the outlook for the economy fell this
month to the lowest level since March 2009, according to the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort survey. Concerns about jobs, as well
as inflation, may influence where low-to-middle income consumers
dine out, according to a monthly survey conducted by  RBC Capital
Markets .  For the first time in three quarters, spending plans at
quick-service eateries, including McDonald’s, were stronger in
May than at full-service restaurants such as P.F. Chang’s China
Bistro Inc., according to  Larry Miller , an RBC analyst in
Atlanta. The number of consumers who said they won’t eat out as
often in the next 90 days rose 25 percent, primarily because of
higher energy costs, the survey showed.  This could result in a spending shift that is more
concentrated in value-oriented restaurants, Miller said.  ‘Most to Lose’  “It appears that the full-service dining industry has the
most to lose from rising energy and food costs, while quick-
service chains have the most to gain,” Miller said.  The number of people eating at McDonald’s, the world’s
largest fast-food chain, is growing, helping to keep sales for
the  Oak Brook , Illinois, company at pre-recession levels, Chief
Executive Officer James Skinner said at a June 1 conference
hosted by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The Bloomberg Quick Service Restaurant Index has risen 5
percent since March 31, while the Bloomberg Full Service
Restaurant Index has declined 2 percent, Bloomberg data show.
The outperformance reflects “the mindset of professional
investors” and their reaction to high commodity prices, slow
income growth and weak household wealth, according to Doug Cliggott, U.S. equity strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Similarly, the Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Hypermarkets & Supercenters Index, comprising BJ’s, Wal-Mart and
 Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , has risen 3 percent since March 31,
while the S&P 500 has declined 4 percent, according to Bloomberg
data. Cliggott maintains an overweight rating on the
Supercenters Index.  ‘Longer Duration’  While these trends began in March 2010 before reversing in
September, this year the relative performance “might be of a
longer duration,” he said.  Foot traffic was up 5 percent in the quarter ended April 30
at  Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR) , which operates more than 4,100 discount
variety stores in the U.S. and  Canada , Chief Executive Officer
Bob Sasser said on a May 19 conference call.  “We are seeing ‘‘a flight to value,’’ Sasser said. ‘‘Not
only are we getting new customers, we’re getting more repeat
business because of the consumer products that we have.’’  A record high share of consumers -- 62 percent -- said in
early June that low prices are the primary consideration when
they select a retailer, according to a survey by Stifel
Nicolaus. This could bode well for discounters, Schick said.  Wal-Mart may see positive U.S. comparable store sales as
more people shop for discount-priced basics at the world’s
largest retailer, having already delayed plans for discretionary
items such as televisions, Schick said.  Five-Month High  The Wal-Mart Amalgamated Leading Economic Indicator, or
Walei, which Schick developed in December 2009, rose to 5 in
April, a five-month high -- a level consistent with
outperformance for Wal-Mart relative to the  S&P 500  stock index,
Schick said.  Composed of eight macroeconomic indicators, Walei increases
when economic conditions worsen or when inflation accelerates.
April’s reading was driven by higher gasoline prices, up 36
percent from a year ago, and deteriorating home sales, down 12
percent, Schick said. It has ranged from minus 16 to plus 10
since 2002.  Any sales boost discounters are getting from more-frugal
customers may fade when the economy improves, FTN’s Low said.  ‘‘If we get relief from falling commodity prices, then that
has an equal and opposite effect for consumers,” he said. “It
frees up money to be spent on other things again.”  Cheaper Patio Set  Even so, companies may find it difficult to raise prices
if people become accustomed to discounts. Costco eliminated the
cheaper of two patio sets in 2010, even though the lower-cost
option outsold the more-expensive one, as the Issaquah, 
Washington-based wholesaler “tried to trade the customer
up,” Chief Financial Officer Richard Galanti said on a
May 25 conference call.  “If you’re trading the customer down, it’s darned tough to
get them back,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  