-- 
FIFA’s Security Head Says Significant Match-Fix Arrest Made in Singapore

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-17T13:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/fifa-s-security-head-says-significant-match-fix-arrest-made-in-singapore.html
The arrest of a Singaporean man by
police in  Malaysia  on soccer match-fixing charges may be one of
the most significant to date, according to the head of security
at the sport’s governing body.  Rajendran Kurusamy, 51, was arrested three weeks after
Malaysian police were given a photo and other details by FIFA
officials. He’s been linked to match-fixing cases in Under-20
matches. The arrest comes as Wilson Raj Perumal, a Singaporean,
and nine members of the same Finish team are accused of fixing
games there.  “He’s potentially more significant than Perumal,” Chris
Eaton said in a telephone interview from  Singapore , adding
Kurusamy has been working in “ Europe  and likely Central
America, too, in my estimation.”  FIFA is investigating several games that officials suspect
have been compromised by match-fixers, including  Nigeria ’s 4-1
victory over Argentina in an exhibition match on June 1. They’re
also looking at a games between a team purporting to represent
the West African state of Togo and Bahrain as well as matches
games between Bulgaria and Estonia, and Bolivia and Latvia in
Turkey, where all seven goals were scored from penalties.  FIFA set up an  Early Warning System  to detect suspicious
betting patterns, which sparked the investigation into the
Nigeria game. It’s also giving Interpol 20 million euros ($28.6
million) over 10 years to help tackle the problem. The groups
are working on an anti-corruption center in Singapore.  “We’re seeing an explosion in the investigating and
detection of match fixing,” Eaton said. “My estimation is this
is because there’s more awareness of match-fixing and more
recognition by police agencies to eradicate it.”  The size of the illegal gambling market is estimated to be
worth $90 billion, according to the World Lottery Association, a
lobbying group for state-backed lotteries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 