-- 
Wong Sees Faster Rebound With Government Committed to Carbon, Mining Taxes

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-17T04:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/finance-minister-sees-faster-australian-rebound.html
Australia’s economy will recover
faster than anticipated from last quarter’s contraction driven
by a record mining boom, and the government won’t relent to
pressure to scrap new taxes, Finance Minister  Penny Wong  said.  The economy will be underpinned by a A$430 billion ($453
billion) pipeline of investment in minerals and energy, Wong
told Bloomberg Television in an interview in Sydney today. The
government is committed to introducing resource and carbon taxes,
she said.  The 1.2 percent fall in gross domestic product, the biggest
since 1991, was “slightly larger than the Treasury indicated,
but then you’d anticipate a stronger rebound,” she said. “We
have to take a step back and look at what’s coming. This is the
largest investment pipeline our nation’s ever seen.”  Australia’s economic outlook, accompanied by the lowest
debt-to-GDP ratio among advanced economies, helped make its
dollar the second-best performing major currency in the past
year, climbing about 22 percent against its U.S. counterpart.
The government faces opposition over a planned carbon tax to cut
 Australia ’s emissions, the developed world’s biggest per capita,
and a levy on surging mining profits.  Wong, a former climate-change minister, said that while
plans to charge polluters for emissions is a “tough reform,”
the government “will stay the course” on it.  Sky Remains  “People will see that the sky doesn’t fall in, that the
wheels of life in the economy will continue to turn and I
suspect it will become far less controversial,” Wong said.  Support for Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who took over
from predecessor  Kevin Rudd  a year ago, has slumped 5 percentage
points to 30 percent, according to a Newspoll survey published
in the Australian newspaper this week.  The government has also come under fire over a 30 percent
tax on  iron ore  and coal profits at companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group that it forecasts will raise
A$7.7 billion in the first two years from July 1, 2012.
Parliament is due to consider the proposal in the next three
months and the revenue will be used to lower the corporate  tax
rate  to 29 percent from 30 percent, encourage retirement savings
and pay for roads and railways.  “It’s about investing in our economy for the future,
making it more resilient and increasing our capacity,” Wong
said of the mining tax. “It’s a very, very important policy and
one that I think people can see the sense of.”  Budget Surplus  Gillard’s government is seeking to return its budget to
surplus by 2013 and Wong said today that target to erase the
deficit is essential for the economy. Wong is helping oversee
that effort.  “When you’ve got that kind of investment wave in your
nation you have to make space for it, you don’t want to be
adding to the price pressures which inevitably accompany that
kind of investment,” she said. “Coming back to surplus is a
very sensible economic policy and that’s why we’re committed to
it and that’s why we’re on track to achieve it.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has said the nation’s
benchmark interest rate, already the highest in the developed
world at 4.75 percent, will probably have to rise further to
contain price pressures. Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a June
15 speech that fiscal policy is playing a “significant role”
in helping restrain the economy.  Wong’s post of finance minister is akin to head of the
White House Office of Management and Budget in the U.S., with
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  occupying the equivalent of Treasury
Secretary.  She was born in  Kota Kinabalu  in Sabah,  Malaysia , to a
Cantonese father and an Australian mother. Her parents met at
the University of Adelaide when her father traveled to  South
Australia  on a scholarship in the 1960s and returned to Malaysia
together. When they separated, Wong moved to Australia at the
age of eight with her mother and brother.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  