-- 
Finnish Resolve on Burden Sharing Strengthened in New Cabinet

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-06-20T06:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/finland-forms-six-party-cabinet-united-around-austerity-plan.html
Finland ’s resolve to ensure that
burden sharing be made a condition in future European rescue
packages was strengthened as the leader of the bailout-skeptic
Social Democrats was appointed Finance Minister.  Jyrki Katainen, who as head of the biggest party will
become prime minister, will rule together with Social Democrat
leader Jutta Urpilainen, who becomes finance minister, according
to a June 18 statement. The new government, formed a day
earlier, said it will target austerity measures in a bid to
prevent Europe’s fastest-aging population from draining public
finances.  Finland’s focus on burden sharing comes as European
governments failed to agree on releasing a loan payment needed
to spare  Greece  from default as the country struggles to deliver
budget cuts to comply with its loan terms. At the same time,
 Europe  has been unable to decide on how to involve the private
sector in bailouts as Greece runs out of money to pay its
creditors.  Katainen, who was able to keep the euro-skeptic True Finns
out of government by making support for bailouts a condition for
coalition talks, yielded to the Social Democrats’ conditions as
he struggled to form a coalition after the April 17 elections.  Finland’s six-party coalition will cut spending and raise
taxes to balance the budget by 2015, Katainen said at a June 17
briefing in Helsinki.  Europe’s debt crisis has shown “what happens if public
finances aren’t taken care of,” Katainen said. “We share that
concern. We plan to take care of public finances in a way that
allows Finns to rest easy.”  ‘Emergency Action’  Katainen’s coalition government needs to revive the economy
in the Nordic region’s only euro member as a growing number of
Finns retire and one of Finland’s biggest companies, Nokia Oyj,
sheds jobs. Central bank Governor Erkki Liikanen warned last
week the country, one of only six AAA rated euro members, may
need to resort to “emergency action” if politicians don’t act
“promptly” to address Finland’s demographic challenges.  The government will work to maintain the “best possible”
 credit rating , Katainen told reporters. A key target will be
debt reduction, he said.  The difference between Finnish 10-year bond yields and
borrowing costs on German bunds of a similar maturity was
unchanged at 32 basis points at 9:07 a.m. in Helsinki, the
second-smallest difference in the euro area after the
Netherlands.  Still, Katainen said he is “very worried” about the
prospect of borrowing costs rising as markets punish governments
that fail to rein in their deficits.  Bailout Consensus  The Cabinet will comprise Katainen’s National Coalition,
the Social Democrats, the Swedish People’s Party, the Green
League, the  Left Alliance  and the  Christian Democrats . The six
parties, which support Europe’s bailout measures, have a
combined 126 lawmakers in the 200-seat legislature.  The  Social Democrats , which emerged as the second-biggest
party after the April elections, will get the ministries of
finance and foreign affairs. The National Coalition will,
besides the premiership, also get the economy portfolio.  The coalition also agreed to cut Finland’s corporate tax
rate by 1 percentage point to 25 percent to help generate growth
and create jobs, Katainen said. At the same time, Finland will
levy a tax on banks, he said.  The True Finns, which won record backing to become
parliament’s third-biggest group in the elections, remained in
opposition after Katainen made supporting bailouts a condition
for joining government.  Debt Burdens  Finland’s economy shrank 8.2 percent in 2009, its biggest
slump since the 1918 civil war, triggering an increase in
government debt to 48.4 percent of gross domestic product last
year from 34.1 percent in 2008, according to the European
Commission. The average debt load in the euro area was 85.4
percent of GDP in 2010.  Even as government debt soared, Finland managed to keep its
public finances within the European Union’s 3 percent threshold
of GDP. Finland’s deficit was 2.8 percent last year and is
forecast to narrow to 1.2 percent this year, the Bank of Finland
said on June 15.  Government talks, which failed on June 1 and resumed on
June 13, settled on a program that sets the legislative agenda
for the next four years, including areas such as foreign and
security policy, education and welfare.  Finland’s economy will expand slower than previously
estimated, the central bank said last week, projecting GDP
growth of 3.8 percent for this year, down from 3.9 percent on
March 24. Growth will slow to 2.6 percent next year and to 2.4
percent in 2013.  “It’s important for fiscal consolidation to be predictable
and for the related plans to be credible,” Liikanen said then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  