-- 
Food Prices to Stay High This Decade on Demand, Slowing Output

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-17T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/food-prices-will-stay-high-for-next-decade-on-slowing-output-un-oecd-say.html
Food prices will remain higher in
the next decade than in the past 10 years as agricultural
production slows and demand increases, the OECD and the  United
Nations  said in a joint report today.  Global farm output is forecast to grow an average 1.7
percent a year through 2020, compared with 2.6 percent in the
previous decade, the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development and the UN’s  Food and Agriculture
Organization  said in their annual Agricultural Outlook report.  “Slower growth is expected for most crops, especially
oilseeds and coarse grains,” they said in the report. “The
global slowdown in projected yield improvements of important
crops will continue to exert pressure on international prices.”  Food costs rose to a record in February, according to an
index of 55 agricultural commodities tracked by the Rome-based
FAO. Corn futures have risen 73 percent in  Chicago  in the past
12 months, wheat gained 48 percent and rice climbed 27 percent.  “Harvests this year are critical, but restoring market
balances may take some time,” the organizations said. “Until
stocks can be rebuilt, risks of further upside price volatility
remain high.”  Less Corn  World corn inventories are forecast to slide for a third
year in 2011-12 to the lowest in five years, while demand will
be at a record, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Global
soybean stocks may drop a second year to the lowest in 18 years,
according to the USDA.  The world population is forecast to climb to 9.2 billion in
2050 from an estimated 6.9 billion in 2010, requiring a 70
percent jump in world agricultural production, the FAO said.
Corn prices in Chicago rose to a record this month as demand for
the grain as food, feed and a raw material for ethanol has
outstripped production growth, depleting stocks.  The OECD and FAO repeated last year’s outlook that
agricultural commodity prices in real terms will generally be
higher during the next decade compared to the past 10 years.  Higher commodity prices are a “positive signal” that will
probably stimulate investment in productivity and output that’s
needed to meet the rising demand for food, after decades of
falling real prices, the OECD and FAO said.  In the short term, agricultural-commodity prices are
expected to fall from “the highs of early 2011” as output
rises in response to the price increase, they said. Prices for
corn will still be an average 20 percent higher in the coming
decade than in the previous one, while poultry prices may be 30
percent higher, OECD and FAO said.  Rising Costs  “There are signs that production costs are rising and
productivity growth is slowing,” they said, citing rising
energy costs and pressure on water and land use.  As higher commodity prices are passed on in the food chain,
food inflation is on the increase in most countries, reducing
purchasing power for poorer populations and raising concerns
about economic stability and food insecurity in some  developing
countries , according to the OECD and FAO.  The “most frequent and significant” cause of price swings
is unpredictable weather conditions, while an increasing link
between agricultural and energy markets is also “transmitting
volatility,” OECD and FAO said.  “Last year’s drought and fires in the Russian Federation
and Ukraine, and excess moisture in the U.S. illustrated how
quickly market balances can change,” they said. “Yield-
induced production fluctuations in major crop exporting
countries have been a prime source of international price
volatility.”  Climate Change   Climate change is altering weather patterns, though the
impact on extreme weather events is unclear, according to the
report.  “The risk of higher prices is greater than lower prices,”
the organizations said. “Weather-related crop-yield variations
are expected to become an even more critical driver of price
volatility in the future.”  Speculation in  futures markets  may amplify price movements
in the short term, though there is “no conclusive evidence” of
a longer-term effect on volatility, according to the report.  Per capita food consumption is expected to grow fastest
this decade in Eastern Europe,  Asia  and  Latin America  as incomes
rise, with the biggest gains for vegetable oils, sugar, meat and
dairy products, the organizations said. Growing populations and
income in China and  India  will sustain “strong” commodity
demand, they said.  Population Growth   Food deficits in sub-Saharan countries are expected to
increase as population growth outpaces domestic  food production .  “If supply does not keep pace with demand, there will be
upward pressure on commodity prices,” the OECD and FAO said.
“With per capita incomes rising globally and in many poor
countries expected to increase by as much as 50 percent, food
demand will become more inelastic.”  Diets are changing with rising incomes, with an increase in
per-capita consumption of meat and dairy and a decline for wheat
over the next 10 years, according to the OECD and FAO.  “The use of agricultural output as feedstock for biofuels
will continue its robust growth,” the OECD and FAO said.
“Higher  oil prices  would induce yet further growth in use of
biofuel. At sufficiently high oil prices, biofuel production in
many countries becomes viable even in the absence of policy
support.”  An estimated 13 percent of world production of coarse
grains, which includes corn, will be used to make fuel by 2020,
as well as 15 percent of vegetable oil and 30 percent of sugar-
cane production, according to the report.  Overtaking  Thailand   Rice trade is expected to increase in the next 10 years,
driven by rising exports from  Vietnam , which may overtake
Thailand as the biggest shipper of the grain, according to the
outlook. Sugar exports will remain dominated by  Brazil ,
accounting for more than half of global trade, while  China  is
expected to be the biggest importer of the sweetener by 2020.  Russia and other former Soviet Union republics may “play
an increasingly significant role in export markets for wheat and
coarse grains, regaining some of their historic importance as a
bread basket for the world,” the OECD and FAO said.  Wheat exports by Russia, Ukraine and  Kazakhstan  combined
are forecast to account for 30 percent of world trade by 2020,
from 18 percent in period from 2001 to 2010. The U.S. share will
slide to 18 percent from 25 percent, according to the report.  “Despite the end of spectacular growth in soybeans,
Argentina and Brazil, as relatively low-cost producers, will
continue to exhibit solid growth in oilseeds, cereals and
livestock,” the OECD and FAO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 