-- 
Former Washington Mutual Officials Near Deal With FDIC Over Bank Losses

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-17T18:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/former-washington-mutual-officials-nearing-deal-with-fdic-over-bank-losses.html
Former  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  Chief
Executive Officer Kerry Killinger and Chief Operating Officer
Stephen Rotella are in lawsuit settlement talks with the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., according to a court filing.  Lawyers for Killinger, Rotella and David Schneider,
 Washington  Mutual’s former home-loans president, exchanged term
sheets with FDIC attorneys and are “diligently working to
resolve their remaining disputes,” according to papers filed
yesterday in federal court in Seattle.  “In some instances, the settlement terms must have consent
of certain third parties,” lawyers for both sides said.  In September 2008, regulators seized WaMu, once the
nation’s biggest savings and loan, and sold it to New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion. The FDIC sued the bank
officials in March, claiming they took extreme risks with WaMu’s
home-loans portfolio, causing billions of dollars in losses.  Lawyers for both sides asked the court to extend until July
1 the deadline for the former executives to file their initial
response to the complaint, which also names Killinger’s and
Rotella’s wives as defendants. A final mediation session is
scheduled for June 30, according to court papers.  Killinger Blamed  Bank executives blamed Killinger during hearings before the
 U.S. Senate  last year for ineffective management and lax lending
standards. Killinger was CEO for 18 years before he was ousted
on Sept. 8, 2008. He told senators last year that his company
became the largest bank failure in U.S. history in part because
it was excluded from a group of financial institutions favored
by U.S. policy makers.  Rotella, who blamed Killinger for failing to institute
stricter lending controls, said in a letter to friends in March
that the FDIC suit was an abuse of power. A copy of the letter
was provided in March to Bloomberg News by Rotella’s spokesman,
Daniel Hilley.  Hilley declined to comment today on any potential
settlement.  David Barr , a spokesman for the FDIC in Washington,
also declined to comment on a possible settlement.  Steven Caplow, an attorney for Schneider and the Rotellas,
didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment. David Aufhauser, an attorney for the Killingers, also
didn’t return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  The FDIC accused the executives of disregarding the bank’s
long-term safety and fixating on rewarding themselves. The men
received more than $95 million in compensation from January 2005
to September 2008, the FDIC said.  The FDIC has authorized lawsuits against 238 bank officers
and directors in an effort to recoup more than $6.7 billion in
damages stemming from the credit crisis, agency spokesman Barr
said today in an e-mail. More than 360 banks have failed since
credit markets froze in 2008.  The case is FDIC v. Killinger, 11-00459, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington ( Seattle ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 