-- 
French Pro-Airbus Pressure Clouds $4 Billion Vueling Order, Chief Says

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-06-17T10:50:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/french-pro-airbus-pressure-clouds-4-billion-order-vueling-says.html
Vueling Airlines SA (VLG) , the Spanish
discount carrier controlled by Iberia and British Airways, said
a decision on a $4 billion plane order may be complicated by
French political pressure favoring Toulouse-based Airbus SAS.  Placing a contract for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 737 rather than the
European company’s A320 could make it harder for Vueling to get
permission for night flights at Paris Orly airport as it seeks
to build a base there, Chief Executive Officer Alex Cruz said.  “It would be crazy to decide on a manufacturer without
taking into account the effects it may have on our network
development,” Cruz said in an interview when asked whether
 France ’s pre-election political climate could affect the order.  Pierre-Henri Gourgeon, CEO of Paris-based  Air France-KLM (AF) 
Group, was summoned to a meeting with Trade Minister Pierre Lellouche on June 15 to discuss a petition by more than 100
legislators urging the carrier to favor Airbus in a planned $20
billion order. President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government, which
holds a 16 percent stake in Air France, is paying “close
attention” to the fleet plans, spokesman  Francois Baroin  said.  Randy Tinseth , marketing vice president at Boeing’s
jetliner division, declined to comment on the French stance
during a briefing for reporters in Paris yesterday. “We’re
confident of our chances in any campaign,” he said.  Discussing Jobs  With Sarkozy trailing his main rivals in opinion polls less
than a year before elections, the CEOs of Renault SA and PSA
Peugeot Citroen SA have also been called in by ministers to
discuss domestic employment concerns in recent weeks. Airbus has
manufacturing facilities in France, Germany, Spain and the U.K.  Barcelona-based Vueling aims to order a “brand-new fleet”
from Airbus, Boeing or  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  of  Canada  to replace 47
Airbus planes on leases that expire within six years, Cruz said.  While changing manufacturer would impose significant
training and maintenance costs, it could make sense if price
concessions made up for the outgoings, he said, citing U.K.
discount carrier EasyJet Plc’s 2002 decision to switch from
Boeing to Airbus jetliners.  “We’re very happy with Airbus, but I think if we’re
placing a very large order we need to have a good fair look at
what’s available,” Cruz said.  Orly Slots  Vueling is looking to double its takeoff and landing slots
at Orly and needs noise regulations relaxed to allow earlier
flights before it bases aircraft there. Speaking in a telephone
interview this week, the CEO said discussions were in progress
with French authorities to amend the rules to reflect reductions
in engine noise achieved in the last decade.  Cruz and his management team met French Transport Minister
Thierry Mariani in late May to discuss Vueling’s Orly base plan
and the noise rules, a spokeswoman for the airline said.  Current noise regulations impose a curfew at Orly between
11 p.m. and 6 a.m. and limit the airport to 250,000 takeoffs and
landings each year. Eric Heraud, a spokesman for France’s DGAC
civil aviation Authority, said he had no immediate comment on
the request for a regulation change.  Vueling was trading down 0.5 percent at 8.56 euros as of
12:33 p.m. in  Madrid  after earlier slumping as much as 4.1
percent. The stock has declined 12 percent this year.  The Spanish carrier is controlled through a 46 percent
stake by International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the
company formed by the merger of Iberia and British Airways.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  