-- 
U.K. Stocks Rise From Three-Month Low as Mining Companies Climb

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-17T16:26:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/ftse-100-stocks-sink-to-a-three-month-low-as-mining-energy-shares-decline.html
U.K. stocks climbed, erasing earlier
losses, as investors speculated that European officials may soon
reach a resolution on Greece’s bailout package.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  gained 2.2 percent, breaking a
five-day losing streak, and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  climbed 1.7 percent,
helping lead gains in mining companies as gold and copper
advanced in London.  Aggreko Plc (AGK)  and Intertek Group Plc rallied
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended the shares.  The FTSE 100 rose 0.3 percent to 5,714.94 at 4:30 p.m. in
London after falling as much as 0.9 percent. The gauge has
declined four consecutive weeks amid concern that Greece may
default on its debt. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  advanced 0.3
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rallied 0.8 percent.  Stocks erased losses after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
retreated from demands that bondholders shoulder a
“substantial” part of the cost of a Greek rescue. Speaking at
a press conference with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in
Berlin, Merkel said she will work with the  European Central Bank 
to avoid disrupting markets.  “It’s likely the market took heart from  Germany ’s
concession and continued support from  France ,” said London-
based Ioan Smith, a director at Knight Capital Europe Ltd.
“Investors haven’t got carried away as yet. The risk now is
with  Greece  and whether they approve a new austerity package.”  The euro strengthened and Greek bonds rallied as Merkel and
Sarkozy signaled a reconciliation between German calls for
investors to help bail out Greece and warnings from the ECB and
France that a compulsory move risked triggering the euro area’s
first sovereign default.  Greek Risk  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said in an
interview yesterday that a Greek default is “almost certain”
and could help drive the U.S. into recession, while Luxembourg’s
 Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the euro-region finance ministers
group, said a “hard haircut” for bondholders will risk
contagion to other European countries.  Randgold Resources led mining shares higher, advancing 2.2
percent to 4,679 pence, and  African Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG)  rose 0.5
percent to 395.4 pence as gold advanced in  New York . Kazakhmys
gained 1.7 percent to 1,261 pence as copper rebounded in London.  Aggreko, the world’s largest provider of mobile power
supplies, rallied 2.4 percent to 1,911 pence after Goldman Sachs
reiterated its “conviction buy” recommendation and raised its
12-month price estimate for the shares by 1 percent to 2,506
pence. That’s 34 percent above yesterday’s closing price.  Intertek, ARM  The bank also reiterated its “conviction buy” on
Intertek, sending the shares up 1.7 percent to 1,969 pence.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  paced European technology shares lower
after Research In Motion Ltd., the maker of the Blackberry
smartphone, cut its profit forecast.  ARM, whose chip designs are used in Apple Inc.’s iPad, fell
1 percent to 556 pence, Wolfson Microlectronics Plc slid 0.9
percent to 234.5 pence and  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG) ,
which was cut to “hold” from “buy” at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc today, dropped 5.9 percent to 437.7 pence.  RIM said quarterly revenue may drop for the first time in
nine years. The company forecast sales of $4.2 billion to $4.8
billion in its fiscal second quarter.  Supergroup Plc rallied 7.5 percent to 900 pence on the
broader All-Share Index as analysts at Liberum said the stock
looked oversold. The Evening Standard reported yesterday that
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. may be interested in the U.K. retailer.  Laird Plc (LRD)  advanced 4.5 percent to 197.3 pence as the
company announced plans to close its handset-antenna unit. The
stock soared 38 percent yesterday after Cooper Industries Plc
said its offer, which valued the U.K. company at about 493
million pounds ($798 million), was spurned. Analysts at Arden
Partners said today that Cooper’s bid for Laird was “not
compelling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  