-- 
Fuller, Smith & Turner Says Capital Pub Rejects Offer, Talks

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-06-17T10:13:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/fuller-smith-turner-says-capital-pub-rejects-offer-talks-2-.html
Fuller, Smith & Turner Plc, the U.K.
brewer of London Pride ale, said Capital Pub Co., which owns 34
London pubs, rejected an offer valuing the company at 53.9
million pounds ($87 million) and refused to hold talks.  Capital Pub turned down an April 26 offer of 200 pence a
share, which was 29 percent higher than yesterday’s closing
price of 155.5 pence, Fuller’s, which owns about 360 pubs and
bars, said in a statement today. Capital Pub’s shares jumped to
a record in London trading.  “We’re relatively surprised that Capital Pub have turned
down two pounds a share because we think it is a very fair
price,” Greg Feehely, an analyst with Altium Capital Ltd., said
in an interview. “Fuller’s recent results highlighted the
strength of its balance sheet and there was lots of commentary
then that it needed to do something strategic.” Feehely has a
“hold” rating on Fuller’s.  Capital Pub’s stated growth plans will probably involve
selling more shares, Fuller said in the statement. The strategy
involves “considerable risks” that could affect the company’s
valuation negatively over time, Fuller said, whereas its offer
would give Capital Pub’s shareholders the certainty of a cash
exit at a higher price than its existing value.  “Fuller’s is therefore disappointed that Capital’s board
has declined to engage with it so far,” it said in the
statement. “Fuller’s would like to work towards a recommended
transaction and establish a constructive dialogue with
Capital.”  Bid ‘Undervalued’ Capital  The indicative offer, and a previous one of 175 pence a
share, “substantially undervalued the business and its
prospects,” Capital Pub said in a separate statement today.  Capital Pub, which said it plans to have as many as 50 pubs
within the next two years, advised shareholders to take no
action. It will publish its results for the year ended March 26
on June 21.  Capital Pub’s shares surged as much as 24 percent, the
biggest gain since it became publicly traded in June 2007, and
were up 36 pence, or 23 percent, to 191.5 pence at 10:55 a.m.
Capital’s share price rose 50 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday.  Fuller’s shares rose 14 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday, valuing the company at 373 million pounds. The shares
were up 6.75 pence, or 1 percent, at 659.5 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 