-- 
Portuguese Bonds Drop, Greek Yields Near Record; Default Concern Persists

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-06-17T09:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/german-government-bonds-set-for-weekly-gain-as-greek-default-concern-mount.html
Portuguese bonds fell and Greek
yields stayed near records as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President Nicolas Sarkozy prepared to meet amid
investor skepticism that Greece can avoid a default.  German two-year notes headed for a second weekly gain, with
yields approaching a four-month low as Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou ’s failure to win support for more austerity
boosted demand for a haven. A default by Greece is “almost
certain,” former Federal Reserve chairman  Alan Greenspan  said.
Irish two- and 10-year yields also jumped to the highest since
the euro’s introduction.  “The overwhelming concern over possible contagion is
weighing on  Portugal  and Ireland,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-
income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London.
“There’s a hope that the weekend may act as some kind of
circuit-breaker, but heading into it, there’s still concerns
that the Greek situation won’t get sorted.”  The Portuguese 10-year yield increased 24 basis points to a
euro-era record of 11.11 percent at 10:30 a.m. in London, while
that on the country’s two-year securities declined two basis
points to 13.06 percent, within four basis points of a record.
The Greek two-year yield fell 35 basis points to 28.25 percent,
after surging yesterday past 30 percent for the first time. The
10-year yield fell to 17.50 percent.  Ireland’s two-year yield climbed above 13 percent for the
first time, reaching as high as 13.11 percent. The 10-year bond
yield increased to 11.69 percent.  Greek Spread  Greek  government bonds  lost investors 8.7 percent this
month, pushing their decline in 2011 to 20 percent, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Portuguese debt handed
investors a 19 percent loss this year. German bonds, perceived
to be the region’s safest securities, returned 0.7 percent.  The extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold
Greek 10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity German notes
surged to a record 1,503 basis points today, before settling at
1,499 basis points. Portugal’s 10-year bonds yielded 810 basis
points more than their German counterparts.  “The problem you have is that it’s extremely unlikely the
political system will work” in a way that solves  Greece ’s
crisis, Greenspan, 85, said in an interview today with  Charlie Rose  in  New York . “The chances of Greece not defaulting are
very small.”  Merkel and Sarkozy are meeting as leaders in the region
struggle to reconcile German calls that investors help bail out
Greece with European Central Bank opposition, backed by  France ,
to a compulsory move that might trigger a default. Papandreou
fired his finance minister in a cabinet overhaul aimed at
fending off a party rebellion and ensuring the passage of
austerity measures needed for a fresh bailout.  The German bund yield rose three basis points to 2.95
percent,. It reached 2.91 percent yesterday, the lowest since
Jan. 11. Yields on two-year notes rose five basis points to 1.50
percent. They dropped to 1.43 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  