-- 
Girl Talk, Royal Danes, Northside Fest, Solstice: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/girl-talk-royal-danes-ryan-trecartin-northside-solstice-n-y-weekend.html
Boho-beatniks Beirut headline
Friday’s big show at McCarren Park with Sharon Van Etten and
Yellow Ostrich.  That’s part of the Northside Festival taking over
Williamsburg this weekend with music, film, and opportunities to
argue authenticity with hipsters.  On Saturday night, Guided by Voices make a star turn with
their original line-up, lead by prolific frontman Robert
Pollard.  Northside also offers emerging talents at nearly 30 venues:
Catch the mesmerizing Zambri sisters at the Knitting Factory on
Friday night, and then hop to Brooklyn Bowl for a late glimpse
of Danish songstress Oh Land. Sample-junkies Javelin play
Saturday and the pulsing dance-rock of Diamond Rings rounds out
Sunday night.  Information:
 http://www.thelmagazine.com/blogs/NorthsideFestivalNews .  Dancing Danes  The beloved  Royal Danish Ballet  is also performing this
weekend: take in “La Sylphide,” choreographed by the great
August Bournonville in 1836.  It’s the story of a forest sprite in love with a handsome
young Scotsman, who gets tricked by an evil witch.  The troupe also performs the third act of “Napoli,” one
of Bournonville’s most charming works, and Flemming Flindt’s
“The Lesson,” about a psychopathic dance teacher.  Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m., Sunday at
3 p.m. at the David H. Koch Theater at Lincoln Center.
Information: +1-212-870-5570;
 http://davidhkochtheater.com/events .  Saturday Morning  Rise in the pre-dawn dark and make your way to the
Cathedral of St. John the Divine to welcome the sun in style
during Paul Winter’s Summer Solstice Celebration.  Watch as the great stained glass windows gradually come
alive with the light as you hear Winter’s sax, taiko drums, a
bansuri flute, a sarangi fiddle, bells and birdcalls.  It’s a time to celebrate fertility and the beauty of the
natural world, so set that alarm.  At 4:30 a.m., 1047 Amsterdam Ave. at 111th St. Information:
+1-866-811-4111;  http://www.solsticeconcert.com .  Saturday  Then ready your day-glo spandex and shutter shades for an
all-day escape to the inaugural Governor’s Ball Music Festival.  Mash-up dj Girl Talk co-headlines with Pretty Lights, who
uses hip-hop samples, electro-squiggles and vintage funk to
paint sonic landscapes.  It’s a dance marathon -- Passion Pit is throwing down an
afternoon dj set, Das Racist will be pranking and Big Boi from
Outkast is performing.  Hydrate well to stay strong all day long.  Ferries start running at 11:15 a.m., music starts at 12:15
p.m. Information:  http://governorsballmusicfestival.com .  Saturday Afternoon  For a quieter alternative, take a look at the ingeniously
small worlds on view at the  Museum of Arts and Design . There are
micro-microbreweries, minuscule gardens, landscapes with houses
and even some slums.  Lori Nix has created “Beauty Shop,” a desolated,
destroyed salon and photographed the result.  In the “Garden of Unearthly Delights,” Mat Collishaw
reveals a violent natural world.  “Otherworldly: Optical Delusions and Small Realities” is
at 2 Columbus Circle through Sept. 18. Information: +1-212-299-
7777;  http://www.madmuseum.org .  Sunday  Opening today at MoMA PS1 is “Ryan Trecartin: Any Ever,”
his first major museum show in  New York .  It’s an anarchic mash up of video and installation art,
created in collaboration with Lizzie Fitch.  There are seven interrelated videos: One features corporate
characters known as “Koreas,” all of them in blond wigs, whose
sole work focus is to make sure their own jobs don’t disappear.  Runs until Sept. 3 at 22-25 Jackson Ave. at 46th Ave.,  Long
Island City , Queens. Information: +1-718-784-2084;
 http://ps1.org .  Then go to Tournesol for brunch. Have a spicy Bloody Mary,
steak frites or the Eggs Florentine while enjoying the Left Bank
ambiance.  5012 Vernon Boulevard, Queens. Information: +1-718-472-
4355.  Sunday Evening  Check out the cushy new Elinor Bunin Munroe Film Center,
now playing Andrew Rossi’s documentary, “Page One: Inside the
New York Times.”  David Rockwell carved two theaters out of a  Lincoln Center 
parking lot and some offices, installing comfy seats and top
level projection and sound.  There’s a 152-inch plasma screen in a small amphitheater
for special presentations, and a Wi-Fi equipped café.  70 Lincoln Center Plaza, 65th St. near Amsterdam Ave.
Information: +1-212-875-5610;  http://www.filmlinc.com .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 