-- 
GM Will Idle Michigan, Indiana Plants Next Month to Reduce Truck Supply

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-06-17T20:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/gm-plants-plan-shutdowns-to-pare-truck-supply-start-new-models.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  will idle U.S.
truck plants for two weeks in July as the automaker pares
inventory of pickups and prepares the factories for output of
2012 model year vehicles.  GM’s Flint assembly in Michigan will shut down for the
weeks of July 4 and July 11, said Tom Wickham, a spokesman for
the Detroit-based automaker. Production at  Fort Wayne  assembly
in Roanoke, Indiana, also will stop during those weeks, said
Orval Plumlee, president of United Auto Workers Local 2209,
which represents hourly workers among the factory’s more than
3,300 employees.  The two plants make Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra
pickups. GM’s truck inventory was 288,000 units at the end of
May, up from 275,000 on April 30. The inventory included 258,000
units of large trucks, or 110 days supply,  Don Johnson , GM’s
vice president of U.S. sales, said on a June 1 conference call.
The industry standard is about 60 days supply.  “GM is rightly being quite careful about building products
into the summer months and not getting caught with an excess
amount of prior model year inventories,” said  Michael Robinet ,
an analyst at IHS Automotive in Northville, Michigan. “They’re
going to be careful not to build too much of the older model
year vehicles and have to discount them heavily in the face of
having newer model year vehicles on the same lot.”  Adjusting Inventory  Mark Reuss , president of GM’s North American operations,
said at a June 3 conference that the inventory of trucks was
acceptable in the short term and wouldn’t prompt a surge in
discounts.  “We’re not going to run big incentives to clear
inventory,” Reuss said on Mackinac Island in northern  Michigan 
earlier this month. “We’ll adjust inventory on a production
basis.”  GM also makes large trucks in Arlington,  Texas , and Silao,
 Mexico . Those plants will continue normal production while Flint
and Fort Wayne are down, Chris Lee, a GM spokesman, said in a
telephone interview.  The company’s deliveries in May fell 1.2 percent to 221,192
vehicles, the Detroit-based company said in a June 1 statement.
While Johnson said GM is “not anticipating tremendous growth”
in the U.S. truck segment, sales may rebound in the second half
due to seasonal factors and pent-up demand.  GM rose 41 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $29 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares are down
21 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  