-- 
Goldman Profit Estimate Slashed 40% by Analyst

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-17T13:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/goldman-sachs-earnings-per-share-estimate-slashed-40-by-atlantic-equities.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s second-
quarter profit estimate was reduced 40 percent by an analyst at
Atlantic Equities LLP, who said the firm’s trading and investing
revenue is declining, making job cuts more likely.  Goldman Sachs will likely earn $2.17 per share, down from a
previous estimate of $3.49, Richard Staite wrote today in a note
to investors. Staite expects trading revenue to tumble to $4.9
billion, a 27 percent decrease from the first quarter, and
investing and lending gains to narrow to $200 million from $2.7
billion, he wrote.  “About half the cut is due to weaker trading revenues
while the other half is driven by lower investment gains,”
wrote Staite, who has a “neutral” recommendation on Goldman
Sachs stock. “Given the weak environment we expect jobs to be
cut across the industry.”  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
dropped 19 percent in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
so far this year on concern about weaker revenue and increased
regulation. Staite’s estimate for Goldman Sachs’s second-quarter
earnings per share puts the London-based analyst below the $3.56
average forecast of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs earned $4.38 per share in the first quarter
of this year and $0.78 per share in the second quarter of 2010.
Staite wrote that he expects the New York-based firm’s second-
quarter return on tangible equity, or ROTE, will be 8 percent,
while the full-year ROTE will be 13 percent.  Staite said he expects Goldman Sachs’s fixed-income,
currencies and commodities trading revenue to drop 33 percent
from the first quarter to $2.9 billion in the second quarter,
while equity trading revenue may fall 15 percent to $2 billion.  Investment-banking revenue, which includes fees from merger
advice and underwriting, will probably rise to $1.3 billion, or
4 percent, from the first quarter, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 