-- 
Goldman Sachs Said to Open Physical Commodities Trading Office in Houston

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-17T17:28:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/goldman-sachs-is-said-to-open-commodities-trading-sales-office-in-houston.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, will open a physical commodities
sales and trading office in Houston, according to a person
familiar with the plans.  Goldman Sachs expects to hire about a dozen sales and
trading professionals for the office by the end of the year,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Some of the new hires for the office
will come from outside the firm and some will relocate from New
York and London.  Trey Griggs, who is currently a managing director in energy
sales in New York, will relocate to Houston to be the head of
commodities for the office, the person said. Ben Freeman, a
trader based in  London , will relocate to lead commodities
trading in Houston.  The New York-based company wants to establish a local
trading and sales presence for clients in Houston, according to
the person. Physical commodities trading will include crude,
refined products, natural gas liquids and coal, the person said.
The office is expected to open this summer.  Goldman Sachs doesn’t disclose how much money it makes from
commodities trading. The business is folded into a larger unit
known as fixed-income, currencies and commodities, or FICC, that
is Goldman Sachs’s largest by revenue, accounting for 35 percent
of the firm’s revenue in 2010.  Goldman Sachs and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are the top firms
among traders of over-the-counter commodity derivatives,
according to a recent report by Greenwich Associates.  The bank’s plan to open a Houston office was reported
earlier on the SparkSpread  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  