-- 
Goldman’s Salame Is Said to Plan Move to New York, Consider New Assignment

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-17T14:55:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/goldman-s-salame-is-said-to-plan-move-to-new-york-consider-new-assignment.html
Pablo J. Salame, one of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s four sales and trading chiefs, plans to move
to New York from  London  this summer and may take a new
assignment, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Salame, a 45-year-old Ecuadorian, joined Goldman Sachs in
1996 and has worked in London since 2002. A Goldman Sachs
partner since 2000, Salame was co-manager of global credit,
mortgages, emerging markets trading and equity derivatives
before he became co-head of the securities unit in 2008 with
David B. Heller, Edward K. Eisler and Harvey M. Schwartz.  Goldman Sachs’s securities division, which includes sales
and trading of equities, fixed-income, currencies and
commodities, is the New York-based firm’s biggest and most
profitable unit. It produced 56 percent of the company’s revenue
in 2010 and both Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 56, and his top deputy, President and Chief Operating
Officer Gary D. Cohn, 50, helped lead securities trading before
rising to their current roles.  While Salame may keep his position as a co-head of the
securities unit, he’s also considering new roles, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the negotiations
aren’t public. Salame’s move to  New York  would put three of the
four global heads of securities trading in the city, with
Eisler, 41, remaining in London.  Salame started his career at Goldman Sachs, the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, in emerging markets currency
trading and later helped lead the global emerging debt markets
group. The experience in developing markets may lead him to work
more closely with J. Michael Evans, 53, who was named global
head of growth markets in January, two of the three people said.  Goldman Sachs, like many rivals, is aiming to do more
business in fast-growing economies like Brazil, Russia,  India 
and China. Cohn told investors earlier this month that  China ,
India and Brazil are three places where Goldman Sachs is doing
the most hiring.  Salame didn’t return a call seeking comment and  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York, said Salame
wouldn’t comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 