-- 
Google’s Admeld Purchase Slated for Justice Department Review

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/google-admeld-deal-to-get-justice-review-as-ftc-builds-probe.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s planned purchase of
Admeld Inc., an Internet advertising company, will be subject to
a probe by the U.S. Justice Department for its potential to hurt
competition, two people familiar with the situation said.  The review of the deal by the Justice Department comes at
the same time the Federal Trade Commission is preparing a
separate investigation of  Mountain View , California-based
Google’s dominance of the Internet search industry, three people
familiar with the matter said in April.  Simultaneous antitrust investigations of one company by the
two agencies is “unusual,” said  Rebecca Arbogast , a
Washington-based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., adding that
probes by regulators are fast becoming the “new normal” for
Google.  “Google isn’t going to get away from this kind of scrutiny
until a competitor comes along and unseats them,” Arbogast
said. “It’s a weight tied to their ankle they are carrying
around all the time.”  Admeld offers technology services to Internet publishers
that help them boost revenue by managing display ads from
hundreds of sources, including ad networks. Customers of the New
York-based company, founded in 2007, include News Corp.’s Fox
News and the Weather Channel.  Display Advertising  Display advertising -- the ads that appear along the tops
and sides of Internet publishers’ websites -- is the fastest-
growing segment of the online ad market, according to market
research firm IDC.  Google, stepping up investment in display advertising as
growth slows in search-based ads, had 14.7 percent of the U.S.
display advertising market in the first quarter, according to
IDC. Yahoo! Inc. had 12.3 percent,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  had 6.5
percent and Facebook Inc. had an 8.8 percent share, IDC said in
a report published May 26.  The Admeld acquisition may help Google boost its growth in
the online display advertising segment, said Benjamin Edelman,
assistant professor of business administration at the  Harvard
Business School . Google became a central player in that market
through its $3.2 billion acquisition of DoubleClick Inc. three
years ago. That deal was approved by the FTC.  Under U.S. antitrust law, all transactions over $63 million
must be reported for review by authorities.  No Harm  Buying Admeld isn’t going to hurt competition in display
advertising, Rob Shilkin, a Google spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “The acquisition is designed to help publishers get the
most from the rapidly growing display advertising industry,
which is both complicated and incredibly competitive -- the
emergence in recent years of a huge variety of technologies for
publishers, like Admeld’s, is great evidence of that,” Shilkin
said.  The  Justice Department  review will consider whether
Google’s dominant position in search advertising could render
the Admeld transaction anticompetitive, what Google’s expansion
strategies are for Admeld and whether those plans would shut out
competition, the people said.  Justice Department spokeswoman Alisa Finelli declined to
comment.  “Display advertising is one of the few areas of online
advertising where Google isn’t dominant,” said Harvard’s
Edelman, who according to his website also consults for
Microsoft Corp., a Google competitor, as well as media clients
including the New York Times, and Universal Music Corp. “That’s
rapidly changing, and the Admeld deal would accelerate Google’s
growth that much faster,” Edelman said.  Shared Authority  The Justice Department and the FTC share authority to
decide if mergers are anticompetitive and to review whether
dominant companies are abusing their market power.  They negotiate which will handle major antitrust
investigations, with the decision often turning on their
respective expertise in an industry.  The agencies may want to probe deals of companies with
“innovative business practices because it allows them to weigh
in on matters that involve cutting-edge technologies or
practices, and enables them to set policies,” said Alicia
Batts, an antitrust lawyer with Proskauer Rose LLP in
 Washington .  The Admeld review means the Justice Department’s antitrust
division will once again be scrutinizing Google after approving,
with conditions, the company’s $700 million acquisition of
internet travel information company ITA Software Inc. in April.  Travel Data  Google, seeking to bolster its competitive strength in the
ad market against rivals such as Facebook and Apple Inc.,
followed its purchase of DoubleClick with the acquisition of
AdMob Inc. last year for about $700 million. The AdMob
transaction was cleared by the FTC, which also reached a
settlement with Google in March over privacy violations arising
from its Buzz social networking service.  Approval of Admeld may hinge on how the Justice Department
defines the internet advertising market, Proskauer’s Batts said.  Google is the market leader for search advertising, which
is the placement of advertisements alongside search engine query
results. Google dominated this market in the U.S. in the first
quarter with 59.6 percent compared with Microsoft’s 7.9 percent
and Yahoo!’s 7 percent, according to the IDC report.  Still, Stifel’s Arbogast said she expects the Admeld deal
to be approved.  “The Admeld transaction seems to allow them to do what
they do already better,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 