-- 
Greek Notes Surge as Merkel Seeks Compromise With ECB on Loans

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-06-17T15:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/greek-two-year-notes-gain-germany-s-merkel-says-wants-to-work-with-ecb.html
Greek two-year notes surged, driving
yields lower for the first time in nine days, after  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  retreated from German demands that bondholders be
forced to bear a “substantial” share of a new rescue.  Ten-year Greek yields also slid. Merkel will work with the
 European Central Bank  to resolve the crisis, she told reporters
in Berlin today at a joint press conference with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Irish two-year yields, which earlier
climbed above 13 percent for the first time, fell, while German
securities dropped as stocks rebounded, sapping demand for the
debt as a haven.  “The market is taking it positively that there is a
Franco-German agreement, even though there are still elements
that need to be resolved,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . “It’s
understandable that markets have reacted with some relief, but
we’re not going to price out risk on a wholesale basis. It puts
some downside to core markets, such as bunds, and allows for
some spread tightening from very wide levels.”  The yield on the Greek two-year note tumbled 165 basis
points to 28.04 percent as of 4:03 p.m. in London, paring a
weekly increase that pushed it above 30 percent yesterday for
the first time since the euro’s 1999 introduction. The
Portuguese two-year yield declined 13 basis points to 12.95
percent, after rising to a euro-era record. Ireland’s two-year
yield decreased 36 basis points to 12.59 percent.  Bond Losses  The euro recovered its losses against the dollar,
strengthening 0.7 percent to $1.4296, paring a second weekly
decline that was fueled by concern divisions within  Europe  were
hardening over how to resolve the crisis. The yield on the 10-
year U.S. Treasury note rose one basis point to 2.94 percent.  Greek  government bonds  lost investors 8.7 percent this
month, extending this year’s drop to 20 percent, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Portuguese debt handed
investors a 19 percent loss this year. German bonds, perceived
to be the region’s safest securities, returned 0.7 percent.  “We need to get something done as soon as possible,” said
 Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole SA
in London. “We need to see more unity. Markets are still
concerned about the outcome of the Greek situation.”  The extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold
Greek 10-year debt instead of similar-maturity German bunds
surged to a record 1,543 basis points, or 15.43 percentage
points, before falling to 1,398 basis points.  Portugal ’s 10-year
bonds yielded 807 basis points more than their German
counterparts.  ‘Private Creditors’  Merkel said that a debt rollover modeled on the so-called
Vienna Initiative was a “good basis” for enrolling investors
voluntarily to help  Greece . She declined to give a date for the
package to be worked out, saying that the matter must be
resolved “as quickly as possible.” European finance ministers
are scheduled to next meet on Greece on June 19-20, followed by
a Brussels summit of European Union leaders on June 23-24.  “We would like to have a participation of private
creditors on a voluntary basis,” Merkel told reporters today.
This “should be worked out jointly with the ECB and there
shouldn’t be any dispute with the ECB on this,” she said.  The German bund yield rose three basis points to 2.95
percent, cutting its decline this week to one basis point. The
yield dropped to 2.91 percent yesterday, the lowest since Jan.
11. The 3.25 percent security due July 2021 fell 0.30, or 3
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,431) face amount, to 102.56. Yields on
two-year notes increased seven basis points to 1.51 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  