-- 
Greek Bailout Leaves French Unruffled While Germany Seethes

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-06-17T11:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/greek-bailout-leaves-french-unruffled-while-germany-seethes.html
Greece’s bailout, which has provoked
popular anger in Germany, leaves neighboring  France  cold.  Europe’s two largest economies, which were on opposite
sides of a deadlock on enrolling investors in a second Greek
rescue without triggering a default, said today in Berlin that
they’ve found common ground. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
room for maneuver has been limited by opposition at home.
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has faced no such pressure.  “France is a Latin country that feels closer to the
Greeks; they also feel it could happen to them,” said Philippe Moreau-Defarge, a researcher at the French Institute of
International Relations, or IFRI, in Paris. “In Germany, it’s
the classic tale of the ant and the grasshopper, with the ant
furious about having to pay for the grasshopper’s profligacy.”  In the face of turmoil in currency and credit markets,
Merkel signaled willingness to compromise on German demands that
bondholders shoulder a ‘substantial” share of a Greek rescue,
saying she’ll work with the  European Central Bank  to resolve the
crisis. France, like the ECB, had sought a “voluntary”
rollover of Greek debt by investors, warning that a compulsory
move might constitute the euro area’s first sovereign default.  “We would like to have a participation of private
creditors on a voluntary basis,” Merkel told reporters at a
joint press conference with Sarkozy in Berlin today. “This
should be worked out jointly with the ECB.”  Sarkozy called the accord a “breakthrough.”  Unification  German politicians and media have voiced anger at having to
come to the aid of what some of them say are profligate Greeks.  “The Germans digested unification and then went through an
austerity cure,” said IFRI’s Moreau-Defarge. “They feel
they’ve set a good example.”  In France, aiding  Greece  draws little angst in radio or
television programs and in the press. In  a poll  in March last
year by Greece’s Sunday newspaper Ethnos, before the first
bailout plan, 69.6 percent said the southern European country
had French support compared with 2.7 percent for Germany.  “Helping Greece is very unpopular among German public
opinion, so Merkel has made many populist comments to assure the
public that she’s looking after their tax money,” said Henrik
Uterwedde, deputy director of the French German Institute, based
in Ludwigsburg and Paris. “The comments are aimed at her base,
but they get projected across Europe. The problem is the German
government cries scandal, and then ends up helping the Greeks.
So they’ve angered their own public and the rest of  Europe .”  Taxpayer Protection  On May 18, Merkel was cited by news agency DPA as saying:
“It’s not about whether people in Greece,  Spain ,  Portugal  can’t
retire earlier than in Germany; it’s about everyone pulling
their weight equally. We can’t have one currency, and one gets a
lot of vacation and the other very little.”  France doesn’t have the same culture of defending tax payer
interests as Germany,  Maurice Levy , chief executive officer of
advertising company Publicis SA, said in an interview.  “We don’t even have a word in French for ‘taxpayer’,” he
said. “We call them ‘contributors,’ which has a nice positive
sound. There’s a sense in France that we can always add to our
obligations.”  Protests in Greece against austerity measures have drawn
angry opinion pieces in  Germany . Writer Dirk Hoeren noted in
Bild Zeitung, Germany’s most-read newspaper, on May 18:
“Germany’s economic boom didn’t fall from the sky. It was paid
for through hard work and austerity. That’s why it cannot be
that some people practice frugality and foot the bill, while
others go easy on themselves and cash in.”  With Creditors  France, is “a country with a lot of protests, so they
aren’t shocked or surprised to see the Greeks protest against
the austerity measures,” said IFRI’s Moreau-Defarge.  When the euro was created, the Germans insisted on the need
for continuing with the Deutsche Bundesbank’s culture of  price
stability , while French attention was on the potential of a
common currency to boost economic growth, he said.  Coverage in France of the Greek crisis has focused more on
process. In an editorial in  Le Figaro  yesterday, Gaetan de
Capele wrote that “wisdom lies in finding an exit from the
crisis with the creditors rather than against them.”  German lenders were the biggest foreign owners of Greek
 government bonds  with $22.7 billion in holdings last year,
according to data compiled by the  Bank for International
Settlements  in  Basel ,  Switzerland .  Debt Holders  French banks led the group of Greek creditors with overall
claims amounting to $56.7 billion, trailing their German peers
on sovereign debt with $15 billion, according to the June report
from the BIS.  The figure for French banks was inflated by $39.6 billion
in lending to companies and households, mainly because of  Credit
Agricole ’s Greek unit, Emporiki Bank SA. German lenders have no
major units in the country.  “The Germans are more worried about public accounts,”
said Philippe Marini, secretary of the French Senate Finance
Committee. “The French always think a solution will be found,
that the money will come from somewhere. Public accounts aren’t
something that keep the French up at night.”  Pressure on euro-area governments to craft a rescue plan
intensified this week after  Standard & Poor’s  slapped Greece
with the world’s lowest credit rating. Moody’s placed the
ratings of  BNP Paribas (BNP) , France’s biggest bank, and local rivals
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and Credit Agricole under reviews that will
focus on their holdings of Greek public and private debt.  Pragmatism  The euro reversed a decline against the dollar after Merkel
and Sarkozy announced their accord. The European currency had
been sliding amid speculation the Greek crisis is deteriorating,
damping demand for the region’s assets.  The euro was roiled by the impasse over the aid formula and
speculation that a government shakeup in Greece will disrupt
passage of 78 billion euros ($110 billion) in austerity measures
needed for a new bailout from the European Union.  With agreement between Germany and France a prerequisite
for forging a European Union consensus behind the second bailout
of Greece, the two sides have needed to strike a balance between
German principles and French pragmatism.  “Greece is in trouble, we have to help them because
otherwise it would undermine the euro zone, so we just choose to
overlook the background, which is that Greece cheated and
previous Greek governments mismanaged the situation,” said
Publicis’s Levy.  The German reaction has been more like a family “that
instead of putting out the fire in their house, sits around and
fusses about the terms of their insurance contract,” said
Uterwedde at French German Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  