-- 
Green Lantern Clashes With Blob Killer; Carrey’s Penguins: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/green-lantern-clashes-with-blob-killer-carrey-s-penguins-film.html
After receiving a green ring from a
dying purple alien, test pilot Hal Jordan struggles to recite an
oath that will activate the ring’s powers and allow him, among
other things, to fly.  Jordan’s alter ego is the title character in “ Green
Lantern ,” which likewise strains to take off. While the
superhero eventually soars, the movie remains grounded by an
incomprehensible plot, cardboard characters and over-reliance on
computer-generated spectacles.  “ Green Lantern ” brings us closer to the seeming goal of
turning every comic-book icon into a film franchise. Yet, even
with the brainpower of four screenwriters and noted action
director Martin Campbell (“Casino Royale,” “The Mask of
Zorro”), it adds virtually nothing fresh to the genre.  Ryan Reynolds , who plays Jordan and Green Lantern, has a
sculpted physique that looks terrific in that skintight green
uniform and mask. His acting is as thin as his outfit.  Unless you’re a hard-core Green Lantern fan, you’ll
probably be baffled by the Guardians of the Universe (an
interstellar police force), Oa (the planet where the Guardians
live), Kilowag (a towering, porcine-faced alien) and Parallax
(an evil, blob-like monster).  All you really need to know is that the Green Lantern and
Parallax are headed for an intergalactic showdown while Jordan
plays footsie with his sometimes-lover Carol (Blake Lively), a
fellow pilot at her father’s aircraft company.  Tim Robbins plays a slick politician whose son Hector (a
hammy Peter Sarsgaard) is a brilliant scientist with daddy
issues. After Hector is ordered by government agents to examine
an alien corpse, things go haywire and his face balloons like
Elephant Man.  Now there’s a guy I could root for.  “Green Lantern,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , open across
the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ‘Mr. Popper’s Penguins’  Jim Carrey, waddling penguins and a beloved children’s
story seem like a good combination for a family comedy.  So why is “ Mr. Popper’s Penguins ” such a dud?  How about a slapdash adaptation, a too-tame Carrey and
jokes lame enough to make a child wince?  Carrey’s Tommy Popper is a cocky, divorced real-estate
bigwig who lives in a ritzy New York apartment and rarely sees
his two kids (Madeline Carroll, Maxwell Perry Cotton). His life
is turned upside-down when his adventurer father dies and, as
his final gesture, sends Tommy a crate containing a Gentoo
penguin from Antarctica.  Chaplin’s Walk  Popper tries to return the flightless bird, but due to a
mix-up he gets sent five more. His kids fall in love with the
tuxedoed avians, so dad decides to keep them and turn his
apartment into a freezer filled with snow, raw fish and an ice-
skating track.  He also entertains the Gentoos -- real penguins were used,
along with computer effects -- by planting them in front of a TV
showing  Charlie Chaplin ’s Tramp doing his penguin-like walk.  Popper still wants to get back with his ex-wife (Carla Gugino), but he’s distracted by a zookeeper who wants to take
the birds away and pressure from his bosses to buy the famous
Tavern on the Green restaurant from its aging owner ( Angela Lansbury ). I was more annoyed by Popper’s bubbly assistant
(Ophelia Lovibond), who speaks in alliterative sentences crammed
with words starting with “p.”  Director Mark Waters can’t resist an overdose of sappiness
and corniness, making this a movie for the birds.  “Mr. Popper’s Penguins,” from 20th Century Fox, open
across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 