-- 
Biggest Greek-Default Impact Would Be on Unhedged, Sheets Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-17T18:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/greek-default-would-hurt-the-unhedged-most-morgan-stanley-says-tom-keene.html
The biggest impact on the financial
system from a default on Greek government debt would be on
investors who didn’t seek credit protection, according to Morgan
Stanley’s Andrew Sheets.  Credit-default swaps on Greece cover a net notional $5
billion, according to the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. ,
which runs a central registry that captures most trades. That’s
just 1 percent of the Greek government’s $482 billion of bonds
and loans outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Swaps pay buyers face value for the underlying securities or the
cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its agreements.  “Most of the market is not hedged,” Sheets, head of
European credit strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and
Ken Prewitt. “That obviously creates a segment of the market
that has a vested interest in delaying or avoiding a hard
restructuring in the near term.”  Credit-default swaps on  Greece  rose to a record 2,237 basis
points yesterday before slipping today to 1,933 basis points.
A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10 million
euros ($14.3 million) of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  “I don’t think the primary risk comes through the credit-
default swaps; we think it comes through those other connections
between a country and the broader system,” Sheets said.  About one-third of Greece’s debt is held domestically, of
which half is held by the nation’s banks, while two-thirds is
held by international investors, Sheets said.  An agreement that would require all bondholders to
participate in a Greek rescue would have a bigger impact on
financial markets and would be more likely to trigger swap
contracts, Sheets said.  “If it’s voluntary, I think markets would be more
comfortable with it,” which would reduce the likelihood that
guarantors would be forced to pay on the swaps, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  