-- 
Growers Call on G-20 Leaders to Halt Disappearance of Farmland

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-17T16:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/growers-call-on-g-20-leaders-to-halt-disappearance-of-farmland.html
Farm organizations called on the
leaders of Group of 20 nations to halt the disappearance of
agricultural land and cross-border buying of land, as well as
push for regulation to limit “excessive” speculation.  Policy makers should “limit the disappearance of land used
for agriculture, the transnational appropriation of productive
lands,” and ensure farmers have access to land, 120 farm groups
said in a joint declaration handed out at an international
conference in Paris today.  Agriculture ministers from the G-20 will meet in Paris
next week to discuss  food security  and farming. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who heads the G-20 this year, said
yesterday the world needs “a new agricultural model” that
includes regulation to curb speculation and food-price swings.  The main goal of agriculture is to feed people, and the
“food challenge of the 21st century” requires more and better
production, the farm groups said. World food output will have to
rise 70 percent by 2050 as the planet’s population climbs to 9.2
billion from an estimated 6.9 billion in 2010, according to the
 United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization .  G-20 leaders should also push for market regulation and
position limits on agricultural commodities “with a view of
restraining the excessive speculation,” the farm groups said.
Transparency and information on markets and stocks around the
world are required, according to the organizations.  The conference in Paris was organized by  France ’s farm
lobby FNSEA and Jeunes Agriculteurs and hosted by about 240
representatives from farm organizations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 