-- 
Gulf Gasoline Rises as Valero Port Arthur Restart Said Delayed

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-06-17T20:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/gulf-gasoline-rises-as-valero-port-arthur-restart-said-delayed.html
Gasoline on the Gulf Coast
strengthened as the start of units at  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s Port
Arthur refinery in Texas was said to be delayed, keeping the
plant operating at reduced rates for at least another week.  A 100,000-barrel-a-day coker and a 175,000-barrel-a-day
crude unit have been shut since a June 6 lightning strike
destroyed the motor on a wet gas compressor.  The coker may be started this weekend with a smaller-
capacity compressor that will force the unit to run at a lower
rate for some days, said two people familiar with refinery
operations who declined to be identified because they’re not
authorized to speak for the plant. The crude unit won’t restart
for two to three days from today, the people said.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
 Gulf Coast  narrowed 0.65 cent to 19 cents versus futures traded
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:01 p.m. New York time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery fell
0.61 cent to $2.7598 a gallon.  Spot gasoline in  Los Angeles  strengthened for the first
time in three days after Valero reported flaring at its
Wilmington,  California , refinery and pipeline deliveries were
scheduled.  The discount for California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in
Los Angeles narrowed 1.05 cents to 6.45 cents a gallon versus
futures. The fuel’s discount had been widening because of lower-
than-expected demand, according to Chris Mennis, who owns oil
broker New Wave Energy LLC in Aptos, California.  “It does seem to be moving up a bit,” said Randy Simpson,
vice president of supply and trading at Idemitsu Apollo Corp. in
 Sacramento . “It’s pipeline scheduling mostly for refineries.”  California Refinery  Valero reported planned flaring at its Wilmington refinery,
located south of Los Angeles, from yesterday to June 18 related
to a propane storage tank.  The discount for the same fuel in San Francisco widened
0.07 cent to 5.45 cents a gallon versus futures.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  completed maintenance at its Golden Eagle
refinery near Martinez, California, Mike Marcy, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Valero flared sulfur dioxide at its Benicia refinery,
northeast of San Francisco, yesterday because of a “minor unit
upset,” Sue Fisher Jones, a spokeswoman for the refinery, said
in a telephone interview today. The incident did not affect
production, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Clark in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  