-- 
Liberty Global’s Plan to Buy Kabel BW Probed by Germany

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-06-17T09:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/liberty-global-s-plan-to-buy-kabel-bw-to-be-probed-in-germany.html
Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ’s plan to buy
Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH will be investigated in  Germany 
after its antitrust agency convinced the European Union it is
better placed to probe possible harmful effects of the deal.  The European Commission, the EU antitrust regulator in
Brussels, decided to refer the entire case to the German agency
because “almost all” the affected markets are national or
regional and because the German Federal Cartel Office has
“significant experience” in the industry.  A preliminary EU investigation found that the deal “may
significantly affect competition in the market for the provision
of free-TV services to housing associations, where contracts
with tenants are negotiated collectively, a big market in
Germany,” the commission said.  U.S. billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty Global in March
agreed to buy Kabel BW, Germany’s third-largest cable-television
operator, for about 3.16 billion euros ($4.5 billion.) It would
be Liberty’s second such acquisition in less than two years
focusing on rising demand for broadband  Internet access  via
cable. Liberty bought Unitymedia, Germany’s second-largest cable
operator, in November 2009.  Although regional cable operators aren’t currently
competing with each other, “it cannot be excluded that this is
the result of coordination among the operators and that the
proposed transaction could strengthen such coordinated effects
between the three regional operators in Germany,” the
commission said in today’s statement.  ‘Threaten’ Competition  The deal may also “threaten to affect competition in the
national market for the wholesale supply of TV signal
transmission services,” the commission said.  Liberty Global is “confident of a positive outcome” and
would submit its notification to the Federal Cartel Office
shortly, said Bert Holtkamp, an Amsterdam-based spokesman for
the company in an e-mailed statement.  Andreas Mundt, the president of the cartel office, said
German regulators have already worked “closely and
confidentially” with the EU and the companies on the case.  “We can now immediately get involved in the examination,”
he said in an e-mailed statement.  The German regulator said it may need to closely examine
the effect of the deal on competition on license contracts
between cable operators and housing associations and said the
television feed-in market may also need to be probed.  Kabel BW spokesman Martin Herkommer declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 