-- 
Qaddafi’s Forces Fire Rockets at Misrata

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-06-18T01:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/libyan-forces-hit-misrata-city-center-as-qaddafi-vows-to-remain-in-office.html
Forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi 
fired rockets at the port and center of Misrata, attacking the
besieged western city for the first time in weeks, as the Libyan
leader said he has no intention of giving up power.  Qaddafi, in an audio message aired on state television
yesterday, vowed that his forces will defeat the air campaign of
the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization .  “We don’t want to negotiate, we are resilient even if they
strike with atomic bombs,” Qaddafi said. “We will provoke them
to use atomic bombs, let them strike with atomic bombs.”  Western and Arab leaders are demanding an end to Qaddafi’s
four-decade rule, and NATO aircraft are targeting his forces in
a military campaign about to enter its fourth month. Qaddafi’s
forces attacked Misrata yesterday for the first time since
government units were pushed out of the urban areas on May 12.  The shelling coincided with an assault on the western
outskirts of the city by infantry and artillery. Misrata’s Hikma
hospital reported 11 dead and 41 wounded in the attack on the
forward positions. One woman was killed and two of her children
injured by the government bombardment of the rebel-held city,
Radio Misrata said.  NATO jets yesterday flew over the city 125 miles (200
kilometers) east of the capital, Tripoli, and 23 detonations
were heard beyond the rebel front line near the town of Zlitan.
Reports that this was NATO bombing of government forces couldn’t
be confirmed.  NATO Leaflets  NATO dropped thousands of leaflets this week on the Libyan
government front lines around Misrata. The flyers showed a
picture of an Apache helicopter and threatening retaliation
against any forces firing at civilian areas.  The fighting has largely halted  Libya ’s oil exports.  Eni
SpA (ENI)  said there has been no damage as far as it knows to its
Libyan plants. It will take months for oil output to resume,
Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said in an interview in
 St. Petersburg , Russia, yesterday.  Crude oil dropped to the lowest level in almost four months
today in  New York  on doubts European efforts to resolve the
Greek debt crisis will succeed, spurring concern of reduced
economic growth and fuel demand.  Crude oil for July delivery dropped $1.94 to $93.01 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement price since Feb. 18. The move capped the biggest
weekly decline in six weeks.  Russian Envoy  Russia ’s envoy to  Africa  said Qaddafi refuses to step down,
after holding talks with Libyan government officials in Tripoli.  “The prime minister said Qaddafi doesn’t intend to
resign,”  Mikhail Margelov  said yesterday by telephone from
Tunis, a day after meeting with Libyan officials including Prime
Minister Baghdadi Mahmudi. “For the government of Tripoli, they
aren’t prepared to discuss the future of Qaddafi.”  Margelov said Mahmudi assured him the government is in
direct contact with the rebels. Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice
president of the rebel National Transitional Council, denied any
direct contact with Qaddafi officials, according to a report
yesterday by Russian news service RIA Novosti.  Margelov, who earlier this month held talks with rebels in
the eastern port city of Benghazi, said there need to be “clear
rules of the game” to achieve a handover of power.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  