-- 
Libya Provides Opportunity to Renew U.S.-Europe Alliance: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/libya-provides-opportunity-to-renew-u-s-europe-alliance-view.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
declared last week that  Europe ’s declining military capabilities
and its lack of political will threaten the viability of NATO.
That’s correct, although it isn’t news. Ten years ago, Lord Robertson of the U.K., who was then the alliance’s secretary
general, stated the problem more colorfully: “Europe is an
economic giant,” he said, “but a military pygmy.”  But Secretary Gates may not have chosen the right moment
for pointing out the obvious. After all, for the first time in
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s 60-year history, the
U.S. has chosen to take a back-seat role -- in NATO’s air
operations in Libya against the regime of  Muammar Qaddafi .  Ten U.S. presidents -- from Harry S. Truman to  Bill Clinton 
-- saw U.S. leadership of NATO as a vital national interest.
Before Libya, the U.S. led all of the alliance’s operations,
including those in Bosnia, Kosovo and  Afghanistan . The U.S.
always determined the military objectives, the force structure
and the exit strategy, and also committed up to two-thirds of
the required troops. The U.S. was what former Secretary of State
 Madeleine Albright  called the “indispensable nation.”  Unfortunately, the Obama administration has tried to change
this tradition by “leading from behind,” as one White House
official infelicitously put it. Such a strategy is a grand
mistake.  ‘Two-Tier’ Alliance  Gates is right to worry that NATO is becoming a “two-tier”
alliance -- with some countries running the combat missions and
others managing the peacekeeping or political tasks. But he was
wrong to cite  Libya  as an example of that problem. After all,
Europe has done the leading on Libya. Since NATO took command of
the operation on March 31, President  Barack Obama  has limited
U.S. participation to refueling, intelligence and other support
tasks. The Europeans have flown close to 75 percent of coalition
air sorties, according to the administration’s  June 15 report  to
Congress, and all 20 ships enforcing the arms embargo are
European or Canadian.  So it seems odd now to criticize our partners’ weakness.  The lack of U.S. leadership and Europe’s reluctance to
rebuild its military capabilities reflect a larger problem: The
trans-Atlantic relationship increasingly resembles a stale
marriage. Both sides are comfortable with each other and don’t
want a divorce, but their passion and sense of joint purpose
have dimmed. Expressions of affection have become largely
ritualistic. Snipping about each other’s faults has increased
but is still muted in front of strangers.  Appropriate U.S. Role  What, then, to do? First, Europe should spend more on
defense, or at least spend more efficiently, and the U.S. should
resume its natural and appropriate role as leader of NATO. Then,
with respect to Libya, the Obama administration should end its
experiment in back-seat driving.  The U.S. is already committed in Libya; the president has
said Qaddafi must go, and with U.S. help tens of thousands of
civilian lives have been saved.  Washington  can continue to make
a difference in Libya at an acceptable cost. The sooner U.S.
leadership is brought to bear, the sooner NATO’s mission can be
brought to a successful conclusion.  More broadly, Brussels and Washington need to renew their
relationship. With D-Day, the Berlin airlift and even the  Cold
War  receding into history, younger generations of Europeans and
Americans may no longer remember why NATO was created. The Arab
Spring can bring a new sense of purpose. These past few months
have shown that when historic events unfold -- whether in Egypt,
Syria or Libya -- the partnership between the U.S. and Europe
can provide the moral, financial and even military support that
no other part of the world will offer.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  