-- 
Tiger-Like U.S. Open Seen From Rory McIlroy as Woods Sits Injured at Home

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-17T20:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/tiger-like-u-s-open-seen-from-rory-mcilroy-as-woods-sits-injured-at-home.html
There’s a Tiger Woods-like
performance being put on at the  U.S. Open , while the game’s
biggest draw hobbles at home on crutches.  Rory McIlroy’s record-setting play through two rounds at
Congressional Country Club has drawn comparisons to Woods’s romp
11 years ago.  “It’s like Tiger at  Pebble Beach  when he pulled away,”
Mike Davis, executive director of the U.S. Golf Association,
told reporters inside the clubhouse of the course in Bethesda,
Maryland. “I think it’s fantastic.”  In 2000, Woods won his first of three U.S. Open titles by a
record 15 shots at  California ’s Pebble Beach Golf Links. His 12-
under-par final score stands as the lowest winning total
in 110 U.S. Opens.  McIlroy, at 11 under after 36 holes, has a chance to
eclipse Woods’s mark this weekend.  “I’m feeling good, feeling very good,” McIlroy said in a
news conference. “It’s funny to me, you know, it feels quite
simple. I’m hitting fairways. I’m hitting greens. I’m holing my
fair share of putts. That’s basically it.”  What has seemed simple to McIlroy has drawn high praise
from others.  “You just can’t fathom it,” said Robert Garrigus, who
played two groups in front of McIlroy today and sits at 2 under.
“It’s crazy to see. I played well, but I can’t do anything
about what he’s doing. I can’t go break his knee.”  Garrigus was among those now only left to wonder if McIlroy
will be able to hold on for the victory. Unlike Woods during his
prime, McIlroy has a history of surrendering leads in golf’s
major tournaments. He blew a four-shot lead over the final round
of the  Masters Tournament  in April with an 8-over-par 80 on the
final 18 holes.  Gracious Loser  As devastating as that was for McIlroy, he congratulated
winner Charl Schwartzel of  South Africa , drawing support from
golf fans and other players. While it might be nice to be well-
liked, McIlroy said he’s ready for some of the praise to be
heaped on him.  “I’d like to be happy for myself,” he said. “It would be
nice to get a little piece of the action. These records, they’re
nice, but they don’t really mean anything until the end of the
tournament.”  McIlroy’s total of 131 eclipsed the 36-hole scoring mark of
132 set by  Ricky Barnes  two years ago at Bethpage State Park’s
Black Course in  New York .  No player before today had scored better than 9 under
through the first two rounds of the U.S. Open. McIlroy reached
10 under when he holed out a wedge shot for an eagle on the
eighth hole, his 26th hole of the tournament.  Popularity Gap  Although McIlroy is putting on a record-setting
performance, the on-course support for him still lags behind
what Woods received in his prime, players said. Paired with
five-time U.S. Open runner-up  Phil Mickelson  through the first
two rounds, McIlroy wasn’t even the most popular player in his
group.  “The roars for Phil were louder,” Garrigus said. “Just
because he’s Phil. Everybody loves him. To see what Rory is
doing now is remarkable, but if Phil makes a run on Saturday or
Sunday, this place is going to go nuts.”  Mickelson, the winner of five major tournaments, is 1 over
after rounds of 74 and 69.  With McIlroy so far ahead, his competitors have been forced
to adopt a new strategy for the final two rounds.  ‘Playing for Second’  “I personally won’t look at the leaderboard all weekend
because there’s no point. We’re all playing for second place,”
said Brandt Snedeker, who is at 2 under. “He’s probably got
more talent in his pinky than I have in my whole body.”  When Woods began to dominate golf in the early 2000s,
tournament organizers lengthened holes, narrowed fairways and
made putting surfaces faster. The changes became known as
“Tiger-proofing” golf courses.  After watching what McIlroy has done over the first two
days at one of golf’s most difficult courses, Davis of the USGA
was asked if could foresee similar changes being made for
McIlroy in years to come.  “We’re not quite there,” Davis said. “Yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Bethesda,  Maryland , at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  