-- 
IMF Cuts Forecast for U.S. Growth Again Amid Risk of Contagion From Europe

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-17T15:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/imf-cuts-forecast-for-u-s-growth-again-amid-risk-of-contagion-from-europe.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its forecast for U.S. growth in 2011 for the second time in two
months, warning that further setbacks to a recovery pose growing
threats to the world economy, along with potential contagion
from the European debt crisis.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.5 percent this year, down from
2.8 percent projected in April, the IMF said today, citing
higher commodity prices and bad weather in the first quarter and
a weak housing market. The IMF forecasts 2.7 percent growth in
2012, slower than the previous estimate of 2.9 percent. The
Washington-based IMF sees the world economy expanding 4.3
percent this year, down from 4.4 percent two months ago. It left
a 4.5 percent forecast for next year unchanged.  “Global activity is projected to slow in the second
quarter of 2011, and then reaccelerate in the second half of the
year,” the IMF said in an update of its  World Economic Outlook 
report. “Greater-than-anticipated weakness in U.S. activity and
renewed financial volatility from concerns about the depth of
fiscal challenges in the euro area periphery pose greater
downside risks.”  The IMF urged emerging markets from China to  Indonesia ,
which are set to grow three times faster than developed
counterparts, to hasten interest-rate increases. Challenges
facing richer economies range from debt-reduction plans in Japan
and the U.S. to improving banks’ balance sheets in  Europe , where
investors fear there won’t be the political support to reduce
deficits and secure funding for countries such as Greece.  Sovereign Defaults  IMF chief economist  Olivier Blanchard  at a press conference
in  Sao Paulo  said today that a failure to agree on measures or
funding for countries at the “periphery” of the euro region
could lead to a sovereign defaults and derail the world
recovery.  As European officials discuss how to provide additional
funding for  Greece  and get the private sector involved without
triggering a default, the IMF is “hopeful” that an agreement
can be found, said Jose Vinals, the agency’s head of the
monetary and capital markets department.  “The fund is ready to help but for that there are some
conditions that need to be met,” Vinals said. These conditions
are for the Greek authorities to endorse measures attached to
the loan and assurances from Europe that Greece’s program will
be fully financed, he said.  Deficit Forecast  In a separate  report  today, the IMF narrowed its deficit
forecast for the U.S. this year to 9.9 percent of gross domestic
product, from an April estimate of 10.8 percent, after  tax
revenue  was higher and spending lower than expected. It’s now
set to be the second-largest shortfall of major mature economies
after Japan.  Still, “for the U.S., it is critical to immediately
address the debt ceiling and launch a deficit reduction plan
that includes entitlement reform and revenue-raising  tax
reform ,” the IMF said.  The recommendation comes as U.S. lawmakers wrangle over
spending cuts and budget reforms as they seek an agreement to
increase the $14.3 trillion debt limit before Aug. 2, the date
on which the Treasury Department said it will have exhausted all
its borrowing authority.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from June 1 to June 8
also expect U.S. expansion of 2.5 percent, according to the
median of 68 forecasts.  Advanced Economies  Developing nations will grow 6.6 percent this year and 6.4
percent in 2012, while advanced economies will expand 2.2
percent in 2011 and 2.6 percent next year, the IMF said.  Risks from higher commodity prices have eased compared with
April, according to the agency. It now assumes oil at $106.30 a
barrel in 2011, based on the average prices of U.K. Brent, Dubai
and West Texas Intermediate crudes, compared with $107.16 in
April.  Crude oil for July delivery dropped $1.30, or 1.4 percent,
to $93.65 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  today.  Still, global inflation has accelerated and pressures
“have become increasingly broad-based” in developing
economies, the IMF said, “reflecting a higher share of food and
fuel in consumption as well as accelerating demand pressure.”  Within Group of Seven countries, the IMF cut its 2011
forecast for  Japan  after the March earthquake and tsunami, now
expecting a contraction of 0.7 percent this year and growth of
2.9 percent next year. That compares with predictions of
expansion of 1.4 percent and 2.1 percent two months ago.  Euro Area  It now also expects 1 percent growth in  Italy  this year,
0.1 percentage point less than in April. Still, expansion in the
17-nation euro area is expected to reach 2 percent, 0.4
percentage point more than two months ago thanks to higher-than-
expected growth in Germany and  France .  The supply chain disruption from the Japanese disaster has
also contributed to lower U.S. growth and investors are worried
about a recent slowdown in activity, according to the report.  “Market concerns about possible setbacks to the U.S.
recovery have also surfaced,” the IMF wrote. “If these risks
materialize, they will reverberate across the rest of the world
-- possibly seriously impairing funding conditions for banks and
corporations in advanced economies and undercutting capital
flows to emerging economies.”  The IMF sees recent U.S. figures as “more of a bump in the
road than something more worrisome,” Blanchard said today. He
said that he expects  consumer spending  and investment spending
to continue “at a decent rate.” Even growth is too weak to cut
unemployment quickly, it is strong enough “to avoid any chance
of a double-dip” recession, he said.  Emerging Markets  Among major emerging markets, the fastest growth will be in
 China , which will expand 9.6 percent in 2011 and 9.5 percent
next year, unchanged from April projections. The IMF cut growth
forecast for  Brazil  to 4.1 percent this year, 0.4 percentage
point less than before, and 3.6 percent in 2012. Forecasts for
 India  were unchanged at 8.2 percent and 7.8 percent
respectively.  These fast-growing countries should use exchange rate
flexibility and tools that can include  capital controls  “to
help contain risks of boom-bust cycles,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  