-- 
IMF Says South Korea Needs ’Further Steady Monetary Tightening’

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   K e n   M c C a l l u m
-- 
2011-06-17T06:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/imf-says-south-korea-needs-further-steady-monetary-tightening-.html
South Korea  needs to continue
raising interest rates to combat inflation, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  “Monetary conditions remain loose for this stage of the
cycle,” the IMF said today in a statement distributed by South
 Korea ’s finance ministry in Gwacheon, south of  Seoul . “To ensure
a soft landing, further steady monetary tightening is
necessary.”  Bank of Korea board member Kang Myung Hun said yesterday
the central bank may need to slow the pace of interest-rate
increases because of rising risks to the global economic outlook.
South Korea’s inflation has exceeded the central bank’s 4
percent target every month this year, prompting it to raise the
benchmark seven-day repurchase rate to 3.25 percent last week.  The  Bank of Korea  has boosted interest rates five times
since July 2010.  Exchange-rate flexibility is also needed to respond to
inflation, the organization said. Administrative price
stabilization measures, meanwhile, can’t contain inflation
expectations over the long term, it said.  South Korea’s economy will grow 4.5 percent this year,
“above the economy’s underlying potential,” before easing to a
4.2 percent expansion in 2012, the IMF said. The economy
expanded 1.3 percent in the three months through March, the
fastest since the second quarter of 2010. The won has also
gained 4.5 percent against the dollar in the past three months,
threatening the profits of exporters.  The Bank of Korea’s Kang said in an interview he’s worried
about the U.S. economic outlook.  “The external conditions are much more uncertain -- if the
uncertainty deepens, we may have to slow down our pace” of
interest rate increases, Kang said.  The IMF also said making the Bank of Korea’s policy rate
more responsive to “systemic financial stability considerations”
would help prevent the buildup of leverage and financial shocks
spilling over to the real economy.  The central bank could do this by monitoring indicators of
financial stability and raise  interest rates  to prevent
excessive risk taking, the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net 
Ken McCallum in Tokyo at 
 kmccallum4@bloomberf.met   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  