-- 
India’s Rupee Completes Weekly Decline on Greek Debt Concern

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-06-17T12:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/india-rupee-set-for-worst-week-in-a-month-on-greek-debt-concern.html
India ’s rupee completed its first
weekly loss this month on speculation the debt crisis in Europe
will prompt investors to choose the perceived safety of the
dollar over emerging-market assets.  The currency lost 0.7 percent this quarter, the worst
performance after the  Thai baht  among Asia’s 10 most-used
exchange rates. Former Federal Reserve chairman  Alan Greenspan 
said a debt default by Greece is “almost certain.”
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-
area finance ministers, was cited in Germany’s Tagesspiegel
newspaper as saying that resolving the Greek crisis is
“extremely difficult.”  “The Greece debt situation is just getting worse and the
dollar has strengthened because of that,” said Sudarshan Bhatt,
chief currency trader at  Corporation Bank  in Mumbai. “The rupee
isn’t getting any support from stocks either.”  The Indian currency lost 0.3 percent this week to 44.87 per
dollar as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee may drop to 45.20 in the coming
week, Bhatt predicted.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, climbed 0.4
percent this week, adding to last week’s 1.4 percent gain. The
Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index of local shares fell 2.2
percent in the period.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 44.48 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 45.56 yesterday and 45.36 at the end of last week.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 