-- 
Indonesia Rupiah, Bonds Set for Weekly Loss on Europe Debt Woes

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-06-17T08:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/indonesia-rupiah-bonds-set-for-weekly-loss-on-europe-debt-woes.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah recorded its
biggest weekly decline in more than a year as concern  Greece ’s
debt crisis is worsening and signs of slowing global growth
reduced investor appetite for emerging-market assets.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  fired his finance
minister and appointed Defense Minister Evangelos Venizelos to
the post today. The Cabinet changes were made after Papendreou
failed to win opposition support for austerity measures. Global
funds sold $19.3 million more Indonesia stocks than they bought
yesterday, exchange data show. Confidence among U.S.
homebuilders fell to the lowest level in nine months and
manufacturing in the New York region unexpectedly shrank in June,
data showed this week.  “Most people are not entirely sure what direction the
global economy is heading toward and it’s being reflected in
volatility,” said  Prakriti Sofat , an economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore . “Concerns about global growth, European
debt and the second round of quantitative easing ending are all
coming together and weighing on investors’ minds.”  The rupiah dropped 1 percent this week, the most since the
five-day period ended May 21, 2010, to 8,608 per dollar as of
3:12 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency was unchanged today.  The U.S. Federal Reserve bought $4.9 billion of Treasuries
maturing from July 2015 to November 2016 yesterday as part of
its $600 billion second round of quantitative easing, which
expires this month.  Indonesia’s 10-year government bonds dropped for a second
week. The yield on the 8.25 percent note due July 2021 rose 27
basis points or 0.27 percentage point, to 7.64 percent,
according to prices from the Inter-Dealer Market Association.
The rate climbed 10 basis points from yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  