-- 
Ineos Says U.K. Carbon Floor Price May Force Manufacturers Out

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-06-17T10:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/ineos-says-u-k-carbon-floor-price-may-force-manufacturers-out.html
New U.K. rules setting a minimum
price for carbon dioxide from power generation are unlikely to
cut greenhouse gas emissions and risk driving manufacturers
abroad, chemicals company Ineos Group Holdings Plc said.  Ineos units based at Grangemouth in  Scotland  have written
to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to warn him of
“grave consequences” for U.K. manufacturing should he proceed
as planned in 2013 with the carbon-trading price floor,  Richard Longden , a spokesman for Ineos, said in an e-mail. The company’s
Scottish facilities include an oil refinery and manufacturing
plants.  “Ineos believes that if implemented, carbon price support
is unlikely to have the desired environmental impact it is set
out to achieve,” Longden said. “Manufacturing is more likely
to move outside of the U.K. where environmental legislation is
more conducive to energy-intensive manufacture.”  Osborne said in March that starting from April 1, 2013, the
U.K. will set a carbon tax on electricity generation at 4.94
pounds per metric ton of CO2. That payment is additional to the
permits generators are required to buy under the European Union
Emissions Trading System.  The measure “will disadvantage U.K.-based energy intensive
industries compared with competitors in  Europe  and the rest of
the world,” Longden said. His comments follow a  statement  three
days ago from the U.K. business lobby, the Confederation of
British Industries, which said the country’s biggest power users
should be exempt from the tax.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  