-- 
ING CEO Hommen Sees Lower Capital Surcharge Than Larger Rivals

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-06-17T15:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/ing-ceo-hommen-sees-lower-capital-surcharge-than-larger-rivals.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, expects regulators will make it hold
less additional capital than other larger lenders designated as
sytemically important, Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  plans to apply a
surcharge in the form of additional capital to banks whose
collapse would harm the global economy.  Draft plans circulated before a Basel Committee meeting
next week would subject banks to a sliding scale depending on
their size and links to other lenders, according to two people
familiar with the talks. The largest banks may face a 3
percentage point levy at their current sizes, one person said.  “First indications we have is that we will be a
systemically important financial institution but in the lower
ranges of the score,” Hommen told analysts on a conference call
today. “There are proposals to take it from 0.5 percent” to
about 3 percent, he added.  Extra capital requirements of as much as 3.5 percentage
points are considered for the largest banks if they grow bigger,
the people said.  ING announced yesterday it is selling its U.S. online bank
for $9 billion to  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  The transaction is
expected to lift its core Tier 1 Capital Ratio by 99 basis
points, the Amsterdam-based firm said. Taking into account
another divestment and state aid repaid to the Netherlands in
May, ING Bank would have a pro forma core Tier 1 ratio of 10.3
percent, from 10 percent in the first quarter, the bank said.  Hommen said that level of capital is ‘quite justified’’ by
the tasks facing the firm. ING aims to repay a final 3 billion-
euro ($4.3 billion) portion of state aid it received during the
financial crisis in 2012, Hommen said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  