-- 
Innkeepers Chapter 11 Plan Draws Objections From Midland, Lehman ALi

-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 
2011-06-17T20:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/innkeepers-preferred-shareholder-one-east-objects-to-its-chapter-11-plan.html
Innkeepers USA Trust ’s plan to exit
bankruptcy drew objections from secured creditors and a
preferred shareholder seeking to block confirmation at a hearing
scheduled for next week.  Midland Loan Services Inc., the servicer for $825 million
of fixed-rate mortgages, and Lehman Ali Inc., the holder of $238
million in floating-rate mortgages, said in court filings today
that $3.5 million earmarked for an ad hoc committee of preferred
shareholders is improper. Both said a plan for one of the
Innkeepers companies can’t be approved because it is likely to
be rejected by the only class of voting creditors.  Innkeepers expects to seek approval of its Chapter 11 plan
at a June 23 hearing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . The
company, based in  Palm Beach , Florida, on May 13 won approval of
the disclosure statement for revised terms of a plan that
includes a sale of 64 hotels to Cerberus Capital Management LP
and  Chatham Lodging Trust. (CLDT)   One East Capital Advisors LP, an Innkeepers preferred
shareholder, said in a court filing today that the plan
improperly gives releases to  Apollo Investment Corp. (AINV) ,
Innkeepers’ owner. The proposed payment of nothing to 6 percent
for its preferred stock “impermissibly takes value” while
barring lawsuits against Apollo, One East said.  Apollo Release  One East contends that Apollo gave nothing in return for
the release and that the release isn’t required by the purchaser
of Innkeepers’ property. Apollo acquired Innkeepers in July 2007
in a $1.35 billion transaction.  One East also objected to the proposal to give $3.5 million
to the ad hoc group preferred shareholders when other
shareholders would receive nothing. The ad hoc committee’s legal
fees are $2 million, leaving the preferred shareholders on the
panel with $1.5 million, One East said.  Lehman Ali, a non-bankrupt subsidiary of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , additionally argued that the plan can’t be used
to pay a $500,000 bonus to Innkeepers’ chief executive officer.
Midland, a division of PNC Bank, said the plan would improperly
cut off its claim on a guarantee, allowing several million
dollars to go to Apollo.  Innkeepers has 72 extended-stay and limited-service
properties with 10,000 rooms in 20 states. The Chapter 11
petition filed in July listed assets of $1.5 billion against
debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 