-- 
Inter Milan Manager Leonardo Quits Italian Team for PSG, CEO Paolillo Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-17T13:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/inter-milan-manager-leonardo-quits-italian-team-for-psg-ceo-paolillo-says.html
Inter Milan  is looking for a third
coach in less than a year after losing Leonardo to Paris St.
Germain.  The news of Leonardo’s exit after six months in charge was
confirmed by Inter Chief Executive Officer Ernesto Paolillo in
an interview. Reports in French and Italian media said PSG was
targeting Leonardo to oversee its sporting operations.  “Leonardo is going to Paris and the club looking for a new
coach,” Paolillo said by telephone today. “We want to find
another coach.”  Leonardo joined Inter in December after former Liverpool
manager  Rafael Benitez  was fired six months into a two-year
contract. Benitez took over from  Jose Mourinho , who quit for
Real Madrid after leading Inter to triple success, winning the
 Champions League , Serie A and Coppa Italia.  Inter last season was eliminated from the Champions League
in the quarterfinals and finished runner-up behind arch rival AC
Milan in the league. It did win the Italian Cup under Leonardo,
and the Club  World Cup  under Benitez.  La Repubblica said Fiorentina coach Sinisa Mihajlovic may
replace Leonardo.  In April, Paolillo denied media reports suggesting
Leonardo, a Brazilian who also coached and played for AC Milan,
would be fired by Inter.  “The future of Leonardo is with Inter,” he said at the
time. “He’s a great coach, he’s working very well, we are
really satisfied.”  The 41-year-old’s move to Paris, another of his former
teams, was his idea and not one promoted by the Inter
management, Paolillo said.  “We wanted to keep him but he has decided to leave us,”
he said. It’s not a question to keep or not to keep. He has
decided to leave. Of course we would have kept him.”  Compensation  He said discussions about possible compensation haven’t
take place with PSG, which in on May 31 changed hands with a
Qatari group buying a 70 percent stake.  Inter won five straight games after Leonardo was appointed,
before stumbling in its chase to overhaul AC Milan. It was
crushed 5-2 at home by Schalke in the first match of their two-
game Champions League series. It lost the second match 2-1 in
 Germany .  Leonardo, who won the World Cup as a player with  Brazil  in
1994, spent two seasons with PSG between 1996 and 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story: Tariq Panja in  London  at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Elser at  at  celser@bloomberg.net  