-- 
Investors in Turkey ‘Confused’, Buying Russia, Akbank Says

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-06-17T13:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/investors-in-turkey-confused-buying-russia-akbank-says-2-.html
Investors in  Turkey  are
“confused” about how authorities are dealing with the current
account deficit and some foreign funds have been withdrawing
capital,  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  chief executive Ziya Akkurt said.  Foreigners are switching investments to countries such as
 Russia , Akkurt told reporters in Istanbul today. Turkey should
take measures to support the central bank in narrowing the
current account gap and “clarify the situation,” he said.  The central bank increased banks’ reserve requirements by
10 percentage points since December while keeping  interest
rates  at a record low in an attempt to slow the lending that’s
widening the current account deficit. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who won re-election on June 12, has pledged
support for the bank should the measures not prove effective.  Steps should be made to boost production and exports in
the event that further measures are taken by regulators and the
government to reduce domestic demand, Akkurt said.  The main ISE National 100 share index rose 0.7 percent
to 61,552.20 at 3:58 p.m. in Istanbul, reducing losses this
week to 3.4 percent. The index has dropped 5.8 percent since
Dec. 1, compared with a gain of 2.7 percent for the benchmark
MSCI Emerging Market Index. The lira declined 3.5 percent this
year, the third biggest fall among emerging markets in central
and eastern  Europe .  Current Account  The current account deficit widened to $7.7 billion in
April from $4.4 billion in the same month of 2010, the state
statistics agency in Ankara said on June 13. It was the second-
biggest gap since records began in 1984, after the revised $9.7
billion record that was posted in March.  Turkey will consider using the budget and possibly
sanctions on individual banks to ensure its goals of reduced
lending are met, Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said on June
10. Annual loan growth is exceeding 35 percent, as consumers
borrow to purchase imported cars and electrical equipment.  Moody’s Investors Service last week urged the government
to
tighten the budget after elections and said Turkey’s credit
rating may be cut if it has difficulty financing the current-
account gap.  Moody’s ranks Turkey at Ba2, two levels below investment
grade, with a positive outlook. Standard & Poor’s rates Turkey
an equivalent BB, also with a positive outlook, and  Fitch
Ratings  has a BB+ ranking, one step below investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  