-- 
Lira Weakens for Sixth Day on European Debt Concern; Yields Fall

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-17T09:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/lira-falls-for-sixth-day-in-longest-losing-streak-in-7-months.html
The lira weakened against the dollar
for a sixth day in the longest losing streak in seven months as
investors retreated from riskier assets on concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis won’t be resolved.  The lira depreciated 0.1 percent to 1.6119 per dollar at
11:52 a.m. in Istanbul. Two-year benchmark bond yields snapped
three days of gains, declining two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 9.07 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We may face a Greek default on Monday morning and it
would be very naive to think that this is not possible,” Burak Ahmet Ustay, assistant general manager at WestLB AG in Istanbul,
said by telephone.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said a Greek
default is “almost certain” and Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude
Junker said a “hard haircut” for investors in Greek securities
would risk contagion to other European nations. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  will meet with French President Nicolas Sarkozy today to resolve the impasse over a second Greek rescue
package.  Turkey’s central bank may be forced to raise lira reserve
requirements or suspend daily dollar buying auctions to slow the
lira’s depreciation, Ustay said. The country’s Monetary Policy
Committee will meet on June 23 on  interest rates , which have
stayed at a record-low 6.25 percent as policy makers lifted lira
reserve requirements four times since December to contain
Turkey’s ballooning current-account deficit.  The  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  of stocks retreated 0.2 percent
to 60,988.68, bringing its decline this week to 4.3 percent, the
biggest weekly drop since the five days through May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  