-- 
Historical Ignorance Warps American Politics: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/historical-ignorance-warps-american-politics-jonathan-alter.html
In Woody Allen’s charming new movie,
“Midnight in Paris,”  Owen Wilson ’s character, a modern-day
novelist, travels through time to the 1920s. He wishes he could
stay, so he could keep hanging out with Hemingway and
Fitzgerald. His love interest from the ‘20s wishes she were
living in La Belle Epoque. Both discover when they travel back
to the 1880s that Degas and Gauguin wish they were living in the
Renaissance.  Most of us occasionally experience Era Envy, a wistful
feeling, captured in Edwin Arlington Robinson’s poem “Miniver
Cheevy,” that we were born too late. Cheevy “wept that he was
ever born.”  Politicians, being more practical, wield such themes to win
favor with nostalgic voters. Nowadays we’re past the point where
Democrats invoke the 1960s and Republicans the 1980s. On the
right, in particular, the time horizons are getting longer.
Conservatives openly yearn for a pre-New Deal social contract
under which Americans would largely fend for themselves as they
did in the 19th century. ( Glenn Beck  went so far as to call
 Theodore Roosevelt ’s Progressive Era a “cancer.”) And the Tea
Party folks, of course, want to go even further back in time and
restore the spirit of the founders.  The problem is that spreading a romantic gauze over history
distorts our sense of the present. It makes our politics
treacly, trivial and unaccountable to historical truth.
It doesn’t help that test results released this week from the
National Assessment of Educational Progress show that students
in fourth, eighth and 12th grades do worse in American history
than in any other subject. This will leave them unarmed against
distortion.  History Left Behind  One explanation for this poor showing is that the  No Child
Left Behind Act  has pushed schools to be so focused on reading
and math that subjects like history are left behind. Another is
that a growing preference on the part of teachers for teaching
social studies (which can double as civics) has meant that only
about 60 percent of history teachers majored in history while in
college. Imagine teaching physics if you majored in biology.  A bigger obstacle to understanding history is the instant
gratification offered by the 24/7 social-media culture, where a
Twitter posting that’s more than a few hours old might as well
have not been posted at all. In this world, a story like the BP
oil spill, which soiled everything in its path a mere year ago,
leaves almost no media residue. This culture is increasingly
non-linear, and thus divorced from narrative, which is a killer
for a discipline that depends on great story-telling.  Hackneyed Fairy Tale  I study history and write history, and it pains me to see
it taught in a boring way that turns students off. But I worry
even more about it being transformed into a hackneyed fairy tale
that warps our political debate.  The Disneyfied history invoked by Sarah Palin and  Michele Bachmann  is more about marketing than genuine Era Envy. Palin
drew hoots recently for claiming that Paul Revere was warning
the British as well as the colonists on his famous midnight ride
(then she angrily refused to admit she made a mistake). Bachmann
thought the battle of Concord took place in  New Hampshire . These
are the forgivable errors of the uninformed.  But Bachmann, a newly minted presidential candidate who
says she changed parties after reading Gore Vidal’s novel “Burr”
and finding herself repulsed by his critical treatment of the
founders, is playing a more destructive game with history. She
isn’t conjuring the past; she’s wielding it as a weapon.  Natural Dog Whistler  Bachmann, like Palin, is a natural dog whistler. In
politics, a dog whistle refers to a coded message meant to
appeal to certain constituencies while flying right past the
general public. A classic recent example was  George W. Bush ’s
saying in a 2004 debate that he wouldn’t appoint anyone to the
 Supreme Court  who supported the Dred Scott decision. This
peculiar reference to an 1857 slavery case was meant to signal
right-to-lifers that opposition to Roe v. Wade was a litmus test
for Bush.  Bachmann is dog whistling when she pledges to “take back
America.” The question this raises is: from whom? From a
“socialist” president?  Let’s give Bachmann the benefit of the doubt and stipulate
that no racial message was intended. A subliminal racial
message, among others, will still likely be received. “Take back
America” is also a dog whistle for “Take America back” -- back
to a better time before a man like  Barack Obama  was president.
Before, say, the number of Hispanics taking the national history
assessment test in eighth-grade more than doubled in a mere five
years.  John Wayne  Era  In some ways, things were indeed better in what Bachmann
calls the John Wayne era. Prosperity was more broadly shared
when we had a vibrant middle class. People knew their neighbors
and shared more common values.  But in many ways, it was worse -- more racism (in the ‘50s
under Eisenhower), more threat of nuclear annihilation (in the
’60s under Kennedy), more economic pain (in the ‘70s under
Carter), more crime (in the ‘80s under Reagan), more pollution.  Who will stand up for the historical record? When Bachmann
said during the Republican debate this week that she would
eliminate the “job-killing EPA,” none of the candidates
disagreed. This is a perfect illustration of how the ignorance
that sometimes lies behind Era Envy can be exploited
politically. Contrary to predictions when it was established by
President  Richard Nixon  in 1971, the Environmental Protection
Agency killed no jobs. It did clean our air and water. Would
Bachmann prefer that Americans hunt and fish in filth?  Hemingway wouldn’t. Neither would John Wayne.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  