-- 
Italy’s Bond Ratings May Be Downgraded by Moody’s Amid ‘Growth Challenges’

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-17T23:18:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/italy-s-bond-ratings-may-be-downgraded-by-moody-s-amid-growth-challenges-.html
Italy ’s credit ratings may be
reduced by Moody’s Investors Service because of economic growth
challenges, risks associated with efforts to reduce debt and the
potential for higher borrowing costs.  The nation’s third-ranked Aa2 local and foreign-currency
government bond ratings were placed under review for a possible
downgrade, Moody’s said in a statement yesterday. The country’s
short-term Prime-1 ratings were affirmed.  Italy may have trouble reducing its public debt to more
affordable levels as borrowing costs rise and support for the
government of Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  weakens, Moody’s
said. Investor speculation about a possible Greek default has
focused attention on the finances of Italy and other high-debt
euro area nations. Italy had to offer 3.9 percent to sell five-
year bonds this week, matching March’s 2 1/2-year high.  “There are some potential contagion problems going on now
in  Europe ,”  Jay Bryson , a senior global economist at  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said in an
interview. Italy’s “debt dynamics look a little shaky as well.
They also have a growth problem there.”  Italy had debt of about 1.8 trillion euros ($2.6 trillion)
at the end of last year and a ratio of debt to gross domestic
product of about 119 percent. The International Monetary Fund
yesterday projected Italy’s economy would expand 1 percent this
year, down from 1.3 percent in 2010.  The ratings review will focus on the growth prospects for
the euro region’s third-largest economy and the outlook for a
removal of structural bottlenecks that could hinder a medium-
term economic recovery, Moody’s said.  ‘Growth Challenges’  “The Italian economy faces growth challenges in an
environment characterized by long-term structural impediments to
growth,” Moody’s said in yesterday’s statement. “The fragile
 market sentiment  that continues to surround European sovereigns
with high levels of debt poses additional risks for Italy.”  European officials are in the midst of discussing how to
provide additional funding for  Greece  and get the private sector
involved without triggering a default. Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou ’s failure to win support for more austerity is
fueling speculation of a default that would infect Europe’s
banking system and credit markets beyond the region.  “It’s this environment of some uncertainty and questions
around the resolution of the management of the euro-zone debt
crisis, which is a factor,” Alexander Kockerbeck, a Moody’s
Investors Service sovereign-debt analyst, said in a telephone
interview. He said that the crisis “can have consequences” for
countries like Italy where “economic growth is relatively low,
and borrowing costs can increase in that environment.”  IMF Warning  International Monetary Fund  chief economist  Olivier Blanchard  said at a press conference yesterday that a failure to
agree on measures or funding for countries at the “periphery”
of the euro region could lead to a sovereign defaults and derail
the world recovery.  “It’s another piece of negative news here,” Bryson said.
“Is that going to change the political dynamic in Greece? No, I
don’t think it has any effect.”  Yesterday’s announcement follows a similar move by  Standard
& Poor’s  last month. Italy had its credit-rating outlook lowered
to negative from stable by S&P, which cited the nation’s slowing
growth and “diminished” prospects for a reduction of
government debt.  S&P affirmed the country’s A+ long-term rating, the fifth
highest, and its top-ranked A-1+ short-term rating, the company
said in a May 20 statement.  Growth Outlook  The Italian economy expanded 0.1 percent in the first
quarter, less than economists had estimated, as gains in exports
failed to offset weak domestic demand. The economy won’t return
to its pre-recession level for at least another two years, and
the $2.3 trillion economy needs to raise productivity, the OECD
said last month in a report.  Berlusconi, reeling from two electoral defeats in two weeks,
wants to win back voters with tax cuts that threaten to split
his Cabinet and inflate the euro region’s second-biggest debt.  Berlusconi and his Northern League allies have stepped up
talk of tax cuts after losing lost control of key cities,
including Milan, in regional elections last month. Berlusconi
suffered a further setback this week when almost 60 percent of
eligible Italians voted to overturn a series of policy
initiatives, the first referendum to achieve the necessary 50
percent participation threshold since 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  