-- 
Liverpool Player Purchases Show Team Owners’ Desire to Win, Executive Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-17T07:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/liverpool-s-player-purchases-show-owners-desire-to-win-executive-says.html
Liverpool’s spending on player
trades indicates owner Fenway Sports Group’s desire to return
the  soccer club  to trophy-winning ways, according to a senior
executive at the company that also owns the Boston Red Sox.  Fenway Sports’ principal owner John W. Henry, who made his
fortune in  hedge funds , pushed through the 300 million-pound
($485 million) acquisition of the 18-time English champion in
October after lenders forced the previous owners to sell.  After stabilizing Liverpool following its worst league
start in more than half a century, FSG has provided manager
Kenny Dalglish, who guided the team to its last English league
championship in 1990, with funds to rebuild the squad. Liverpool
paid 57 million pounds for strikers Andy Carroll and Luis Suarez
in January and signed midfielder  Jordan Henderson  for a reported
20 million pounds from Sunderland last week.  “You’re seeing the desire to win and the desire to compete
in the transfer market,” Billy Hogan, managing director of
Fenway Sports Marketing, the group’s commercial arm, said in an
interview. “We would expect to have a couple more additions as
the summer progresses.”  Dalglish, who returned to the manager’s job after a 20-year
absence, and Director of Football Damien Comolli have been
linked with bids for players including Blackpool midfielder
Charlie Adam, Aston Villa winger Stewart Downing and Newcastle
pair Jose Enrique and Jonas Gutierrez.  Clear Desire  “Damien and Kenny have certainly been clear about the
desire to add talent where they can,” Hogan added.  Players have been allowed to leave too. Liverpool sold
Spain striker Fernando Torres for a U.K.-record 50 million
pounds to Chelsea in January before paying Newcastle a club-
record 35 million pounds for Carroll. Reserve-team quartet Deale
Chamberlain, Steven Irwin, Alex Cooper and Nikola Saric were
released yesterday, Liverpool said.  Suarez, Carroll and Henderson are all under 25. Hogan said
that’s a sign that the team is favoring younger talent. Last
offseason, Liverpool added the likes of Joe Cole,  Raul Meireles ,
Paul Konchesky and  Milan Jovanovic , who are all older than the
players signed by FSG.  Hogan said the method mirrors his company’s strategy at the
 Red Sox .  Young Talent  “When the ownership group acquired the Red Sox 10 years
ago, one of the focuses was to develop the youth and in
particular our farm system,” he said. “That ultimately is
where the Red Sox have been able to compete by bringing in what
we call homegrown talent: young and talented baseball players
that were grown within our minor league system. That’s certainly
something that holds true across the organizations. We’re always
looking for young talent.”  The Red Sox won the  World Series  in 2004, ending an 86-year
title drought, and took the championship again in 2007.  Liverpool was the dominant English team in the 1970s and
80s and has since been usurped by  Manchester United . The Red
Devils added their record 19th league title last month, the 12th
under manager  Alex Ferguson . Liverpool finished in sixth place,
meaning it will miss out on  Europe ’s elite  Champions League  for
the second straight year.  Although the team’s focus will be on “winning”, setting
targets publicly isn’t the way FSG does its business, Hogan
said.  “We don’t like to over promise and under deliver,” he
said. “Our goal is to always win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  