-- 
Blackstone Agrees to Buy Jack Wolfskin for Undisclosed Sum

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-07-21T09:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/jack-wolfskin-owners-enter-negotiations-with-blackstone-on-sale.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  agreed to buy
German outerwear brand Jack Wolfskin GmbH & Co. for an
undisclosed sum from owners Barclays Private Equity and Quadriga
Capital.  Jack Wolfskin’s Chief Executive Officer Manfred Hell will
leave the company after 25 years while the deal is reviewed by
competition authorities, the German company said in a statement
today. The purchase price was 700 million euros ($992 million),
the Financial Times reported yesterday, citing people close to
the situation. A Blackstone spokeswoman in  London  wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  The purchase follows a round of acquisitions in the outdoor
sector this year. VF Corp., the maker of North Face jackets, in
June agreed to buy Timberland Co. for about $1.8 billion. Gucci
maker PPR SA snapped up Volcom Inc. in May, its biggest purchase
since acquiring Puma in 2007, to add skate- and snowboarding
gear to its sports and lifestyle business.  Jack Wolfskin is in talks with numerous candidates and will
announce a new CEO “in coming weeks,” according to today’s
statement. Chief Financial Officer Christian Brandt will take on
the position of chief operating officer, and Andreas Klotz will
join from Puma AG to take over Brandt’s previous position as of
Oct. 1, Jack Wolfskin said.  Jack Wolfskin , based in Idstein, increased revenue by 21
percent in the fiscal year ending September 30 to 304 million
euros, as customers bought more jackets and hiking shoes. Sales
have gained more than 10 percent for seven consecutive years.
The acquisition by Blackstone will mark the start of increased
expansion outside of its home market, it said.  The previous owners paid 93 million euros, including debt,
in 2005 for the business, the Financial Times said yesterday.
New York-based Blackstone is the largest private-equity company
by assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 