-- 
Japan Recovery Means BOJ Can Avoid Adding Stimulus, Muto Says

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 
2011-06-17T00:53:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/japan-recovery-means-boj-can-avoid-adding-stimulus-muto-says.html
Japan ’s economy can recover from a
March earthquake without additional asset purchases by the
central bank because the slump isn’t too severe, former Bank of
Japan Deputy Governor Toshiro Muto said.  “Given that the economy likely won’t slip into a recession,
I don’t think there is a case to expect additional monetary
stimulus measures,” Muto said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday. He also forecast that the yen may weaken to about 85
per dollar by the end of March, a slide that would aid Japanese
exporters.  A group of ruling and opposition Japanese politicians
yesterday called on the BOJ to take extra steps after a record
quake, tsunami and nuclear crisis triggered an economic
contraction in the first quarter. After doubling the size of an
asset purchase fund after the disaster, the BOJ has limited
itself to creating lending programs to help companies.  “Japan’s economy is currently in a very severe state, but
the economy has deteriorated because of supply constraints and a
temporary slump in consumer sentiment,” Muto, 67, now the head
of Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., said in his office. “We
don’t expect the economy to keep worsening further.”  Muto’s prediction on policy runs counter to the views of
some economists in a Bloomberg News survey last week. Out of 14
economists surveyed, four said they expect the central bank to
expand its 10-trillion yen ($124 billion) asset burying program
by around August, and all but one said the next BOJ move will be
to provide more monetary stimulus.  The world’s third-largest economy will probably expand 3.4
percent in the year starting April 2012 as reconstruction
projects will boost demand, after contracting a projected 0.3
percent this fiscal year, Muto said.  Economic Contraction  Japan’s economy shrank at an annualized 3.5 percent pace in
the three months through March, the second straight quarter of
contraction, as industrial output, exports and  consumer spending 
plunged in the aftermath of the temblor.  Toyota Motor Corp., Japan’s largest carmaker, this month
forecast a 31 percent drop in profit for the year ending March
31 after the quake. The company expects domestic production will
recover to 90 percent of normal levels this month, with global
production to normalize by December.  Three days after the quake in northeastern Japan, the BOJ
doubled a fund to pour money into the economy by buying assets
from government debt to real estate investment trusts. It has
also offered 1 trillion yen in funds for lenders in disaster-
stricken areas, and a 500 billion yen loan program to help
smaller companies.  Government Pressure  A group of lawmakers in the ruling  Democratic Party of
Japan  and five other parties yesterday urged the BOJ to buy all
the bonds to be issued for earthquake reconstruction, according
to a statement released yesterday by the group. Kozo Yamamoto, a
lawmaker in the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , said that
211 members of six parties signed the statement.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has said that BOJ
underwriting of bonds could lead to sharp inflation and loss of
trust in the currency. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s second
disaster reconstruction package will be half the size of the
first at about 2 trillion yen,  Katsuya Okada , the DPJ’s
secretary-general, said this week.  “I don’t think there is a possibility that the BOJ would
underwrite  government bonds  directly from the government,” said
Muto, who served as the BOJ’s deputy chief for five years until
March 2008 following a 37-year career at  Finance Ministry .  Muto was the government’s first choice to succeed Toshihiko
Fukui as governor in 2008, only to be rejected by the
opposition-controlled upper house. Opposition lawmakers said his
stint at the ministry may hamper the bank’s independence.  More Asset Buys  Should economic conditions worsen sharply, the “most
probable option” for BOJ to take is to expand its asset-
purchase program, and it’s also possible for it to increase its
monthly buying of bonds from the market, now totaling 1.8
trillion yen a month, he said.  The yen may weaken to around 85 to the dollar by the end of
the fiscal year on March 31, Muto said. The yen traded around
80.63 to the dollar in  Tokyo .  “When I consider the fundamentals of Japan and the U.S., I
can’t help but conclude that the long-term trend will be for the
yen to weaken rather than strengthen,” he said. “Many Japanese
businesses are puzzled why the currency has appreciated” given
that the record earthquake damaged the Japanese economy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  