-- 
Japan’s Quake Spurs Toy Sales as Parents Seek Respite for Kids

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M i k e   F i r n
-- 
2011-06-17T03:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/japan-s-quake-spurs-toy-sales-as-parents-seek-respite-for-kids.html
Japan’s magnitude-9 earthquake and
tsunami have spurred toy sales as parents look for ways to
offset their children’s exposure to images of destruction from
the nation’s worst disaster since World War II.  “Parents feel a sense of obligation to make their children
happy, after they have seen footage of the damage,” said Takeo Takasu, chairman of  Namco Bandai Holdings Inc. (7832)  and head of the
 Japan Toy Association .  Namco Bandai and rivals including Tomy Co. and  Sega Sammy
Holdings Inc. (6460)  are counting on character-themed toys and board
games to help sales rebound for a second year following a two-
year slump. Demand has been “faring well since April” and may
beat last year’s level, Takasu said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday.  “People may be buying toys to soothe their children,
especially areas devastated by the tsunami,” said Takashi Oka,
an analyst at TIW Inc. “It’s still too early to say if this
trend will last throughout the year, as toy sales usually peak
in the Christmas season.” He rates Namco Bandai shares
“neutral plus.”  Bandai’s Kamen Rider toys, which are based on an action-
hero TV series for children, and board games that promote
communication among families are attracting customers, Takasu
said. He declined to give an estimate for sales of the products
or for the industry this year.  Japan ’s toy market, excluding videogames, grew 3.5 percent
to 670 billion yen ($8.3 billion) in the year ended March 31
from 647 billion yen, the Tokyo-based toy group said June 14.
The increase was the first in three years, as Japan’s birth rate
has held near the record low set in 2005.  Japanese women gave birth to 1.39 children on average last
year, compared with a record low 1.26 in 2005, health ministry
 statistics  show. By comparison, the average rate for U.S. women
was 2.01 in 2009, according to the figures.  After the March 11 quake, consumers are spending on
“inexpensive things like toys,” Yoshiharu Suzuki, president of
Sega Toys Co., said yesterday. “The challenge is to produce
products that fit in other countries, not just for Japan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Firn in Tokyo at 
 mfirn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  