-- 
Jiau Jury Starts Weighing Charges of Hedge Fund Insider-Trading

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/jiau-jury-begins-deliberations-on-insider-trading-charges-in-new-york.html
A federal jury in  Manhattan  failed
to reach a verdict yesterday in the case of Winifred Jiau, a
former  Primary Global Research LLC  consultant charged with
passing illegal inside tips to hedge fund managers.  Prosecutors say Jiau got financial information from friends
at  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  and sold the
data to Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio
manager, and to Samir Barai, founder of New York-based Barai
Capital Management LP. Freeman testified that he and Barai paid
$10,000 a month for exclusive access to Jiau.  Jiau, 43, of Fremont,  California , is charged with
securities fraud and conspiracy to commit securities fraud. If
convicted, she faces as long as 25 years in prison.  She denies the charges. Her lawyer, Joanna Hendon, argued
in a closing statement yesterday that while her client did pass
the information, it wasn’t “material,” meaning it wasn’t
something a reasonable investor would consider important in
trading and it wouldn’t have a bearing on the stock price.  Jiau is the first of the so-called expert networkers to go
on trial since the U.S. charged at least a dozen people,
including consultants and fund managers, with insider trading
beginning in November. Primary Global, based in  Mountain View ,
California, links investors with industry experts at public
companies.  Jiau’s Trading  Freeman and Jason Pflaum, an analyst who worked for Barai,
both pleaded guilty and testified for the prosecution. A third
man who admitted being part of the scheme, Sonny Nguyen, a
former Nvidia financial analyst who was a friend of Jiau’s,
testified that he passed confidential information about the
chipmaker’s quarterly earnings to her in August 2008.  In a statement yesterday rebutting Hendon’s argument,
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Leibowitz told the jury that
Jiau’s own actions belied the claim that the information she
passed wasn’t material.  He said that in May 2008, at the same time Jiau was passing
Freeman and Barai Marvell earnings information before its public
disclosure, Jiau bought 875 shares of Marvell stock for her own
account. Jiau also purchased Nvidia stock at the same time she
was passing information about that company.  “Ms. Hendon’s own client refutes what she spent more than
an hour talking about yesterday,” Leibowitz said. “This is
evidence that the information Winifred Jiau obtained and passed
was important and material.”  Code Talk  Freeman told the jury that he, Barai and Jiau spoke in
code. Company insiders were “cooks,” money was “sugar” and
inside information was “recipes,” he said.  “Cooks are on strike now,” Jiau wrote in a June 3, 2008,
e-mail to Barai, which Leibowitz showed jurors yesterday. “So
drop some of your extra sugar to me,” she wrote. “Cooks don’t
talk to me without sugar.”  Leibowitz also cited a message Jiau sent Barai when the
portfolio manager started his new fund.  “Same relationship meaning same amount as you were in the
last job,” Jiau wrote in the March 10, 2008, e-mail.  “There are costs,” she wrote. “I need to pay to my 2
secured sources,” Jiau continued. “They supply the actual
numbers to the decimal point.”  Leibowitz called it “devastating evidence.”  This afternoon, jurors asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff
questions about the laws on  securities fraud  and to re-hear
testimony from Nguyen. They are to resume deliberations June 20.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 1:11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 