-- 
Johnson & Johnson Properly Warned of Drug Risk, Lawyer Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 
2011-06-17T17:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/johnson-johnson-properly-warned-of-levaquin-drug-risk-lawyer-says.html
Johnson & Johnson properly warned of
the risks of its antibiotic Levaquin and isn’t responsible for a
tendon injury sustained by an 84-year-old man, a lawyer for the
company said in closing arguments at a  Minneapolis  trial.  Calvin Christensen, who said he ruptured the Achilles
tendon in his right foot after taking the drug while
hospitalized with pneumonia, sued the company and its Ortho-
McNeil Pharmaceutical unit in 2007. There was no failure to warn
and Christensen needed Levaquin to treat the pneumonia, said
attorney James Irwin, J&J’s lawyer.  “All medicines have risks and benefits, we all know
that,” Irwin said today in his closing argument in federal
court in Minneapolis. “A huge benefit outweighs the risk of
harm.”  Christensen’s case is the second of more than 2,500 pending
claims in U.S. courts to go to trial over allegations that
Levaquin caused tendon damage in patients and that the company
failed to adequately disclose the risk. J&J and Ortho-McNeil
lost the first trial when a separate Minneapolis jury awarded
$1.8 million to an 82-year-old man who ruptured both Achilles
tendons.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in 2008 required an
upgraded warning on tendon damage posed by Levaquin and similar
drugs. Christensen claims the warning should have been enhanced
earlier and that Johnson & Johnson and Ortho-McNeil, now Ortho-
McNeil-Janssen, targeted the elderly for drug sales.  ‘Included Warnings’  The Christensen trial began June 1.  The Levaquin label “has included warnings about tendinitis
and tendon ruptures,” since it was first approved by the FDA in
1996, Bill Foster, a J&J spokesman, said in an e-mail before
trial.  Christensen’s physician, “being a good doctor, read that
label and he knew that,” Irwin told the jury today. The doctor
prescribed Levaquin to Christensen because “it was important to
get him home,” Irwin said.  “There were lots of other drugs available for Calvin,”
his lawyer, Ronald Goldser, said at trial today. “Did he have
an alternative? Of course, he did.”  Goldser played a portion of a video deposition of
Christensen’s doctor, Greg Clark, in his closing argument today.
In the deposition, Goldser asked Clark if he would have
prescribed Levaquin if he knew then what he now knows about the
drug.  ‘Considered Alternatives’  “We should have considered alternatives for him,” Clark
replied.  Goldser asked the jury to award unspecified compensatory
and punitive damages. The jury of nine women and three men will
begin deliberations today.  Levaquin had U.S. sales of $1.3 billion in 2010 and $422
million in the first quarter of 2011. Levaquin, a member of a
class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, was developed to
treat serious and life-threatening infections, Foster said.  The drug has been prescribed more than 430 million times
worldwide, company lawyers said in court papers last year.  The FDA in 2008 required  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and makers of
other drugs in the class to include a so-called black box or
enhanced warning on the risk of tendon ruptures. The risk was
higher in patients older than 60, those taking steroids, or who
have had kidney, heart or lung transplants, the FDA said.  Dear Doctor Letters  J&J was aware of the increased risk before adding the black
box warning, Christensen said in his complaint. He claims the
companies downplayed the risk to boost the drug’s sales.  Regulatory officials in France, Italy and  Belgium  sent out
so-called Dear Doctor letters of the risk of tendon injury among
the elderly in 2002, Christensen said.  Ortho-McNeil upgraded its warning in the U.S. in 2002,
adding the increased risk to patients taking steroids,
particularly elderly patients, Christensen said. This wasn’t
enough, because Ortho-McNeil didn’t send out Dear Doctor letters
in the U.S. about the change and “muted” the additional
warning, he said in court papers.  “Rather than warn that the risk of tendon injury was
increased (tripled) in the elderly, the warning stated that the
risk was possibly increased in those using corticosteroids,” he
said in his amended complaint in June 2008. This implied that an
elderly patient who wasn’t on steroids had no additional risk of
tendon injury, Christensen said.  ‘Permanent Instability’  Christensen, who took the drug in May 2006, required
surgery after rupturing his right Achilles tendon and was left
with “permanent instability and loss of balance,” according to
his complaint. “Even with immobilization for long periods of
time and physical therapy, the Achilles tendons in the elderly
rarely fully recover,” he said in court papers.  Johnson & Johnson changed the label on its own after
reviewing initial date from  Europe  in 2001, Irwin, the company
lawyer said, today. “That’s how we like to see corporate
America do things.”  “We say they did that preemptively to avoid problems with
the FDA,” Goldser, Christensen’s lawyer, said. “Johnson &
Johnson failed to provide Dr. Clark complete and proper
information in a manner intended to attract notice.”  Almost 1,000 claims over Levaquin side effects are combined
as a multidistrict litigation, or MDL, in federal court in
Minneapolis before U.S. District Judge John R. Tunheim. Most of
the rest, about 1,500, are pending in  New Jersey , according to
court filings.  In the first trial on Levaquin claims in the MDL, a
Minneapolis jury in December awarded plaintiff John Schedin
$700,000 in actual damages and $1.1 million in punitive damages.
The jury found Schedin 10 percent liable for the injury. Ortho-
McNeil filed for a new trial in April.  The lawsuit is Christensen v. Johnson & Johnson, 07-03960,
combined for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability
Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 