-- 
JPMorgan, Nomura Say Euro May Outperform Dollar, Yen This Year Amid Crisis

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i ,   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 
2011-06-17T01:40:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/jpmorgan-nomura-say-euro-may-outperform-dollar-yen-this-year-amid-crisis.html
The euro will rebound even as
concern mounts that the Greek debt crisis will worsen, analysts
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Nomura Holdings Inc. predict.  The 17-nation currency may outperform the dollar and yen
this year even if the region’s policy makers put off agreeing on
a resolution to the debt crisis as long as it happens “in a
stable manner,” said  Tohru Sasaki , Tokyo-based head of Japan
rates and foreign-exchange research at JPMorgan.  European Central Bank authorities, including President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , have pushed back against German plans to
lengthen the maturity of Greek bonds, leaving open only the
option to persuade bondholders to voluntarily reinvest the
proceeds of maturing debt into new securities. A Greek default
would hobble the ability of the nation’s institutions to tap the
ECB for emergency funds and weaken the fabric of the 53-year-old
European Union and its 12-year-old single currency.  “The market will calm down as long as policy makers don’t
come up with a drastic decision next week, like something that
urges private investors to share Greece’s debt burden,” Sasaki
said at a Bloomberg seminar in  Tokyo  yesterday. “The broad
weakness of the dollar and yen will remain in the face of
resilient growth worldwide. I personally think the euro could
reach 120 yen this year.”  The euro traded at $1.4200 as of 10:36 a.m. in Tokyo from
$1.4204 in  New York  yesterday, when it reached $1.4074, the
weakest level since May 26. The currency was at 114.52 yen from
114.56 yen.  Outperformed Dollar, Yen  The shared currency headed for a second weekly decline,
having fallen 1 percent. It has gained 1.3 percent in the past
six months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar has
weakened 6.7 percent, while the yen is down 2.4 percent over the
same period.  JPMorgan forecasts the euro will rise to $1.48 and 115 yen
by year-end, compared with median projections for $1.40 and 122
yen by economists and analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The downward pressure on the euro is unlikely to persist
because market expectations are still for further interest-rate
increases by the central bank, according to Taisuke Tanaka,
Tokyo-based chief currency strategist at Nomura.  “The recent decline in the euro is attributable to a surge
in fiscal premium in the countries in the region,”  Tanaka said
at the seminar. “The euro may be supported once the market’s
attention returns to rate expectations by the ECB. I don’t think
there’s any chance the euro will fall into a bearish trend.”  The cost of protecting  Greece  against default climbed 458
basis points to a record high of 2,236 basis points yesterday,
prices compiled by CMA show.  Swap traders are betting the ECB will increase  interest
rates  by 38.2 basis points over the next 12 months, a Credit
Suisse AG index showed. The central bank raised borrowing costs
in April for the first time in almost three years, bringing the
main refinancing rate to 1.25 percent.  The common currency will trade at $1.45 and 127 yen at the
end of this year, according to Nomura.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 