-- 
Julius Malema Wins Second Term as Head of South Africa’s ANC Youth Wing

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-17T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/julius-malema-wins-second-term-as-head-of-south-africa-s-anc-youth-wing.html
The youth wing of  South Africa ’s
ruling  African National Congress  elected  Julius Malema  as leader
for a second term, strengthening his call for the
nationalization of the country’s mines and land.  Malema, 30, was elected unopposed, the ANC Youth League
said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. The former student
leader has drawn criticism from members of the ruling alliance
for his comments on race, expropriation of land and mines
without compensation and political opponents.  The Youth League’s push for the nationalization of mines,
banks and land, the last of which without compensation,
threatens to depress shares in companies such as  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) , the biggest investor in South African mining, and  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd (IMP) , the world’s second-largest miner of the
metal. South Africa’s mines, which include the world’s biggest
platinum operations, platinum, chrome and manganese, are its
biggest export earners.  “The talk makes people nervous,” Kristin Lindow,
sovereign credit analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in
an interview in Johannesburg on May 9. “It’s certainly a
deterrent to investment in the mining sector, if not
generally.”  South African President  Jacob Zuma  is no longer assured of
Youth League backing for his own re-election as party leader
next year, said Aubrey Matshiqi, a research fellow at the
Johannesburg-based Helen Suzman Foundation. Malema, who drummed
up support for Zuma when he ousted former-President  Thabo Mbeki 
in 2007, was upset by a public reprimand from the president last
year and the little public backing he has received for his
positions.  Lebogang Maile, the chairman of the youth wing’s Gauteng
province branch, declined a nomination to stand against Malema,
the Johannesburg-based South African Press Association reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  