-- 
TTK Drops Most in Two Months as Investors Deem Surge Excessive

-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-06-17T08:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/ttk-drops-most-in-two-months-as-investors-deem-surge-excessive.html
TTK Prestige Ltd. (TTKPT) ,  India ’s largest
kitchen appliances maker, dropped for a third day, heading for
the steepest decline in more than two months, as some investors
judged the stock’s surge this year excessive.  The shares slid 5.8 percent to 2,499 rupees, the worst
performer on the  BSE Mid-Cap Index (BSEMDCAP)  today, set for the biggest
fall since April 8.  “Investors may be booking profits as valuations of the
company are very high compared with other companies in the
consumer durables businesses,” Shivani Mehra, an analyst at
Mumbai-based Techno Shares & Stocks Ltd., said by phone.  TTK Prestige has jumped 53 percent this year, the third-
best performer on the BSE Mid-Cap Index, and trades at 58.2
times estimated earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Whirlpool of India Ltd. (WHIRL) , the local unit of the
world’s largest appliance maker, trades at 12.5 times earnings
and the BSE Consumer Durables Index, a gauge of eight companies,
trades at 27.5 times.  The company may face rising competition and a drop in
market share as “big players such as Philips and Whirlpool are
getting into the business of kitchen appliances, making the
segment overcrowded,” Mehra said.  HDFC Asset Management Co. and DSP Blackrock Investment
Manager were the two biggest asset-manager shareholders in the
company, according to Bloomberg data. HDFC AMC held 3.3 percent
at May 31 and DSP Blackrock owned 1.6 percent.  “Some fund houses entered the stock” at around 900 rupees
a share, Mehra said, declining to name them. “They will get
almost thrice the returns if they exit now.”  K. Sankaran, corporate affairs director at Bangalore-based
TTK Prestige, declined to comment on the share-price movement.  The company plans to spend 2 billion rupees ($45 million)
this year to double its pressure-cooker capacity to more than 8
million units a year and quadruple its cookware capacity to more
than 1 million units, according to a presentation to investors
on May 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai 
 akarve@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 