-- 
Kenya Shilling Climbs From 17-Year Low as Treasury-Bill Sale Curbs Supply

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-17T11:40:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/kenya-shilling-climbs-from-17-year-low-as-treasury-bill-sale-curbs-supply.html
Kenya ’s shilling rebounded from the
weakest level in 17 years against the dollar after the  central
bank  sold three-month Treasury bills, reducing supply of the
local currency in the market.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.6 percent to 89.49 per dollar and traded 0.3
percent stronger at 89.75 by 2 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi. The
shilling closed at 90.05 per dollar yesterday, the weakest level
since March 1994.  The Central Bank of Kenya, which had offered 2 billion
shillings ($22.2 million) of the 91-day treasury bills, received
13.7 billion shillings of bids and accepted 6.7 billion
shillings.  “The correction of the local unit is due to tight
liquidity following the acceptance of 6 billion shillings in
yesterday’s 91-day treasury bill auction,” Julius Kiriinya, a
dealer at Nairobi-based African Banking Corp., said in a phone
interview today.  Kenya’s government has no plans to stem the shilling’s
weakness against the dollar even as it is concerned about the
drop, Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said.  “We don’t want to say that we are going to interfere with
market forces” even though there is “some concern” over the
shilling’s depreciation, Kenyatta told reporters today in
Nairobi, the capital.  Kenya’s central bank rejected all of the 1 billion
shillings of bids it received for the same amount of  repurchase
agreements  it offered at a sale today, an official who declined
to be identified in line with the bank’s policy said today.  In a repurchase agreement an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader, while at the same time arranging to
buy it back at a future date and at a pre-determined price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  