-- 
Nasdaq Seeks Minority Stake in LCH.Clearnet, Greifeld Says

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-06-17T15:33:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/nasdaq-seeks-a-minority-stake-in-lch-clearnet-ceo-robert-greifeld-says.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  is seeking a
minority stake in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., Nasdaq Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said.  The New York-based exchange is in discussions with
LCH.Clearnet as part of a strategy to expand beyond the U.S.,
Greifeld said in an interview at the Federation of European
Securities Exchanges annual convention in  Athens . Nasdaq, which
dropped a bid for NYSE Euronext, is the majority owner of
International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC, opened in January
2009 for interest-rate swap futures.  “Calling it a bid is a little strong,” Greifeld said.
“There’s a discussion also on how IDCG can work with LCH. We
are having conversations with many people including some in the
room. It’s my job to ensure we do that.”  LCH.Clearnet, the world’s largest swap clearinghouse, said
May 28 it has been approached about “some form of possible
business combination.” It has also held talks with  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , said three people familiar with the matter
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private. LSE has said it’s not holding talks with LCH.Clearnet
on a deal.  LCH declined to comment on interest from Nasdaq, said
Rachael Harper, a spokeswoman for the London-based company.
Nasdaq shares rose as much as 28 cents, or 1.2 percent, to
$24.01 and were up 19 cents at $23.92 at 11:24 a.m. in  New York .  NYSE Fallout  NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer 
said June 1 that he’s working with Markit Group Ltd. on a bid
for LCH.Clearnet, owner of the world’s largest swaps
clearinghouse.  Nasdaq withdrew its unsolicited offer for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,
the exchange operator that agreed to sell itself to Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Boerse AG, after the  U.S. Department of Justice 
threatened to block the bid. The NYSE Euronext bid was made in
conjunction with Atlanta-based  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)   “We always consider opportunities where we can deliver
value to shareholders,” Greifeld said in the interview. “Our
view is there are a number of different assets and asset classes
and we are looking at them. NYSE has never been part of our
strategic plans.”  Greifeld said he wouldn’t have done anything differently.  “We went into it knowing the DOJ would have questions,”
he said. “We are disappointed but that’s a risk we took, we are
happy we did it. I’m thankful to them for responding in such a
rapid way.”  More Valuable  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet and  Deutsche Boerse ’s
 Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for every buy
and sell order executed by their members, who post collateral,
reducing the harm from a trader’s default. The business is
becoming more valuable amid firmer regulation of derivatives
trading and a merger wave that has seen more than $20 billion of
exchange takeovers announced in the last seven months.  “The benefit is theoretical and best done when done under
the same regulatory body,” Greifeld said in a speech at the
FESE convention today. “We actually believe the pace of change
happens at a glacial pace. You engage in dialogue with many and
have serious conversations with a few.”  LCH.Clearnet’s  SwapClear  began clearing interest-rate swaps
traded between banks in 1999. As of March it had cleared more
than $266 trillion in notional amounts of rate swaps, the
company said at the time.  Clearing Swaps  The banks that created over-the-counter derivatives in the
1980s are seeking control over how the $601 trillion market
transforms under new regulations in the U.S. and  Europe . The
Dodd-Frank Act mandates that most swaps be processed by
clearinghouses and that all trades are reported to data
repositories. The European Union last month moved closer to
adopting a clearing mandate for most interest-rate, credit-
default and other swaps.  Nasdaq’s potential deal with LCH “could take many forms,”
Greifeld told reporters after his conference speech. “We are
interested in both the over-the-counter clearing and cash
equities. IDGC is a natural fit.” The exchange is open to
joining with others in a bid for an LCH stake, he said.  As regulators urge more clearing for derivatives, exchanges
such as Deutsche Boerse, NYSE, LSE, ICE and  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
which own clearinghouses or have the so-called vertical model
that locks in trading and post-trading, are offering more
services. The banks that dominate the market are seeking to take
stakes in clearinghouses or strike profit-sharing agreements.  Vertical vs. Horizontal  “There’s a future for the horizontal model,” Greifeld
said in the interview. “We see a lot of firms in the industry
going vertical but we support horizontal clearing as a
concept.”  Exchanges worldwide are seeking to consolidate to counter
competition. LSE and TMX Group Inc., owner of the Toronto Stock
Exchange, announced plans to combine on Feb. 9. A group of nine
Canadian banks and pension funds submitted a rival offer in May.
TMX was in talks with a third potential bidder last year before
reaching an agreement with LSE.  TMX was approached by the unidentified, “significant”
company in the exchange industry 15 months ago, according to a
filing. TMX held talks with  Nasdaq  OMX in 2010 but ended
discussions because of concern the U.S. company would have too
much control over the combined entity, the Globe and Mail said
Feb. 18.  Designs on LSE  Negotiations with the unidentified company ended in June
2010 and resumed in September, focusing on whether a deal would
satisfy a law requiring cross-border takeovers to provide
benefits to Canadian interests, according to filings. Talks were
discontinued on Nov. 3 and terminated on Jan. 25.  Greifeld has twice tried and failed to buy LSE, both times
taking his offer directly to shareholders after he was rebuffed
by Clara Furse, then chief executive of LSE.  Asked today whether he’s interested in combining with LSE
or TMX, Greifeld replied: “As I said: we talk to many people.
We have serious conversations with a few. They would have to
fall into the ‘many’ category.”  “We always want to do a friendly deal,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net ; 