-- 
Natural Gas Futures in New York Advance on Forecasts of Above-Normal Heat

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-06-17T13:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/natural-gas-futures-in-new-york-advance-on-forecasts-of-above-normal-heat.html
Natural gas futures climbed for the
first time this week on forecasts of above-normal temperatures
that may boost demand for the power-plant fuel.  Gas rose as much as 0.8 percent after forecasters including
 Matt Rogers  at Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland, predicted hotter-than-normal weather for the U.S. East
Coast from June 22 to June 26. The heat will concentrate on the
Northeast and eastern  Canada  from June 27 to July 1, Rogers said
in a note to clients today.  “We’re having some warm weather, and the market is seeing
a bit of a retracement after yesterday’s big sell-off,” said
Tom Saal, senior vice president of energy trading at INTL
Hencorp Futures LC in Miami. “We could get back to the $4.60
area.”  Natural gas for July delivery rose 2.6 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $4.438 per million British thermal units at 9:39
a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The futures have
gained 0.8 percent this year.  Prices declined 3.6 percent yesterday, the most in six
weeks, on speculation that U.S. supplies are adequate to meet
summer demand from power plants.  Hot weather may increase air conditioner use in the next
two weeks. The high temperature in New York on June 22 may be 86
degrees Fahrenheit (30 Celsius), 5 degrees above normal,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.
The high in Atlanta may be 94, 7 above normal.  Air Conditioners  Cooling demand in the U.S. may be 10 percent above normal
from June 23 through June 27,  David Salmon , a meteorologist at
Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri, said in a note to
clients today.  Power plants  use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  Natural-gas prices may rise as high as $7.50 per million
British thermal units before the end of August if higher-than-
normal temperatures in the U.S. boosts energy demand, said John Snell, a managing director at Risk Management Inc, in an
interview yesterday at the INTL FCStone Outlook Conference in
 Chicago .  The Energy Department said yesterday that stockpiles rose
69 billion cubic feet in the week ended June 10 to 2.256
trillion, matching estimates made by analysts before the report
was released. The five-year average storage change for the week
is an increase of 87 billion cubic feet, department data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  