-- 
Navy Finds ‘Aggressive’ Corrosion on New Ship

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-17T20:48:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/navy-finds-aggressive-corrosion-on-austal-s-combat-ship-1-.html
The U.S. Navy has discovered
“aggressive” corrosion in  Austal Ltd. (ASB) ’s first new combat ship
designed for operating close to shore.  The corrosion is in the propulsion areas of the USS
Independence, the Littoral Combat Ship built by the Mobile,
Alabama-based subsidiary of  Australia ’s Austal and  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)   “This could be a very serious setback,” said Norman
Polmar, an independent naval analyst and author in Alexandria,
Virginia. “If the ship develops a serious flaw, you’re not
going to continue producing them.”  Permanent repair will require drydocking the ship and
removing its “water jets,” a key component of the propulsion
system, the Navy said in a written statement to congressional
appropriations committees provided to Bloomberg News.  Aluminum-hulled ships such as Austal’s tend to rust faster
than steel-hulled ships, Polmar said. “But I’m surprised it
happened so early,” he said. “This ship is brand new.”  The corrosion discovery in a ship that was commissioned in
January 2010 marks another blow to the Littoral Combat Ship
program, planned to ultimately consist of 55 ships. In February,
the Navy discovered another ship in the series, from another
construction team, had a crack through the hull.  Close to Shore  The Littoral Combat ships are designed to operate closer to
shore than the rest of the Navy's surface fleet. They would make up about 17
percent of the Navy’s planned 313-ship fleet. Missions include
clearing mines, hunting submarines and providing humanitarian
relief.  The Navy in December awarded contracts for as many as 10
Littoral Combat ships to each of two teams of builders, led by
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and Austal.  Austal won a $465 million contract that could reach as much
as $3.78 billion if all options are exercised, the Navy
announcement said. Building all 55 ships will cost the Navy at
least $37.4 billion, according to a Pentagon report released in
April.  Officials were concerned about the potential for corrosion
during construction of the ship because of “dissimilar
metals,” particularly near the steel propulsion shafts, the
Navy memo said.  Temporary repairs will allow the ship to operate safely in
the interim, the Navy said. The Littoral Combat Ships are
designed to last about 25 years. Each ship is expected to cost
about $36.6 million a year to operate and support.  Two Versions  The Navy is buying two versions from two teams of builders.
The other team consists of Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed and
Marinette Marine Corp. of Marinette,  Wisconsin .  The first Lockheed ship developed a crack as long as six
inches through its hull during sea trials in February, prompting
a Navy investigation of the design.  Calls to Austal and calls and e-mails to General Dynamics
weren’t immediately returned.  The Austal ship is now in Mayport,  Florida , undergoing
additional testing, the Navy said in its statement. A permanent
repair of the existing corrosion damage would be conducted next
year, the Navy said.  The Navy statement did not provide an estimate of the cost
of the repair work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 