-- 
Nexans in Talks to Buy Chinese, Middle East High-Voltage Plants

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-06-17T13:39:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/nexans-in-talks-to-buy-chinese-middle-east-high-voltage-plants.html
Nexans SA (NEX) , a French maker of cables
and wires, is in talks to buy producers of high-voltage  power
lines  in  China  and the Middle East, and is considering building
plants for such cables in the U.S. and Russia.  “Ideally,  North America  and China are the priorities,”
Yvon Raak, who manages Nexans’ high-voltage and subsea cables
operation, said in an interview in Paris June 14. “We won’t do
everything on our own, we’ll be selective on these projects, and
that will also depend on talks with partners.”  Nexans, based in Paris, is in “very active talks” to take
a majority stake in a small Chinese maker of high-voltage
cables, and an announcement may come this year, he said. The
company may also decide whether to build high-voltage cable
plants in the U.S. and Russia in coming months, he said.  Nexans, which is being leapfrogged by  Prysmian SpA (PRY)  as the
world’s largest cable maker after the Italian company outbid it
last year to buy Amsterdam-based  Draka Holding NV (DRAK) , is expanding
in high-voltage cables to benefit from expansion and renovation
of power grids across the globe, and in specialty cables used in
aerospace and other industries.  In the U.S., where Nexans competes with  General Cable
Corp. (BGC) , the high-voltage market is on the French company’s
“radar screen,” he said. “The U.S. underground high-voltage
market should grow in the next 10 years because the grid is old
and needs to be renovated, and development of overhead networks
is less accepted.”  A decision on the plant will be taken within six to 12
months, the Nexans executive said. “We’re itching to make that
decision,” he said.  U.S. Plant  Energy infrastructure cables, which include land and
submarine power transmission cables and low- and medium-voltage
power distribution cables, accounted for about two-fifths of
Nexans’s revenue in 2010. Such products are more profitable than
cables used in construction and telecommunications.  In  Russia , Nexans is considering investing as much as 50
million euros ($71 million) to build a high-voltage facility in
Ouglich, where it already makes low- and medium-voltage cables,
Raak said. Alternatively, it may continue to supply the Russia
HV markets from existing European plants, which will probably
see rising demand in coming years for medium-voltage cables
required to connect offshore wind farms developed in countries
such as German,  Denmark , the U.K. and soon  France , he said.  China  “In China, we’ve dropped the idea of a greenfield facility
for land HV cables which would add to production capacities and
would take three years to implement,” Raak said.  A purchase in China would mark Nexans’s first acquisition
since it was outbid by Prysmian to buy Draka last year. The
French company’s most recent acquisitions include Santiago,
Chile-based Madeco for $822 million and Milan-based Intercond
SpA for 90 million euros, both in 2008.  In the  Middle East , building a high-voltage cable plant
“isn’t an option because there are already many local
players,” Raak said. “If we were to have the opportunity to
buy something local, either already existing or in a start-up
phase, we would look at it provided that sellers or partners
don’t dream too much on future Ebitda multiples. We’re having
some contacts and are looking at things.”  Turmoil in the Middle East has hurt Nexans’s land high-
voltage business in recent months by delaying the beginning of
contracts in the Gulf countries and interrupting work in Libya,
trimming the company’s first-quarter revenue growth by 2
percentage points to 13 percent, Nexans said on April 27.  Middle East  “The Middle East was very active from 2005, and until 2008
or 2009, a little bit less so now that there’s a lot of
installed lines, but we still see it as a growth area in coming
years,” baring a strong political shakeup, Raak said. “ Libya 
will become a growth area again. There’s a lot of oil, a lot of
people and a lot of reconstruction needs.”  In Libya alone, where Nexans has withdrawn its staff due to
the civil war, the company had been banking on about 40 million
euros of revenue this year, Nexans Chief Executive Officer
Frederic Vincent said May 31.  Vincent also reiterated Nexans’s annual target for organic
sales growth of more than 5 percent, and an operating margin of
about 5.5 percent, “subject to satisfactory pass-through of
price increases for plastics and components,” up from 4.8
percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 