-- 
Northern Irish Bank Staff Put on Alert After May Terrorist Bomb

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-06-17T06:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/northern-irish-bank-staff-put-on-alert-after-may-terrorist-bomb.html
Bank employees in Northern Ireland
are being put on alert after terrorist bomb attacks in recent
months by dissident Irish nationalists.  A branch of  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in Derry was bombed on May
21, causing “extensive damage,” according to police. The Real
 Irish Republican Army , which killed a policeman in April, said
it carried out the attack. Last October, the same group exploded
a car bomb in Derry outside a branch of  Ulster Bank  Ltd., part
of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “We are urging our staff to remain vigilant and are
helping police with their inquiries,” Andy Smith, a spokesman
for Santander, said by phone yesterday. A spokeswoman for Ulster
Bank declined to comment on “specific security matters.”  Banks have been blamed for their role in the global
financial crisis, with three people left dead during an attack
on a branch during demonstrations in  Athens . The Real IRA is
seeking to build on discontent after the Republic of Ireland
sought an 85 billion-euro ($120 billion) rescue last year.  Previously, the Real IRA said it is targeting banks, as it
seeks to reignite the conflict in Northern Ireland that claimed
3,500 lives before largely ending in 1998. In 2009, the group,
which splintered from the Provisional IRA after members laid
down their arms, killed two British soldiers in a gun attack,
the first military fatalities in the region since 1997.  ‘Marginalized’  “They are marginalized,”  Emmet O’Connor , a politics
lecturer at the University of Ulster, said in an interview.
“Some of them would very much be in favor of attacking
international capitalism. The International Monetary Fund
bailout in the south of Ireland would fit into their critique.”  Unemployment in  Northern Ireland  has more than doubled over
the past three years as a housing crash was amplified by the
global credit crisis. The power-sharing  assembly  in  Belfast  was
revived in 2007, just as the economy in the Republic of Ireland
was on the cusp of collapse.  “The IRA view the bankers as being in collaboration with
the British government,” Paul Stewart, spokesman for the  32
County Sovereignty Movement , a group classed by the U.S
government as a terrorist organization with links to the Real
IRA, said in a phone interview. “Brits out isn’t enough,
capitalism has to be defeated.”  The  British Bankers Association  condemned the bombs and
said in an e-mailed statement it “would urge anybody with any
information about recent attacks to contact the authorities.”  Gerry MacLochlainn , a  Sinn Fein  lawmaker, served a jail
sentence in  England  for his IRA activities. Last month he
watched as the bomb exploded at the Santander branch.  The IRA, former allies of Sinn Fein, decommissioned their
weapons in 2005 and Sinn Fein now shares power in the region’s
assembly after pledging to pursue its aims peacefully.  “I was around 100 yards from the explosion,” MacLochlainn
said in a telephone interview. “If they think that by attacking
a small local branch of a bank that they are striking a blow
against international finance, they are sadly delusional.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast News at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  