-- 
Obama, Boehner Join Forces to Negotiate Golf Fairways, Not Budget Impasse

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-06-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/obama-tees-up-with-boehner-to-navigate-golf-fairways-not-u-s-budget-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama  and House
Speaker  John Boehner  made good on their commitment to bipartisan
bonding through golf, teaming up yesterday to beat Vice
President  Joe Biden  and Ohio Governor  John Kasich  on the 18th
hole.  Obama and Boehner won $2 each for their victory, according
to a statement released by the White House with approval from
Boehner’s office.  Aides declined to disclose individual scores on the par 72
course at Andrews Air Force Base. The release said only that
“the foursome had a great time” and capped it off at the
clubhouse with cold drinks on the patio, visiting with service
members and watching some televised coverage of the U.S. Open
being played in nearby Bethesda,  Maryland .  The Democratic president, 49, and Boehner, 61, an Ohio
Republican, are at odds over plans to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling and whether Obama has the legal authority
to continue the U.S. mission in  Libya  without formal approval
from Congress. Aides said the golf game, months in the works,
could help the leaders get to know one another better.  With the other bipartisan pairing of Biden and Kasich at
their side, Obama and Boehner teed off at about 10 a.m. The
course was kept open for other golfers.  Succession Security  With the president and the two leaders next in the line of
succession -- the vice president and the speaker of the  House of
Representatives  -- spending hours together outdoors, an
advantage to playing golf at Andrews is that it can be well
secured.  The Presidential Succession Act dictates that, in the event
all three leaders were somehow incapacitated, next in line would
be the president pro tempore of the Senate, Daniel K. Inouye,
86, followed by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , 63.  Reporters were allowed to watch the group putt at the
first hole. As they walked off the first hole Obama patted
Boehner on the back. The game ended mid-afternoon.  In their day jobs, Obama wields more power than Boehner. On
the course, Boehner had the clout. In its June issue,  Golf
Digest  ranked Boehner the 43rd best golfer in  Washington  with a
7.9 handicap. That trumps Obama’s estimated 17 handicap, putting
him 108th on Golf Digest’s list.  Kasich’s spokesman, Rob Nichols, said the governor is close
to an 8 handicap. Golf Digest puts Biden’s handicap at 6.3,
making him 29th on the list of the capital’s 150 best golfers.  Relaxed Style  Terry Holt, a Republican consultant and former Boehner
aide, said on the course the House speaker is “very relaxed and
easy-going.” Holt said Boehner also loves the strategy of the
game and enjoys sharing tips on how to make tough putts.  Representative Jim Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat who
has played rounds with Obama and Boehner, said Obama is a
moderate risk-taker on the course, focused if he lands in a sand
trap yet relaxed enough to chat off-topic.  During their game last summer at  Martha’s Vineyard , Clyburn
said Obama “took the time to get to know more about me. He
asked a lot of questions about my parents and growing up.”  As for Obama and Boehner’s relationship, Clyburn said, “I
don’t know that one golf match will do it but it’s a good
beginning.”  Budget Background  While the golfers weren’t expected to talk substantively
about policy, the budget talks were in the background.  Biden is leading the administration’s negotiations with
Congress on cutting the deficit and raising the debt ceiling. He
finished three days of talks last week with a group of lawmakers
who are trying to shrink the government’s long-term deficit by
at least $4 trillion over about a decade. The aim is to reach a
an agreement in time for Congress to meet an Aug. 2 deadline for
raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit.  Kasich led the House Budget Committee when Republicans took
control of the House in 1995 and was a linchpin in negotiations
with Democratic President  Bill Clinton  on cutting spending and
the deficit. He won  Ohio ’s governorship last year by defeating a
Democratic incumbent in a state that is critical to Obama’s 2012
re-election.  Presidents and Golf  Mike Trostel, curator and historian at the USGA Museum in
Far Hills,  New Jersey , the archive for the sport’s ruling body
in the U.S., said that since William Howard Taft in 1909 all but
three of the men who have been president -- Hoover, Truman and
Carter -- have played golf.  While Lyndon B. Johnson used golf to help round up support
for the Civil Rights Act in 1964, Trostel said, “it seems like
a lot of presidents play the game to get away from the pressures
of the office.”  For other politicians, he said, “it seems like it’s the
exact opposite reasons, to push through legislation or garner
some votes for a bill they’re supporting.”  Trostel said in the Depression era, the New Deal program of
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt , an avid golfer until he was
struck by polio at age 39, led to the development of more than
300 of the nation’s public courses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 