-- 
Oil Heads for Biggest Weekly Decline in Six on Concern Over European Debt

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-17T12:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/oil-heads-for-biggest-weekly-decline-in-six-on-concern-over-european-debt.html
Oil dropped to its lowest level in
four months in  New York  on concern the Greek debt crisis will
derail  Europe ’s economic recovery, curbing fuel demand.  Futures pared an earlier loss of 3 percent as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  moderated earlier conditions for
supporting a Greek rescue plan. Crude is down 5.2 percent this
week as data showed U.S. manufacturers turned pessimistic in
June and demand for diesel declined. Prices will slide further
next week, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  “Oil demand growth has slowed in the second quarter with a
weakening of the economic recovery,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian ,
London-based head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas
SA. “The recent oil move is forex-driven. Past the current soft
patch, we expect growth to pick up as we move into the fourth
quarter.”  Crude for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
slipped as much as $2.83 to $92.12 a barrel, the lowest since
Feb. 22, and was at $94.15 at 1:02 p.m. London time. This week’s
price biggest decline is the biggest in six weeks. Brent oil for
August delivery dropped 35 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $113.67 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
price is 44 percent higher the past year.  U.S. consumption of distillate fuel, which includes diesel
and heating oil, tumbled 5.2 percent last week to the lowest
since January, the Energy Department said on June 15.  Greek Rescue  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index fell to minus 7.7, the lowest since July 2009, from 3.9
the prior month, data on June 16 showed. Readings less than zero
signal contraction. The Bloomberg gauge of economic expectations
slumped to minus 31 this month, the weakest since March 2009,
from minus 16.  Chancellor Angela Merkel retreated from German demands that
bondholders be forced to shoulder a “substantial” share of a
Greek rescue, saying she’ll work with the  European Central Bank 
to avoid disrupting markets.  A Greek default is “almost certain” and could drive the
 U.S. economy  into recession, said Alan Greenspan, former Federal
Reserve chairman.  “The rise in  risk aversion  is currently putting so much
pressure on  oil prices ,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  “In the climate of a greater
perception of financial market and economic risks and given the
present strength of the  U.S. dollar , the price correction is
likely to continue.”  OPEC Shipments  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will cut
crude-oil loadings for the first time in seven weeks as summer
demand for driving fuel in the northern hemisphere is set to
pass its peak, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Producers will ship 22.81 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to July 2, down 0.7 percent from the period ended June 4,
the Halifax, England-based consultant said yesterday.  OPEC failed to agree on an output target when it met on
June 8. Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi pledged that day
the kingdom would keep markets adequately supplied in the
absence of an accord by the 12-member group.  Oil may fall next week on signals that economic growth in
the U.S. and  China  will slow, curbing fuel use in the world’s
biggest crude-consuming countries, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Eighteen of 38 analysts, or 47 percent, forecast oil
will decline through June 24.  Thirteen respondents, or 34 percent, predicted prices will
increase and seven estimated there will be little change. Last
week, 54 percent of respondents said futures would drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  