-- 
Holcim Monitoring Consolidation in Chinese Cement Market

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-06-17T16:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/holcim-monitoring-consolidation-in-chinese-cement-market.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-
largest cement maker, is monitoring merger and acquisition
opportunities in China with a view to building a base for
expansion there, Chairman Rolf Soiron said today.  The Chinese government acknowledges that consolidation in
its cement industry is necessary and Holcim is among the
companies approved to take part, Soiron said in a presentation
in Geneva. Challenges there include managing margins and hiring,
he said.  “As long as we are not totally sure that we control our
destiny there, we are going to be careful in this,” Soiron said
today at a British Swiss Chamber of Commerce luncheon in Geneva.
He added that some decisions about Holcim’s future will fall to
his successor given he plans to step down in a couple of years.  Holcim is increasing capacity in  India  and Soiron said
today  Brazil  is another market where the company needs to expand
in. Jona, Switzerland-based Holcim last month reported a first-
quarter net income of 10 million francs ($12 million), while
cement deliveries rose 7.2 percent, led by the Asia Pacific
region.  The cement maker is expanding capacity in India as the
country’s rising population spurs spending on housing, roads,
ports and bridges. Holcim expects construction in mature markets
to recover and the growth in emerging markets to continue.  Soiron, who has served as chairman of the Jona,
Switzerland-based company since 2003, said he expects to step
down in a “couple of years.”  “In 10 years, our successors will know how the risks in
 China  have evolved and let them then take the decisions,” said
Soiron. “The important point is that we have a bridgehead.”  “I’m not going to be an eternal chairman at all,” he
said, adding that he believes he knows who his successor will
be. Soiron didn’t name or comment any further on his
replacement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net 
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  