-- 
One-Year Freeze in China-India Military Ties Said to End With Beijing Trip

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-06-17T06:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/one-year-freeze-in-china-india-military-ties-said-to-end-with-beijing-trip.html
India  will resume military ties with
China after a freeze of almost a year with a delegation of army
officials due to travel to Beijing.  Major General Gurmeet Singh will lead an eight-member team
for meetings with Chinese counterparts, according to an Indian
government official who spoke on condition of anonymity because
he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly with the media on the
matter. The five-day trip will begin June 19, the official said.  Defense relations between the world’s two largest countries
were suspended in August after China issued a visa to an Indian
army officer in charge of forces in Kashmir without stamping his
passport, an act seen as questioning India’s rule over the
disputed Himalayan territory.  China  has a close alliance with
 Pakistan , which has waged two wars with India over Kashmir.  “It’s a positive development but its importance shouldn’t
be overstated,” said Uday Bhaskar, director of the New Delhi-
based National Maritime Foundation, a research group. “The
military contact between the two countries before this event was
limited and the armies are going to continue to be wary of each
other.”  Singh is based in Kashmir, where he heads an anti-
insurgency force, according to the Indian Express today.  Answers to faxed questions to China’s defense and foreign
ministries on the general’s trip were not immediately returned.  The hiatus in military relations did not spill over to
other government departments and Chinese Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao  traveled to India with 400 business executives in
December.  India and China, which fought a war in 1962 over part of
their disputed 3,500-kilometer (2,175-mile) border, have been
working to ensure their ongoing disagreements don’t damage
economic ties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  