-- 
Mongolia to Offer Tavan Tolgoi Mine to ‘3 or 4’ Bidders, PM Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-17T07:31:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/mongolia-to-offer-tavan-tolgoi-mine-to-3-or-4-bidders-pm-says.html
Mongolia may share its Tavan Tolgoi
coal mining project between a majority of the six bidders
shortlisted by the government and ask them to work together,
Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold said in an interview today.  “There are going to be about three or four of the major
ones to create one consortium,” Batbold told Bloomberg
Television in Beijing, concluding his three-day state visit to
 China . The final decision is “very close.”  Coal production in Mongolia doubled last year to become the
nation’s top export earner, spurring the government to push
through development of one of the world’s biggest unexploited
deposits of the mineral.  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , a Shenhua Group
Corp.-Mitsui & Co. venture, Vale SA, a Russia-Japan-South Korea
group,  ArcelorMittal (MT) , and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  were all shortlisted.  Mongolia is trying to seek a “balance of interests” in
its relations with neighbors like Russia and China and Western
countries, he said. “This balance has to be kept not by
squeezing somebody, but increasing” the opportunities from
cooperation, he said.  “We would like to make this happen as soon as possible
because quickly it can generate the revenue and it’s good for
the country,” Batbold said.  Talks were underway on the contract for the central and
western part of the site, Baterdene Ragchaa, a spokesman for
 Erdenes MGL LLC , the state-controlled owner of the deposit, said
on March 31.  Seeking Expertise  Mongolia will this month announce the winning bid to
develop the deposit, Xinhua News Agency said May 19, citing
unidentified local media.  The nation is seeking mining expertise and infrastructure
development, including railway construction, Erdenepurev
Amarkhuu, director-general of fuel policy at the Ministry of
Mineral Resources, said in April. Mongolia is also targeting
“value-added production” in areas including coal-to-liquid and
coal-to-gas projects, he said then.  Tavan Tolgoi spans some 68,000 hectares (168,000 acres),
with coking  coal  used in steelmaking located mainly in the
central Tsankhi area, according to Erdenes MGL. Tsankhi has been
split into the western bloc, which will be developed by the
winners of the tender, and the eastern side, which will be mined
by Erdenes TavanTolgoi, a unit of Erdenes MGL.  Batbold and Chinese counterpart Wen Jiabao oversaw the
signing of nine agreements in Beijing yesterday, including one
for a $500 million loan to Mongolia from China.  The other agreements included economic and technological
cooperation, the protection of cultural relics, and education.  “China is a good neighbor and a strategic partner,”
Batbold said today. Cooperation will benefit both countries as
Mongolia has resources China needs, while China can provide the
“markets and potential” for Mongolia’s economic development,
he said.  Mongolia doesn’t want to be only a supplier of raw
materials, Batbold said. “We would like to direct the financing
opportunities to the industries to create more value, more
technology and more environmentally friendly approaches.”  -- Wang Ying  and Stephen Engle. Editor:  Ben Richardson , Andrew Hobbs  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 