-- 
Mongolia to Sell Dollar Bonds in ‘Near Future,’ Elbegdorj Says

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-06-17T19:15:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/mongolia-plans-dollar-bond-sale-to-finance-mining-roads-elbegdorj-says.html
Mongolia plans to sell its debut
dollar-denominated bond “in the near future,” to finance
expansion of the  mining industry  and build roads and bridges,
President Tsakhia Elbegdorj said.  The government is talking to investment banks in  New York 
about underwriting the planned $500 million debt sale, said
Naidansuren Zoljargal, deputy governor at the nation’s central
bank, who is visiting the U.S. with the president. The $1
billion of 10-year debt that  Sri Lanka , whose bonds carry the
same B1 rating from Moody’s Investors Service as Mongolia, sold
in September yield 6.252 percent, unchanged from their issue.  “Mongolia is in a good shape in terms of issuing bonds and
paying back those things,” Elbegdorj, 48, said in an interview
today at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “Our economic
growth is good.”  Mongolia’s MSE Top 20 Index rose 108 percent in the past 12
months, the world’s best performer among 91 stock benchmark
measures tracked by Bloomberg, and the local currency gained 9
percent against the dollar as the country’s exports of coal and
copper surged. Resource-rich Mongolia, where Elbegdorj said the
economy is growing at a rate of 7 percent to 8 percent, needs to
quadruple the size of its rail network, add power and water
plant, and build more roads to boost metal and mineral exports.  Currency Swaps  The government is also negotiating with Russia to secure
currency swaps, according to Elbegdorj, who received a degree
from Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts  in 2002. He said he expects trade in
local currency with Mongolia’s two neighbors, Russia and  China ,
to increase.  A currency swap agreement signed with China last month
paved the way for the planned five-year bond because the
“safety belt” will boost investors’ confidence in its  debt
market , Zoljargal said in a telephone interview in New York.  The swap, worth 5 billion yuan ($772 million), allows
Mongolia to tap the Chinese currency during an economic crisis.
About 25 percent of trade between China and Mongolia is settled
in the yuan, according to Zoljargal.  Policy makers are also keen to develop five-, 10- and 15-
year benchmarks for its local-currency government bond market to
secure financing and take advantage of growing interest from
foreign investors, Zoljargal said. The  Development Bank  of
Mongolia also plans to sell $700 million of domestic-currency
bonds this year, he said.  London  Exchange  A partnership agreement with the London Stock Exchange
signed in January and aimed at overseeing the development of the
Mongolian bourse and its sale to investors, will help spur
international participation in the equity markets, where
domestic investment is now dominant, Elbegdorj said.  “We are focusing on developing our stock exchange,” he
said.  The planned bond sale would open the international capital
markets for the government and local companies to raise funds to
finance $50 billion of investment projects in the next decade,
said Zoljargal. Mongolia’s B1 rating at Moody’s is four levels
below investment grade, while S&P ranks it a step higher at BB-.  “We are watching the market carefully,” said Zoljargal.
“The government really wants to have this. The benchmark itself
is a very important thing for the private company to go to the
market.”  ‘Quite Keen’  Jeremy Brewin, who manages $3.3 billion of emerging market
assets as a  fund manager  at Aviva Investors in London, said he’s
interested in Mongolian dollar debt because of the nation’s debt
levels and commodities-driven economy.  “We’re quite keen as it has very little debt outstanding
and the resources, the declared resources, suggest that Mongolia
is asset rich,” he said. “Until proven otherwise, we like idea
of investigating the credit with prospects for participating in
the deal.”  A mining boom in the world’s most sparsely populated nation
promises the greatest influx of wealth for Mongolia since
Genghis Khan conquered much of the known world in the 13th
century.  Economic growth may surge to 23 percent in 2013, more than
twice the forecast expansion in China, as  large mining projects 
begin production, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
March report.  Landlocked Country  International companies such as  Rio Tinto  Group, the
world’s No. 2 mining company, are flocking to the landlocked
country to tap its natural resources. Rio Tinto is developing
the nation’s natural resources Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold
deposit, which it expects will account for 30 percent of
Mongolia’s gross domestic product when completed.  Mongolia may award its Tavan Tolgoi coal mining project,
one of the largest in the world, to a group of companies as soon
as this month, Elbegdorj said.  Elbegdorj, a former journalist who led the peaceful
revolution that ended more than 65 years of communist rule in
Mongolia in 1990, said he’s concerned about how to “manage”
the surge of foreign investment and ensure the windfall spreads
among the nation’s citizens. More than 33 percent of Mongolians
live below the poverty line, and per capita income in the nation
of 2.7 million is $2,111, the  IMF  said in 2010.  “Earlier days, we focused on attracting investment,”
Elbegdorj said. “One of the biggest challenges is how to manage
the money flowing from the mining to the benefit of our
people.”  Sandwiched between  Russia ’s far east to the north and the
1.3 billion-strong, resource-hungry China to the south, Mongolia
is looking for ways to lessen its vulnerability.  China accounts for 80 percent of Mongolia’s imports and
buys about 85 percent of its exports, according to Mongolia’s
central bank data. The country depends almost 100 percent on
Russian oil.  “Our best interest is to balance investments and trade
between our two neighbors, Russia and China, and other parts of
the world,” Elbegdorj said. “I’m trying to encourage
investment from the  United States of America .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  