-- 
L.A. Dodgers’ Ownership Will Be Decided at Trial, Divorced McCourts Agree

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-18T01:13:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/los-angeles-dodgers-owner-mccourt-settles-divorce-dispute-with-ex-wife.html
Los Angeles  Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  and his ex-wife, Jamie McCourt, agreed to settle a
divorce dispute in an agreement that leaves the future of the
team undecided until August.  Lawyers for the McCourts told Superior Court Judge Scott M. Gordon at a hearing in Los Angeles today that they reached an
accord on how to resolve conflicting claims over who owns the
team. The judge accepted the settlement, which is contingent on
Major League Baseball approving a media-rights agreement Frank
McCourt made with News Corp.’s Fox Entertainment.  The settlement doesn’t resolve the dispute over whether the
Dodgers are Frank McCourt’s sole property or community property.
The judge scheduled a one-day trial for Aug. 4 to address Frank
McCourt’s remaining claim he has sole title to the team.  “I believe I will prevail on Aug. 4,” Frank McCourt told
reporters today outside the courthouse.  If he loses, the Dodgers will be sold and the proceeds
split evenly, according to the settlement. If he wins, Jamie
McCourt will receive $100 million and all of the couple’s
residential properties except for one, according to the term
sheet provided by the lawyers.  The settlement clears the way for  Major League Baseball  to
approve the proposed TV deal with Fox, Frank McCourt said. MLB
wanted the judge to approve the transaction, Jamie McCourt to
consent to it, and the divorce to be settled, all of which
conditions were met with the agreement, McCourt told reporters.  ‘Huge Milestone’  “This is huge milestone,” he said. “It’s a big step
forward.”  The Fox agreement includes a $385 million loan. About $235
million of the money will go to the Dodgers, and about $80
million will go to pay off debt. About $50 million will “be put
into an account subject to the court’s orders,” under the
agreement.  Both Frank and Jamie McCourt will receive $5 million from
the loan to pay their lawyers and an additional $5 million “to
use as she and he desires,” according to the settlement. If the
Dodgers are found to be community property and will be sold,
Frank and Jamie McCourt will receive $650,000 a month each from
the $50 million put aside until their assets have been sold.  “Resolving this matter is my top priority and I hope today
was a step in that direction,” Jamie McCourt said in a
statement. “I love the Dodgers, the fans, and the community.
Reaching a resolution is the most important thing for my family,
my children, and certainly for the fans and for baseball. I have
been trying to accomplish this for the past two years, and the
sooner it’s completed, the better.”  Dennis Wasser , a lawyer for Jamie McCourt, told reporters
it was “way too far ahead” to discuss in detail what would
happen after the Aug. 4 trial, should his client prevail, beyond
what was disclosed in the agreement.  Jamie McCourt last month asked the judge to order a sale of
the Dodgers, saying baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig ’s decision
to take over the team showed that her ex-husband wasn’t
operating the franchise “in the best interests of the club or
the marital estate.”  Major League Baseball took control of the business
operations of the team in April because of what Selig called
“my deep concerns regarding the finances and operations” of
the Dodgers.  Major League Baseball spokesman Pat Courtney declined to
comment whether the settlement clears the way for the league to
approve the Fox television agreement.  Trial Loss  Frank McCourt last year lost a trial over the validity of a
postnuptial agreement that he said made him the sole owner of
the Dodgers.  Gordon ruled in December that the 2004 agreement McCourt
and his ex-wife made when they bought the Dodgers and moved to
 California  couldn’t be enforced.  The McCourts, who divorced in October after 31 years of
marriage, last month asked Gordon to mediate a settlement. The
judge extended yesterday’s deadline for the mediation.  Frank McCourt bought the Dodgers from Fox Entertainment
Group Inc. in 2004 for $421 million. The team is now worth about
$800 million, making it the third most valuable baseball team
after the  New York Yankees  and the  Boston Red Sox , according to
Forbes.  The case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309, California
Superior Court (Los Angeles County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 