-- 
Mosaid, Nokia, Moroccanoil, Nortel: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-17T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/mosaid-technologies-nokia-moroccanoil-nortel-intellectual-property.html
Mosaid Technologies Inc. (MSD) ’s patent-
infringement claims against  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
largest maker of networking equipment, will be reviewed by the
U.S. International Trade Commission.  Mosaid’s complaint claims certain Cisco routers and modems
made overseas and sold in the U.S. infringe six patents related
to power-over-Ethernet products, which carry electrical current
over data cables rather than power cords. The ITC, which
announced the investigation yesterday, said it hasn’t made any
decision on the merits of the case.  Mosaid is an Ontario-based designer of semiconductors that
received all of its C$71 million ($72 million) in revenue last
fiscal year from patent licensing, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  San Jose , California-based Cisco said May 18 that
Mosaid was seeking to evade a case pending in Delaware where
Cisco is challenging Mosaid patents.  The Washington-based ITC can block imports of products
found to violate U.S. patents. The agency’s reviews typically
take 15 to 18 months.  The case is In the Matter of Communications Networks,
including Switches, Routers, Gateways, Bridges, Wireless Access
Points, Cable Modems, IP Phones, 337-778, U.S. International
Trade Commission ( Washington ).  Nokia Devices Infringe IPCom Phone Patent, U.K. Judge Rules  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones by
volume, lost a U.K. court bid to invalidate a European patent
that Germany’s  IPCom GmbH  claims is vital to the Finnish
company’s handset sales.  The patent, which covers technology for connecting a
handset to a network, is valid and infringed by two Nokia
devices, Judge  Christopher Floyd  ruled yesterday at the High
Court of  London . He didn’t identify the specific devices.  “As far as we know, this is the first time that an
essential telecoms 3G patent was ever upheld and judged
infringed in the U.K., a jurisdiction well-known for being very
demanding for patent holders,” Bernhard Frohwitter, IPCom’s
managing director, said in a statement.  The ruling comes two days after Nokia won an almost two-
year patent dispute with Apple Inc. in a settlement that awards
a one-time payment and royalties to the Espoo, Finland-based
handset maker. Nokia’s dispute with IPCom is being played out in
courts in the U.S., Germany,  Japan  and Italy.  IPCom, which says the ruling threatens Nokia’s U.K. sales,
seeks royalties from a family of mobile-technology patents it
acquired in 2007 from Robert Bosch GmbH, the world’s largest
automotive supplier. Pullach, Germany-based IPCom bought the
patents after Bosch failed to license them to Nokia in 2003.  The patent at issue in yesterday’s case wasn’t infringed by
a third Nokia device, Floyd ruled.  Mark Durrant, a spokesman for Nokia, said the company’s
current devices don’t infringe the patent. The company will
appeal part of yesterday’s judgment, he said.  “We are pleased that the U.K. High Court declared that
Nokia’s current products do not infringe the patent,” Durrant
said in an e-mail. “This means that we can continue selling
those products, now with legal certainty.”  IPCom rejected Nokia’s interpretation of the ruling,
claiming the two infringing devices are still in use by the
Finnish company.  “Nokia is clearly misleading the public on what the court
ruled today,” Frohwitter said yesterday in a phone interview.
“IPCom is ready to enforce the U.K. ruling.”  Hynix, Micron Lose Document Evidence Ruling in Rambus Case  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  lost a
ruling in a  California  antitrust lawsuit by memory-chip designer
Rambus Inc. that would have allowed the companies to present
privileged documents as evidence at trial.  Superior Court Judge James McBride in  San Francisco 
yesterday rejected the chipmakers’ contention that the documents
should be made available under the “crime-fraud” exception.
Micron and Hynix can still seek to get the documents admitted on
a case-by-case basis.  The argument relied on a federal appeals court ruling last
month that Rambus destroyed documents relevant to patent-
infringement claims it planned to pursue against the chipmakers.
Rambus “committed or intended to commit a fraud or crime” by
destroying documents that would have had to be produced in
litigation, Hynix and Micron said in court papers.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, is seeking as much
as $4.3 billion from Hynix and Micron over claims they drove
Rambus-designed dynamic random access memory, or RDRAM, chips
out of the computer-memory market. The damages would be
automatically tripled to $12.9 billion under California law if
Rambus wins the case, Rambus claims.  McBride issued his ruling from the bench at a hearing
yesterday without explanation. Sean Eskovitz, a lawyer from
Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP in  Los Angeles  who represented
Rambus, argued at the hearing that there is a “different legal
standard” for the crime-fraud exception in California than in
federal court.  Patrick Shields, a lawyer for Micron with Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in Los Angeles, told McBride that the
federal appeals court “found that Rambus willfully destroyed
documents,” and that there was “ample evidence” that those
documents would need to be produced in litigation.  Dan Francisco, a spokesman for Boise, Idaho-based Micron,
declined to comment on yesterday’s ruling.  A jury is being selected in the case, with opening
arguments scheduled for next week. Earlier this week, Micron and
Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix lost their request to have
McBride instruct jurors that Rambus’s document destruction in
anticipation of litigation is proven. They are still permitted
to present document destruction arguments at trial.  The case is  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  v. Micron Technology Inc., 04-
431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Moroccanoil Files Six New Trademark Suits in Two Courts  Moroccanoil Israel Ltd.  and its U.S.-based Moroccanoil
unit, which have brought more than 50 trademark-infringement
lawsuits since 2010, filed six new cases in  New York  and Florida
on June 14.  The company makes a range of hair-care products using the
oil of the  Argania spinosa  tree. The tree grows only in Morocco
and the edible oil produced by its seeds is believed to have
anti-aging properties.  Moroccanoil hair-treatment products are offered for sale
for as much as $86 a bottle on websites. According to the
company website, Moroccanoil has an “anti-diversion policy” to
ensure the products are sold only in hair salons.  It warns customers that alleged Moroccanoil products
offered for sale at pharmacies, grocery stores, discount
outlets, retail outlets, retail chains, retail websites and
auction websites are likely fakes. If they are legitimate,
Moroccanoil said they may be “damaged, expired, tampered-with,
and/or unsafe.”  In its newest set of complaints against sellers of what
appears to be Moroccanoil products, the company says the test
buys it did from these retailers show “physical indicia of
counterfeiting” identical to products bought from other sellers
in the past that lab tests proved to be counterfeit.  Moroccanoil asked the court for an order barring the
various defendants from future infringement, and for the seizure
and destruction of all infringing goods and promotional
materials. The company also seeks money damages, including extra
damages to punish the sellers for their conduct, and awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs.  6 Ballygunge Place Registers Address as Trademark in  India   A restaurant in Calcutta persuaded India’s trademark office
to permit registration of its address as trademark, a first for
that country, the Times of India  reported .  The Bengali restaurant 6 Ballygunge Place registered its
address and plans to use the mark on restaurants in India, the
U.K., France and the U.S., according to the Times.  Counsel for the restaurant persuaded the trademark office
that its address is a tangible asset that was unique and had
been developed over time, according to the newspaper.  Biswajit Sarkar , the Calcutta-based trademark counsel who
represented the restaurant, told the Times of India that his
client expects to register its trademark in the U.K., France and
the U.S. without any problems.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Illegal Video Streaming Elevated to Felony Under Senate Bill  The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee approved a measure
yesterday that would make illegal streaming of video over the
Internet a felony offense in some cases, sending the proposed
legislation to the full Senate.  The bill, S. 978, would make illegal video streaming for
commercial purposes a felony punishable by as much as five years
in prison if it involves 10 or more instances of streaming
copyrighted works during a 180-day period. The retail value of
the video must exceed $2,500, or the licenses to the material
must be worth more than $5,000.  The bill was introduced May 12 by Senators Amy Klobuchar, a
Minnesota Democrat, John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, and
Christopher Coons, a Delaware Democrat.  The Obama administration supported making illegal video
streaming a felony “in appropriate circumstances” in a set of
recommendations released March 15 for fighting the illegal sale
of pirated products and content.  Maria Pallante, director of the U.S. Copyright Office, also
backed making illegal streaming a felony in a June 1 House
Judiciary subcommittee hearing, saying that treating the offense
as a misdemeanor gives prosecutors little incentive to file
charges in such cases.  Piracy of digital movies, music and software cost
businesses from $30 billion to $75 billion in 2008 in the Group
of 20 leading global economies, according to a February report
commissioned by the International Chamber of Commerce from
Frontier Economics, a London-based consulting firm.  The Copyright Alliance, a Washington-based group whose
members including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal,  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  and Viacom Inc., said it “applauds” the Senate Judiciary
Committee’s vote on the illegal streaming bill.  “The distribution of other people’s work without their
permission should be punished the same way under the law
regardless of the technology used,” Sandra Aistars, executive
director of the Copyright Alliance, said in an e-mail.  The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based
digital-rights group, is concerned that the measure may
constrain free speech, Abigail Phillips, a senior staff attorney
for the organization, said in an interview yesterday.  “The more serious the potential penalties, the greater
deterrent effect on innovation and speech activity online,”
Phillips said.  For more copyright news, click here.  Technology Transfer  Nortel Delays Auction to June 27 on ‘Significant’ Interest  Nortel Networks Corp., the bankrupt phone-equipment maker,
is delaying an auction of its range of patents set for June 20
by one week after seeing a “significant level of interest” in
the technology portfolio.  The auction of the 6,000 patents and patent applications
will now be held on June 27, the Mississauga, Ontario-based
company said in a statement yesterday.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which is looking to acquire patents that could
be used for phones that run its Android software, offered $900
million in April in what Nortel said was a starting point for an
auction. RPX Corp., a San Francisco-based patent-buying firm, is
considering a bid, an attorney for the company said last month.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , the maker of the BlackBerry
smartphone, and phone-equipment supplier Ericsson AB are also
weighing bids, people familiar with those companies’ plans have
said.  Nortel filed for bankruptcy in January 2009 after a loss of
$5.8 billion as its customers put off spending on new equipment
amid the recession. Since then, Nortel has raised about $3
billion to pay creditors by selling businesses, with the patents
portfolio the last of the major assets to be sold.  The Nortel patents cover telecommunications technology used
in wireless handsets and networks, as well as Internet search,
semiconductors and social networking. The patents may also help
protect companies in legal disputes or generate licensing
revenue.  To top Google’s bid, companies have to offer at least $929
million under rules approved by the courts overseeing Nortel’s
bankruptcy. The growing interest may boost the price for
Nortel’s patents to more than $1 billion, said Rich Ehrlickman,
president of Boca Raton, Florida-based patent broker
IPOfferings.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 