-- 
Lloyd’s of London Reviewing Assertion Ship Ransoms May Fund Terror Group

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-06-17T14:57:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/lloyd-s-reviewing-assertion-that-shipping-ransoms-may-finance-terror-group.html
Underwriters at  Lloyd’s of London ,
the world’s oldest insurance market, are reviewing the assertion
of a U.S. lawmaker that ransoms paid to Somali pirates may fund
a terror group, which would stop insurers covering the costs.  Kenya ’s government estimates 30 percent of the ransoms are
channeled to al-Shabaab, Representative Ed Royce said at a
meeting of a subcommittee of the House Committee on  Foreign
Affairs  on June 15, according to a transcript on Bloomberg. Al-
Shabaab is described as a terror group with links to al-Qaeda by
the U.S.’s National Counterterrorism Center.  “We would not necessarily be able to indemnify ship owners
if they paid a ransom to a terrorist group, if that turns out to
be the case,” said Neil Roberts, the senior executive for
underwriting at the Lloyd’s Market Association in London. “If
they can’t get their ship or crew out they may have to decide on
re-routing, with implications for costs that would be passed on
to the wider economy.”  Somali pirates attacked 154 ships this year and hijacked 26
vessels as of June 13, according to data from the International
Maritime Bureau’s Piracy Report Centre. Ransoms rose 36-fold in
five years, averaging $5.4 million a ship, and hijackings
reached a record last year, according to One Earth Future
Foundation, a non-profit group based in Louisville,  Colorado .  Al-Shabaab commanders have spoken of a “sea jihad” and
opened an office to coordinate with pirates, Royce told the
hearing this week, according to the transcript. Royce, a
California Republican, is chairman of the Terrorism,
Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee.  Piracy costs ship owners an estimated $160 million a year
in additional insurance expenses, Roberts said. The U.S. bans
ransom payments to pirates, while the U.K. bars giving money to
terror groups, he said. There have been an estimated 130 ransoms
paid to pirates since 2005, Roberts said. The  association 
represents underwriters managing gross premium income of 23
billion pounds ($37 billion).  Pirates increased attacks seven-fold between 2007 and 2010
and doubled their area of operation to cover 2.5 million square
nautical miles, according to Royce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiesebockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  