-- 
BofA’s Moynihan Says Capital Rules May Discourage Lending

-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-06-17T20:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/moynihan-says-capital-rules-may-limit-lending-discourage-bank-investors.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said excessive capital
surcharges on the largest banks could limit lending and
discourage investors from funding the industry.  “If you impact our returns and our business to a
point, investors are going to look around and say there’s other
places to put the money,” Moynihan said today in an interview
with Bloomberg Television in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia , where the
International Economic Forum is being held. “And that’s what
you’ve actually seen in bank stocks.”  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S. lenders has fallen 9.1
percent this year, led by the 20 percent decline at Bank of
America. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is
considering a capital surcharge of as much as 3.5 percentage
points on the largest banks if they get bigger, according to two
people familiar with the talks.  Draft plans circulated before a meeting next week would
subject banks to a sliding scale depending on their size and
links to other lenders, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the proposals aren’t public.  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America is the largest U.S. lender.  “We just need to get through it, so the uncertainty is
gone and we can figure out the change in business model,”
Moynihan said.  Moynihan, 51, has been selling assets including the Balboa
insurance unit, First Republic Bank and a stake in BlackRock
Inc. to bolster finances and focus on retail customers,
commercial borrowers and  investment banking . Moynihan said in
April that the lender’s dividend may remain 1-cent a share until
next year after the Federal Reserve rejected his proposal for an
increase.  Building Capital  Moynihan has said the company can build its financial
strength through earnings and doesn’t need to issue new stock to
generate funds, a point he reiterated today in a CNBC interview.  “We don’t need to raise capital in the sense that we can
build the capital over time,” he said in an interview on the
business-news station, when asked about regulators demanding
greater buffers against losses. “There’s phasing periods for
this and we’ve been clear about that with investors.”  Bank of America must boost earnings if it’s to meet  capital
requirements  in the coming decade without raising money from
investors, said  Paul Miller , a former examiner with
the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia and analyst with FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. The company posted a
$2.2 billion net loss last year on writedowns tied to credit
cards and mortgages.  “The problem is we don’t know if they have to raise
capital,” Miller said June 13 in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “If losses continue to rise and they don’t earn
money, you might see these guys back at the capital markets.”  Bank of America advanced 8 cents to $10.68 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 Lrupp1@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 Bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  