-- 
Pandora Post-Loss Value Rivals Radio Industry: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/pandora-post-loss-value-rivals-radio-industry-chart-of-the-day.html
Pandora Media Inc., the Internet
radio company, was valued almost as highly as traditional U.S.
station owners combined even after its shares plummeted on their
second day of trading.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares Pandora’s capitalization as
of yesterday with the total value of 10 radio-station operators.
The group includes  CC Media Holdings Inc. (CCMO) , the owner of Clear
Channel Communications Inc., as well as  Citadel Broadcasting
Corp. (CDELB)  and  Cumulus Media Inc. (CMLS) , Citadel’s would-be buyer.  Pandora, based in Oakland, California, had a market cap of
$2.12 billion after tumbling 24 percent to $13.26 yesterday. The
industry valuation was $2.23 billion.  “The issue with Pandora is: How far will it fall?”
Francis Gaskins, president of IPODesktop.com, told Bloomberg
Television yesterday in an interview. “I just don’t see a floor
right now in that stock.” Rich Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG
LLC, set a $5.50 estimate for the next 12 months when he started
coverage with a “sell” rating yesterday.  Beasley Broadcasting Group Inc. (BBGI) ,  Emmis Communications
Corp. (EMMS) ,  Entercom Communications Corp. (ETM) ,  Radio One Inc. (ROIA) ,  Saga
Communications Inc. (SGA) ,  Salem Communications Corp. (SALM)  and  Spanish
Broadcasting System Inc. (SBSA)  were included with CC Media, Citadel
and Cumulus in calculating the industry’s value.  CBS Corp. (CBS) , whose radio unit generates less than 10 percent
of the company’s revenue, and  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , a satellite
broadcaster, were excluded. Their market values as of yesterday
were $17 billion and $7.66 billion, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  