-- 
Venizelos Leaves Greek Defense Ministry to Fight ‘Real Battle’ in Finance

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-17T15:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/papandreou-names-venizelos-finance-minister-replacing-papaconstantinou.html
Evangelos Venizelos left the Greek
defense ministry to begin what he called the “real battle” as
finance minister in Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s fight to
stave off default.  “For those political powers that accept the European
course for the country, points of agreement are many and the
points of discord remarkably small,” said Venizelos, who was
sworn in as minister today. “Our first priority is the
sustainability of the public debt. It is a subject on which
there hasn’t been any disagreement.”  Papandreou today fired Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou , the target of ire among the ruling Socialists
for deepening budget-deficit cuts, in an overhaul aimed at
fending off a party rebellion and ensuring the passage of
austerity measures needed for a bailout.  Venizelos, who challenged Papandreou for leadership of the
party in 2007, may ensure the unity needed to approve the new
package and a confidence vote in the government due next week.  The appointment of the 54-year-old Venizelos, also named
deputy premier, “is likely to succeed in establishing a fragile
truce with the ruling Pasok and mustering the required
parliamentary support for the confidence vote and approval of
the critical medium-term fiscal plan,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , a
London-based analyst at the Eurasia Group, which monitors
political risk.  Merkel’s Retreat  Investor concern that Papandreou’s grip was slipping and
the chance of default growing sent the euro and Greek stocks and
bonds sliding the past two days, prompting European leaders and
the  International Monetary Fund  to issue statements that
financial aid was on track. Bonds and stocks gained today after
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  retreated from German demands that
bondholders should shoulder their share of a Greek rescue.  Failure to secure aid would push Greece to the brink of
default, with the country needing the funds to cover 6.6 billion
euros ($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August. The country
raised 2 billion euros this week selling 26-week Treasury bills
and will auction 1.25 billion euros of 13-week bills on June 21.  The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond dropped 94 basis points
to 17.1 percent after Merkel’s comments. The Athens stock
exchange advanced 4.2 percent at 5 p.m. local time, buoyed by a
9.4 percent gain by  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s
biggest lender.  The cost of insuring Greek debt fell. Credit-default swaps
on Greece were at 1,895 basis points as of 2:30 p.m. in  London 
having risen as high as 2,237 basis points yesterday, according
to CMA.  ‘Plug the Holes’  “Perhaps there are disagreements on the policy mix for
achieving the needed deficit cuts, or how to get to primary
surpluses as fast as possible,” said Venizelos, who spoke
during the handover at the Athens-based  Finance Ministry . “But
on the need to make debt sustainable so we can plug the holes
and make the sacrifices and efforts of the  Greek economy 
effective, there is no disagreement.”  Venizelos said it was his “patriotic duty” to take on the
portfolio, saying he told colleagues at the  defense ministry  “I
am leaving defense today to go to the real battle” to reduce
 Europe ’s biggest debt load -- almost 1 1/2 times the size of its
economy.  Papandreou also replaced his foreign, interior, labor and
justice ministers, reducing the overall number of ministers to
16 from 17. Papaconstantinou will move to the Environment and
Energy Ministry.  Reshuffle  Papandreou also moved his interior minister, Yiannis Ragousis, to the Infrastructure and Transport Ministry,
responsible for many of the structural reforms, such as opening
up the trucking profession, demanded by some of Greece’s
creditors. European Union and IMF officials have criticized the
pace of progress in that area.  Two members of Papandreou’s parliamentary group resigned
yesterday, prompting lawmakers from his party to demand an
emergency meeting, which delayed the announcement of a new
Cabinet. Papandreou told his allies the country needs unity more
than ever and has called for a confidence vote in his new
government.  The debate on the motion will begin on June 19 and end late
on June 21, according to a statement posted on the Parliament’s
website today.  Papaconstantinou, who shepherded  Greece ’s rescue last year,
drew fire for the five-year package of cuts and state-asset
sales. Papandreou’s options narrowed after attempts to gain
opposition support for the austerity plan failed, party allies
turned against him and public anger grew.  ‘Enormous Problems’  The reshuffle shows “the political problems to push
through such a restructuring program domestically are
enormous,” ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny told
reporters in Vienna. “The questions of political strength, of
political assertiveness, are crucial for the success of a
restructuring program. That means we are, of course, watching
with a certain anxiety if this strength also is there.”  Venizelos is a professor of constitutional law who earned
his doctorate from the Sorbonne in Paris. In 2007, after
Papandreou was defeated a second time by the main opposition  New
Democracy  party, he challenged Papandreou for leadership of the
socialist party and lost.  Papandreou appointed him defense minister when he came to
power in October 2009. Venizelos served as transport, culture
and press minister in previous socialist governments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  