-- 
Payrolls Fell in 27 U.S. States in May, Led by California’s Drop of 29,200

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-17T14:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/payrolls-dropped-in-27-u-s-states-in-may-led-by-california.html
Payrolls dropped in 27 U.S. states
in May, indicating the weakening in the job market was broad-
based.  California led the nation with a 29,200 decrease followed
by  New York  with 24,700 fewer jobs, figures from the Labor
Department showed today in Washington. The jobless rate fell in
24 states and rose in 13.  The report is consistent with nationwide figures released
June 3 that showed employers added 54,000 workers in May, the
fewest in eight months, and unemployment rose to 9.1 percent,
the highest this year. Improvement in hiring across a wider
swathe of the U.S. is needed to sustain  consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy .  “Hiring is occurring but the job market is definitely not
strong,” Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto, said before the report. “Corporations are
not going to hire in droves until they are certain that the
economic recovery is on terra firma.”  Payrolls fell by 14,200 in  Pennsylvania , by 13,400 in
 Michigan  and by 13,300 in  Maryland , rounding out the top five
states with the biggest declines in employment.  Florida , with an increase of 28,000, and Ohio, with a
12,000 advance, showed the biggest gains in hiring. In all,
employment climbed in 22 states.  New Mexico  showed the largest over-the-month drop in
unemployment, as its jobless rate fell to 6.9 percent from 7.6
percent in April.  Highest, Lowest  Unemployment in Nevada remained the highest in the nation
even as it fell to 12.1 percent in May from 12.5 percent the
prior month. North Dakota’s jobless rate fell from 3.3 percent
to 3.2 percent last month, the lowest in the U.S.  While the world’s largest economy has added jobs for eight
consecutive months, the lack of a pickup in hiring makes it more
likely that the  Federal Reserve  will keep its benchmark interest
rate near zero into next year. The labor market also poses a
challenge to President Barack Obama, whose re-election prospects
hinge on pushing the jobless rate lower.  “Economic activity generally continued to expand since the
last report, though a few districts indicated some
deceleration,” the Fed said June 8 in its Beige Book survey of
the economy. The job market improved “gradually across most of
the nation.”  New Jersey’s unemployment rate climbed by 0.1 percentage
point to 9.4 percent in May as the state lost 400 jobs,
according to government data. The state’s jobless rate stayed at
9.3 percent in March and April as more people entered the
workforce.  Budget Cuts  Further cutbacks in employment are expected as state and
local governments try to cope with budget restraints. New
Jersey’s 13-member Senate Budget Committee yesterday approved a
plan to require government workers to pay more for health care
and pensions.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  