-- 
PCCW Can Generate More Asset Value Via Business Trust, Chairman Li Says

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-06-17T04:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/pccw-can-generate-more-asset-value-via-business-trust-chairman-li-says.html
PCCW Ltd. (8) , Hong Kong’s biggest
telephone company, can generate more value for its assets by
placing them in a proposed business trust than through other
methods of reorganization, Chairman  Richard Li  said.  A trust would be able to pay out a larger proportion of its
income as dividends than a company structure, Li said at a
shareholders meeting in Hong Kong today. Earlier in the meeting,
Li said PCCW plans to give at least HK$1.1 billion ($141
million), the payout in 2010, in annual dividends for three
years after the spinoff.  PCCW this month won stock exchange approval to sell a stake
in a trust comprising telecommunications assets that it intends
to list, a sale that Macquarie Group Ltd. said may raise as much
as HK$13.5 billion. Proceeds from the spinoff, at least the
sixth attempt to reorganize since 2006, may help PCCW boost
investments in faster-growing businesses after its stock
underperformed  Hong Kong  rivals including SmarTone
Telecommunications Holdings Ltd. this year.  The ability of the proposed trust to distribute a higher
proportion of its income to shareholders is the “main benefit”
of the reorganization, according to a June 13 report by
Macquarie analysts including Lisa Soh.  PCCW rose 1.3 percent to HK$3.20 at the midday break in
Hong Kong trading, poised for the highest closing level since
April 26. The stock has declined 7 percent this year, lagging
behind the 57 percent jump for SmarTone, the mobile carrier
controlled by the city’s biggest real-estate company  Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. (16)   Regulatory Approval  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. approved the plan to
list the trust after PCCW committed to retaining its information
technology business for at least three years, following an
earlier rejection, the carrier said June 2. The plan still
requires further regulatory and shareholder approval, PCCW said
at the time.  PCCW plans to sell a minority stake in the trust, which
will own divisions that offer fixed-line, mobile-phone and
broadband Internet services, through the proposed listing, the
company said this month. After the spinoff, PCCW will retain
operations including divisions that offer pay-television and
computer services, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  