-- 
Pentagon Ad Spending Falls in Troop Surplus

-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 
2011-06-17T19:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/pentagon-ad-spending-plunges-in-troop-surplus.html
The Pentagon, facing an
“unprecedented” surplus of troops, is slashing spending on
recruitment advertising that has netted firms including McCann
Erickson Worldwide hundreds of millions of dollars a year.  Enlistees are staying put as the 9.1 percent U.S.
unemployment rate limits non-military job options, defense
officials said, and as wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  wind down.  “We’re seeing retention in the Navy the likes of which
we’ve never seen before,” Admiral Gary Roughead, chief of naval
operations, said in an interview with Bloomberg Government. The
Navy is cutting 3,000 sailors from its ranks, Roughead announced
in April. The Army, which spends the most among the services on
advertising, has dropped its  recruitment goal  by 20 percent
since 2008.  The shift means the U.S. is spending less to attract
recruits to its all-volunteer armed forces. Advertising agencies
including McCann, which produced the “Army Strong” ads under a
contract won in 2005, saw the Pentagon’s advertising spending
drop 40 percent to $621 million last year after peaking in 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is definitely heightened interest in military
service” because of the economy, Chris Laughlin, president of
Arlington, Virginia-based branding firm Laughlin, Marinaccio &
Owens Inc., said in an interview.  The company, which Laughlin said earns more than half its
revenue from federal clients including the  National Guard , had
$53 million in government sales last year, compared with $128
million in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Army Strong  Ad firms are responsible for helping the service branches
meet recruitment benchmarks. “Once you hit that threshold, you
can’t keep selling,” Laughlin said.  The Army is seeking 64,000 active-duty enlistees this year,
a decrease from 80,000 in 2008. The Navy reduced its goal 13
percent to 33,200 recruits. The Marines last year aimed to
recruit 28,000 active duty personnel, 26 percent fewer than in
2008. The  Air Force  increased its recruitment target, raising
its goal by 2 percent to 28,360 last year.  The military is seeking $1.6 billion for recruiting and
advertising next year, an 8 percent decrease from the amount
Congress approved for 2011, even as the overall defense budget
request represents a year-over-year increase.  The Navy will review the performance of 16,000 mid-career
sailors in “over-manned” job categories and get rid of 3,000
of them as it faces “unprecedented retention and reduced
attrition,” according to an April  announcement .  Skimping on recruitment can backfire, said Cindy Williams,
principal research scientist at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ’s security studies program.  ‘History of Regret’  The military shrunk in size and reduced recruiting in the
1990s, she said, which added to the strain when the services
ramped up for wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. A booming economy
made signing people up difficult.  “The services have a history of cutting resources for
recruitment when recruits are plentiful. They also have a
history of regretting it later,” Williams said.  Campbell Ewald Advertising  saw revenue from the Navy
decline 64 percent to $58.9 million last year compared with
2008. Campbell and other firms should work to convince clients
that advertising is a bargain compared with hiring recruiters,
spending on military pay raises and offering recruitment
bonuses, she said.  “It’s known to be a very effective way of reaching out to
young people and their parents,” she said. “That doesn’t mean
the services are going to keep the money flowing at a time when
they’re pinched for resources and they’re flush with recruits.”  The Defense Department should learn from the 90s, when a
significant reduction in military advertising “resulted in the
false perception among the public that that services were no
longer hiring,” Curtis Gilroy, the Pentagon’s director of
accession policy, said in a June 17 e-mail statement.  “It is easy and quick to cut budgets, but it is difficult,
time consuming and expensive to ramp back
up when recruiting becomes more challenging,” he said.  Pat Baskin, public relations manager for Campbell, declined
to make an immediate comment. McCann officials declined to
comment, said spokesman Eric Pehle. Both firms are units of New
York-based Interpublic Group of Companies Inc.  Burnett Settlement  The biggest prize in military advertising, the Army’s
$1.3 billion, five-year award, changed hands in 2005 when McCann
replaced Leo Burnett Co., a unit of Paris-based  Publicis Groupe
SA. (PUB)  Leo Burnett in 2009 agreed to a $15.5 million settlement
over allegations it overcharged the Army for work on its “Army
of One” recruiting campaign.  McCann in March won a contract extension valued at $185
million for the first year. Leo Burnett didn’t bid on the
contract, Amy Cheronis, a spokeswoman for the company, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cary O’Reilly at 
 caryoreilly@bloomberg.net  