-- 
Peru Central Bank Lowers GDP Forecast as Investment Slows

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-17T21:19:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/peru-central-bank-lowers-2011-gdp-forecast-to-6-5-from-7-1-.html
Peru ’s central bank lowered its 2011
economic growth forecast amid concern President-elect Ollanta Humala’s plans to increase mining taxes will hamper foreign
investment.  Peru’s economy will expand 6.5 percent this year, down from
a forecast of 7 percent growth three months ago, due in part to
a slowdown in construction and manufacturing activity, central
bank President Julio Velarde told reporters in  Lima  today.  Private investment is slowing as Humala has said he plans
to introduce a mining windfall tax that could make Peru’s mines
less competitive. Mining projects will account for almost half
the $47.5 billion of private investment expected in Peru from
2011 to 2013, Velarde said. Mine expansions probably won’t
delayed if the new government sticks to pledges to introduce a
“reasonable” increase in tax and that it is approved in the
first two to three months of the new congressional session, he
said.  “We’re assuming that these investment projects for the
most part will be seen through and the uncertainty about the
mining windfall tax won’t last very long,” Velarde said.  The central bank expects 2011 private investment to rise 10
percent, compared with a March 18 forecast of 15 percent. Public
investment will climb 3.3 percent, after surging 27 percent last
year.  Near ‘Neutral’  Mining companies will seek to hold talks with Humala’s
government as they see the proposed tax slowing investment in
the industry, Oscar Gonzalez Rocha, Chief Executive Officer of
the Andean country’s biggest copper producer, Southern Copper
Corp, said June 14.  Velarde said that he has not discussed his future at the
central bank with Humala, though he’ll “think about it” should
the winner of Peru’s June 5 election ask him to stay on at his
post beyond July 28.  The sol strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.7610 per dollar at
today’s close, from 2.7625 yesterday.  Velarde said he expects the annual inflation rate to be
about 3 percent this year though he added it could be as high as
3.05 percent. There’s a risk that higher international grain
prices could rise and push up domestic food costs, he said.  The central bank left its benchmark rate unchanged at 4.25
percent June 9, the first pause in six months, after consumer
prices fell last month. Inflation was “very low” in the first
two weeks of June, Velarde said.  Future increases in the benchmark rate will depend on
inflation data, he said.  “The rate is very close to the neutral level, if not
already neutral. We’ll see what happens with inflation,” he
said.  Velarde said that while he favors Mexico central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens’s bid to head up the  International
Monetary Fund , he had no vote in the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  