-- 
Philippines Sends Warship After China Boat Heads to Disputed Sea

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-06-17T07:15:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/philippines-sends-warship-after-china-boat-heads-to-disputed-sea.html
The Philippines announced it will
send its biggest warship, a World War II vessel, to a disputed
part of the  South China Sea  after China said it was deploying
one of its new coastal patrol vessels in the waters.  The BRP Rajah Humabon, used by the U.S. against German
submarines in World War II, will patrol around Scarborough
Shoal, within waters claimed by China, the  Philippine Star 
reported on its website. China sent the Haixun 31, a 3,000 ton
vessel with a helicopter landing pad, to inspect foreign ships
and oil facilities in disputed waters of the South China Sea,
 Hong Kong ’s  Ta Kung Pao  newspaper reported yesterday.  “The Navy conducts regular offshore patrols and we should
not connect the deployment of Rajah Humabon to the deployment of
this maritime vessel of China,” Eduardo Batac, spokesman of the
 Philippines ’ department of defense, said in a press briefing
today. “It’s part of routine patrols that are being conducted
by the Navy.”  Tensions in one of the world’s busiest shipping lanes have
increased as the Philippines and  Vietnam  press ahead with oil
and gas projects against China’s wishes. Exxon Mobil Corp.,
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) ,  Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  and Vietnam Oil & Gas
Group, known as PetroVietnam, have operations in areas of the
South China Sea claimed by China.  Commander Miguel Jose Rodriguez, the spokesman for the
Armed Forces of the Philippines, said the vessel was being
deployed off the island of  Luzon . Officials on the Chinese ship
will discuss anti-piracy and sea rescue issues with Singaporean
officials when it arrives, the official Xinhua news agency said.  Defense Treaties  The U.S., which has patrolled Asia-Pacific waters since
World War II, has defense treaties with the Philippines and
 Thailand , and guarantees Taiwan’s security. U.S.  aircraft
carrier  USS George Washington is “on a routine patrol of waters
in the Western Pacific,” U.S. Navy spokesman Commander Jeff
Davis said, without providing details of its planned route.  “The South China Sea is international waters and we
transit through there routinely,” Davis said by phone today
from Jakarta. The carrier “has been through there many times
before in the past and it’ll be through there many times in the
future.”  The U.S. sold a 378-foot Coast Guard vessel equipped with a
helicopter launching pad and missile system to the Philippines
earlier this year that will be its largest naval vessel when
delivered in August, according to a May 12 statement by the
Philippine Navy. Later this month, the U.S. Navy will send three
ships to conduct joint exercises off of Palawan island “in a
combination of Philippine waters and international waters,”
Davis said.  ‘What’s Ours is Ours’  The Philippine Navy removed territorial markers placed by
China on three reefs in the South China Sea near Palawan island
in May, Armed Forces Naval Forces West commander Edgardo Tamayo
said yesterday. Two months earlier, Chinese vessels chased away
a survey vessel working in the area for Forum Energy, a U.K.-
based company majority owned by  Philex Mining Corp. (PX)   “We are very concerned about these markers being placed in
waters and areas, features that are clearly ours,” Philippine
Foreign Secretary Albert F. del Rosario told reporters in
Canberra yesterday, where he met with Australian Foreign
Minister  Kevin Rudd . “What’s ours is ours. We are free to do
with that as we please.”  Chinese ships have rammed survey vessels operated by
PetroVietnam twice in the past month, according to Vietnam’s
foreign ministry, with one incident occurring in an area where
Calgary-based Talisman Energy planned a seismic program this
year. China has disputed that version of events, saying it’s
committed to maintaining peace in the seas.  Beefing Up Forces  China will beef up its maritime surveillance force,
increasing the number of personnel from 9,000 to 15,000 by 2020,
the  China  Daily  reported  today, citing an unidentified official
with the China Maritime Surveillance Force. The number of
surveillance vessels being operated by the CMS will increase
from 260 to 350 by 2015, the report said.  China has bolstered its forces over the past decade,
procuring nuclear-powered submarines and developing an aircraft
carrier, according to a U.S. Defense Department report in
August. Its missile patrol craft, destroyers and frigates in the
South Sea fleet “could alter regional balances,” the report
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  