-- 
Philippine Bonds Gain as Inflation Pressures Ease; Peso Falls

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-06-17T09:04:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/philippine-bonds-gain-as-inflation-pressures-ease-peso-falls.html
Philippine three-year bonds rose,
pushing yields to a one-month low, after policy makers left
borrowing costs unchanged yesterday and said price pressures are
easing. The peso fell.  Inflation will be within the central bank’s target of 3
percent to 5 percent for this year and next, Deputy Governor
Diwa Guinigundo said yesterday. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
ordered lenders to set aside more money as reserves and held its
benchmark rate at 4.5 percent. The decision was predicted by six
of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with 10 forecasting a
25-basis point increase.  “Though inflation worries continue to be there, the
central bank is signaling they’re starting to be more
comfortable,” said Rafael Algarra, treasurer at Security Bank
Corp. in Manila. “People are convinced that there may be some
pause in the rate-hike cycle and that is helping the  bond
market .”  The yield on the 6.25 percent notes due January 2014
dropped nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.71
percent, as of 4:39 p.m. in Manila, the lowest level since May 4,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The yield fell three
basis points for the week.  The peso dropped for a second week. The currency fell 0.8
percent to 43.667 per dollar, its weakest level since March 18,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  Bangko Sentral increased lenders’ reserve requirement to 20
percent from 19 percent effective June 24. The latest forecasts
show “that inflation expectations have shown some signs of
leveling off,” the central bank said yesterday in a statement.
“These developments suggest that the two previous policy rate
adjustments are starting to work their way through the system.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  