-- 
Polish Industrial Output Accelerated in May, Increasing Pressure on Rates

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-06-17T15:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/polish-industrial-output-accelerated-in-may-increasing-pressure-on-rates.html
Polish industrial growth accelerated
in May, increasing chances the central bank will continue
raising  interest rates .  Industrial production expanded 7.7 percent in May from a
year earlier after growing 6.6 percent in April, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. The median estimate of
26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 7.6 percent. Output rose
2.6 percent on the month.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised its benchmark seven-day
rate by a quarter-point to 4.5 percent on June 8, the fourth
increase this year, to curb inflation that has remained above
the bank’s 2.5 percent target since October. Governor  Marek
Belka  said after the decision that the bank will pause its
monetary tightening to gauge the effect of its moves and
repeated that prediction in a radio interview today.  "They’ll raise" interest rates "again some time in the
autumn and perhaps next year as well,"  Maciej Reluga , chief
economist at Bank Zachodni WBK in Warsaw, said by phone.
"Inflation will come down during the summer, but it will go up
again towards the end of the year, and core inflation is rising,
which shows there are demand side pressures."  The zloty traded at 3.9797 per euro at 5:55 p.m., 0.1
percent weaker on the day. The five-year Treasury bond extended
gains and yielded 5.45 percent, compared with 5.49 percent late
yesterday.  Core Inflation  Core inflation, which strips out volatile fuel and food
prices, accelerated to 2.1 percent in April, the highest since
February 2010. The rate may rise to around 2.4 percent in May,
Reluga said.  Poland’s inflation rate rose to 5 percent in May, the
highest in almost a decade, increasing speculation the central
bank may continue raising rates. Policy makers around the world
are battling to contain inflation spurred by food, commodity and
energy costs. The  European Central Bank , as well as central
banks in Norway, Russia and  Denmark , increased rates in the past
two months in response to price pressures.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflationary trends,
rose 6.5 percent from a year earlier in May, compared with the
median forecast of 7.2 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 22
economists, the statistics office reported today. Producer
prices fell 0.2 percent on the month.  The central bank in February changed its forecast for this
year’s economic growth to between 3.3 percent and 5.1 percent
from a range of 3.3 percent to 5.5 percent. The expansion may be
between 2.3 percent and 4.8 percent next year, compared with an
earlier forecast of 2.8 percent to 5.5 percent, it said.  “The high tempo of industrial output in May, together with
the favorable data in all the construction branches demonstrates
what a good condition our economy is in,” said Polish Economy
Minister Waldemar Pawlak in an e-mailed comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   Monika Rozlal at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  