-- 
Polo Ralph Lauren Executive Tom Nolan Lugs Golf Bag as U.S. Open Caddie

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/polo-ralph-lauren-executive-tom-nolan-lugs-golf-bag-as-u-s-open-caddie.html
Tom Nolan, who heads the golf
division for Polo Ralph Lauren Corp., said he’s more comfortable
choosing clothes than a putting line, though he’s giving the
latter a shot at the  U.S. Open .  Nolan, 33, is working as a caddie this week for friend
Michael Barbosa, who’s one of 12 amateurs in the field for the
season’s second major championship at Congressional Country Club
in Bethesda, Maryland.  Nolan said he knew he was facing a busy week when he
negotiated Polo Ralph Lauren’s five-year partnership with the
 U.S. Golf Association  in January as the official apparel
provider for the U.S. Open. Nolan, who grew up on  Long Island 
and now lives in Ridgewood,  New Jersey , said it got even more
hectic -- and exciting -- when Barbosa asked him to caddie
during the tournament.  “He was looking for a looper and I was here all week, so
it’s worked out great,” Nolan said in a post-round interview on
the practice putting green behind the clubhouse. “I’ve been in
the merchandise tent pretty much every day, so it’s exhausting.
I can’t believe how much my feet and calves are hurting, but
it’s been fun.”  Nolan worked as a caddie during high school and college,
carrying golf bags at courses on  New York ’s Long Island such as
Cold Spring Country Club and Old Westbury Golf and Country Club.
He’s also played golf competitively and became friends with
Barbosa, 28, about three years ago after meeting him at amateur
tournaments such as the Crump Cup at Pine Valley Golf Club in
Clementon, New Jersey.  12 Over  Barbosa is in next-to-last place after opening with a 12-
over 83 yesterday, when Nolan said both player and caddie were
nervous. Barbosa had six bogeys and a double-bogey over his
first seven holes.  “It was a matter of us both calming down,” said Nolan.
“And starting on the 10th hole wasn’t fun. The first shot was
just sickening, 202 yards over water.”  Nolan, who took over as senior vice president of golf and
tennis at Polo  Ralph Lauren  in 2009, said he felt a similar
apprehension in the company’s first year partnering with the
USGA. It follows the agreement Polo Ralph Lauren has with the
 U.S. Tennis Association  for that sport’s U.S. Open.  Polo Ralph Lauren has been a partner with the U.S. Open
tennis tournament since 2004 and last year signed a five-year
agreement that runs through 2015. While he had a limited role in
that partnership, Nolan spearheaded negotiations with the USGA.  ‘My Baby’  “That was really my baby since I got there two years
ago,” Nolan said. “I was nervous about it because you don’t
know what to expect and we knew we were going to have a few
bumps in the road. But it’s been awesome. It just cements our
position as a company that we really care about the game of golf
and have a vested interest in it.”  Polo Ralph Lauren is outfitting all USGA committee members
and staff, as well as more than 5,000 volunteers at the U.S.
Open. The company also designed the 39,000-square-foot main
merchandise tent at the tournament and is the championship’s
largest on-site apparel supplier.  “Doing stuff like tournaments spreads the word and you’re
seeing thousands of people out here with Polo, which is pretty
good marketing,”  Davis Love III  said in an interview. Love is
five shots behind leader Rory McIlroy after opening with a 1-
under 70 in his 22nd U.S. Open appearance.  The U.S. Ryder Cup captain, Love is one of Polo Ralph
Lauren’s main endorsers, along with world No. 1 Luke Donald and
fellow pros Jonathan Byrd and Webb Simpson. Love and Simpson
briefly took a break from practice swings on the range two days
ago and could be overheard discussing the size of the polo
horses on their golf shirts.  The focus -- for both players and caddies -- intensified
when the tournament began yesterday outside the nation’s capital.
For Nolan, the task today is helping Barbosa rebound.  “We’ll try to play hard,” Nolan said as he hefted
Barbosa’s golf bag and headed toward the scorer’s tent. “And if
it’s not going our way, we’ll just try to have fun.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Bethesda,  Maryland , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  