-- 
Portugal Incoming Premier Coelho Picks Vitor Gaspar to Be Finance Minister

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-06-17T19:38:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/portugal-incoming-premier-coelho-picks-vitor-gaspar-to-be-finance-minister.html
Pedro Passos Coelho , Portugal’s
incoming Social Democratic premier, named Vitor Gaspar as
finance minister in a government that will be constrained by the
terms of a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) bailout program.  Gaspar, a special adviser to the Bank of Portugal, was head
of the Bureau of European Policy Advisers at the European
Commission from January 2007 to February 2010, and was director-
general of research at the  European Central Bank  from September
1998 until December 2004, according to the  website  of Lisbon’s
 Catholic University , where he is a professor.  “I worked very quickly so that the country would be able
to know in record time the government that will be in office
during the next four years,” Passos Coelho told reporters today
following a meeting with President Anibal  Cavaco Silva . The
president named Coelho prime minister on June 15.  The new finance minister will have to implement an
austerity plan that was a condition of the financial aid package
from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .
With the country’s debt and borrowing costs surging, Portugal
followed Greece and Ireland in April in seeking a rescue.  The leader of Passos Coelho’s coalition partner, Paulo Portas, was named foreign minister, Alvaro Santos Pereira will
be economy and employment minister, and Paulo Macedo will be
health minister, according to a  statement  posted on the
presidency’s website. The government will be sworn in on June
21.  President Cavaco Silva said on June 6 that it would be
“convenient” for Passos Coelho to attend a summit of EU
leaders on June 23.  Election Victory  Passos Coelho’s  Social Democrats  and the  People’s Party 
signed an agreement yesterday to form a coalition following June
5 elections that gave the two parties combined a majority of
seats in parliament. The Social Democrats defeated the Socialist
Party of outgoing Prime Minister Jose Socrates in the vote.  Socrates’ minority government fell in March after lawmakers
rejected his proposed deficit-cutting plan as he struggled to
avoid the bailout.  Borrowing costs have increased since Portugal requested
aid. The difference in yield that investors demand to hold
Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds reached a euro-
era record of 820 basis points today, up from 511 basis points
when Socrates sought the bailout on April 6. The 10-year bond
yield reached 11.163 percent today and the five-year yield rose
to 12.915 percent, also the highest levels since the euro was
adopted in 2000.  New Government  Portugal’s new government will have to carry out various
measures by the end of July, including the sale of failed lender
Banco Portugues de Negocios SA and the elimination of all
“golden shares” or other special rights held by the state in
publicly traded companies. It will also have to propose a law on
reducing severance payments and present a plan to cut employers’
social security contributions.  “It’s a very strong and very front-loaded fiscal
program,”  Poul Thomsen , head of the IMF mission in Portugal,
said on May 5.  The aid package calls for spending reductions for 2012 and
2013 amounting to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product, while
revenue increases will represent 1.4 percent of output. The
government will freeze public-sector workers’ salaries through
2013 and cut pensions of more than 1,500 euros a month, while
 tax deductions  will be limited. Portugal also agreed to phase
out rent control and merge some of its municipalities.  Aid Plan  The three-year aid plan set goals for a budget deficit of
5.9 percent of GDP this year, 4.5 percent in 2012 and 3 percent
in 2013. The country had the fourth-biggest gap in the 17-
country euro region last year at 9.1 percent of GDP.  Portugal ’s public debt swelled to 93 percent of GDP in 2010
from 68 percent in 2007. The European Commission forecasts
Portugal’s debt will increase to 101.7 percent this year and
107.4 percent in 2012. The debt ratio will start declining from
2013, according to outgoing Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos.  Gaspar will oversee a privatization plan representing about
3.5 percent of GDP that aims to sell stakes in companies
including EDP-Energias de Portugal SA, the biggest electricity
provider, and REN-Redes Energeticas Nacionais SA, the operator
of the national  power grid , by the end of this year.  ‘Implemented Urgently’  “The program must be implemented urgently,” Teixeira dos
Santos said on May 23. “The country at this moment has three
big challenges. First: implement the program; second: implement
the program; and third: implement the program. Whoever wins the
elections, whoever forms government, won’t have time to sit
down.”  Teixeira dos Santos said on May 5 the economy will shrink 2
percent this year, twice as much as he previously forecast, as
further austerity measures are implemented. GDP will also
decline 2 percent in 2012, he said. Portugal’s economic growth
has averaged less than 1 percent a year in the past decade, one
of  Europe ’s weakest rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 