-- 
Pound Weakens Against Dollar Amid Concern Over Pace of Economic Recovery

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-17T16:07:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/pound-weakens-against-dollar-amid-concern-over-pace-of-economic-recovery.html
The pound weakened against most of
its peers as stocks declined amid concern that the pace of
Britain’s economic growth is slowing.  U.K. bonds declined as the Debt Management Office auctioned
4 billion pounds ($6.45 billion) of 28-, 91- and 182-day bills.
Gilts rose over the past two days, when data showed retail sales
slid more than forecast in May while jobless-benefit claims
surged. The pound slid versus the euro after German Chancellor
Angela Merkel retreated from demands that bondholders be forced
to shoulder a “substantial” share of a Greek rescue, saying
she’ll work with the  European Central Bank  to avoid disrupting
markets.  “The pound is suffering from a wider dip in confidence,”
said Elizabeth Gregory, a Geneva-based market strategist at
Swissquote Bank SA. “There isn’t really much on the data
calendar that looks like it’s going to pull it out of this funk.
The picture for the U.K. is not particularly rosy, and we also
have quite shaky growth and uncomfortably high levels of
inflation.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent against nine other developed-
economy peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes as of 5 p.m. in London and declined against 12
of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Sterling dropped
0.7 percent to 88.50 pence per euro, and slipped 0.5 percent to
129.66 yen. It was 0.2 percent stronger at $1.6184, paring its
third-straight weekly decline to 0.3 percent.  European Debt Impasse  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said officials should
continue to hold  interest rates  at a record low because weak
growth in wages and money signal the current bout of above-
target inflation will prove temporary. U.K. consumer prices held
at the fastest pace since October 2008 last month.  A rate increase “would have meant a weaker recovery, or
even further falls in output” and “a risk of inflation falling
well below the target in the medium term,” King said in a
speech in London on June 15.  UBS AG pushed back its forecast for the Bank of  England  to
start raising rates to February from August.  The yield on the 10-year gilt gained two basis points to
3.20 percent. Two-year note yields also rose two basis points,
to 0.77 percent.  Gilts have returned 3.1 percent this year, compared with a
3.4 percent gain on Treasuries, according to European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 