-- 
Qaddafi ‘Doesn’t Intend to Resign,’ Russian Envoy Says After Tripoli Talks

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-17T16:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/qaddafi-doesn-t-intend-to-resign-russian-envoy-says-after-tripoli-talks.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
refuses to step down,  Russia ’s envoy to Africa said after talks
with government officials, including Prime Minister Baghdadi Mahmudi, in Tripoli.  “The prime minister said Qaddafi doesn’t intend to
resign,”  Mikhail Margelov  said by phone from Tunis, the capital
of neighboring Tunisia, a day after meeting with the Libyan
officials. “For the government of Tripoli, they aren’t prepared
to discuss the future of Qaddafi.”  The envoy said Mahmudi assured him that officials of
Qaddafi’s government were in direct contact with the rebels.
Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice president of the rebel Transitional
National Council, today denied any direct links with Qaddafi’s
government, according to Russian news service RIA Novosti.  Margelov, who held talks with Libyan rebel leaders earlier
this month in the port city of Benghazi, said he plans a second
round of meetings with representatives of the Transitional
National Council tomorrow in Tunis. There need to be “clear
rules of the game” to achieve a handover of power, he said.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  said May 27 that Qaddafi had
forfeited his right to govern and that Russia was using its
contacts with the regime to persuade him to step down. Russia
abstained from the United Nations Security Council vote in March
that authorized a NATO-led military intervention in Libya.  Russia isn’t involved in negotiating “any deals of
immunity or guarantees” for Qaddafi, though other countries are
considering a range of options, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
said in a June 2 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in  St. Petersburg  at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  