-- 
Rafael Nadal to Play Russell at Wimbledon; Serena Williams Takes on Rezai

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-17T10:53:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/rafael-nadal-plays-russell-at-wimbledon-serena-williams-takes-on-rezai.html
Defending  Wimbledon  champion  Rafael Nadal  plays Michael Russell of the U.S. in the first round of
the grass-court major, while Serena Williams starts her first
Grand Slam in a year by taking on France’s Aravane Rezai.  The Spaniard beat  Roger Federer  at  Roland Garros  almost two
weeks ago for a record-tying sixth French Open title that
secured his No. 1 ranking. He may meet  Andy Murray , the No. 4
seed, in the semifinals. The Briton plays his opening round
against Daniel Gimeno-Traver of Spain. Nadal is one of four men
who can win the title, former champions and players say.  “Rafa’s played tremendous, Roger Federer has got a track
record, Novak Djokovic has been on fire this year, and  Andy
Murray  just won Queen’s,” former world No. 4 Brad Gilbert said
on an ESPN conference call earlier this week.  In the women’s draw, the Williams sisters are in opposite
halves, meaning they could only meet in the finals. Top seed
 Caroline Wozniacki  could meet  China ’s  Li Na  in the semifinals,
while Vera Zvonareva, who lost last year’s final, could take on
No. 4 seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus.  The former top-ranked Federer, a six-time champion at the
grass-courts of the All England Club in southwest  London , starts
against Mikhail Kukushkin of  Kazakhstan . The Swiss won his last
Wimbledon title in 2009, and lost in the quarterfinals to
eventual finalist Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic  last year.  Federer, who may play Djokovic of  Serbia  in the semifinals,
said he feels back to his best after he made his first Grand
Slam final since the 2010 Australian Open at Roland Garros
earlier this month. The second-seeded Djokovic plays his opening
round against  France ’s Jeremy Chardy.  Longest Rematch?  John Isner  of the U.S. and Nicolas Mahut of France, who
played the longest match in tennis history at last year’s
Wimbledon, will face each other again this year. Their
opening round last year took more than 11 hours and ended 70-68
in the fifth set.  After making his first French Open semifinals even while
struggling with an ankle injury, Murray won a Wimbledon warmup
event at Queen’s Club in west London the week after. A British
man hasn’t won a Grand Slam singles title since Fred Perry’s
victory in the U.S. National Championships in 1936.  The top-seeded Nadal is the 2-1 favorite to win his third
Wimbledon title at U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc. That means a
successful $1 bet would return $2 plus the original wager. The
third-seeded Federer follows at 5-2, with Djokovic at 11-4 and
Murray at 6-1.  Total Tossup  “I don’t think ever before we’ve had four guys in
contention,” 18-time Grand Slam champion Chris Evert said on
the ESPN call. “It’s always been two. I cannot even give
anybody the edge. It’s a total tossup between the four of
them.”  Djokovic took two weeks off after Federer ended his perfect
season in the semifinals in Paris. That loss prevented the Serb
from tying John McEnroe’s record of 42 consecutive wins from the
start of a season, set in 1984. Djokovic would have been the new
No. 1, replacing Nadal, if he had made his first  French Open 
final, or if the Spaniard had lost in the championship match
against Federer.  After beating France’s Gilles Simon 6-1, 6-2 at  The Boodles
exhibition event  at Stoke Park near London in his first match on
grass this season, the Serb said he’s never felt stronger going
into Wimbledon and that he had just played his best match on the
surface.  “I’m very satisfied with the way I’ve played in the last
six, seven months,” Djokovic told a small group of reporters at
Stoke Park yesterday. “It’s been the best period of my career.
I’m just trying to keep the momentum going, keep on playing
well.”  Women’s Draw  In the women’s draw, defending champion  Serena Williams 
takes on Rezai, who made it to the second round last year.
Williams made her comeback to the women’s tour this week at
Eastbourne after a foot injury and blood clots in both lungs
sidelined her since she won her fourth Wimbledon title in July.
Her elder sister and five-time champion  Venus Williams , who also
made a comeback at Eastbourne this week after a five-month
injury-related lay-off, faces Akgul Amanmuradova of Uzbekistan.
The sisters are in opposite halves, meaning they could only meet
in the finals.  Maria Sharapova , the 2004 champion, plays fellow Russian
Anna Chakvetadze. Li Na, the first player from China to win a
Grand Slam singles title at the French Open almost two weeks
ago, starts against  Russia ’s Alla Kudryavtseva. Women’s top seed
Wozniacki of  Denmark , who is seeking her first major title,
faces  Spain ’s Arantxa Parra Santonja.  Women’s Odds  Serena is the 3-1 favorite to retain the title, according
to William Hill. Former world No. 1 Sharapova, who reached her
first French Open semifinal this season, follows at 7-2. Venus
Williams is 13-2, while Li, who reached the Australian Open
finals at the start of the season, is at 7-1. Wozniacki is at
10-1.  A lot will depend on how quickly the Williams sisters will
adept to playing competitive matches again, according to Jimmy Connors, a two-time Wimbledon champion.  “Walking into Wimbledon, you’re going to be nervous
anyway, and to be away and to have this as almost your comeback
event, it might play a little bit of a part,” Connors said on a
World Team Tennis conference call earlier this week. “But with
their record, they certainly have done it all and know what it
takes to win. It’s just a matter of whether they can fit into
the flow of playing the matches right from the beginning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  