-- 
Rand Poised for Second Weekly Decline Against Dollar on Greek Debt Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-17T08:41:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/rand-heading-for-second-weekly-drop-against-dollar-on-greek-debt-concerns.html
The rand depreciated to an almost
two-week low against the dollar, heading for a second weekly
decline, as investors shunned riskier assets on concern Greek’s
debt crisis would spread.  The rand slipped as much as 0.7 percent to 6.8893 per
dollar after retreating to 6.9055, the weakest level since May
31, yesterday, when South African markets were closed for a
public holiday. It traded 0.4 percent weaker at 6.8686 at 10:06
a.m. in Johannesburg. The rand dropped 0.2 percent to 9.7125 per
euro.  The MSCI Emerging Markets stock index headed for the lowest
level in three months, the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
raw materials slumped for a third day and  South Africa ’s
benchmark stock index fell the most in more than three weeks.
German and French leaders meet today to discuss how to avert a
Greek default.  “It is very difficult to argue against foreigners wanting
to lighten up on their exposures to emerging markets,”
Tradition Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-based
Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note. “Out of fear that
the situation in  Greece  could still deteriorate further, trading
off a small long-dollar position is still favored today.”  Tradition sees the rand trading in a range between 6.80 and
6.91 today, and advises buying dollars at 6.83 rand. A
resistance level, where traders cluster order to buy the
currency, may cap the rand’s decline at 6.90, Tradition said.  Greek ‘Haircut’  The euro headed for a second weekly drop versus the dollar
and the yen after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said a
“haircut” for holders of Greek securities would have
unpredictable after-effects. Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  named a new Cabinet to petter push through his
budget-cutting plans after failing to win over the opposition
for a unity government to push through austerity measures.  The rand often tracks the euro, the currency of most of
South Africa’s trade, with a statistical correlation of 0.819
over the past month. A value of 1 would mean they moved in lock
step.  “Fears over contagion continue to grow, with Spanish debt
in particular coming under pressure,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in a research note. “This risks creating
ongoing euro weakness.”  Foreign investors sold a net 1.8 billion rand ($262.6
million) of South African bonds so far this week, after buying
6.8 billion of bonds the previous week, according to JSE Ltd.
data. Funds investing in developing-nation shares saw
withdrawals of about $829 million during the week ended June 15,
Citigroup analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today,
citing data compiled by EPFR Global.  Bonds Advance  Bonds gained, snapping a seven-day losing streak, as yields
at the highest in a month lured investors. The 13.5 percent
notes due 2015 gained 7 cents to 121.11 rand, driving the yield
down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.56
percent. The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 12 cents
to 89.05 rand, cutting the yield two basis points to 8.41
percent.  “The market got the kick in the pants that it needed,”
Rand Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet said in a
research note. “Buyers have started to come out at these higher
levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 