-- 
Rand Rallies Vs Dollar, Set for Weekly Advance on European Debt Optimism

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-17T13:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/rand-rallies-set-for-weekly-advance-on-european-debt-optimism.html
The rand gained for a second day
versus the dollar, reversing earlier declines, and bonds
advanced as speculation a bailout for  Greece  is near boosted
demand for higher-yielding assets.  South Africa’s currency climbed 0.8 percent to 6.7893 per
dollar at 3:23 p.m. in Johannesburg, after dropping 0.7 percent.
The rand gained 0.2 percent this week, the best performance
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies monitored by
Bloomberg. It declined less than 0.1 percent to 9.6916 per euro.  The euro strengthened against all but one of its 16 major
peers after German Chancellor Angela Merkel retreated from
German demands that bondholders be forced to shoulder a
“substantial” share of a Greek rescue, saying she’ll work with
the  European Central Bank  to avoid disrupting markets. The rand
often tracks the euro, the currency of most of  South Africa ’s
trade, with a statistical correlation of 0.823 over the past
month. A value of 1 would mean they moved in lock step.  “Those comments from Merkel seemed to have given the
market confidence that they won’t throw Greece to the dogs,”
Chris Becker, an analyst at Econometrix Treasury Management,
said by phone from Johannesburg. “The euro rallied on the back
of that and the rand is just following.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said a “breakthrough”
had been made on the Greek debt crisis, following a meeting with
Merkel. Sarkozy signaled a reconciliation between German calls
for investors to help bail out Greece with warnings from the ECB
and  France  that a compulsory move risked triggering the euro
area’s first sovereign default.  Earlier, the rand declined to near its weakest level since
May 31 as stocks tumbled and commodity prices fell on concern
Greece’s debt crisis will spread to other countries in the
region, slowing global economic growth.  Bonds Rally  Bonds gained, snapping a seven-day losing streak, as yields
at the highest in a month lured investors. The 13.5 percent
notes due 2015 gained 16 cents to 121.19 rand, driving the yield
down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.54
percent. The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 12 cents
to 89.05 rand, cutting the yield two basis points to 8.41
percent. The 10-year benchmark German bund yielded 2.95 percent.  “The market got the kick in the pants that it needed,”
Rand Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet said in a
research note. “Buyers have started to come out at these higher
levels.”  Foreign investors sold a net 1.8 billion rand ($262.6
million) of South African bonds so far this week, after buying
6.8 billion rand of bonds the previous week, according to JSE
Ltd. data. Funds investing in developing-nation shares saw
withdrawals of about $829 million during the week ended June 15
Citigroup analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today
citing data compiled by EPFR Global.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 