-- 
Rank Unit Reynolds Buys Graham Packaging for $1.68 Billion; Silgan Yields

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-06-17T20:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/rank-group-said-to-agree-to-buy-graham-packaging-for-25-50-shr.html
Reynolds Group Holdings Ltd., the
packaging company owned by New Zealand billionaire  Graeme Hart ,
agreed to acquire Graham Packaging Co. for $1.68 billion,
beating  Silgan Holdings Inc. (SLGN)  for the plastic-container maker.  Reynolds, a unit of Hart’s Rank Group Ltd., will pay Graham
investors $25.50 a share, 50 cents more than its June 13 bid,
York, Pennsylvania-based Graham said today in a statement.
That’s equal to about $4.5 billion with the assumption of
Graham’s debt. The purchase will be financed with cash and as
much as $5 billion of new debt, Auckland-based Reynolds said
separately.  Hart, New Zealand’s  richest  man, gains a plastic-container
company with customers such as PepsiCo Inc., maker of Gatorade
and Tropicana beverages. The 56-year-old former truck driver who
amassed a fortune investing in businesses from lumber to dairy
is adding to more than $13 billion of packaging acquisitions he
completed since 2006.  “This guy has never lost a bidding war in 20 years,”
Ghansham Panjabi, a Roseland, New Jersey-based analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co. who rates Graham shares “neutral,” said today
in a telephone interview. “They want to be a multi-solution
provider to their customers and they are driving it by
increasing their product portfolio.”  ‘A Disappointment’  Graham fell 53 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $25.20 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Silgan rose
$1.14, or 2.9 percent, to $40 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Investors this week were betting Graham would sell for $26
to $27 a share, said  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as
chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,
 Pennsylvania .  “It’s a bit of a disappointment from my perspective that
it wasn’t higher,” Polley said in a telephone interview.  Reynolds said it agreed to boost the purchase price by 2
percent because  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which owns 61 percent of
Graham, agreed to the transaction, negating the need for
approval from other shareholders. Blackstone, the world’s
largest private-equity firm, sold some shares of the packaging
company to the public in February 2010 for $10 each.  Reynolds is paying about 9 times Graham’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That compares
with a median multiple of 8.2 in six North American packaging
deals in the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Higher Multiple  Reynolds can justify paying a higher multiple because
financing costs have dropped in recent years, Panjabi said.
Reynolds’ larger plastic-packaging portfolio also allows it to
extract more cost savings than would have been available to
Silgan, which primarily makes metal cans and closures, he said.  Silgan, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , had agreed to pay
0.402 of a share and $4.75 in cash for each share of Graham.
That equals $20.83 a share, or $1.37 billion, based on Silgan’s
closing price. Reynolds’ all-cash bid was superior even after
Silgan proposed new terms in recent days, Graham said in its
statement.  “It’s a very difficult thing to win with cash and stock
versus all cash,” Bill Kavaler, a special-situations analyst at
Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., said today in a telephone interview from
New York. Reynolds is “willing to run with a lot more leverage,
which they can do because they don’t have public stockholders to
whine at them,” he said.  Silgan said in a separate statement that is it entitled to
a termination fee of $39.5 million for the cancellation of its
April 13 buyout agreement.  Packaging Deals  Hart’s wealth was estimated at $5.5 billion in March by
Forbes magazine, ranking him at No. 185 in the world with six
others and No. 1 in  New Zealand . Since acquiring Pactiv Corp.,
the maker of Hefty trash bags, for $4.5 billion in November,
Hart’s closely held Rank has added Honeywell International
Inc.’s car-care products unit for $950 million and UCI
International Inc. from  Carlyle Group  for $375 million.  With Graham, Hart’s Reynolds unit adds container customers
that include  Procter & Gamble Co .’s Gain detergent, H.J. Heinz
Co.’s ketchup, and Coca-Cola Co.’s Minute Maid juice.  After the deal closes, which is expected in the second
half, Reynolds will pay Blackstone and the Graham family $245
million in cash because of previous income-tax receivable
agreements. The payment is compensation for net operating losses
from prior years that Graham’s owners can use to reduce future
tax liabilities, Panjabi said.  Calculations for the offer values are based on 65.7 million
Graham shares outstanding on April 25, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 