-- 
Rare Earth Prices Double in Two Weeks as China Seeks to Increase Control

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-06-17T05:47:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/rare-earth-prices-double-on-china-industrial-minerals.html
Prices of the rare earths used in
lasers and plasma televisions more than doubled in the past two
weeks as  China  tightens control of mining, production and
exports, according to market researcher Industrial Minerals.  The cost of dysprosium oxide, used in magnets, lasers and
nuclear reactors, has risen to about $1,470 a kilogram from $700
to $740 at the start of the month,  Industrial Minerals  said in
an e-mailed statement. Europium oxide, used in plasma TVs and
energy-saving  light bulbs , has more than doubled.  China, supplier of 95 percent of the 17 elements known as
rare earths, has clamped down on rare-earth mining and cut
export quotas, boosting prices and sparking concern among
overseas users such as Japan about access to supplies. The
government may further reduce export quotas, pushing prices
higher, Goldman Sachs & Partners  Australia  Pty said last month.  “China has long said it will consolidate the industry but
it’s moving more rapidly than many observers anticipated,” said
Dudley Kingsnorth, a former rare earths project manager and now
chief executive officer of Perth-based advisory Industrial
Minerals Co. of Australia. “There might be an element of
speculation but I think the price rises have been driven by
people who are desperate for the product.”  The world’s most populous nation will raise standards for
exporters and won’t approve new project expansions in an effort
to curb overcapacity, illegal mining and sales, the government
said last month. The Ministry of Land and Resources said
yesterday it wants to set aside some rare earth deposits.  Turbines, Missiles  Rare earths are used in  wind turbines , hybrid cars and
defense applications such as guided missiles. The market for the
minerals may double to as much as $6 billion by the middle of
the decade, according to an April 21 report by Ernst & Young LLP
analyst Michel Nestour.  China’s Inner Mongolia Baotou region produces so-called
light rare earths such as lanthanum, cerium and samarium. Heavy
rare-earth production, concentrated in the south of China such
as Ganzhou, includes the elements dysprosium, gadolinium and
terbium.  TVs, Bulbs  The price of europium oxide, used for its phosphorescent
properties found in plasma TVs and light bulbs, has risen to as
much as $3,400 a kilogram from between $1,260 and $1,300,
Industrial Minerals said.  Hitachi Metals Ltd.,  Japan ’s largest rare-earth magnet-
maker, said it will pass on the increases to its customers,
which include makers of motors used in hybrid cars.  “We adopted a price system to pass on increased costs to
buyers,” Toshinori Hata, a spokesman for Hitachi Metals, said
in an interview. “Still, the pace of price increase is rapid,
and we expect there will be a time-lag” to absorb the rising
costs, he said.  China’s land ministry in February prohibited non-government
entities from exploring or mining for rare earths in an area
covering 11 mining zones near the southern city of Ganzhou in
Jiangxi province.  Such restrictions may apply to other mining areas, and the
ministry will select part of these areas as its strategic
reserves, Wang Min, a deputy minister, said at a meeting in
Beijing, according to the ministry’s own newspaper published on
its website.  “One of the clear objectives of the consolidation is to
get better co-ordination of price and marketing of rare earths,
so it’s inevitable prices will go up,” said Kingsnorth, who
managed Australia’s Mount Weld rare earths project for Ashton
Mining of Canada Inc. for 10 years. “They are also clamping
down on illegal mining with a lot of vigor. Chinese export
quotas are less than world demand.”  Biggest Producer  Delays in rare earths projects coming on stream from the
U.S. and Australia will ensure that China continues to be
biggest producer until at least 2013, Sang Yongliang, a metals
and mining analyst with Guotai Junan Securities Co., wrote in a
June 3 report.  Companies such as  Molycorp Inc. (MCP)  and Lynas Corp. are rushing
to restart mothballed projects to meet the gap in supply.
 Greenwood Village , Colorado-based Molycorp plans to bring its
Californian mine into production in the second half of 2012 and
double the mine’s annual capacity to 40,000 metric tons by the
end of 2013.  Mount Weld  Sydney-based Lynas is building a $220 million refinery in
 Malaysia ’s Pahang state that will process ores including
neodymium and yttrium from Mount Weld, which it now owns.  “Until such time as Lynas and Molycorp are on-stream in
the next two or three years, I don’t see much relief” from high
prices, Kingsnorth said. “Chinese export quotas are less than
world demand.”  A table on the website of Lynas shows the composite price
of eight rare earths found at Mount Weld project has surged to
$203.60 a kilogram on June 13, from $92.84 on March 31 and
$11.59 in 2007.  “Demand for rare-earth elements is increasing in
applications that are less esoteric than say, 20 years ago,”
the London-based editor of Industrial Minerals' website Mark
Watts said in the statement. “China, which is the world’s main
commercially developed rare-earth elements source of supply, is
reducing exports and increasing its consumption.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  