-- 
Treasury Two-Year Notes Head for 10th Week of Gain on Greece’s Debt Crisis

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-06-17T21:30:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/treasuries-set-for-fifth-weekly-gain-as-european-leaders-debate-greece-aid.html
Treasury two-year notes rose for a
10th consecutive week of advances in what is the longest rally
in 25 years on concern  Greece  will struggle to avoid the
European Union’s first default.  Yields on 10-year notes fluctuated today after  Germany ’s
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  signaled willingness to compromise with
the  European Central Bank  on a rescue for Greece and Moody’s
Investors Service said it may cut Italy’s bond ratings. Yields
on 10-year notes had dropped the most in the past two days since
March on concern Europe’s sovereign-debt turmoil is worsening.  “The market will firm up going into the weekend because of
uncertainty,” said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader in New York
at  Societe Generale , one of the 20 primary dealers that trade
with the Federal Reserve.  Yields on two-year notes slid 0.5 basis point, or 0.005
percentage point, to 0.375 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.5 percent
security due in May 2013 increased less than 1/32, or 31 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 7/32.  Earlier today the two-year note yield increased two basis
points to 0.40 percent. They touched 0.33 percent yesterday, the
lowest level since Nov. 5. The record low of 0.3118 percent was
set the day before that. The last time two-year note yields
dropped for 10 straight weeks was in February to April 1986.  Yields on 10-year notes gained two basis points today after
earlier rising five basis points. They have dropped three basis
points this week and fell yesterday to 2.88 percent, the lowest
level since Dec. 1. They slid 17 basis points in the past two
days, the most since the period ended March 16.  Treasury Volatility  Volatility of  U.S. debt  was the highest in two months,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Move index. The
gauge, measuring price swings based on over-the-counter options
maturing in two to 30 years, rose to 87.90 yesterday, the most
since April 8.  “The market has a very short-term span and could race back
up to overnight highs if something happens in Greece,” said
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading in New York at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, an institutional-investor brokerage.  Moody’s Investors Service said  Italy ’s credit ratings may
be reduced because of economic growth challenges, risks
associated with efforts to reduce debt and the potential for
higher borrowing costs.  The nation’s Aa2 local and foreign currency government bond
ratings were placed under review for a possible downgrade.  ‘Vienna Initiative’  Bonds fell earlier today as Merkel told reporters in Berlin
at a press conference with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  that
“we would like to have a participation of private creditors on
a voluntary basis” regarding aid for Greece.  Her comments indicate reconciliation of Germany’s
insistence that investors help bail out Greece with ECB warnings
backed by  France  that any compulsory move risked a default.  “The aim is involvement of the private sector on a
voluntary basis, and for that the Vienna Initiative, as it’s
called, is a good basis,” Merkel said. “I think we can achieve
something on this basis.”  Adopting the Vienna plan, used during the financial crisis
of 2009 for eastern European units of banks, would involve
encouraging creditors to roll over expiring bonds, buying time
for Greece until its austerity program shows results or until a
permanent European Stability Mechanism rescue fund takes effect
in mid-2013. A rollover involves reinvesting the proceeds from
maturing bonds in new securities.  Leading Indicators  Treasuries have rallied this quarter, pushing 10-year note
yields down 50 basis points, on economic reports showing a
slowdown in global growth as well as concern  Europe  is
struggling to contain its debt crisis.  The Conference Board’s leading indicators advanced 0.8
percent in May after a 0.4 percent drop in the previous month,
the New York research group reported today. The median forecast
of 51 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.3
percent increase in the gauge of the U.S. outlook for the next
three to six months.  “The leading indicators seem to be one of the first
positive economic data that we’ve had in a while,” Rogan of
Guggenheim Partners said. “The market has priced in uncertainty
in Europe and poor economic data in the U.S.”  The Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary index of
 consumer confidence  dropped more than projected to 71.8 this
month from 74.3 in May. The median forecast of economists was
for a decrease to 74.  IMF Estimate  The  Federal Reserve  purchased $1.926 billion of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities maturing from July 2013 to
February 2041 today under the $600 billion second round of
quantitative easing expiring this month.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for U.S.
growth in 2011 for the second time in two months, warning that
further setbacks pose growing threats to the world economy,
along with potential contagion from Europe’s debt crisis.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.5 percent this year and 2.7
percent in 2012, down from the 2.8 percent and 2.9 percent
projected in April, the IMF said, citing higher commodity prices
and bad weather in the first quarter and a weak housing market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  