-- 
Republicans See Presidential Race Prospects Rise With Slowing U.S. Economy

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-06-17T21:59:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/republicans-see-political-prospects-rise-with-slowing-economy.html
The bad economic news buffering the
U.S. is being welcomed in at least one quarter: among the
Republican Party officials and activists gathered in  New Orleans 
to gear up for next year’s elections.  Reflecting a renewed sense of hopefulness heading into the
2012 campaign, those attending the  Republican Leadership
Conference  were optimistic that the recent wave of data showing
a slowing recovery from the worst recession since the 1930s
could add up to a victory for their party against President
 Barack Obama .  “The race really will be all about jobs and the economy,”
U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota, who’s running
for the Republican presidential nomination, said in a speech
today.  The country is in “the Obama trench of a double-dip
recession,” Bachmann told the conference’s roughly 2,000
attendees.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , the first of
the major Republican presidential candidates to address the
group, said yesterday that he was eager to spend his campaign
talking about jobs,  energy policy  and the “Obama depression.”  Gingrich asked his audience: “How can the president of the
 United States  say to the country he’s not concerned about a
double-dip recession? How can he not be concerned when 14
million Americans are out of work?”  Candidate Showcase  The three-day event, known as a showcase for aspiring
nominees, comes as the Republican presidential field is
solidifying and the contenders -- as well as potential late
entrants -- are raising their profiles.  Bachmann, boosted by favorable reviews of her performance
in a multi-candidate debate in New Hampshire on June 13, plans
to formally kick off her presidential campaign in Waterloo,
 Iowa , before the end of the month.  Also speaking today were three other declared candidates:
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, former Pennsylvania Senator
Rick Santorum and Herman Cain, the former chief executive
officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc.  Paul began his speech by saying, “I have good news for the
cause of liberty. The country is coming our way.”  He also quickly spotlighted the cause he is most closely
identified with: abolishing the  Federal Reserve .  Tomorrow’s speakers include Texas Governor Rick Perry, who
in late May sparked interest within Republican circles when he
said he’s “thinking about” a presidential bid.  Huntsman Cancels  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who had served as
Obama’s ambassador to  China  and will officially announce his
presidential bid on June 21, canceled a scheduled appearance
before the conference yesterday. He blamed a bad cold for his
decision to skip the event.  Former  Minnesota  Governor Tim Pawlenty and former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, both running for the
nomination, are skipping the event, citing scheduling conflicts.  “The field is wide open,” Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour said in a speech today. Barbour, who after exploring a
presidential bid decided against it, urged the party activists
not to get “hung up on purity.” To win, he said, Republicans
must rally around the eventual nominee.  “Our candidate won’t be perfect, but in this business,
it’s unity that wins elections,” he said.  1980 Comparison  Gingrich, seeking to reboot his presidential campaign after
a mass resignation of top campaign staff members last week, said
in his speech that the 2012 presidential campaign was shaping up
as a repeat of 1980, when Republican  Ronald Reagan  rode
discontent with the nation’s direction to victory over
Democratic incumbent Jimmy Carter. “We’ve been here before,”
Gingrich said, as the audience cheered.  Republican strategists point to the weak economy as
providing new momentum for their party’s hopes next year.  “There is increased frustration because of the slowness of
the recovery,” said Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster who’s
working for Huntsman. “You can envision a very, very
competitive presidential contest in 2012, unless things change
dramatically.”  The  unemployment rate  rose to 9.1 percent in April, the
highest level this year, according to Labor Department figures
released June 3. The report was the latest indicator suggesting
the nation’s recovery has hit a soft patch.  Home Prices  U.S. consumer spending slowed in the year’s first quarter,
and confidence levels have since fallen. Manufacturing growth, a
consistent contributor to the recovery, weakened across the
globe in May. The S&P/Case-Shiller Index released May 31 showed
U.S. home prices in March dropped to the lowest level since
2003, further eroding  home equity  available to Americans.  Republican candidates and top party officials have seized
on the bad news.  “We all know the statistics. President Obama cannot
possibly win re-election with this economy in the ditch,” said
Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus at a
Bloomberg Breakfast on June 8. “For our party, it provides us
an enormous opportunity to defeat him.”  The public opinion boost Obama gained after the killing of
 Osama bin Laden  in a U.S, raid in Pakistan last month has
dissipated, as disapproval over his handling of the economy has
grown. In a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll released
yesterday, 49 percent said they approve of his performance, down
from 52 percent last month. At the same time, 62 percent said
the U.S. is on the wrong track, up 12 percentage points from a
month ago.  Democratic Argument  Democrats argue that while the recovery has been slow, it’s
only happening at all because of policies Obama put in place
when he succeeded Republican  George W. Bush  in the White House.  “We own the economy,” Democratic National Committee
Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who also is a House member
from  Florida , said at a June 15 breakfast sponsored by POLITICO.
“We own the beginning of the turn-around and we want to make
sure we continue that pace of recovery, not go back to the
policies of the past under the  Bush administration  that put us
in the ditch in the first place.”  That reasoning may not be enough to sway voters if the
economy is still lagging. Unemployment is projected to be at 8.4
percent in the fall of 2012, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 