-- 
Republic’s Frontier Pilots Approve Cuts for Restructuring

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-06-17T20:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/republic-s-frontier-pilots-approve-cuts-for-restructuring-1-.html
Frontier Airlines  pilots approved
concessions that will allow parent  Republic Airways Holdings
Inc. (RJET)  to pursue a $120 million restructuring at the unprofitable
unit.  Pilots voted 498-58 to delay pay increases and accept cuts
in vacation, sick days and company 401(k) contributions in
exchange for an unspecified equity stake in Frontier, Jeff
Thomas, president of the Frontier Airline Pilots Association,
said today in an e-mail.  The approval clears the way for Republic to seek givebacks
from other Frontier employees, vendors and aircraft lessors and
to raise $70 million in new capital. Republic bought Frontier
out of bankruptcy in October 2009.  The vote “is important from the point of view of shaping
the attitudes of the entire workforce,” Robert McAdoo, an
analyst at Avondale Partners LLC, said in an interview. “That’s
also the biggest pool of salary dollars. If you can’t get the
savings on that, you’re not going to get enough out of the
ticket agent or flight attendant salary pool.”  Republic rose 17 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $4.61 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
dropped 37 percent this year.  Labor-Related Cuts  Republic, based in Indianapolis, may end up owning a
minority stake in Frontier if the restructuring is completed. As
part of the pilots’ agreement, Republic must make a “good-faith
effort” to attract equity investors that would reduce its
holdings by the end of 2014. The company hired a consultant to
help with the Frontier plan.  In addition to the new capital, the airline projects $25
million in labor-related cuts, on top of at least $25 million in
savings from moving some regional jets from Frontier to contract
flying at Republic.  “Our board will move forward with its commitment to invest
additional liquidity in Frontier to fund the airline’s
operations and future growth,” Republic Chief Executive Officer
Bryan Bedford said after the pilot vote.  The agreement with the pilots also calls for the carrier to
order new narrow-body jets and establish a profit-sharing plan.
The current labor contract would be extended by two years.  “In ratifying this agreement, the pilots have made a
significant equity investment in Frontier Airlines and look
forward to contributing to its future success,” Thomas said.  Bedford took on a new business model when Republic’s
$108.8 million bid for Frontier beat  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  in a
2009 bankruptcy auction. Republic has posted losses in three of
the six quarters since.  Republic operates commuter flights ferrying passengers to
major airports for larger carriers like  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  Frontier makes commercial
passenger flights under its own name from its base in Denver,
where it is third in the number of passengers, after United and
Southwest.  To contact the reporter on this story: Mary Schlangenstein in
Dallas at   maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Ed Dufner +1-
   edufner@bloomberg.net  