-- 
Rice May Tumble as UN Predicts Larger Harvests to Inflate World Stockpiles

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-06-17T08:34:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/rice-may-tumble-as-un-s-calpe-predicts-increasing-harvests-growing-stocks.html
Global rice prices may decline as
increased harvests in the biggest producers exceed demand and
boost stockpiles, according to the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization.  “World rice supplies appear to be abundant and more than
sufficient to meet world demand,”  Concepcion Calpe , a senior
economist at the U.N. agency known as the FAO, said in e-mailed
comments, without giving figures. Global output may climb 1.8
percent to 463.8 million metric tons in 2010-2011, beating
demand of 459.6 million tons, according to projections in the
FAO’s June Food Outlook report.  At stake is the cost of the staple for half the world, a
key source of nourishment for the poorest who spend more than
half their incomes on food. Lower prices would help curb global
food costs that surged to a record in February and ease the
challenge for central bankers, under pressure to raise  interest
rates  to combat accelerating inflation.  “There is still plenty of rice knocking around,” Darren Cooper, a senior economist at the International Grains Council,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. The London-based agency
promotes global food security and transparency in grain markets.  Rough-rice futures in  Chicago  have climbed 27 percent over
the past year, lagging behind corn, which has surged 73 percent,
and wheat, up 48 percent. Rice’s underperformance may be
“separating us from a food crisis.”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a
senior economist at the FAO, said in March.  Barratt’s Call  Increased supplies may extend rice’s 15 percent slump from
this year’s high, cutting the price to $12 per 100 pounds over
the next month and a half, said  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director at Commodity Broking Services Pty., who correctly
called last year’s gain to $15. The July-delivery contract was
at $13.88 on the Chicago Board of Trade at 8:49 a.m. in  London 
after losing 0.9 percent.  The “pressure for prices to decline may persist in the
coming months, barring any major supply shock,” Calpe said.
 India , the second-largest grower, is set for “an excellent
season,” while output in  China , the biggest producer, may be
“slightly higher” even after drought, Calpe said. Global
stockpiles may gain 3.3 percent to 136.7 million tons in 2010-
2011, according to the Food Outlook report.  The FAO’s World Food Price Index climbed 37 percent over
the past year on harvest disruptions and increased demand. The
increase helped drive 44 million more people into extreme
poverty, according to a World Bank estimate. Record global food
costs squeeze the poor hardest as they can spend more than half
of their incomes feeding themselves, according to a Feb. 15
estimate from World Bank President  Robert Zoellick .  Global Regulation  The food-price surge is boosting inflation, spurring
central banks from China to India and  Brazil  to raise interest
rates, potentially curbing  consumer spending  and slowing
economic growth. Agricultural futures markets need global
regulation because price swings are damaging producers and
consumers, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in June.  To be sure, any change in rice policies in Thailand and
Vietnam may push prices higher, Calpe said. The biggest and
second-largest shippers represent about half of the global trade
in rice and both may have bigger harvests this year, according
to government projections.  In Thailand, Yingluck Shinawatra’s Pheu Thai party plans to
reinstate a policy introduced by her brother, fugitive former
leader  Thaksin Shinawatra , to buy unmilled rice at 15,000 baht
($490) per ton if it wins polls set for July 3.  Exporters’ Costs  That would raise costs for exporters and boost the price of
shipments to about $750 per ton, according to a survey of eight
millers and traders. Benchmark 100 percent grade B Thai rice was
set this week at $527.  The key factor “in the next six months is what happens in
 Thailand  post the election,” said Cooper at the  International
Grains Council . The Thai opposition party’s proposal “could
take quite a bit of supply off the market which would obviously
benefit exporters in Vietnam.”  The main Thai harvest in 2011-2012, which represents 70
percent of total output, may gain 4.6 percent to a two-year high
of 23.2 million tons in the year starting October, according to
the farm ministry. This year’s secondary crop, harvested through
to next month, may climb 6.3 percent to a record 9.42 million
tons, the Office of Agricultural Economics, a forecaster under
the farm ministry, said on its website on April 21.  Vietnam may stockpile 1 million tons of the summer-autumn
crop under a  Vietnam Food Association  plan to prevent a fall in
prices when output from the harvest peaks in mid-July, Diep Kinh Tan, a deputy minister of agriculture, said by phone on June 15.
Current holdings total about 1.2 million tons.  Vietnam ’s unmilled production is forecast to increase 2.3
percent to 40.8 million tons in 2011, according to a report from
the  Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development  in May.
Exports this year may be as much as 7.4 million tons, the
agricultural ministry said on April 8.  “Vietnam stockpiling and Thailand’s high support price
policies would both tend to lift export prices,” Calpe said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net 
Nicholas Heath  in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  