-- 
Trichet Says European Economic Diversity Resembles U.S.

-- B y   K e n   M c C a l l u m   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-17T02:29:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/trichet-says-european-economic-diversity-resembles-u-s-1-.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said the degree of variance in inflation and
the economic performance of euro-region members is similar to
what’s seen among U.S. states.  “Prices in the euro area are broadly homogeneous and
similar to those in the  United States ,” Trichet said in remarks
prepared for delivery at an event late yesterday in  New York .
The standard deviation in inflation among euro area countries is
around 1 percent, and  price stability  has been in line with that
in the U.S., he said.  ECB policy makers have signaled they are ready to raise
borrowing costs next month to tame inflation in the 17-nation
euro region. Officials are concerned that oil-driven price
pressures will feed into wage demands, sparking more persistent
inflation. At the same time, governments are struggling to
contain the region’s debt crisis and restore investor confidence.  Trichet told  CNN  in an interview on June 13 that while an
increase in the benchmark interest rate from 1.25 percent is
“possible” next month, it’s “not certain.”  The central bank last week forecast inflation will average
about 2.6 percent in 2011 and 1.7 percent in 2012. ECB Executive
Board member Juergen Stark said June 10 that policy makers are
aiming for a “gradual and timely” monetary tightening.  Trichet also said yesterday the standard deviation for
growth rates in the first 12 years of the euro was about 2
percent, the same as in the U.S. A standard deviation is a
measure of the degree to which individual values vary
from the distribution mean.  The euro was little changed at $1.4193 in  Tokyo  at 11:08
a.m., after falling to as low as $1.4074 yesterday. The cost of
protecting corporate bonds soared to the highest level since
January, with credit-default swaps anticipating about a 74
percent chance that  Greece  won’t pay its debts.  “Persistent losses in competitiveness on the part of
individual members in a currency union lead to a build-up of
external and internal imbalances,” the ECB president said. “When
these unravel, the cost for the affected economies can be large.
They can also have spillover effects on other members of the
currency union.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ken McCallum in Tokyo at 
 kmccallum4@bloomberf.met 
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  