-- 
RIM Investor Jarislowsky Joins Demands for Chairman-CEO Split

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/rim-s-sixth-biggest-investor-jarislowsky-sold-half-its-stake.html
Billionaire Stephen Jarislowsky, one
of  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s largest shareholders, added his
name to the call for the BlackBerry smartphone maker to split
the roles of chairman and chief executive officer.  “You should not have these two people at both positions
because they have worked together all their lives and they are
basically the same person, from point of view of policy,”
Jarislowsky, chairman of  Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd. , said yesterday
in an interview.  The Montreal-based investment firm -- formerly the
company’s sixth-biggest investor, with 10.2 million shares of
RIM at the end of the first quarter -- has sold more than half
its stake, he said.  RIM investors are becoming increasingly vocal about their
dissatisfaction with co-CEOs  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis ,
after the company’s second-quarter sales and profit forecast
missed analysts estimates, hurt by sluggish demand for its aging
BlackBerry portfolio. Lazaridis, who invented the BlackBerry to
handle mobile e-mail, has shared the role of CEO with Jim Balsillie since 1992. They are also both co-chairmen.  Northwest & Ethical Investments LP has called for RIM to
separate the roles of chairman and CEO, and shareholders will
vote on that question at the company’s shareholder meeting July
12, according to a RIM proxy statement last week. Separating the
two posts does put the board in a better position “to ask the
CEO the kind of hard questions they have to ask from time to
time,”  Robert Walker , vice president of ethical funds at
Northwest & Ethical, said in an interview last week.  Shares Tumble  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, plunged $7.58, or 21
percent, to $27.75 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading,
dropping to its lowest level since 2006. The stock has fallen 52
percent this year.  Other analysts have criticized the co-CEO structure.
Northern Securities Inc.’s Sameet Kanade suggested in April that
the company should put Lazaridis in sole charge.  Jarislowsky is critical of Balsillie, who he says has lost
focus.  “I believe he is taking his eye off the ball,”
Jarislowsky said. “He’s gotten involved in all sorts of things
outside the business.”  Balsillie has tried unsuccessfully to bring U.S.-based
National Hockey League franchises to  Canada  in recent years. He
also is the founder of the Balsillie School of International
Affairs and chairman of the Centre for International Governance
Innovation, both in Waterloo.  Inefficient Setup?  Beyond Balsillie’s own suitability for the role, other
analysts have criticized what they see as the inefficiency of
the co-CEO structure, because it creates an unnecessary
duplication of responsibilities that slows product development.  “With dual CEOs, you have a challenge,” said Brian Modoff, an analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  San
Francisco . “There are teams that are working on certain
functions, but only reporting to one or the other CEO.”  Lazaridis acknowledged the investor frustration on a
conference call with analysts this week, saying he knew the past
few months had been “difficult” for shareholders.  “While I can’t promise that there won’t be bumps in the
road ahead, I can assure you that Jim and I have never been more
committed to the business,” Lazaridis said.  Both men defended the co-CEO structure and gave no
indication they plan to abandon it.  “I just don’t think it’s the issue,” Balsillie told
analysts. “I think I have expertise in what I do. I think Mike
has distinctive expertise in what he does. I think there’s parts
that overlap and we highly coordinate it.”  Four analysts downgraded the company yesterday, including
Caris & Co.’s Rob Cihra. RIM has proved “painfully slow” in
getting new models including its touch-screen Bold into stores
to keep BlackBerry customers from defecting to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone or devices that run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, he
said.  “It appears RIM has slipped into eroding mismanagement,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  