-- 
Ringgit Posts Weekly Decline as Greek Crisis Deters Risk Taking

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-06-17T08:59:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/ringgit-heads-for-weekly-decline-as-greece-deters-risk-taking.html
Malaysia’s ringgit completed its
biggest weekly decline since May 6 as concern that  Greece  will
default on its debt heightened  risk aversion  and roiled global
stock markets.  The currency touched a three-week low today as the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of regional equities headed for its seventh
weekly loss. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  fired his
finance minister in a Cabinet overhaul today aimed at fending
off a party rebellion and ensuring the passage of austerity
measures needed for a bailout.  “The ringgit has been one of the weaker Asian currencies
because of Europe’s crisis,” said Mirza Baig, a Singapore-based
currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG. “Still, the currencies
have been resilient in view of the global market volatility.”  The ringgit declined 0.7 percent this week to 3.0435 per
dollar as of 4:53 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It rebounded 0.3 percent today, snapping
a two-day losing streak. The currency touched 3.0610 earlier,
the weakest level since May 26.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will meet today in Berlin to discuss a rescue
package for Greece. European Union finance ministers agreed this
week to convene again on June 19 after they failed to agree on a
German-led push for bondholders to shoulder part of the cost of
a new aid package for Greece.  Malaysia’s three-year bonds fell this week. The yield on
the 3.434 percent note due August 2014 rose 20 basis points, or
0.2 percentage point, to 3.38 percent, according to Bursa
Malaysia. The rate increased 15 basis points from yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 