-- 
McIlroy Leads U.S. Open by 9 Shots

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-19T00:26:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/rory-mcilroy-shoots-65-at-u-s-open-golf-for-latest-first-round-major-lead.html
Rory McIlroy has an eight-shot lead
after three rounds at golf’s  U.S. Open , where his score of 14
under is the lowest in relation to par in the 111-year history
of the major championship.  McIlroy, seeking his first major title to go with two
professional victories, shot a 3-under par 68 to follow rounds
of 65 and 66 at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Maryland.
His 54-hole lead is the second-biggest in U.S. Open history,
trailing Tiger Woods’s 10-stroke advantage during his 2000 win
at  Pebble Beach .  “You can’t get complacent. No lead is big enough,”
McIlroy said at a news conference. “You need to just keep
going.”  Y.E. Yang of South Korea, the 2009 PGA Championship winner,
is in second place at 6-under par.  Lee Westwood  of England, Jason Day of  Australia  and Robert Garrigus of the U.S. are 5-under par. Day and Westwood, who’s
second in golf’s  Official World Ranking , both shot rounds of 6-
under-par 65 today.  Fredrik Jacobson of Sweden is 4-under par after a third-
round 66 and is tied with Matt Kuchar of the U.S. and  Sergio Garcia  of Spain. Kyung-tae Kim of South Korea is 3 under.  Defending champion Graeme McDowell is even par after
shooting a third-round 69. A year ago, McDowell won at Pebble
Beach with an even par score.  First Below 200  By getting to 14-under par, McIlroy improved by one on the
record score he reached yesterday before a double-bogey on the
final hole. McIlroy’s three-round total of 199 is the lowest in
U.S. Open history, one better than  Jim Furyk  in 2003 at Olympia
Fields.  “Rory is out there making it look incredibly easy,”
McDowell said of his countryman.  Luke Donald of  England , the world No. 1, is 7 over after a
3-over 74 today.  Phil Mickelson  shot 77 during the third round
and was 7-over par for his final nine holes to slump to 6 over
for the tournament. He’s tied for 57th place.  “It was a rough back nine,” Mickelson said. “Some things
kind of fell apart there at the end.”  While McIlroy has seen leads slip away before in major
championships, no player has blown a cushion of more than five
strokes heading to the final round at the U.S. Open.  Two months ago, McIlroy was up by four shots entering the
final day of the Masters. He closed with an 8-over 80 and tied
for 15th. Westwood said the pressure will again be on McIlroy,
not his pursuers in the final round.  “You don’t know how Rory is going to do,” said Westwood,
who’s close friends with McIlroy. “He had a big lead in a major
and didn’t deal with it well before. So we’ll see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Bethesda,  Maryland , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  