-- 
RBC Said to Near Sale of U.S. Bank Unit to PNC Financial

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-17T20:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/royal-bank-of-canada-said-to-near-sale-of-u-s-bank-unit-to-pnc-financial.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the nation’s
biggest lender by assets, is in advanced talks to sell its U.S.
retail banking unit to  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , people
with knowledge of the matter said.  PNC is likely to prevail over a rival bid from  BB&T Corp. (BBT) ,
and a deal may come within days, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private. The
business may fetch as much as $3.7 billion, according to  Peter Routledge , an analyst at National Bank Financial.  “In U.S. personal and commercial banking you either go big
or go home,” Routledge said in an interview today. “Royal has
said they’re not going to make that big double-down bet, they’re
going to go elsewhere, and I think that’s the right strategy.”  A deal would help Pittsburgh-based PNC expand its retail
business in the U.S. Southeast beyond a  foothold  in  Florida . The
RBC Bank unit, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , has more than
420 branches concentrated in six states across the region. PNC
Chief Executive Officer Jim Rohr, 62, told investors June 3 the
bank is “disciplined” with acquisitions, preferring purchases
that build 10 percent market share in “larger” cities.  “If you look at potentially what RBC’s unit could do for
them, it expands PNC’s presence in an area that might be an
attractive growth area,” said  Craig Fehr , an analyst with
Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , whose firm rates both banks a
“buy.”  ‘Rumors or Speculation’  Patrick McMahon, a spokesman for PNC, said the bank doesn’t
comment on “rumors or speculation.” Katherine Gay, an RBC
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Royal Bank rose 64 cents, or 1.2 percent, to C$54.33 at
4:15 p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. PNC fell $1.68, or
2.8 percent, to $57.79 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, its biggest drop since June 1.  PNC has retail operations in 15 states and Washington D.C.,
including more than 2,500 branches, according to the  bank’s
website . The firm acquired National City Corp. in 2009 for about
$3.9 billion in stock.  “PNC has really done a good job of righting the ship post
credit crisis, they’ve done a good job of growing, and we’ve
seen them in a short amount of time successfully integrate the
NatCity deal,” Fehr said. “They’ve shown the propensity for
being able to digest some of these acquisitions.”  Centura Takeover  Royal Bank is seeking to sell RBC Bank a decade after it
entered the U.S. with a $2.16 billion takeover of Centura Banks.
Royal Bank is retreating from U.S. consumer lending as
competitors  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  expand by
acquiring troubled U.S. lenders.  RBC Bank has posted 11 consecutive quarterly losses as of
March 31, with combined annual losses of about $3.1 billion
since 2007, according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
filings. RBC Bank is the smallest of Royal Bank’s U.S.
operations, which also include  wealth management  and RBC Capital
Markets investment bank.  “We’ve long presumed Royal Bank had better opportunities
to deploy capital in capital markets and wealth management, and
that the U.S. retail or personal and commercial banking space
wasn’t a good opportunity,” Routledge said from Toronto. “We
thought it would be good news if they sold it and redeployed
capital.”  ‘Bet the Farm’  Royal Bank spent at least $4.6 billion buying a network of
U.S. consumer banks over the past decade, beginning with its
2001 takeover of Centura. Toronto-based Royal Bank’s last U.S.
retail bank acquisition was the $1.6 billion takeover of Alabama
National BanCorporation in 2008.  “It’s a very different ball game in the U.S., it’s 10
times the size of  Canada  but it appears 20 times as
competitive,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at
MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages
about C$4 billion including Royal Bank shares. “In order to get
scale there it’s very difficult, you almost have to bet the
farm.”  Royal Bank has spent two years reorganizing RBC Bank, which
started after the lender said in May 2009 that it took a C$1
billion ($1 billion) writedown on the U.S. business. RBC Bank
suffered losses due to impaired loans from homebuilders and
other business clients during the U.S. subprime meltdown and
financial crisis.  During restructuring, Royal Bank cut more than 1,000 jobs,
replaced management, reduced ties to real estate and pared
commercial lending.  “They’ll have the discomfort of a little bit of a loss on
the sale” of RBC Bank, said Routledge, who rates the bank
“sector perform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  