-- 
Rusal Sees Organic Growth, No Norilsk Merger, Deripaska Says

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   R y a n   C h i l c o t e
-- 
2011-06-17T16:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/rusal-sees-organic-growth-no-norilsk-merger-deripaska-says-1-.html
United Co. Rusal (486) , the largest
aluminum producer, said it will focus on organic growth rather
than pursuing a merger with OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel or any other
company because it has enough of its own projects to develop.  Norilsk, previously targeted for a merger by Moscow-based
Rusal, has not been “managed well” and needs time to get
“back on track,” Rusal’s billionaire Chief Executive Officer
 Oleg Deripaska  said today in an interview in St. Petersburg.
Rusal has sufficient projects of its own and has particularly
good growth opportunities in Siberia, he said.  Rusal bought 25 percent of Norilsk in April 2008 from
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim Group, and sought to
combine with the nickel producer to create a diversified mining
company to compete with BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest
miner. As Rusal’s debts escalated amid the gathering economic
crisis, fellow Norilsk shareholder  Vladimir Potanin  balked at
the idea of a tie-up and merger ambitions were put on hold.  Tensions between Deripaska and Potanin resurfaced last June
when Potanin’s Interros Holding Co. won more seats than Rusal in
a Norilsk board election. Both parties have since made failed
bids to buy each other out.  “We think that Norilsk should stand alone now,” Deripaska
said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television at the  St.
Petersburg  International Economic Forum. A merger deal is “not
on the way,” even when Rusal completes its debt refinancing, he
said.  Debt Restructuring  Rusal aims to refinance its  net debt , which totaled $11.3
billion at the end of the first quarter, by September, the
company’s Head of Capital Markets Oleg Mukhamedshin said in May.  The aluminum producer had pursued several acquisitions
before the 2008 economic crisis, including its Norilsk purchase.
Now the market is “pretty consolidated and we don’t see many
opportunities for further consolidation,” Deripaska said,
commenting on recent speculation that Rio Tinto Plc may bid for
U.S. aluminum producer Alcoa Inc.  “It is very rare that you can build a good company on
acquisitions,” Deripaska said. “Rusal was developed through
acquisitions, which was always painful. We believe at the moment
that it will be good for our shareholders and for our share
price if we dig deeper in the same direction as we are now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in St. Petersburg, via the Moscow newsroom
at   yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan Chilcote  in St. Petersburg, via the Moscow newsroom
at   rchilcote@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 