-- 
Sberbank to Decide on Volksbanken Deal in July, Gref Says

-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-06-17T16:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/sberbank-to-decide-on-volksbanken-deal-in-july-gref-says-1-.html
OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest
lender, will decide in two to three weeks on buying the eastern
European unit of  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , which would be
its first major move outside the former  Soviet Union .  Chief Executive Officer  German Gref  told Russian state
television broadcaster RT today that his plans to move into the
region hinge on striking the Volksbanken deal, according an e-
mailed transcript of the interview.  “The talks are ongoing, but right now I can’t forecast the
result,” Gref said. He added that the bank is also interested
in acquiring assets in Poland and  Turkey .  Sberbank’s “strategic goal” is to compete with companies
including Raiffeisen Bank International AG and UniCredit SpA
across central and eastern Europe, Gref said in an interview on
April 15. The lender, based in Moscow, has about half of
 Russia ’s private-savings market and has assets in Belarus,
Ukraine and Kazakhstan.  Gref also said in the RT interview that the expansion in
eastern Europe will accelerate only in a few years and that
earlier forecasts for how much profit the bank aims to make
there may not be reached.  Domestic Priority  “Probably after 2014 to 2015 we’ll be able to implement
our international strategy more actively, but for now our
priority is the domestic market, our domestic clients,” he
said. International operations may not account for 5 percent of
net income by 2014 as previously planned, Gref said.  Sberbank may report 383 billion rubles ($13.7 billion) in
net income in 2014, according to the average of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The region’s biggest lender, UniCredit,
generated pretax profit of 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) in
eastern  Europe  last year.  Volksbanken’s eastern European unit, Volksbanken
International AG, is active in 10 eastern European countries,
the biggest share of business coming from Romania. It posted a
loss in 2010 as bad-debt provisions soared at the Romanian unit
and it wrote down its business in Ukraine.  Volksbanken put VBI up for sale in December to raise money
to repay 1 billion euros of state capital it received in 2009,
and to reduce riskier assets. The cooperative bank owns 51
percent of VBI, while  Germany ’s DZ Bank and  France ’s Groupe BPCE
each own 24.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net 
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  