-- 
Scene Last Night: Jimmy Lee, Parsons, Erdoes, Lufkin, Delaney

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/scene-last-night-jimmy-lee-parsons-erdoes-lufkin-delaney-make-a-wish.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chairman  Richard Parsons  waved a wand with flashing colored lights and a star at
me.  “What’s your wish?” he asked Thursday night at the  Make-
A-Wish  annual gala. Wands had been placed at every table.  A few seconds passed.  “Too late,” Parsons teased.  Fortunately the night wasn’t about making wishes, but
rather raising money to fulfill the dreams of children with
life-threatening illnesses.  The event raised $2.1 million -- $700,000 over the target -
- with the help of honorees Jimmy Lee, vice chairman of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , and Michael Delaney, managing partner of Court
Square Capital Partners. The total was pushed up by two $100,000
pledges and more than 20 $1,000 pledges in a wishes auction.  The 600 guests included Mary Erdoes, chief executive
officer of asset management at JPMorgan Chase, Julie Richardson,
managing director, Providence Equity LLC,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  partners Sean Gallagher and Rebecca Shaghalian, and Dan Lufkin.  Lee’s remarks included thank-yous to financiers who made
contributions but did not attend the event, among them Leon Black,  Stephen Schwarzman  and  Stanley Druckenmiller .  Lee also made a wish that Theodore Forstmann, chairman and
CEO of IMG Worldwide Inc., would beat cancer. “I’ve been his
banker for 25 years,” Lee said.  Children’s wishes included digging for dinosaurs, meeting
Warren Buffett and seeing how people robots are made. Last year
the organization spent $4.4 million in direct costs, fulfilling
531 wishes and assisting on 262 others.  Joe’s Violin  When Joe Ginem was 16 and going through treatment for bone
cancer, he asked for a professional-quality violin. He is now 20
and completely recovered, and he plays his violin every day.  He performed a concerto by Jean-Baptiste Accolay at the
event. Afterward, a guest told Ginem that he’d just made a
$25,000 donation in his honor.  “That is a great feeling,” said Ginem, who is studying
business at Hillsborough Community College in Tampa,  Florida .
“Someday, I want to have enough money to be able to raise my
hand and give $100,000.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 