-- 
Scripps Networks Gains Most in 2 Years After Trust Petition

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-06-17T23:05:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/scripps-networks-gains-most-in-2-years-after-trust-petition-1-.html
Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. (SNI) ,
owner of Food Channel and HGTV, gained the most in two years
after the trust that controls the company sought a probate court
ruling that would clear the way for share sales.  The petition filed in a Butler County, Ohio, probate court
may be viewed by traders as the removal of an obstacle to a
potential acquisition of Scripps Networks, said  Michael Nathanson , an analyst with Nomura Securities in  New York .
Knoxville, Tennessee-based Scripps Networks disclosed the
petition by E.W. Scripps Trust in a regulatory filing today.  Scripps Networks climbed $2.62, or 5.9 percent, to $47.14
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
most since May 4, 2009. The stock has slipped 8.9 percent in
2011.  E.W. Scripps Trust asked the court to confirm that language
requiring trustees to maintain voting control of broadcaster and
newspaper publisher E.W. Scripps Co. doesn’t apply to Scripps
Networks, which was spun off in 2008 as a separate cable-
television content company.  If the court agrees, the trustees could seek a sale of the
trust’s stake in Scripps Networks, according to  Terry
Turnipseed , a professor at Syracuse University College of Law
and a former estate planning attorney at Covington & Burling
LLP.  Court Approval  “They are probably looking for a court to tell them it’s
OK to sell the media part of the company,” Turnipseed said in
an interview. “When they set up the trust, they probably didn’t
envision cable TV and didn’t envision the company splitting into
the two pieces.”  The trust dissolves upon the death of Edward W. Scripps’s
last living grandchild, who is now 93, according to the
regulatory filing. E.W. Scripps Trust holds about 29 percent of
Scripps Networks and 28 percent of E.W. Scripps Co. shares
outstanding, according to Bloomberg data.  Trustees would likely sell the stake and hold the proceeds
in the trust, Turnipseed said. Such a transaction would help
diversify the trust’s asset mix available to distribute to
beneficiaries after its dissolution, he said.  “From a diversification standpoint, they are probably
looking to do that,” Turnipseed said. “The trust has a great
deal of stock in the newspaper company, and newspapers aren’t
doing so well. So they are probably looking to diversify the
trust, which they are required to do.”  Returning Capital  Scripps Networks’ board and Kenneth Lowe, chairman and
chief executive officer, agree the company should become “more
active and more aggressive in returning capital to
shareholders,” Chief Financial Officer Joseph NeCastro said May
25 at an investor conference.  “There are some questions still about some of the
mechanics around it,” NeCastro said. “It’s not a question of
if; it’s a matter of when and how. We don’t need to wait around
for a long time for this to be resolved; it will be in the near
term.”  The company had $793.7 million in cash at the end of March,
according to filings. Scripps will have about $1.24 billion at
the end of this year and $500 million in free  cash flow  in 2012,
according to  Michael Morris , an analyst at Richmond, Virginia-
based Davenport & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 