-- 
Security Council Backs Ban for Second Term as UN Chief

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-17T16:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/security-council-backs-ban-for-second-term-as-un-chief-1-.html
United Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon received the unanimous support of the Security Council
today for a second five-year term in office.  The U.S., Britain,  China , France and  Russia , the council’s
permanent members, joined in the adoption by acclamation of a
resolution recommending that the UN General Assembly re-appoint
the former South Korean foreign minister. Council members
Brazil, Germany,  India  and  South Africa  also supported the
measure.  The General Assembly, consisting of all 192 UN member
nations, is scheduled to act on the recommendation on June 21.
Ban, 67, would begin his second term on Jan. 1, 2012.  “I am deeply honored,” Ban, who is traveling in Brazil,
said in a statement. “During the past four and a half years, we
have worked closely with all the member states, including the
Security Council, to achieve progress on critical global issues
of peace and security, development and human rights. I am proud
of all we have done together, even as I am aware of formidable
challenges ahead.”  The 15-member  Security Council  also issued a communique
announcing its adoption of the resolution and Ambassador Nelson
Messone of Gabon, who holds the panel’s rotating presidency,
sent letters to Ban and General Assembly President Joseph Deiss
of Switzerland informing them of the action.  Support in recent weeks from the U.S. and the other
permanent  Security Council  members, who could have vetoed Ban’s
candidacy, assured his reappointment. There was no other
declared candidate.  “Under Ban’s leadership, the United Nations has played a
critical role in responding to crises and challenges across the
globe,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said in a
statement on June 7. “The United Nations is an imperfect but
indispensable institution. The secretary-general has made
important reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  