-- 
Sell Euro-Dollar Straddle, Lloyds Recommends: Technical Analysis

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-17T18:32:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/sell-euro-dollar-straddle-lloyds-banking-recommends-technical-analysis.html
Investors should sell one-year euro-
dollar options in a strategy known as a straddle because trading
patterns suggest implied volatility for the  exchange rate  may
decline, according to Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  Technical indicators show euro-dollar implied volatility
may fall to 12.25 percent by the end June or early July, the low
side of its recent range, Tim McCullough, a Lloyds technical
strategist in London, said in a phone interview. He recommended
in a client note selling June 19, 2012, $1.4226 puts and calls
on the  currency pair . The straddle, a simultaneous sale of a put
and a call with the same strike price, aims at profiting from
the decline.  “It looks like the market is trying to trade higher, but
it’s just unable to do so,” McCullough said in a telephone
interview from  London , referring to one-year euro-dollar implied
volatility, which exceeded 14 percent in intraday trading
yesterday for the first time since January. “It’s testing that
area, 14 percent, and failing. Therefore it makes it more likely
on that reason alone that you’ll start to get back down to the
bottom end of this chart, which is down toward 12 percent.”  The options trade will profit if the euro-dollar exchange
rate is between $1.2661 and $1.5791 at expiration in June 2012,
McCullough said. Investors should close their positions if the
euro-dollar one-year implied volatility surpasses 14.25 percent,
he said. Puts provide the right, but not the obligation, to sell
a security.  Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency. Calls provide the right, but not the
obligation, to buy a security.  Declined Today  Euro-dollar implied volatility fell 0.32 percentage point
today to 13.47 percent after touching 14.11 percent yesterday.
The euro declined 0.2 percent this week to $1.4316, dropping 1.8
percent on June 15, the most in five weeks, on concern  Greece ’s
sovereign debt crisis would worsen.  McCullough said he analyzed the TD Sequential chart, an
indicator that identifies potential trend exhaustion patterns;
the Ichimoku line, which shows long-term trend resistance; and
the TDST indicator, which shows how far back the trend might
reverse.  The TD Sequential chart is a contrarian indicator, he said.
It shows the level the market has reached and how long it’s
taken to get there, he said. In early June, the indicator
reached a point suggesting it was time to buy volatility, and
today it reached another signal suggesting it’s time to sell.  ‘Trend Is Exhausted’  “It’s now saying that trend is exhausted, and that you
should start to see some kind of, most likely, trend reversal
from here,” McCullough said.  The Ichimoku chart shows the one-year euro-dollar implied
volatility is testing a 13.55 percent to 13.72 percent
resistance level at the end of this month, according to
McCullough. Resistance is a level where sell orders may be
clustered. The TDST indicator shows implied volatility will go
back to the low of the TD sequential pattern in April, he said.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  