-- 
Senate Panel Cuts $6.4 Billion From Obama 2012 Defense Plan

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-06-17T17:49:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/senate-panel-cuts-6-4-billion-from-obama-2012-defense-plan-1-.html
The U.S. Senate Armed Services
Committee approved a $664.5 billion  defense budget  for fiscal
year 2012, $6.4 billion less than President  Barack Obama 
proposed for the Pentagon and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  The measure, which sets military policy and spending
targets for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, fully funds 32
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 fighter jets and authorizes $10.4
billion for U.S. Special Operations Command, an increase of 6
percent from this year. In May, U.S. Navy SEALs killed al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden in a compound in Pakistan.  The bill was completed in a closed-door session yesterday.
Details were made public today. The committee’s bill also
included $18.1 billion for Department of Energy programs under
the panel’s jurisdiction, to a total of $682.5 billion for 2012.  The Senate panel cut $5.9 billion from the Pentagon’s base
budget request of $553 billion and $537 million from the $118
billion requested for war operations.  Even as the panel agreed to fully fund the production of
Lockheed’s F-35 jet, lawmakers inserted a provision that
requires the Secretary of Defense to ensure that the low-rate
initial production contract for the fifth F-35 lot is a fixed-
price contract. The provision also mandates that Lockheed absorb
100 percent of costs “above the target cost.”  Contracting Overhaul  “This is really an overhaul of how we acquire large
items” such as the F-35, Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin , the
committee chairman, said in a telephone conference with
reporters today.  For the fourth F-35 production lot, the $3.9 billion
Lockheed contract sets a “target cost” of $3.46 billion for 32
aircraft plus a “target profit” for Lockheed of $440.9
million, or nearly 13 percent, according to the Pentagon’s
program office.  Lockheed and the Pentagon would share equally any savings
if the jets cost less to build than the target cost. Similarly,
they would share cost overruns up to 120 percent of that figure.
The full burden would fall on Lockheed for overruns of more than
120 percent.  For the fifth lot, the Senate provision would put the full
burden on Lockheed for cost overruns.  F-35 Second Engine  The Senate panel’s version of the defense bill prohibits
any government funds to be spent on the development of a second
engine for the F-35. The Pentagon in April terminated the
alternative engine program.  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Rolls-Royce
Group Plc. (RR/) , the makers of the second engine, proposed to self-
fund the development this year and next. The House’s version of
the defense bill backs that proposal. The primary F-35 engine is
built by  Pratt & Whitney , a unit of  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)   The Senate bill adds $322 million for continued production
of  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s enhanced Abrams battle tank and
backs the Army’s $884.4 million request for the development of
the new armored Ground Combat Vehicle.  The committee agreed to eliminate the $406.6 million
requested for Lockheed Martin’s anti-missile system Medium
Extended Air Defense System, or Meads. The Pentagon in February
said it would terminate Meads when the current contract ends in
2013.  The $4.2 billion development program is managed from
 Orlando ,  Florida , by Meads International LLC, a joint venture of
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, Lfk-
Lenkflugkorpersysteme Gmbh of Germany and MBDA of  Italy .  House Version  The House’s version of the 2012 defense authorization bill,
approved in May, would cut $149.5 million from the request. The
House Appropriations panel this week approved that same cut in
its version of the defense-spending bill.  The Senate Armed Services Committee also proposed a cut of
$451.9 million for the Army’s delayed Enhanced Medium Altitude
Reconnaissance and Surveillance System.  As it reduced funding for some weapons systems, the Senate
panel also cut more than $1 billion from the Pentagon’s request
for military construction and family housing projects. The
committee also would cut $1.1 billion by freezing spending at
2010 levels for operations and maintenance contract services.  The bill goes next to the full Senate. The Senate and House
will have to negotiate differences before the final bill goes to
the president for his signature. The House in May approved a
defense bill that authorizes $553 billion for the Pentagon’s
base budget and $119 billion for war operations.  -- With assistance from Tony Capaccio in  Washington .
Editors:  Steven Komarow , Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  