-- 
Pemex Plans Refinancing After Yields Reach Seven-Month Low: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-06-17T21:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/sinking-yields-fueling-debt-refinancing-plans-mexico-credit.html
America Movil SAB and  Petroleos
Mexicanos , the biggest Mexican issuers of debt in international
markets last year, are considering selling bonds to refinance
debt after their benchmark yields fell to a seven-month low.  The yield on $2 billion of bonds due in 2020 from America
Movil, the biggest wireless carrier in the Americas, fell to
4.08 percent earlier this month, the lowest since Nov. 23,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar-maturity bonds
sold by Pemex, as  Latin America ’s largest oil producer is known,
yield 4.67 percent, the lowest since Nov. 12.  “You have to take advantage of these moments that we don’t
always normally have to make improvements in the structure of
debt we already have,”  America Movil ’s Chief Financial Officer
Carlos Garcia-Moreno said at the Bloomberg CFO Summit in Mexico
City on June 15. “We’re not always going to have these
conditions of access.”  The expansion in Latin America’s second-biggest economy is
fueling demand for Mexican corporate debt. The economy may grow
as much as 5 percent this year after a 5.4 percent expansion in
2010 that was the fastest in a decade, the central bank said on
May 11. The average yield on Mexican corporate dollar debt fell
10 basis points in the past two months to 6.21 percent through
yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Borrowing costs for
emerging-market companies slid 4 basis points during the same
period.  The yield on Mexican government dollar bonds maturing in
2020 fell to a one-week low of 3.99 percent yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘When It Rains’  America Movil sold $7.41 billion in overseas markets last
year, including offerings denominated in Swiss francs and
Chilean pesos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
raised $1.2 billion of debt in  Mexico . The company also opened
two credit lines for a total of $4 billion “a couple of months
ago,” Garcia-Moreno said.  “The English say that no one lets you borrow an umbrella
when it rains,” he said. “The moment to buy an umbrella is
when it isn’t raining.”  Garcia-Moreno said the company may consider arrangements
this year similar to a deal announced in March that refinanced
$370 million of debt from its fixed-lined unit.  Pemex, based in Mexico City, plans to use about 60 percent
of the $8 billion in debt it’s seeking to raise in local and
overseas markets this year to refinance debt, Chief Financial
Officer Ignacio Quesada said at the Bloomberg CFO Summit. It
sold $6.1 billion of debt abroad in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Citizen Bonds  The company plans to sell so-called citizen bonds in the
“coming months” to fund the refinancing and pay for additional
exploration, Quesada said. The  Finance Ministry  has said the
company may sell as much as 10 billion pesos of the securities,
which are tied to the company’s operating performance.  “The 2008 crisis reminded us that liquidity is critical,
and one has to make sure you have the adequate levels of
liquidity,” Quesada said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 4 basis points
to 147 at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 2 basis points to 110, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.4 percent to 11.9023 per  U.S. dollar .  Rate Expectations  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December dropped 2 basis points to 4.99 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate by
then. Mexico is the only major Latin American nation to keep its
benchmark lending rate unchanged in the past year. The central
bank left the rate at a record low 4.5 percent last month.  Concern  Greece  will default may curb demand for higher-
yielding assets, prompting Mexican companies to refrain from
selling bonds abroad, said  Alonso Madero , who helps oversee $5.5
billion of debt at Mexico City-based Corp. Actinver SAB.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty about what will happen if
they default, and it seems they’re getting closer to that,”
Madero said in a telephone interview.  Mexican corporate bond sales in overseas markets totaled
$10 billion this year, down 29 percent from the same period a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “For all of the CFOs that are considering the possibility
of going to the market, a unique opportunity is presenting
itself,” Garcia-Moreno said. “The situation in this market can
change rapidly. The markets by nature are volatile, so we should
be aware of that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  