-- 
Solorz-Zak Will Cut Polsat Stake, Build High-Speed Network

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 
2011-06-17T11:51:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/solorz-zak-plans-to-sell-stake-in-polish-cyfrowy-polsat.html
Billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak is
selling a stake in  Cyfrowy Polsat SA (CPS)  to fund construction of a
high-speed wireless network as he seeks to buy Polkomtel SA,
 Poland ’s second-largest mobile-phone operator.  Solorz-Zak, who owns 66 percent of Cyfrowy Polsat, Poland’s
second-biggest television company, through two companies he
controls, will retain a majority stake, the Warsaw-based company
said late yesterday. Cyfrowy Polsat fell as much as 5.8 percent
and traded 3 percent lower at 15.61 zloty at 1:46 p.m. in
Warsaw, valuing the company at 5.4 billion zloty ($1.9 billion).  Solorz-Zak, the second-wealthiest Pole according to Forbes
magazine, is leading the auction for Polkomtel after getting
financing for a bid that values the phone company at about 18
billion zloty, people with knowledge of the matter said this
week. Polkomtel could help Solorz-Zak tap rising demand for
bundled phone, Internet data and TV services.  The sale of the Cyfrowy Polsat stake will take place in the
“coming days” for a price close to the market price, Solorz-
Zak told the PAP newswire today. The proceeds from the sale will
help him expand the long-term evolution network, and won’t be
spent on Polkomtel, financing for which has been already
secured, he told PAP.  Wireless Frequencies  To build the high-speed mobile Internet network, the
billionaire is using another of its companies, NFI Midas SA,
whose units are waiting for a decision by the telecommunications
regulator to grant them the frequencies. Solorz could use
Polkomtel towers to build the LTE network if he buys the mobile-
phone operator, he told Puls Biznesu in March.  Polkomtel’s owners, which include  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , PGE
SA, PKN Orlen SA and Weglokoks SA, plan to complete the sale by
the end of this month. They received three bids,  Herbert Wirth ,
chief executive officer of shareholder  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) ,
said June 15.  The other candidates, Apax Partners LLP, which has sought
financing for its bid, and  Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Norwegian mobile
operator allied with Bain Capital LLC, are considered less
likely to win the auction, people familiar with the matter said
this week. A winner may be decided this week or next, they said.  If Solorz wins Polkomtel, the phone company would need to
cut its network costs to match competitors before holding an
initial public offering, he told PAP.  The 2008 sale by  Denmark ’s TDC A/S of a 20 percent holding
in Polkomtel provides a 3.7 billion-euro ($5.2 billion) minimum
valuation, KGMH said in November.  Hieronim Ruta, another Cyfrowy Polsat shareholder, will
also sell a stake, according to the company’s statement.
Deutsche Bank AG,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Trigon will advise in
the Cyfrowy Polsat sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  