-- 
South Korean Won Gains, Bonds Drop as U.S. Job Data Eases Growth Concerns

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-06-17T06:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/south-korean-won-gains-bonds-drop-as-u-s-job-data-eases-growth-concerns.html
South Korea ’s won advanced the most
in more than two weeks and government bonds dropped as a decline
in U.S. jobless claims damped speculation that the global
economic recovery is stalling.  Americans filing for  unemployment benefits  totaled 414,000
last week, less than the median estimate of 420,000 in a
Bloomberg survey of economists, while housing starts increased
more than forecast in May, government data show. The
International Monetary Fund said it is ready to continue
supporting  Greece  if the economic measures agreed upon as part
of a bailout package with the European Union are adopted.  “Speculation that Greece may get some support eased
investor concerns somewhat, boosting demand for riskier
assets,” said Byeon Ji Young, a currency analyst at Woori
Futures Co. in  Seoul . “The drop in the U.S. jobless claims,
which tempered concern about the economy, is helping boost stock
markets as well as the currency.”  The won strengthened 0.4 percent to 1,085.90 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, the biggest gain since June 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,091.53
yesterday, the weakest level since May 26 and dropped 0.3
percent over the week.  Five-year bonds fell. The yield on South  Korea ’s 4 percent
notes due March 2016 rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 3.96 percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange
Inc. The yield advanced one basis point for the week.  Possible Rate Pause  The  Bank of Korea  may need to slow the pace of interest-
rate increases after its fifth move since July 2010 last week
because of rising risks to the global economic outlook, Kang Myung Hun, a central bank board member, said.  “The external conditions are much more uncertain -- if the
uncertainty deepens, we may have to slow down our pace,” Kang,
one of six policy makers who vote on rates, said in an interview
yesterday. Kang also cited the danger of boosting rates so
quickly that the bank detonates a household-debt “bomb” that
causes a property-market crash.  South Korea needs to continue raising  interest rates  to
combat inflation while exchange-rate flexibility is also needed
to respond to inflation, the  International Monetary Fund  said
today in a statement distributed by South Korea’s finance
ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  