-- 
South Africa Stocks Fall to Three-Month Low on Metals, Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-06-17T08:39:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/south-africa-stocks-fall-to-three-month-low-on-metals-europe-debt-concern.html
     June 17 (Bloomberg) --South African stocks declined the to
the lowest level in three months, led by mining companies  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP Billiton Plc (BIL)  after metals retreated and as
European leaders prepared to discuss Greece’s debt crisis.  The FTSE/JSE All Share Index slipped 1.6 percent to
30,503.78 by 10:20 a.m. in Johannesburg. A close at that level
would be the lowest since March 15. Yesterday was a public
holiday in South Africa.  Copper fell for a third day in  London , while lead and
nickel also slumped. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meets with
French President Nicolas Sarkozy today to resolve the impasse
over a second Greek rescue as Germany’s insistence that
bondholders share the cost fans the risk of contagion. Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will announce cabinet changes
today after failing to garner support for austerity measures.  South African markets will “probably need to play some
catch-up as commodity prices are still a lot lower” than at the
close on June 15, Johannesburg-based brokerage and asset manager
Renaissance BJM said in an e-mailed note to clients. “The big
news today is all about Greece. We will continue to take
direction from international markets.”  Anglo American, the diversified mining company that makes
up 11 percent of  South Africa ’s benchmark stock index, dropped
to the lowest level since Oct. 20, slipping as much as 3.2
percent to 308.51 rand. BHP Billiton, the world’s largest mining
company, dropped 1.8 percent to 248.40 rand, heading for the
lowest close since Oct. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  