-- 
StanChart IDR Advances on Speculation SEBI May Relax Rules

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-06-17T06:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/stanchart-idr-advances-on-speculation-sebi-may-relax-rules.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s Indian
Depository Receipts headed for the biggest gain in more than a
week on speculation the market regulator may ease rules on the
conversion of the securities into shares.  The IDR rose 2.1 percent to 94.1 rupees at 11:30 a.m. in
Mumbai, headed for its steepest rise since June 7. The receipts
plunged 17 percent on June 6, the largest drop since their
listing, after an order from the Securities and Exchange Board
of  India  denied investors an opportunity to convert the
securities into shares. Ten IDRs equal one of the bank’s shares
traded on the London Stock Exchange.  “There is market talk that the regulator may consider
allowing the conversion of IDRs to shares under certain
conditions,” said Megha Vazkar, head of institutional dealing
at Maximus Securities Ltd. “Foreign investor sentiment on IDRs
has weakened, which may force the regulatory rethink. Investors
are also finding value at lower levels.”  Standard Chartered, the only company to have issued IDRs,
said at the time of sale last May the receipts can’t be
converted into underlying shares for one year, after which the
central bank’s approval would be needed. The securities have
traded at an average 7 percent discount to the  London  shares in
the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show, and the
regulator’s order means the IDR holders won’t benefit from the
price gap.  The lender’s shares rose 0.1 percent to 1,558 pence in
London yesterday. That’s an 18 percent premium to the IDR, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The conversion of IDRs into underlying equity shares will
be allowed one year after they are sold only if the annualized
trading turnover during the six months preceding the month of
redemption is less than 5 percent of the total securities
issued, the regulator known as SEBI said in a circular dated
June 3. Allowing unrestricted conversion would reduce the number
of outstanding IDRs, affecting trading volumes, SEBI said.  Spokesmen at  Standard Chartered  and the regulator didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed questions from Bloomberg.  -- Editors: Shiyin Chen, Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  