-- 
Stanford Receiver Sues Libyan Fund for $55 Million Withdrawn, Lawyer Says

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-17T20:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/stanford-receiver-sues-libyan-fund-for-55-million-withdrawn-lawyer-says.html
R. Allen Stanford’s court-appointed
receiver sued the Libyan government wealth fund for $55 million
he claims the state withdrew from Stanford’s alleged  Ponzi
scheme  before it collapsed in early 2009, according to the
receiver’s lawyer.  Ralph S. Janvey, Stanford’s receiver, also won a temporary
freeze on some Libyan government bank accounts in the U.S. until
a federal judge can determine if the money should be distributed
to investors allegedly swindled of more than $7 billion, said
Janvey’s lead attorney, Kevin M. Sadler.  “The payments made to the Libyan defendants were
fraudulent transfers, using funds which Stanford obtained by
fraud from investors who purchased Stanford’s phony CDs even as
the Ponzi scheme was beginning to collapse,’’ Sadler said today
by e-mail.  Janvey’s suit was filed under seal June 3 in U.S. District
Court in  Dallas , Sadler said. The lawsuit couldn’t be
independently confirmed using the court’s electronic docket.  Stanford, 61, denies all allegations of wrongdoing. He
previously said he met with Libyan sovereign-wealth fund
officials shortly before the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission seized his operations on suspicion of fraud in
February 2009.  The Libyans withdrew $12 million of their Stanford
investment immediately after this meeting, which occurred in
 Libya  “just three weeks before the SEC filed suit,’’ Sadler
said in today’s e-mail.  Order to Freeze  Janvey obtained a court order on June 6 freezing
$55 million in Libyan assets in U.S. bank accounts, pending a
December hearing before U.S. District Judge David Godbey, Sadler
said. The judge oversees the SEC’s case against Stanford and
several of his companies.  Stanford faces 14 criminal charges that he deceived
investors about the safety and oversight of certificates of
deposit sold by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank
Ltd. He is in a prison hospital unit in Butner,  North Carolina ,
until he completes rehabilitation from a prescription-drug
dependency he acquired in jail.  The former billionaire has been in custody as a flight risk
since his indictment in June 2009. His attorneys have asked for
a delay in his criminal trial, now scheduled for September in
Houston federal court, until he is found competent to assist in
his defense.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 