-- 
Russia May Sell Rosneft as Medvedev Seeks More Asset Sales to Fuel Growth

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-17T11:12:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/state-dominated-economy-dangerous-for-russia-medvedev-says.html
Russia said it may surrender state
control of its largest oil producer as President  Dmitry Medvedev 
urged a bigger privatization program to lure investors and speed
up the lowest rate of growth among major emerging economies.  “The dominance of state-controlled companies in a
considerable number of industries” is limiting enterprise and
investment and threatens to make Russia less competitive,
Medvedev said today at the St. Petersburg International Economic
Forum. “This economic model is dangerous for the future.”  The government may cut its stake in OAO Rosneft, which
produces almost a quarter of Russian oil, to below 50 percent,
 Arkady Dvorkovich , Medvedev’s economic adviser, said. Russia may
also sell its entire shareholding in the second-largest bank,
VTB Group, in three to five years, he told Bloomberg News.  Medvedev, 45, a former corporate lawyer, has pledged to
fight corruption and reduce the state’s role in the economy to
attract foreign investment and reduce Russia’s reliance on
energy exports. While he’s seeking a second term as president,
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who picked Medvedev as his
successor in 2008, hasn’t ruled out a return to the Kremlin in
2012 elections.  The government plans to raise at least 1 trillion rubles
($36 billion) by selling state assets over the next three years.
Medvedev today ordered the privatization plans to be revised by
Aug. 1, saying they are “too modest.”  Blocking Stakes  The state should give up majority stakes and in some cases
blocking stakes of more than 25 percent in the main state-owned
enterprises, Medvedev said. State control may still be necessary
for companies that have monopoly infrastructure and are
essential to the nation’s security, he added.  “We had a stage of development tied with strengthening the
role of state in economy. Now the potential of this way is
exhausted.” Medvedev said. “We aren’t building state
capitalism,” and private business should play the biggest role
in the economy, he added.  Medvedev is trying to combat Russia’s reputation as the
world’s most corrupt major economy amid investor uncertainty
about the future of his ruling tandem with Putin. Citigroup
Inc.’s  Vikram Pandit , Bank of America Corp.’s  Brian T. Moynihan ,
Blackstone Group’s  Stephen Schwarzman  and Deutsche Bank AG’s
Josef Ackermann are among the  business  leaders at  St. Petersburg 
for the annual economic  forum .  ‘More Evidence’  “This is more evidence that the government is determined
to transfer state companies into private hands,”  Roland Nash ,
chief investment strategist at Verno Capital, a Moscow hedge
fund that manages about $140 million, said in an interview in
St. Petersburg. “It’s got to be positive.”  Russia seeks to boost proceeds from asset sales by 50
percent to 450 billion rubles next year and expects to collect
at least the same amount annually in 2013 and 2014, Dvorkovich
told reporters. Under Putin’s presidency from 2000 to 2008, the
government increased state ownership in strategic industries,
including oil and gas.  Rosneft controls most of the former assets of Yukos Oil
Co., once  Russia ’s biggest oil company, which was declared
bankrupt and sold in pieces after facing $30 billion of tax
claims during Putin’s presidency. Former Yukos owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky was convicted of fraud and  tax evasion  in 2005 and
oil embezzlement in December 2010, pushing his sentence to 13
years.  Putin Allies  Medvedev earlier this year ordered eight Cabinet members,
including several Putin allies, to surrender by July 1 their
positions on the boards of state companies they regulate. Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  stepped down as chairman of Rosneft
in April.  Putin and his supporters favor the status quo over
modernization, and this makes it impossible to accelerate
economic growth to the level of competing emerging market
powers,  Igor Yurgens , a Medvedev adviser, said yesterday in an
interview at the St. Petersburg forum.  Russia’s economy expanded 4.1 percent from a year earlier
in the first quarter, compared with 9.7 percent growth in  China 
and 7.8 percent in  India . Medvedev said in a January interview
at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , that Russia
sought to boost growth to 8 percent to 10 percent within five
years.  ‘Take it Easy’  “That’s the stability party for you, those who say take it
easy, don’t go out of your way because we are OK with our 4
percent growth in GDP,” Yurgens told Bloomberg Television. “We
have to do some bold steps forward in privatization.”  Russia sold 10 percent of VTB in February and has picked
advisers for sales of minority stakes in the largest lender, OAO
Sberbank, and OAO Sovcomflot, the biggest Russian shipper.  Holdings in Sovcomflot, Sberbank, OAO Novorossiysk
Commercial Sea Port and  Murmansk Commercial Seaport  are slated
to be sold this year, Alexei Uvarov, head of the economy
ministry’s property department, said on May 4. The government
expects to offer stakes in OAO RusHydro, VTB Group and Federal
Grid Co. next year before proceeding with the sale of Rosneft,
OAO Russian Railways and Russian Agricultural Bank in 2013.  The Sovcomflot sale may be postponed until next year, First
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in St. Petersburg at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in St. Petersburg at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 