-- 
Sudan’s Abyei Clashes Displace 113,000 People, UN Reports

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-17T20:45:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/sudan-fighting-causes-almost-113-000-to-flee-abyei-border-region-un-says.html
Almost 113,000 people have fled
 Sudan ’s disputed border region of Abyei since fighting started
last month between troops from the north and south, the  United
Nations  said today.  A Sudanese army Antonov aircraft dropped two bombs 500
meters to 1 kilometer from the UN compound today in Kadugli, the
capital of northern Sudan’s Southern Kordofan state, where
clashes over the last two weeks displaced 60,000 people, said UN
spokesman Kouider Zerrouk. The bombs were dropped in the state,
which borders Abyei, even though there were no clashes around
the compound, he said.  “The excessive use of bombardment recently is threatening
our presence and putting the lives of civilians at high risk,”
Zerrouk said today by phone from Khartoum, Sudan’s capital.  Six shells also fired today by the Sudan Armed Forces from
the northern part of Abyei hit the town of Agok, south of the
Kiir River, Zerrouk said. The Sudanese army “is claiming the
shelling was part of an exercise,” he said.  The river has formed a barrier between the two armies since
President Umar al-Bashir’s Sudan Armed Forces occupied  Abyei  on
May 21 after accusing southern soldiers of attacking them. The
UN Security Council urged the northern army to withdraw on
concern that the action could reignite the two-decade civil war
in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest oil producer that ended in
2005. The south is due to become independent on July 9.  Refugees  “Both sides must stop military actions which are causing
fear to the already affected populations in the area,” Zerrouk
said. “A significant number” of displaced people are still
taking refuge in Agok, he said.  The Kiir, or Bahr al-Arab as it is known in the north, was
the site of a clash between armies from north and south on June
15 that wounded 10 people, the UN Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs said in an e-mailed statement.  Five government soldiers were killed and seven southern
troops wounded in the June 15 fighting along the Kiir, Southern
Sudanese army spokesman Philip Aguer said yesterday by phone
from Juba, the regional capital. Sudan’s army spokesman, Al-
Sawarmi Khaled, said his forces weren’t involved.  Aguer said the fighting started when northern troops
crossed south of the river. The  UN humanitarian affairs office 
said the UN’s peacekeeping mission in Sudan couldn’t confirm if
the fighting occurred south of the river.  Civilians Released  The Sudanese army, which controls the Abyei region north of
the river, released 11 civilians yesterday and 6 on June 13,
from about 23 people in its custody, according to the UN
statement. It didn’t say why they were being held.  Delegations from the north and south are discussing the
proposed mandate of an Ethiopian force that would replace UN
peacekeepers in the region after  Southern Sudan ’s independence.
Talks in the Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa , over Abyei also
include the structure of the region’s future administration.  The talks will also focus on a cease-fire in northern
Sudan’s only oil-producing state, Southern Kordofan,  Thabo Mbeki , head of the African Union’s High-Level Implementation
Panel on Sudan, said yesterday.  Four Egyptian peacekeepers were detained by the Sudan Armed
Forces for two hours yesterday in Kadugli, the state capital,
where “intermittent fighting, artillery shelling and military
build-up” continued today, Zerrouk said.  Peacekeepers Detained  “We condemn the detention and abuse yesterday by SAF in
Kadugli of four peacekeepers who were on patrol to assess the
situation in town,” Zerrouk said, urging both sides to
“immediately stop intimidating and harassing UN staff.”  Sudanese army spokesman Khaled criticized the UN mission in
Sudan, saying at a press conference yesterday in Khartoum that
the mission is biased against the northern army in its
assessment and reporting of the clashes on the north-south
Sudanese border.  A referendum in Abyei scheduled in January on whether to
join the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north was canceled because of disagreements over who was
eligible to vote. The northern army has said it won’t withdraw
from Abyei until a new agreement is reached.  Abyei is contested between the region’s Ngok Dinka people,
who are settled in the area and consider themselves southerners,
and Misseriya nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry
season and are supported by the government in Khartoum.  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in  The Hague , in a 2009
ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area around Ngok Dinka
settlements. That largely excluded the Misseriya, who say that
as seasonal inhabitants of the area, they should also have the
right to vote.  The court also set key oilfields run by the  Greater Nile
Petroleum Operating Co. , which is 40 percent owned by Beijing-
based  China National Petroleum Corp. , outside of the Abyei
region. Abyei produces less than 2,500 barrels a day, according
to Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 