-- 
Syrians Flee Second Northern Town as Fear of Government Crackdown Spreads

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-17T12:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/syria-regime-sends-army-into-northern-town-as-residents-flee-toward-turkey.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
forces were deployed to the northwestern town of Ma’arrat an
Nu’man, sending residents fleeing to nearby  Turkey  and east into
the countryside to escape a feared crackdown on dissent.  State television reported today that the army is stationed
around Ma’arrat an Nu’man “to prevent terrorists” from cutting
off the highway that links the capital, Damascus, to  Syria ’s
second-largest city, Aleppo.  The flight of townspeople began two days ago after reports
that regime forces, backed by tanks, were being sent to widen a
campaign against anti-government protesters in the region,
according to human-rights activists. Last week, the army swept
through the town of Jisr al-Shughour, also in the north.  Protests against Assad’s rule began in mid-March, part of
a wave of demonstrations across the  Middle East  and North Africa
this year that have unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia . A
total of 1,289 civilians and 332 security forces have been
killed, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on June 12.  Demonstrations were held today in Damascus, Hama, Daraa, Al
Qamishli and Al Bukamal, Al Jazeera reported. Heavy fire was
heard in Homs, according to  Al Arabiya .  Ban, Assad Talk  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday
the attacks on protesters are “totally unacceptable” and
called on Assad to “stop killing people.”  “I have discussed and talked to President Assad several
times,” Ban told reporters in Brasilia. “I have strongly urged
him to listen to the wishes and aspirations of the people. I
again strongly urge President Assad and his authorities to stop
killing people, and to engage in inclusive dialogue and to take
decisive and bold measures before it is too late.”  Another 789 people crossed into Turkey from Jisr al-
Shughour yesterday, bringing the total number of refugees in the
southeastern province of Hatay to 9,693, according to the
Turkish state-run Anatolia news agency. The influx began June 8.  Syrians returning to Jisr Al-Shughour are being arrested
and some have been raped,  Al Jazeera  television reported today,
citing witnesses.  Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, speaking after a
four-hour meeting with Syrian envoy Hassan Ali Turkmani in
Ankara, reiterated Turkey’s promise to keep its borders open.  The Syrian military said its forces were attacked by armed
rebels in Jisr al-Shughour, while opposition supporters and
local residents have said those who died there were executed
after refusing to fire on pro-democracy protesters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 