-- 
U.K. Overhaul, Bank Oversight, House Budget, Basel Bank Curbs: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-17T12:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/u-k-overhaul-bank-oversight-house-budget-basel-bank-curbs-compliance.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  published draft legislation that will hand powers
to the Bank of England to police Britain’s banks in the biggest
regulatory overhaul since 1997.  The  Financial Regulation Bill , which will now undergo pre-
legislative scrutiny, will abolish the Financial Services
Authority and transfer most of its responsibilities to the
central bank.  The bill is scheduled to be put to Parliament formally
later this year and approved by legislators in late 2012. It
will pave the way for the central bank’s Financial Policy
Committee to begin its work of monitoring risk. The committee --
chaired by Governor  Mervyn King  -- met informally for the first
time yesterday and will get full legal powers just as King’s
second five-year term as governor expires.  Yesterday’s paper setting out the details includes new
proposals drawn from a consultation process that began in
February, the  Treasury  said. These policies include detailing
responsibilities for the insurance sector, an “updated and
enhanced” competition regime under the Financial Conduct
Authority -- a new body that will seek to protect consumers and
police the integrity of markets -- and measures to tackle
misselling of financial products.  King and Osborne began work last June, a month after Prime
Minister David Cameron’s coalition government took office, on
the regulatory overhaul, which will give the Bank of England
more power than it has ever had in its 317-year history.  Osborne said in a  foreword  to the legislation that the new
system of regulation will draw on lessons learned in the 2007
financial crisis, which U.K. regulators failed to predict and
didn’t “adequately” respond to.  For more, click here.  Special Section: House Oversight Hearings  U.S. Lawmakers Press Regulators on Bank Capital, Derivatives  U.S. financial regulators sought to reassure lawmakers that
they can achieve global coordination and maintain industry
competitiveness as they implement the biggest rewrite of Wall
Street oversight since the Great Depression.  Harmonization has been a top consideration in international
talks on capital buffers for the biggest banks and methods for
orderly wind-downs of systemically important firms, officials
including Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo and Treasury
undersecretary Lael Brainard told the  House Financial Services
Committee  yesterday at a hearing in Washington.  Tarullo said failure to set a capital surcharge above
requirements under the Basel III agreement may expose the
financial system to excessive risk.  “What is important is not to lose sight of the costs of
not acting,” Tarullo testified. The surcharge based on some
studies may range as high as 7 percentage points above the Basel
capital requirement, Tarullo said, adding that the final figure,
now under consideration by regulators, may not be 7 percentage
points.  Tarullo said he sees a need to “calibrate” the number
based on risks of the assets held by the biggest banks.  Representative Spencer Bachus, the Alabama Republican who
leads the Financial Services Committee, conducted the hearing
amid complaints from bankers that U.S. regulations being imposed
under the Dodd-Frank Act may slow economic recovery from the
2008 financial crisis and drive business overseas. Lawmakers
sought assurances that regulators were looking out for U.S.
interests in dealing with their international counterparts.  The six regulators who appeared before the panel offered
general agreement that maintaining a level playing field in
areas such as resolution authority and rules for the $601
trillion global swaps market is essential to creating proper
safeguards against a repeat of the market tumult that followed
the September 2008 bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   Brainard and Tarullo were joined at the hearing by Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair, Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , Commodity Futures
Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler and acting  Comptroller
of the Currency  John Walsh.  The committee also heard testimony from a second panel
including bank executives, academics and industry association
representatives.  For more, click here.  For video of the hearings, click here.  Compliance Policy  House Approves $125 Billion in USDA, FDA, CFTC Spending  The U.S. House of Representatives approved a $125 billion
 spending bill  for the Department of Agriculture, the Food and
Drug Administration and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, $7 billion less than President Barack Obama
requested.  Most of the reduction, about $5 billion, is in
discretionary programs, which will get about $17 billion under
the plan. The measure, approved by a vote of 217-203, covers the
2012 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.  Appropriations bills are being constrained by concerns over
the federal  budget deficit . The plan approved yesterday by the
Republican-controlled House includes cuts in requested funding
for food safety, nutrition programs for women and children and
for the CFTC, which oversees derivatives markets. Payments to
growers of wheat, corn, soybeans and other crops were left
largely intact.  The Senate, which is controlled by Democrats, has yet to
take up companion legislation.  Funding the CFTC with less money than Obama requested will
leave markets vulnerable to speculators whose actions will raise
consumer prices, said Representative Kathleen Hochul, a New York
Democrat who opposed the bill.  For more, click here.  Basel Committee Said to Weigh Fee to Curb Bank Growth  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is considering
proposed capital surcharges of as much as 3.5 percentage points
that the largest banks may face if they grow any bigger,
according to two people familiar with the talks.  Draft plans circulated before a meeting next week would
subject banks to a sliding scale depending on their size and
links to other lenders, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the proposals aren’t public. Banks wouldn’t
initially face the highest surcharge, which is intended as a
deterrent to expansion, one person said. The largest banks may
face a 3 percentage point levy at their current sizes, the
person said.  Governments are split over how far to toughen bank capital
rules following the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. The U.S. Federal Reserve could back a surcharge of
as high as 3 percentage points, a person familiar with the talks
said last week.  The figures will be discussed further at meetings next week
in Basel, Switzerland, with some countries pushing for weaker
requirements than set out in the draft proposals, the people
said. The Basel committee’s press office declined to comment.  Ignoring Greek Default Risk May Make Stress Tests ‘Irrelevant’  European Union stress tests on the region’s banks are
becoming “irrelevant” because they ignore the possibility of a
default by Greece, said Lex van Dam, fund manager at Hampstead
Capital LLP, which oversees about $500 million.  The cost of insuring Greek government debt against the risk
of default surged to a record June 15 as concern mounted that
policy makers will struggle to stop the crisis. Credit-default
swaps indicate an 82 percent chance Greece will fail to meet its
commitments within five years, according to CMA prices. The cost
of insuring Irish and Portuguese government bonds also reached
records this week, driving a gauge of European bank bond risk to
the highest level since January.  The European Banking Authority, set up by the European
Union last year to oversee the tests, won’t include a Greek
default in the scenarios in the second annual assessment of
banks’ resilience to economic shocks. European bank stocks have
fallen 12 percent since last year’s tests, led by the EBA’s
predecessor.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , which passed those tests,
later required a taxpayer bailout.  “The stress tests have lost all credibility and look like
a complete waste of time for all involved,” said Van Dam, who
is based in London. “They are totally irrelevant.”  The EBA can’t include a sovereign default in the stress
tests because that would lend credence to the possibility of
such an event happening and undermine confidence in the region,
said Richard Reid, an economist at the London-based
 International Centre for Financial Regulation .  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Southsea Placed Into Bank Insolvency Procedure, BOE Says  Southsea Mortgage & Investment Co. was placed into a bank
insolvency procedure after a decision by the Financial Services
Authority and a court application by the Bank of England.  Malcolm Cohen and Mark Shaw, business restructuring
partners at BDO LLP, were appointed joint liquidators, the Bank
of England said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Southsea had
250 depositors and retail deposits of 7.4 million pounds ($12
billion) when it failed, the bank said.  Secret Election Financing Evades IRS Scrutiny  At least four nonprofits have reported campaign spending to
the  Federal Election Commission  after declaring to the  Internal
Revenue Service  they weren’t planning political activities,
according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News under a
Freedom of Information Act request.  The growth of anonymous-donor groups, recent Supreme Court
rulings and declining FEC enforcement activity have combined to
increase the level of secrecy in financing U.S. elections,
Bloomberg’s Megan Hughes reported on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  China Regulator ‘Aware’ of Concerns on Firms’ Accounting  The  China Securities Regulatory Commission  said it’s
“aware” of concerns other regulators have over the financial
accounts of some Chinese companies listed overseas and has been
in touch with them.  Yao Feng, deputy director general of the CSRC’s department
of accounting, made the remarks today while attending a
conference held by the  Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public
Accountants.  “We are aware of the concerns.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has revoked the
registrations of eight China-based companies since December, and
more than 24 have disclosed auditor resignations or accounting
problems since March, SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro wrote in an
April 27 letter. Regulators and investors have increased
scrutiny of Chinese companies traded overseas amid accounting
allegations against  Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT) , Chaoda
Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd. and  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)   The SEC has halted trading in firms such as Guangzhou,
China-based  Heli Electronics Corp. (HELI)  and  Rino International Corp. (RINO) 
of Dalian, China, in the past few months.  Nasdaq Seeks Minority Stake in LCH.Clearnet, Greifeld Says  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  is seeking a minority stake in
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer  Robert
Greifeld  said.  The New York-based exchange is in discussions with
LCH.Clearnet as part of a strategy to expand beyond the U.S.,
Greifeld said in an interview at the  Federation of European
Securities Exchanges  annual convention in Athens. Nasdaq, which
dropped a bid for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , is the majority owner of
International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC, opened in January
2009 for interest-rate swap futures.  LCH.Clearnet, the world’s largest swap clearinghouse, said
May 28 it has been approached about “some form of possible
business combination.” It has also held talks with  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , said three people familiar with the matter
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private. LSE has said it isn’t holding talks with LCH.Clearnet
on a deal.  LCH declined to comment on interest from Nasdaq, said
Rachael Harper, a spokeswoman for the London-based company.  NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer 
said June 1 that he is working with Markit Group Ltd. on a bid
for LCH.Clearnet, owner of the world’s largest swaps
clearinghouse.  For more, click here.  Courts  Heineken Wins Cut to EU Beer Cartel Fine in Court Ruling  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-largest brewer by volume,
and Bavaria NV won bids to reduce antitrust fines levied by the
European Union.  The EU General Court cut Heineken’s fine to 198 million
euros ($280 million) from 219.3 million euros and Bavaria’s fine
to 20.7 million euros from 22.8 million euros. The Luxembourg-
based court said the  European Commission  failed to prove the
extent of the cartel.  “The commission has not proved that the infringement
concerned the occasional coordination of commercial conditions,
other than prices, offered to individual customers in the on-
trade segment,” the court said. Handwritten notes on which the
commission relied included references that “are sporadic and
brief” about which the companies “have put forward a plausible
alternative explanation.”  The commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, fined the two
brewers and Dutch rival Royal Grolsch NV in April 2007 for
coordinating prices in the Netherlands from at least 1996 to
1999. InBev NV, which has since merged with Anheuser-Busch Cos.
to become the world’s largest brewer, escaped a fine after
tipping off EU officials.  “We are disappointed that the general court has not
accepted all of our arguments, but we appreciate that the court
has reduced the amount of the original fine,” Jean-Francois van
Boxmeer, chief executive officer of Heineken, said in the
statement. The company said it “will consider its options”
after it studies the ruling.  The cases are T-235/07, Bavaria v. Commission; T-240/07,
Heineken Nederland and Heineken v. Commission.  Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Should Go to Prison Now, U.S. Says  Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker  Eric Butler , whose
conspiracy conviction for fraudulently selling securities was
upheld June 15, should go immediately to prison, the U.S. said.  The U.S. Court of Appeals upheld two conspiracy convictions
against Butler. It reversed a securities-fraud conviction,
ruling that Brooklyn, New York, was the wrong venue for the
trial on the charge.  The appeals court said Butler needs to be resentenced, and
U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch asked for a court date for that “as
soon as possible.”  Butler and his partner Julian Tzolov were accused of
intentionally misleading clients about securities purchased on
their behalf, falsely claiming they were backed by federally
guaranteed student loans and were safe alternatives to bank
deposits. Victims’ losses were more than $1.1 billion, according
to the government.  Butler was sentenced to five years on each count, to be
served concurrently. Tzolov, who jumped bail and was later
returned to the U.S., was sentenced to four years in prison,
with 1 1/2 years of that for bail jumping.  Steven F. Molo, a lawyer for Butler at MoloLamken LLP in
Manhattan, didn’t return a call for comment. In a letter to U.S.
District Judge Jack B. Weinstein yesterday, Molo and Paul T.
Weinstein, another Butler lawyer, opposed Lynch’s request.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The appeal is U.S. v.
Tzolov, 10-562, Second Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals
(Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Levitt Says More U.S. Banks Are ‘Too Big to Fail’  Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Arthur Levitt, said “more and more” U.S. banks are becoming
“too big to fail.”  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 