-- 
No More Health Waivers Like McDonald’s Received, U.S. Says

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-06-17T20:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/u-s-will-end-health-waiver-program-used-by-cigna-mcdonald-s.html
A program that allows  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain, and the insurer
 Cigna Corp. (CI)  to avoid providing the minimum health coverage
mandated by last year’s overhaul will stop accepting applicants
in September, the government said today.  Companies that already have exemptions from the mandate
will be able to continue their “mini-med” health plans with
annual maximum coverage of $10,000. The health-care overhaul
signed last year by President  Barack Obama  raised the minimum
coverage level to $750,000 for those who weren’t granted the
waivers.  The government is closing down the program because there’s
no need for new applications, Steve Larsen, director of the
Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight, said
during a call with reporters. “For the vast majority of plans
that would need a waiver, those are the ones that would have
applied and did apply this year,” said Larsen, whose office is
implementing the law’s regulations on health insurers.  The waivers were granted over nine months to 3 million
workers in 1,433 organizations. Companies that have the
exemptions will be able to keep them until 2014, when
“exchanges” to sell government-subsidized private coverage
open.  Companies with the waivers will have to give their workers
written notices on exactly how their coverage works, how much
care it covers, and what happens to them if they go to the
hospital, Larsen said.  Retailers, labor unions and state and local governments are
among those with the exemptions. Only about 100 companies have
been turned down, according to the government.  The higher minimum care limits would have increased the
cost of insuring workers with the low-cost health plans.
Companies told the government that without an exclusion from the
rules, they would be forced to drop coverage or increase its
cost to the point of being unaffordable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 