-- 
U.S. Senate Ethanol Vote Takes ‘Shine’ Off Corn, Ofon Says

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-06-17T07:40:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/u-s-senate-ethanol-vote-takes-shine-off-corn-ofon-says.html
Abah Ofon, an analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc., comments on the U.S. Senate’s vote in favor of
repealing incentives for the ethanol industry.  The Senate voted 73-27 yesterday to eliminate the 45-cent
tax credit from refiners on each gallon of the fuel mixed with
gasoline, as well as the 54 cent tariff on Brazilian imports.  Ofon commented in a phone interview from  Singapore  and in
an e-mail.  On impact on commodities:  The vote is “a near-term market negative for corn, and
bullish for sugar, which is the feedstock for Brazilian ethanol.
Corn has a bit of a lift this morning but yesterday it had a big
drop. This is going to take off some shine from the corn market.
I’d be looking at my forecasts. It definitely will have an
impact on the corn outlook over the longer term.”  On  budget deficit :  The Senate’s vote “is a huge surprise. I think it should
be seen in the light of the current fiscal deficit that the U.S.
is facing.”  A termination of ethanol subsidy “is not an easy process,
it’s still quite long and tortuous. There’s a lot of linkages
which are going to take time to smooth out before this can be
translated it into law.”  “The White House is known to be categorically against
completely abandoning the ethanol subsidy. However, that support
may now be quite as vigorous as what we currently know.”  On support for ethanol:  “There’s so much more mandate to support ethanol. There’s
still the renewable fuel standard, and the mandate to increase
land. This suggests to me the industry is not to crumble, but
the fiscal support for corn ethanol is going to change over the
next two to three years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 