-- 
U.S. Stocks Snap Six-Week Decline on Greece Optimism, Economy

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-17T21:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-rim-slumps-on-lower-forecast.html
U.S. stocks snapped a six-week
decline as European leaders moved closer to a compromise on a
financial rescue for Greece and an index of leading American
economic indicators advanced more than forecast.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  rose at least 1.9
percent, following gains in European banks. The Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index of 11 stocks gained 2.7 percent as oil fell to
the lowest level in four months.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  tumbled
21 percent, sparking a slump in technology shares, after
forecasting revenue and profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.3 percent to
1,271.50 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The benchmark gauge has added
less than 0.1 percent since June 10, preventing the longest
weekly slump since March 2001. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
increased 42.84 points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,004.36 today.  “This may be an excellent entry point for stock
investors,” said  James Paulsen , the chief investment strategist
at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, which oversees
about $340 billion. “There are expectations that an agreement
on  Greece ’s bailout may be reached. If we can get rid of the
fears over  Europe , it all comes down to -- do we believe the
economy will reaccelerate in the second half of this year? If
that’s the case, stocks have room to rally.”  The  S&P 500  has retreated 6.8 percent from this year’s high
at the end of April amid weaker-than-expected economic data and
concern about Europe’s debt crisis. The decline threatened the
2011 gain for the S&P 500 this week and left the index up 1.1
percent this year.  Global Stocks  Global stocks rose today as Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
retreated from German demands that bondholders be forced to
shoulder a “substantial” share of a Greek rescue, saying
she’ll work with the  European Central Bank  to avoid disrupting
markets.  “We would like to have a participation of private
creditors on a voluntary basis,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin today at a joint press conference with French President
Nicolas Sarkozy. This “should be worked out jointly with the
ECB and there shouldn’t be any dispute with the ECB on this.”  Merkel and Sarkozy signaled a reconciliation between German
calls for investors to help bail out Greece with warnings from
the ECB and  France  that a compulsory move risked triggering the
euro area’s first sovereign default. Attention now shifts to
Athens, where Prime Minister George Papandreou overhauled his
Cabinet to try and secure passage of austerity measures needed
for a bailout.  Leading Indicators  Stocks extended gains after data showed that the index of
U.S. leading indicators rebounded in May after declining for the
first time in almost a year, a sign economic growth may pick up
by the end of 2011. The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook
for the next three to six months rose 0.8 percent after a
revised 0.4 percent decline in April, the New York-based group
said today. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent gain, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Benchmark gauges rose even after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment decreased to 71.8 from 74.3 in May. Economists
forecast a reading of 74, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The economy is not as good as hoped, not as bad as
feared,” said  Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief market
strategist for Russell Investments, which manages about $161
billion. “It’s most likely a soft patch and the economy is
going to do better toward the end of the year. We expect a
volatile ‘risk-on, risk-off’ market.”  Banks Rally  A gauge of banks in the S&P 500 rose 1.3 percent, the
biggest gain within 24 industries. Wells Fargo added 2 percent
to $27.33. Fifth Third advanced 2.2 percent to $12.55.  Airlines rallied amid expectations for lower costs as crude
oil fell. U.S. oil supplies rose to the highest level in 31
years for the month of May as refineries processed less crude
amid a decline in gasoline demand, according to the American
Petroleum Institute.  Ten of 11 stocks in the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index
gained.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  added 5.8 percent to
$24.04.  AMR Corp. (AMR)  gained 1.3 percent to $5.69.  Energy shares had the second-biggest decline in the S&P 500
within 10 industries, falling 0.3 percent as a group.
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  dropped 0.8 percent to $46.02.  Occidental
Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  retreated 0.6 percent to $102.19.  Gauges of computer companies and chipmakers had the two
biggest declines in the S&P 500 within 24 industries.  RIM Tumbles  RIM tumbled 21 percent to $27.75, the lowest since
September 2006. RIM is losing market share in the U.S. to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software, in part because it hasn’t introduced a major new
BlackBerry model since August. Cheaper Google phones are also
making inroads in  Latin America ,  Asia  and Europe, threatening
the popularity of less expensive BlackBerry models.  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , the maker of chips for
personal computers and mobile phones, slumped 4.2 percent to
$13.21.  Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL) , a contract electronics manufacturer,
dropped 1.7 percent to $18.29.  Credit-rating companies declined after the Wall Street
Journal reported that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is considering laying civil fraud charges against
some of the firms for their actions on mortgage-backed bonds,
which helped trigger the financial crisis.  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  slipped 5 percent to $36.35 for the biggest
loss in the S&P 500. McGraw-Hill Cos. retreated 3.6 percent to
$39.61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  