-- 
U.S. Lawyer Fighting Boeing Says He Regrets Job Fears

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-06-17T18:23:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/u-s-lawyer-fighting-boeing-says-he-regrets-causing-job-fears.html
The U.S. lawyer who filed a labor
complaint against  Boeing Co. (BA)  over a nonunion plant the aerospace
company opened in South Carolina said he regrets the fear the
dispute has caused workers there about their jobs.  “These are difficult economic times, and I truly regret
the anxiety this case has caused them and their families,” Lafe Solomon, acting general counsel of the  National Labor Relations
Board , told a congressional hearing today in the state. “The
issuance of the complaint was not intended to harm the workers
of South Carolina but rather to protect the rights of workers.”  The NLRB said in the April 20 complaint that Boeing built
the nonunion assembly plant for its new 787 Dreamliner in North
Charleston,  South Carolina , in retaliation for work stoppages by
unions at its Seattle-area production hub. At a hearing in North
Charleston today before the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, Republicans pressed Solomon to show evidence
the company was punishing the Machinists union.  “Can you name me a single, solitary worker in Washington
state” who lost jobs or benefits? asked Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina. “Where is the retaliation?”  Solomon repeatedly responded that he couldn’t “at this
time” provide evidence of such an effect. “We believe evidence
will show Boeing was motivated by retaliation,” he said.  ‘Disastrous Consequences’  Republicans who lead the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee called today’s hearing in North Charleston to
examine what they called the NLRB’s “unionization through
regulation.”  “The disastrous consequences that the effort to penalize
Boeing will have on the economy of South Carolina, and the
collateral damage that this unprecedented action will have on
other right-to-work states, warrants” scrutiny, Representative
 Darrell Issa  of  California , the committee’s chairman, said in
his opening statement.  Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company, should be
required to build an additional 787 assembly line in Washington
state as a remedy, according to Solomon. A hearing on the
complaint began June 14 in  Seattle  before an administrative law
judge, who urged the Chicago-based company and the union to
settle their differences.  ‘Right to Protest’  Representative Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat, said
at today’s committee hearing that the complaint was a legitimate
effort to uphold the “right to protest” by union workers.
Eleanor Holmes Norton, the delegate representing the District of
Colombia, said the hearing appeared “to taint a legal
proceeding” by pressuring the labor board.  The case has galvanized Republicans who vowed to block
President  Barack Obama ’s nomination of Solomon, 61, as general
counsel and said the agency is favoring labor while hurting
business in its investigations of unfair-labor complaints.  “Boeing is being treated unfairly, and if the NLRB has its
way, thousands of workers in South Carolina will be forced to
pay the price for these frivolous actions,” Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said today in a letter to
the committee. “South Carolinians will lose their jobs, health
care coverage, retirement contributions and other benefits of
employment directly as a result of the actions of the NLRB.”  Daley’s Boeing Role  The government complaint is “especially astounding”
considering that  William Daley , who is now Obama’s chief of
staff, was on Boeing’s board when the decision was made to open
the South Carolina plant, Graham said.  The NLRB complaint was issued only after the parties failed
to resolve the dispute, Solomon said in his testimony. He
appeared at today’s hearing after the committee threatened him
with a subpoena. He wrote Issa on June 10 that he was concerned
about lawmakers questioning “an agency acting in its quasi-
judicial capacity about its decisions in a pending case.”  The NLRB complaint said statements made by Boeing
executives about the disruptive effects of strikes indicate the
planemaker built the South Carolina plant to punish union
employees in Washington state’s Puget Sound area for exercising
their rights. The company has denied anti-union motives.  Communications ‘Permissible’  “It is permissible for employers to communicate to
employees and union representatives the economic reasons that
are responsible for important business changes,” Philip A. Miscimarra, a partner in  Chicago  at Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP,
said in prepared testimony. Miscimarra’s clients have included
businesses and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  “They are violating my right to work with a choice,”
Cynthia D. Ramaker, of Ladson, South Carolina, an employee at
the nonunion Boeing plant, said of the NLRB in prepared
testimony. “Isn’t that what being an American is all about, a
choice? That is my right.”  Boeing’s decision to build in South Carolina came after the
Machinists’ 26,000 workers stopped work for two months in 2008,
their fourth strike since 1989.  The South Carolina factory is the first commercial plant
Boeing has built outside of the Seattle area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in North Charleston, South Carolina, at  hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  