-- 
Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Declines More Than Forecast

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-17T14:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-declines-more-than-forecast.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
dropped more than forecast in June as households contended with
higher prices that are eating into incomes amid slowing job
growth.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment decreased to 71.8 from 74.3 in May.
Economists forecast a reading of 74, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  While gasoline costs have retreated from the highest levels
since July 2008, consumer budgets are being strained by rising
prices for other goods and services. Unemployment climbed in May
to the highest this year, and employers added the fewest workers
in eight months, further stressing the largest part of the
economy.  “Things have cooled off after better growth earlier in the
year, and people are still worried about the labor market,
housing and high gasoline prices,” said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida , who forecast the gauge would drop to 72.  “If we get
another break in gasoline prices, that will be very helpful for
the consumer.”  The Conference Board in  New York  said today that its index
of leading economic indicators climbed 0.8 percent in May after
a 0.4 percent drop a month earlier.  Stocks extended gains after the report and on signs of
progress on a bailout for  Greece . The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.7 percent to 1,276.81 at 10:21 a.m. in New York.
Treasuries fell, pushing up the yield on the benchmark 10-year
note to 2.95 percent from 2.93 percent late yesterday.  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey of 67 economists ranged
from 70 to 78.5. The index averaged 89 in the five years leading
up to the recession that began in December 2007.  Current Conditions  The Michigan survey’s current conditions gauge, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether they consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, decreased to 79.6, the lowest since October, from
81.9 the prior month.  Consumer expectations for six months from now, which more
closely projects the direction of  consumer spending , dropped to
66.8 from 69.5, the report showed.  The Bloomberg gauge of economic expectations, released
yesterday with the weekly comfort index, fell to minus 31 this
month, the lowest level since March 2009, from minus 16 in May.
The outlook deteriorated most among households making from
$15,000 to $40,000 a year and among older Americans.  Weekly Comfort Index  The weekly Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to the
highest level since mid April in the week ended June 12 as fuel
costs dropped.  Today’s confidence survey showed consumers said they expect
an inflation rate of 4 percent over the next 12 months, compared
with a rate of 4.1 percent projected in May. Over the next five
years, the period tracked by Federal Reserve policy makers,
Americans’ expectations for inflation rose to 3 percent from 2.9
percent forecast last month.  Falling fuel costs have helped brightened households’
moods. The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline
declined to $3.68 yesterday from $3.99 on May 4, the costliest
since July 2008, according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring
group.  This year’s gain in gas prices has left Americans with less
to spend on non-essential merchandise. Sales at U.S. retailers
excluding automobiles rose 0.3 percent in May, the smallest gain
in 10 months, Commerce Department figures showed June 14.  Slower Job Growth  Slower job growth and a housing market that is struggling
to recover are also dimming consumers’ economic outlook.
Payrolls grew by 54,000 workers in May, the fewest in eight
months, and the jobless rate rose to 9.1 percent, Labor
Department figures showed June 3.  “The economy isn’t growing strong enough to generate
enough jobs to start really attacking the  unemployment rate ,”
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  Controller Bob Shanks said during a conference
this week. “ Consumer confidence  isn’t as strong as you’d like
it to be.”  Home prices  in 20 cities dropped in March to the lowest
level since 2003. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
fell 3.6 percent from March 2010, the biggest year-over-year
decline since November 2009, the group said in a May 31 report.  More expensive consumer prices are also squeezing
paychecks. The cost of living in the U.S. rose more than
forecast in May as prices for everything from autos to hotel
rooms climbed, a sign raw-material expenses are filtering
through the economy, Labor Department figures showed June 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  