-- 
U.S. Leading Indicators Rise in Sign Growth May Pick Up by End of the Year

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-17T15:52:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/u-s-leading-economic-indicators-index-rises.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
rose more than forecast in May after declining for the first
time in almost a year, a sign economic growth may pick up by the
end of 2011.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 0.8 percent after a revised 0.4 percent
drop in April, the New York-based research group said today.
Another report showed consumer sentiment dropped more than
forecast in June.  Declining fuel costs and an easing of supply bottlenecks
stemming from the earthquake in Japan may help strengthen
 consumer spending  and manufacturing in the third quarter. The
reports bear out Federal Reserve forecasts that the slowdown in
growth will prove temporary as commodity prices retreat.  “The outlook is better for the second half,” said  Maury Harris , chief economist at UBS Securities LLC in New York.
“We’re getting relief from gas prices, and you’re also going to
see auto output go back up again as we get a renewed inflow of
auto parts from Japan.”  Stocks rose, spurred by signs of progress on a bailout for
 Greece  and the gain in the leading index. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 0.7 percent to 1,276.17 at 11:51 a.m. in New
York.  Treasury securities  were little changed.  Economists forecast the leading index would rise 0.3
percent, according to the median of 51 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Projections ranged from a decline of 0.4 percent to
an increase of 0.7 percent.  Broad-Based Gain  Eight of the 10 components of the leading index contributed
to the gain, led by the positive spread between short-and long-
term interest rates, an increase in consumer expectations and a
jump in building permits. A decline in supplier deliveries held
back the advance.  Consumers’ outlook may not contribute this month. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment decreased to 71.8 from 74.3 in May, the group
said today. Economists forecast a reading of 74, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Consumer expectations for six months from now dropped to
66.8 from 69.5, the report showed. The decrease echoed the
change in the Bloomberg gauge of consumers’ outlook released
yesterday, which fell to the lowest level since March 2009. That
report showed the outlook deteriorated most among households
making from $15,000 to $40,000 a year and among older Americans.  The Michigan survey’s current conditions gauge decreased to
79.6, the lowest since October, from 81.9 the prior month.  Job Concerns  “Things have cooled off after better growth earlier in the
year, and people are still worried about the labor market,
housing and high gasoline prices,” said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida , who forecast the headline sentiment gauge would drop to
72. “If we get another break in gasoline prices, that will be
very helpful for the consumer.”  That help may already be on the way. After reaching an
almost three-year high of $3.99 a gallon on May 4, the average
price of regular gasoline at the pump dropped to $3.68
yesterday, according to data from AAA, the largest auto group in
the U.S.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s last week predicted the
economy will pick up in the second half of the year as energy
prices moderate and factory disruptions ease as suppliers of
parts from  Japan  recover. At the same time, he said the central
bank should maintain record stimulus to bolster a “frustratingly
slow” recovery. Officials are scheduled to meet in  Washington  on
June 21-22 to determine the course of policy.  Supply Disruptions  Supply-chain disruptions from Japan’s earthquake and
tsunami in March are being resolved.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, said its
North American vehicle production will return to normal in
August for all models except Civics as parts suppliers recover.  “The light at the end of the tunnel is glowing brighter
for us, represented by this significant improvement in our
production situation,”  John Mendel , executive vice president of
U.S. sales, said in a statement May 26.  Another report today showed why consumers remained
concerned about jobs. Payrolls dropped in 27 states in May,
indicating the weakening in employment was broad-based.
California led the nation with a 29,200 decrease followed by  New
York  with 24,700 fewer jobs, figures from the Labor Department
showed. The jobless rate fell in 24 states and rose in 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  