-- 
U.S. Default Risk Is a ‘Fantasy,’ Former Soros Fund Manager Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-17T13:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/u-s-default-risk-is-a-fantasy-former-soros-fund-manager-says.html
The risk the U.S. could end up in a
Greece-type situation if lawmakers don’t reach a deal on budget-
deficit cuts is a “fantasy,” according to Robert Johnson, a
former managing director at  Soros Fund Management .  “The idea we’re near some magical limit and the U.S. is
near a place where we’re going to be  Greece , that’s a fantasy,”
Johnson, executive director of  George Soros ’  Institute for New
Economic Thinking , said in an interview in  London  today. “It
would take us about 30 years of being like Greece to get like
that and that isn’t going to happen.”  Congress is wrangling over spending cuts and budget reforms
as it seeks to reach a deal to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
limit by Aug. 2, the date on which the Treasury Department said
it will have exhausted its borrowing authority. Vice President
 Joe Biden  said yesterday the “most important” thing is for the
U.S. to show it can “handle difficult decisions.”  Johnson said President  Barack Obama  should spend money on
investment programs to lower the nation’s 9.1 percent
unemployment rate to help tackle the country’s debt levels in
the longer term.  “Idle resources don’t pay taxes, so if you’re worried
about the deficit in the next three years, which adds to the
debt, we’ve got to get people back to work,” he said. “I would
probably add fiscal stimulus in the next few years, but it would
be a productivity-targeted adjustment program.”  Moody’s Threat  Moody’s Investors Service said on June 2 that it expects to
place the U.S. government’s top credit rating under review for a
possible downgrade if there’s no progress on increasing the debt
limit by mid-July.  “I think you’re going to see a lot of theater and not a
lot of action,” Johnson said, referring to the political
deadlock in Congress. “They’ll bump and grind and do maybe a
couple of temporary extensions. They’ll figure something out.”  “There are an awful lot of banks and insurance companies
that do not want to see a U.S. downgrade or default where
they’re supposed to throw all their safe paper out into the
streets,” he said. “It’s not going to happen.”  Johnson, who managed global currency, bond and equity
assets focusing on emerging markets at Soros Fund Management,
ran a global currency fund at Bankers Trust Co. prior to that.
He said the euro area’s debt crisis and the political wrangling
over the budget in the U.S. will benefit Asian currencies.  Managing currencies is about trying to find the “lesser of
evils,” he said. “It’s pretty hard to see a euro crisis
smashing against the rocks as the least evil and it’s pretty
hard to see that America’s going to do anything that makes the
economy more vibrant.”  As a result, Johnson expects “upward pressure” on Asian
and Latin American currencies “for the time being.”  “The Asian currencies -- the Singapores, the Malaysias,
 China  -- that constellation is probably still substantially
undervalued,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  