-- 
UBS Limits Commodity Hiring as Boom Curbs Talent Pool

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-06-17T08:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/ubs-slows-commodities-hiring-as-decade-long-boom-fuels-pay-drains-talent.html
(Corrects spelling in seventh paragraph in story that was
originally published on June 17.)  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
is slowing down its commodities hiring expansion after a decade-
long  bull market  drove up pay and created a scarcity of talent.  The Zurich-based bank hired 15 people for commodities this
year and for now won’t pursue another 15 positions planned for
2011, Jean Bourlot, the global head of commodities, said in
an interview in London. UBS originally wanted to double its
commodities staff to 60, he said.  “There is no way we are going to go on a hiring spree,”
Bourlot said. “I don’t think that talent pool is that big.
People that are good are really expensive. And we want to
protect UBS shareholder value by not compromising.”  Pay for the most-profitable metals traders rose 20 percent
to $2 million to $3 million last year, according to Commodity
Search Partners Ltd. The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI (SPGSCI)  index of 24 raw
materials rose fourfold since the end of 2001 as farmers, miners
and oil producers failed to keep up with demand. The surge drove
commodity investments to a record $451 billion in April, about
50 percent more than a year earlier,  Barclays Capital  estimates.  UBS, which announced its commodity hiring plans in
December, has no ambitions to rival New York-based Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. or Morgan Stanley in raw materials, Bourlot said.
Morgan Stanley owns the world’s largest brokerage and Goldman is
the top firm providing over-the-counter derivatives to
investors.  “We will never be a Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley for a
few reasons,” Bourlot, 38, said in an interview on June 14 in
London. “One is cost of entry. We live in the world where
resources are scarce and this includes balance sheet and
headcount.”  Agricultural Trading  Bourlot, the former head of agricultural trading at Morgan
Stanley, started at UBS in August. UBS hired Dylan Morgan,
formerly of  Goldman Sachs (GS) , to run industrial metals and Taha Ouertani from Tudor Investment Corp., to manage agriculture
last year.  Eleven commodity staff were added in London, including
Marco Saracino, a coal trader from Barclays Capital, Bourlot
said. The bank also hired a head of oil marketing in  Singapore 
and three people in the U.S. for natural gas and oil.  UBS, which employs about 65,000 people worldwide, said in
December it will handle trading in agriculture, industrial
metals and oil and gas for clients. It will also trade energy
derivatives and continue to operate commodity indexes and a
precious-metals business.  ‘Flow Franchise’  “I need to see how our flow franchise works out, but I’m
not against expansion if we are profitable and disciplined,”
Bourlot said. Flow trading describes the short-term purchase or
sale of products on behalf of a client without the intention of
holding the product or assuming a risk position.  UBS announced plans to withdraw from most commodities
businesses in October 2008 and agreed to sell its industrial
metals, oil and U.S. power and gas units to Barclays Plc three
months later. UBS sought to cut investment banking risk after
$48.6 billion in writedowns and losses.  Funds are under-investing in agriculture now, and the
sector is “not understood enough,” Bourlot said. Crop yield
limitations, weather disruptions, low inventories and rising
demand make grains an attractive investment, he said.  Bourlot is bearish on sugar because of surplus supply and
bullish on natural gas because it will be “a product of choice
as the world de-nuclearizes and de-carbonizes itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  