-- 
UN Climate Deal to Change Voting ‘Tall Order’ Figueres Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-06-17T16:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/un-climate-deal-to-change-voting-tall-order-figueres-says.html
A proposal to change the rules
governing voting at the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change is unlikely to receive enough support to be
passed, said UNFCCC Executive Secretary  Christiana Figueres .  The draft amendment to the convention’s rules of procedure,
a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg, calls for decisions
to be ratified by a three-fourths majority “if efforts to reach
consensus have been exhausted.”  The proposal, suggested by  Mexico  and  Papua New Guinea , is
a “rather tall order,” Figueres said at a press conference in
Bonn today. It would change “the very basis of the convention
that has existed for 20 years next summer,” she said.  Delegates from almost 200 countries are meeting in Bonn
this week to advance negotiations over a global climate treaty
to succeed the Kyoto Protocol, whose targets expire in 2012. The
meeting ends today.  “This process is taking too long while  climate change  is
happening out there,” said Elias Freig, manager of carbon
finance and economics of climate change at Mexico´s National
Water Commission. “The process has to be modernized, updated to
match the action that is needed.”  Since 1996, when the rules of the UNFCCC were created,
there hasn’t been agreement on voting, Lim Li Lin, legal and
environment adviser at the Third World Network said in an
interview at Bonn.  Sovereignty Concerns  “The voting rules were never agreed back in 1995, mainly
because developed countries were afraid of being overruled by
 developing countries  on finance issues,” Lin said. “Any
country would have a concern that their sovereignty isn’t being
respected. In the absence of a rule on voting, consensus
applies. Consensus isn’t defined in the convention, but an
explicit and formal objection would indicate that there is no
consensus.”  Nations endorsed the Cancun Agreements last year, a list of
pledges to cut emissions, even though Bolivia rejected the deal.
This followed more of a general agreement rule, according to Jos
Cozijnsen, a former delegate for the Netherlands who
participated at the 1997 talks when the  Kyoto Protocol  was
agreed.  “There will be more fireworks” on the voting rules in
Durban, said Cozijnsen, who now works as a consulting attorney
based in Utrecht, the Netherlands. “There really needs to be a
better understanding of what consensus means and it can be
general agreement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  