-- 
UN Forest Protection Talks Fail to Move Fast Enough, Kenya Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-06-17T10:28:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/un-forest-protection-talks-fail-to-move-fast-enough-kenya-says.html
United Nations talks on protecting
forests aren’t moving fast enough even though voluntary projects
are already generating emissions reductions, a Kenyan delegate
attending this week’s climate talks said.  Kenya hosts the Kasigau Corridor forestry project, the
world’s first to be issued with voluntary credits under a system
called Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest
Degradation, or REDD. Envoys meeting at the talks in Bonn
approved text yesterday on a so-called REDD-plus mechanism to be
adopted as part of an agreement the current limits in the  Kyoto
Protocol  expire next year.  REDD-plus, which is designed to offer extra benefits
alongside emissions savings from forests, is “progressing but
not at the speed which some of us would want to move,” Alfred
Gichu, senior assistant director of the Kenya Forest Service,
said in an interview in Bonn. “I am however happy to note that
the private sector has already taken the initiative, but they
would be better facilitated had there been rules in place to
govern their participation.”  Credits from REDD projects accounted for 29 percent of all
offsets sold in the voluntary market in 2010, according to a
 report  by Ecosystems Marketplace and Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. The trade in REDD credits has grown even though they
are not yet accepted by the EU or any other mandatory compliance
system.  Strong Involvement  “A lot of work needs to be done to establish the
infrastructure -- an accounting system, reference levels, and
capacity building -- all with a very strong involvement of the
government,” Gichu said. “We may need to discuss at the
national level how these market players access the market
eventually. This may involve setting up a national registry.”  REDD projects can achieve premium prices in the voluntary
market, according to London-based investor CF Partners.  “For specific buyers, REDD is at the top of the list,
viewed as potentially the most sustainable voluntary credit out
there,” John Davis, a specialist in originating and selling
credits at London-based CF Partners, said in a telephone
interview. These factors, he said, are “driving premium pricing
relative to similar credits.”  Delegates from almost 200 countries are meeting in Bonn
this week to advance negotiations about a global climate treaty
to succeed the Kyoto Protocol.  Nations agreed in Cancun,  Mexico , in December to outline a
way to measure and curb emissions from deforestation. They also
put in place safeguards that protect local residents and prevent
perverse incentives such as replacing pristine forests with tree
plantations for  palm oil .  Slow Progress  “We’re concerned by slow progress towards guidance on
implementing REDD-plus projects on the ground,” said Stephen
Leonard, a legal consultant at  Global Witness . “There was a
failure to capture a lot of already agreed positions and we
ended up with a vague text.”  “Issues have been pushed aside despite what appeared to be
some agreement among countries earlier this week, particularly
on safeguard mechanisms to reduce  carbon emissions ,” he said.  REDD has “taken a very small step forward when what needs
to happen is a big step. The UNFCCC isn’t keeping up with the
speed at which projects are being acted out,” he said.  The Bonn talks will pave the way for the annual Conference
of Parties, the official decision-making body of the UN
Framework Convention on  Climate Change , which meets from Nov. 28
to Dec. 9 in Durban,  South Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in Bonn at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  