-- 
Lundbeck Urged to Do More to Stop Drug’s Use in U.S. Executions

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-06-17T12:40:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/lundbeck-urged-to-do-more-to-stop-drug-s-use-in-u-s-executions.html
Doctors who’ve prescribed medicines
produced by H. Lundbeck A/S urged the Danish drugmaker to make
more of an effort to stop the use of one of its treatments in
executing U.S. prisoners facing the death penalty.  “We are appalled at the inaction of Lundbeck to prevent
the supply of their drug, Nembutal,” doctors from the U.K.,
 Saudi Arabia ,  Denmark ,  India  and the U.S. said in the June 18
issue of Lancet. Nembutal, also known as pentobarbital, “is
rapidly proving to be the drug of choice for U.S. executions,”
five doctors, writing on behalf of another 58 physicians, wrote
in the  medical journal .  The drug, first approved in 1939, is used to treat seizures
and euthanize animals. U.S. states, starting with  Oklahoma  in
December, have begun administering the sedative to execute
prisoners after facing a shortage of sodium thiopental. That
drug’s manufacturer, Hospira Inc., stopped production after
authorities in  Italy , where manufacturing is located, asked for
a guarantee it wouldn’t be used in executions. Italy doesn’t
have the death penalty.  Writing in the Lancet, the doctors, led by David Nicholl, a
U.K. neurologist, said Lundbeck should adopt measures similar to
those it uses to control distribution of two other drugs, Sabril
and Xenazine, for health reasons. Sabril is also used to treat
seizures, while doctors prescribe Xenazine for patients with
 Huntington’s disease .  U.S. Prisons  Lundbeck, which has said it opposes the death penalty,
sells 50 million doses of Nembutal a year in the U.S. It has
hired advisers to draw up a plan by September to make it more
difficult for U.S. prisons to buy Nembutal, the Copenhagen-based
company said today.  Lundbeck may also take measures before September, spokesman
Anders Schroll said. “There might be specific distribution
controls that we could implement earlier,” he said by phone.  Lundbeck acquired Nembutal when it took over Deerfield,
Illinois-based Ovation Pharmaceuticals Inc. in 2009.  Organizations opposing the death penalty, including
 Reprieve , have criticized the company for not doing more to stop
the drug’s use in executions.  “If Lundbeck puts in tough controls, it would have very
wide ramifications,” Maya Foa, an investigator with Reprieve,
said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  