-- 
U.K. Blocks UPS From Moving Air Cargo at Some Sites on Security Concerns

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-06-17T20:22:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/ups-says-some-u-k-facilities-offline-after-scheduled-security-review.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s biggest package-delivery company, said some U.K. sites
have been temporarily closed since last week after a government
ban on cargo screening following a scheduled security review.  Six U.K. facilities, including the main air hub in East
Midlands, are still processing packages and flights are going
into and out of the country, said Susan Rosenberg, a spokeswoman
for Atlanta-based UPS. She declined to say what prompted the
closings, other than saying there wasn’t a security incident.  In October last year, a bomb was found in a printer
cartridge in a package sent from Yemen via UPS at East Midlands
airport. London’s Metropolitan Police said at the time the bomb
was timed to explode over the U.S. eastern seaboard. Home
Secretary Theresa May said then the U.K. would review “all
aspects” of airfreight security as a result.  “Following careful consideration, the department has
restricted the number of sites in the U.K. at which UPS Ltd. are
permitted to screen air cargo until it has satisfied current
security requirements,” the Department for Transport in  London 
said in an e-mailed statement today. “For obvious security
reasons we will not comment on the details.”  Volume destined for the affected centers is being re-routed
to other locations and operations should return to normal early
next week, Rosenberg said. UPS received 22 percent of its
revenue, or $11.1 billion, from international package deliveries
last year.  ‘Right the Ship’  “They’re suspending, they’re not halting operations,”
said  Kevin Sterling , a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst with
BB&T Capital Markets. “I don’t think it’s a prolonged impact,
and knowing UPS they’ll right the ship.”  Sterling, who recommends buying UPS stock, said he doesn’t
expect the temporary closings to affect the company’s earnings.  “The caveat is if it’s a prolonged shutdown, but I don’t
see that right now,” he said.  UPS gained 12 cents to $69.17 at 4:02 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 4.7
percent this year.  Another bomb that originated in Yemen was discovered and
defused by Dubai police at a  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  facility in the emirate
on Oct. 29.  FedEx is operating normally in the U.K., Jim McCluskey, a
spokesman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based company, said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  