-- 
Vietnam Bonds Advance for Second Week on Lending-Rate Outlook

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-17T09:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/vietnam-bonds-advance-for-second-week-on-lending-rate-outlook.html
Vietnam ’s five-year bonds gained for
a second week after the central bank called for lenders to lower
their  interest rates . The dong dropped.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam yesterday ordered banks to cut
commercial lending rates, and impose “reasonable” loan costs,
particularly for rural and agricultural companies, export
businesses and small- and medium-sized enterprises, according to
a  statement  on its website.  “Yields are expected to keep dropping at least in the
short-term, especially after the government sold debt at a lower
coupon in the primary market recently,” said Do Thi Phuong
Trang, a trader in the treasury department at Bank for
Investment & Development of Vietnam.  Five-year yields fell 18 basis points to 12.54 percent this
week, the lowest level since April 29, according to a daily
fixing from banks compiled by Bloomberg. The rate fell 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, from yesterday.  Vietnam’s State Treasury raised 4.9 trillion dong ($237
million) in an auction of two-, three- and five-year bonds
yesterday, the Hanoi Stock Exchange said in a statement on its
website. The securities were sold with a coupon of as much as
12.4 percent, according to the statement.  The dong dropped 0.8 percent this week to 20,715 per dollar
as of 4:04 p.m. in Hanoi, according to prices from banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency weakened 0.5 percent from
yesterday.  The central bank set the  reference rate  at 20,618 today,
unchanged since June 10, its website showed. The currency is
allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of the official
rate.  --Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi. Editors: Andrew Janes, Simon Harvey  To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 Jregan19@bloomberg.net . 