-- 
Watson Temporarily Barred From Selling Generic Seasonique

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-17T21:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/watson-temporarily-barred-from-selling-generic-seasonique-1-.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s biggest generic-drug company, won an appeals court
order that temporarily prevents  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  from
selling a generic version of the contraceptive Seasonique.  The  temporary ban  lets the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in Washington consider whether sales should be
halted further until it rules on a separate appeal by Teva’s
Duramed unit to block Watson’s generic copy. Watson has until
July 1 to respond, according to the order issued today.  Watson, which planned to begin selling copies as soon as
June 20, “will oppose this motion to appeal and seek to be able
to launch the product,” said Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for the
Corona, California-based company. Teva had filed an emergency
attempt to prevent sales until a trial could be held with U.S.
District Judge Larry Hicks in Reno,  Nevada , who denied the
request yesterday. The Federal Circuit ruling today temporarily
puts sales on hold until it can sort out Teva’s appeal.  Teva, based in  Petah Tikva , Israel, contends the copy would
infringe a patent that expires in 2024, and wants to ensure
Watson can’t bring the drug to market before then. In Hicks’s
decision denying Teva, he cited Watson’s defense that the patent
may be invalid.  “Duramed has not raised serious questions that Watson’s
patent invalidity defense lacks merit,” Hicks said.  The case is Duramed Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Watson
Laboratories Inc., 2011-1438, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Duramed
Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Watson Laboratories Inc., 08cv116, U.S.
District Court for the District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  