-- 
Woodside Says Pluto’s First LNG Cargo Estimated for March 2012, Cost Rises

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-06-17T10:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/woodside-raises-cost-forecast-for-pluto-project-sees-first-lng-in-march.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s
second-largest oil producer, expects its Pluto liquefied natural
gas project to cost 6.4 percent more than previously estimated
and be delayed by about six months.  Pluto is now set to cost A$14.9 billion ($15.7 billion),
compared with the company’s previous estimate of A$14 billion,
Perth-based Woodside said today in a statement. First cargoes of
LNG are due in March 2012, according to Woodside, which had
earlier slated shipments for September.  Woodside, among LNG project developers in Australia facing
a contest for customers and skilled workers, dropped the most in
more than seven months in Sydney trading after announcing its
third cost increase since November 2009, and Moody’s Investors
Service put the company’s Baa1 credit rating on review for
possible downgrade. The higher expense and delay at Pluto were
attributed to “slower-than-expected progress on the
commissioning” of the gas plant in Western  Australia  state and
seven weeks of bad weather.  “Woodside will not be the only company which faces cost
overruns and project delays,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a report today.
“Rising costs will impact” all Australian ventures planning to
liquefy natural gas for export to  Asia .  Pluto, at a cost of $3,600 per metric ton of capacity, may
now be the most expensive LNG development, Beveridge estimated.
Woodside will need an oil price of $100 a barrel “long-term”
to justify the investment, he said.  Shares Decline  The Australian oil and gas producer declined 3.8 percent to
A$40.80 at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, its biggest drop since
Nov. 9. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.1 percent.  Moody’s said in an emailed statement that Woodside’s
statement triggered the review. “Today’s rating action reflects
a weakening in Woodside’s project execution capabilities,” said
Moody’s analyst Matthew Moore.  The energy explorer has about A$5.3 billion of bonds and
loans outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “While we would like to start up the project as quickly as
possible, we will not be doing so until we are satisfied the
commissioning work has been completed in a thorough and safe
manner,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Coleman said in today’s
statement to the stock exchange. “It is important to take a
long-term view.”  New CEO ‘Cautious’  Coleman, a former Exxon Mobil Corp. executive who replaced
 Don Voelte  as Woodside CEO at the end of May, may be taking “a
more conservative, considered approach,”  Di Brookman , a Sydney-
based analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said by telephone.
“The new CEO is being cautious,” said Brookman, who predicted
a A$140 million increase and a one-month delay.  Woodside had sought to make Pluto one of the fastest LNG
projects built. The company made the discovery of the  gas field 
in 2005 and decided to proceed with the venture in 2007.  In November, Woodside raised Pluto’s cost estimate to A$14
billion from A$13.1 billion. The company said at the time that
the development would be ready to start in August this year,
with the first exports scheduled a month later.  That followed an announcement in November 2009 that the
expenses would surge by as much as A$1.1 billion. The company
said its 2011 production target is now between 62 million and 64
million barrels of oil equivalent. Woodside said in February it
expected output of 63 million to 66 million barrels of oil
equivalent this year, excluding the Pluto project.  ‘Final Delay’  “We think this announcement represents the final delay in
Pluto 1 and would not be surprised to see Woodside deliver
start-up slightly earlier than announced today,” Beveridge, the
Bernstein analyst, wrote in his note. “Coleman will take full
opportunity of his new role to draw a line in the sand and
announce a target he can deliver on.”  Bad weather also has contributed to a delay at the North
West Shelf oil redevelopment project, according to Woodside.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 