-- 
Wool Extending Rally to 16-Year High as Restocking Shrinks Global Supplies

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-06-17T00:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/wool-extending-rally-to-16-year-high-as-restocking-shrinks-global-supplies.html
Wool prices in  Australia , the
world’s biggest producer and exporter, may extend gains from the
highest level in at least 16 years before new supplies later in
the year bring down costs, according to  Raymond Ltd. (RW)   Benchmark prices in Australia have surged 39 percent this
year, heading for the best annual gain in nine-years. Prices
touched A$14.31 ($15) a kilogram yesterday, the highest since at
least July 1995, according to Bloomberg data, as supplies shrank
and European buyers restocked. In  South Africa , wool is at the
highest level in more than a decade.  “Wool prices have been on an exceptional rise,” Aniruddha Deshmukh, president of textiles with Raymond, India’s biggest
maker of woolen fabrics, said in e-mailed responses to Bloomberg
News. “While it is believed that the prices of wool would
continue to move up, we expect that in another two or three
months, when the new clip hits the market there may be a price
drop, only to firm up later in the year.”  Global wool output has fallen to the lowest level in about
85 years, with Australian production at similar lows, according
to the International Wool Textile Organization. Wool is catching
up with rallies in other farm commodities from cotton to wheat
and corn, as rising raw material costs stoke inflation worldwide.  “Demand and supply are looking strong enough at least to
keep these prices going,” Anthony Boatman, risk manager for
wool at Landmark, a unit of Calgary-based  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , said in
an interview from  Melbourne  yesterday. “Supply is fairly
constrained and that’s particularly showing at the moment.”  Wool in Australia climbed to a record A$15.84 in April 1988,
Landmark said in February.  Cotton at Record  Cotton prices surged to a record $2.197 a pound in  New York 
on March 7. Wheat is up 47 percent in the past year, while corn
has increased 72 percent. Wool’s 39 percent gain this year
exceeds that of corn, silver, coffee and gold.  “Initially this rise was attributed to inflation, later it
was related to abnormal increase in prices of other fibers led
by cotton,” Deshmukh said. “Currently at the end of the season,
the short-supply of wool is further increasing its price.”  Global wool output will be 1,098.8 million kilograms clean
weight in 2011-2012, little changed from a year earlier, Chris
Wilcox, chairman of International Wool Textile Organization’s
market intelligence committee said. That’s the lowest in about
85 years, he said in an e-mail. In Australia, production is
forecast at 340 million kilograms greasy weight in 2010-2011,
the lowest since 1924-25, he said.  Indian Demand  India  was the second-biggest buyer of Australian wool in
2009-2010 behind  China , according to the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural & Resource Economics & Sciences.  Higher wool prices may increase the cost of clothing in
India next winter, with wool purchased now to make garments for
the next cold season, D.K. Nair, secretary-general of the
Confederation of Indian Textiles Industry, said on June 2.  More expensive wool will increase costs for textile and
apparel makers and may add to inflationary pressures as
consumers face pricier clothes. Central banks from China to
India and the European Union have been raising rates to restrain
the pace of price gains.  “Economies are slowly getting back on track and demand is
increasing for luxury items, which wool is,” said Landmark’s
Boatman. “Most retail sectors are fairly cutthroat in the way
that they price but if the demand’s there then people will pay
the price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ; 