-- 
World Faces Century of Hunger Without Farm Deal, France’s Le Maire Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-17T13:56:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/world-to-face-century-of-hunger-without-farm-deal-french-minister-says.html
The Group of 20 countries must reach
an agreement at a meeting of farm ministers in Paris next week
to avoid the 21st century from becoming “the century of
hunger,” French Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said.  France , as president of the G-20 this year, is proposing a
shared database on food stocks and harvests, a forum on export
restrictions, emergency stocks in food-deficient countries and
regulation to reduce commodity-price swings, Le Maire said.  “If we’re not able to cooperate, we’re heading for a major
food crisis,” Le Maire told reporters today. The G-20 has a
responsibility for  food security , and the world “will not
understand” if the countries can’t reach a deal, he said.  World food output will have to rise 70 percent by 2050 as
the planet’s population climbs to 9.2 billion from an estimated
6.9 billion in 2010, the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture
Organization  says. At the same time, growth in world farm
production may slow to an average 1.7 percent a year through
2020, from 2.6 percent in the previous decade, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development and the  FAO  said in
their annual Agricultural Outlook report today.  “The crisis isn’t tomorrow, the crisis is now,” Le Maire
said at a conference of international farm organizations in the
French capital. “We don’t know how to correctly feed the world
population. We therefore are all responsible for finding the
solution.”  ‘Crucial’ Decisions  “All the countries of the G-20 will have to assume their
responsibility for taking crucial decisions for world
agriculture,” Le Maire said. Governments can choose either
“international solidarity” or “egoism,” he said.  The three “especially sensitive points” of the French
G-20 proposal are transparency on stocks and production,
“because it raises very big questions about national
sovereignty,” as well as financial regulation of agricultural-
commodity markets and export restrictions, Le Maire told
reporters.  “The Chinese consider that being transparent on production
and stocks, when you have 1.4 billion people to feed, risks
showing a weakness or difficulty to the world,” Le Maire said.
“The European countries, in terms of transparency, are not good
pupils. Many don’t want to disclose their stocks.”  At the start of negotiations about a year ago, the U.K. and
 Australia  had reservations about market regulation, the U.S. was
worried that emergency food stocks might affect their capacity
to export and Brazil and  Argentina  were concerned that the G-20
nations would seek to regulate prices, according to Le Maire.  No Guarantee  “An agreement is possible but this agreement isn’t at all
guaranteed,” Le Maire said. “We’re negotiating 24 hours a day
to wrench out this agreement on June 23. I specifically say
‘wrench out’ an agreement, because it has been difficult.”  “We’re negotiating every word. Every one of those words is
the subject of hours of negotiation.”  Le Maire said there’s no room for a partial agreement and
there will be no further negotiations on agriculture after next
week, before a meeting of G-20 heads of state later this year.  “There is a moment when either you have an overall
agreement, or you have no agreement at all,” he said. “There
will be no second meeting. It’ll be white smoke or black smoke,
there is no partial accord possible,” Le Maire said, referring
to the signal indicating whether a new Pope has been chosen.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has “drawn a red line”
by demanding “a text with substance,” according to Le Maire.
The G-20 agreement should be “a first step towards a global
governance of agriculture,” the minister said.  Markets Regulation  France won’t sign an agreement that doesn’t mention
regulation of financial markets for agricultural commodities, Le
Maire said. Details on regulation will be discussed at a meeting
of G-20 finance ministers later this year, he said.  “The fight against excessive speculation is a cardinal
point for France,” the minister said. “I won’t withdraw one of
the cardinal points from the agreement to have a deal. Nothing
is agreed until everything is agreed.”  Speculation in agricultural-futures markets may amplify
price movements in the short term, though there is “no
conclusive evidence” of a longer-term effect on volatility, the
OECD and FAO said in their report.  ‘Excessive’ Volatility  “This volatility of agricultural commodity prices is one
of the elements that disrupts production,” Le Maire said. “Our
goal is absolutely not to lower the prices, which wouldn’t be in
the interest of farmers, our goal is to avoid excessive
volatility.”  Le Maire said price swings cause famine in parts of the
world as cost spikes mean some people can’t afford food.  There will be no agreement on biofuels, which is a “very
sensitive subject,” as part of the G-20 agriculture meeting,
according to Le Maire. “We touched upon this question but there
will be no decision,” he said. “The subject isn’t mature.”  An estimated 13 percent of world production of coarse
grains, which includes corn, will be used to make fuel by 2020,
as well as 15 percent of vegetable oil and 30 percent of sugar-
cane production, according to the joint  OECD  and FAO report.  “The political choices made by the governments are too
different,” Le Maire said. “If you want a substantial
agreement, you also have to accept that some subjects are not
ready.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 