-- 
World Gold Council Says It Produced Draft Plan to Combat ’Conflict Gold’

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-17T16:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/world-gold-council-says-it-produced-draft-plan-to-combat-conflict-gold-.html
Gold producers are planning to join
the diamond industry to create a system to certify that bullion
purchases aren’t funding conflict in  Africa .  President  Barack Obama  signed in July an amendment in the
U.S. financial reform bill requiring U.S. companies that buy
minerals from the  Democratic Republic of Congo  and neighboring
countries to certify that purchases are “DRC conflict free.”
The  World Gold Council , representing 60 percent of output, said
today it produced a draft framework to track conflict-free
bullion from the mine to the end user, and to ensure gold mined
in a conflict zone doesn’t help finance armed groups.  The framework may be similar to the Kimberley Process,
started in 2003, requiring nations to certify rough diamond
origins in order to block proceeds from funding civil wars. The
gold council said in March that while it supports the
legislation, it may unintentionally trigger a boycott of
minerals from the region. Sales of tin ore from the DRC’s North
Kivu province fell more than 90 percent in April as companies
avoided trade, a provincial mining official said last month.  “Responsible gold mining contributes positively to
economic and social development in producing countries,” Aram Shishmanian, the council’s chief executive officer, said today
in a statement. “The misuse of gold to fund conflict is wholly
contrary to this mission and is a threat to the reputation of
gold.”  Democratic Republic of the Congo  “Conflict” gold is mainly considered to be from the DRC
and surrounding countries, according to the London-based
 council . The DRC accounted for 0.6 percent of total supply last
year, researcher GFMS Ltd. estimates. Surrounding nations mined
about 2.1 percent of total output, though most of the bullion
isn’t considered to be funding armed conflict, the council said.  Gold has risen in value during the past 10 years, having
the longest run of gains in at least nine decades, and reaching
a record $1,577.57 an ounce on May 2. It traded at $1,538.20 by
4:38 p.m. in London. Jewelry accounted for about 47 percent of
total global consumption last year, according to GFMS.  Conflict diamonds account for less than 1 percent of the
global trade in the gems, compared with estimates as high as 15
percent in the 1990s, according to a statement on the  Kimberley
Process  website. The effort helped end brutal fighting in  Sierra
Leone , Liberia and Congo, said Annie Dunnebacke, senior
campaigner at the London-based human-rights group  Global
Witness .  “It is difficult to track specific consignments from the
mine to the end user because gold is easily melted down and co-
mingled with gold from other sources,” Shishmanian said. “The
success of any certification system will depend upon the co-
operation and commitment of many parties in the gold supply
chain.”  The gold council, which has 22 members, said its draft
standards are being stress-tested by leading gold producers and
refineries. Comments on the draft are expected by Sept. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  