-- 
Yuan Widening Would Be ‘Political’ Only: TD

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-06-17T02:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/yuan-widening-would-be-political-only-td.html
Any decision by  China  to widen the
yuan’s trading band against the dollar would be “more a
political than an economic one” because regulators will keep
controls on the currency, according to TD Securities Ltd.  Price swings in the yuan have been limited by the central
bank’s influence on the  exchange rate , said  Annette Beacher ,
head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities in  Singapore . The
market sees a possibility that regulators will announce a
"relatively important" yuan policy on June 19 because it is the
one-year anniversary of the decision for appreciation to resume
after a two-year peg, the National Business Daily reported
today, citing unidentified analysts.  Since the trading band was last widened to 0.5 percent from
0.3 percent in May 2007, the central bank has intervened to curb
appreciation in the currency, building up $3 trillion of
reserves. The People’s Bank of China sets a daily  reference rate 
for the yuan and the currency is allowed to trade up to the
daily limit either side of that rate.  “There’s very little economic argument for them to widen
the band as the currency has been appreciating in a controlled
way,” said Beacher. “Maybe they feel under pressure to show
they are doing more. It never touches 0.5 percent, what’s the
value of widening the band?”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was 1.9 percent today, half of the
3.8 percent on Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Internationalization  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said in its
annual report yesterday that China will gradually increase the
yuan’s flexibility, which was interpreted as a signal that the
yuan’s trading band will be expanded, the National Business
Daily said, citing unidentified analysts. SAFE has yet to
respond to a faxed request for comment.  “It’s very likely for China to widen the band to encourage
people to hold the currency,” said Banny Lam, associate
director at CCB International Securities in  Hong Kong , a unit of
China’s second-largest lender. “It’s part of China’s plan to
internationalize the yuan.”  The range may be widened to as much as 1 percent on either
side of a daily fixing set by the central bank, Lam said.  Standard Chartered  Plc also said the widening may happen
“over the coming months” as the government takes measures to
curb inflation, Callum Henderson, global head of currency
research at Standard Chartered in Singapore, said on June 13 in
a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene 
and Ken Prewitt.  -- With Assistance from Judy Chen in  Shanghai . Editors: Sandy
Hendry, Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  