-- 
Zamin in Talks With Potential Buyers For Stake in $3 Billion Ore Project

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-06-17T14:28:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-17/zamin-in-talks-with-potential-buyers-for-stake-in-3-billion-ore-project.html
Zamin Ferrous Ltd., the mining
company that is developing what would be Uruguay’s largest
investment, is talking to possible partners to sell as much as
49 percent of the $3 billion  Valentines project  before November.  Closely held Zamin is in negotiations with steel and mining
companies from China, the  Middle East  and the Americas and
expects to reach a deal “in two to four months,” said Martin Kannengieser, head of business development of the Jersey-based
company. NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd. is advising on the deal, he
said, declining to comment on possible valuations.  “Our plan is to bring a partner who would help both with
the equity for the project as well as helping to support the
debt,” Kannengieser said in a telephone interview from  London 
yesterday. “Zamin will retain control of the project.”  Mining companies are accelerating plans to develop  iron-ore 
deposits from  Brazil  to  Australia  as prices have more than
doubled in the past two years, boosted by increased consumption
by  China . Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining
company, said on June 15 it will spend $676 million to speed an
expansion of its Australian iron-ore operations by six months.  Zamin’s Valentines project involves the development of a
2.1 billion-metric ton iron-ore mine located about 250
kilometers (155 miles) north of Montevideo, with a targeted
initial output of 18 million metric ton per year. The project,
scheduled to start production in the first quarter of 2014,
includes the construction of a so-called slurry pipeline for 215
kilometers to a new port for exporting the iron ore.  Debt Discussions  Zamin aims to complete the feasibility study for the
project next month and expects the license from the government
by the first quarter of 2012 before starting construction, said
Kannengieser, 49.  “We are getting very good attention and support from the
government,” he said.  The Valentines project would require about $2 billion in
debt and Zamin is in discussions with export credit agencies in
countries including China, Brazil,  Canada  and Australia,
Kannengieser said. Zamin is also studying a further expansion of
the project to double its output capacity as potential resources
may exceed 5 billion tons, he said.  Prior to Valentines, Zamin developed  Bamin , an iron-ore
project in the Brazilian state of Bahia, before selling it to
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. in two stages for about $1.04
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  