-- Hagel Said to Be Obama Choice as Next Defense Secretary
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/hagel-said-to-be-obama-choice-for-defense-secretary-in-new-term.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to name
former Republican Senator Chuck Hagel as his choice to be the
nation’s next defense secretary early next week, according to a
person familiar with the cabinet-selection process.  The announcement of Obama’s decision to nominate Hagel to
replace Defense Secretary Leon Panetta may come as soon as Jan.
7, the day after the president returns from his vacation in
 Hawaii , said the person, who asked not to be named to discuss
personnel decisions.  Hagel would be the second member of Obama’s national
security and foreign policy team to be named for the
administration’s second term. In December, the president said he
will nominate Massachusetts Senator John Kerry to replace
Hillary Clinton as secretary of state.  No final decision has been made on the top Pentagon job,
according to an Obama administration official, who asked to not
be named in discussing personnel matters. White House National
Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor declined to comment.  Hagel, 66, a decorated  Vietnam  War veteran, has been
discussed as the leading candidate for the job for more than a
month and his possible nomination has drawn opposition from an
ad hoc coalition of Republican advocates of muscular defense
policies, Democratic supporters of  Israel  and gay-rights
activists.  He opposed the troop surge during the Iraq war under
President George W. Bush, questioned unilateral economic
sanctions against Iran and called the defense budget
“bloated.” Hagel also come under fire for citing the influence
of the “Jewish lobby” on behalf of Israel. He apologized last
month for remarks he made in 1998 about the prospect of a U.S.
ambassador, who he called “openly, aggressively gay.”  ‘Deep Concern’  Senator Lindsey Graham said Dec. 30 he sees “very little
Republican support” for a Hagel nomination, saying on “Fox
News Sunday” that there is “wide and deep concern” among
members of both parties in Congress about his views on  Iran 
sanctions and Israel. Graham, of South Carolina, said he wasn’t
prepared to block the nomination so far.  Obama defended Hagel in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” broadcast the same day. While saying he hadn’t made a
decision about who to nominate for defense, Obama said there is
nothing that would disqualify Hagel for the job.  “He’s a patriot, he’s a somebody who has done
extraordinary work in the United States Senate and somebody who
served this country with valor in Vietnam,” Obama said. “And
is somebody who is currently serving on my intelligence advisory
board and doing an outstanding job.”  Cabinet Posts  Hagel, a Nebraska Republican, also is being supported by a
bipartisan group of former U.S. national security advisers made
up of James L. Jones, Brent Scowcroft, Zbigniew Brzezinski and
Frank Carlucci.  He has told friends that he’s eager to tackle the job and
confident that he can win Senate confirmation if he’s nominated.  Panetta, 74, has indicated he won’t serve in Obama’s second
term.  Among his tasks as he prepares for a second term is making
decisions on decisions on several top Cabinet posts, including
replacing Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who has
indicated he plans to leave the administration by the end of the
month.  Cabinet officers are subject to Senate confirmation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Honolulu at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  