-- Armstrong May Admit Doping to Restore Career, N.Y. Times Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/armstrong-may-admit-doping-to-restore-career-n-y-times-says.html
Lance Armstrong, who was stripped of
his seven Tour de France cycling titles and barred for life from
competing in Olympic sports, is considering confessing to the
use of performance-enhancing drugs to restore his competitive
eligibility, the  New York  Times reported.  Armstrong, 41, is talking to associates and antidoping
officials about a public admission, the Times said, citing
people with knowledge of his discussions.  He was banned for life from competing in sanctioned events
by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, which cited a career “fueled
from start to finish by doping” when it released a 202-page
summary of its investigation into the rider and the U.S. Postal
Service cycling team on Oct. 10.  Armstrong, who has denied using performance-enhancing drugs
and blood infusions to further his cycling career, lost his
titles on Aug. 23 after he declined to take the USADA case to
arbitration.  Tim Herman, Armstrong’s attorney, said he didn’t have
knowledge of Armstrong’s decision to admit to doping, according
to the New York Times. Herman didn’t respond to a request for
comment by e-mail last night.  Armstrong has been in discussions with the USADA Chief
Executive Travis Tygart as he tries to get the lifetime ban
reduced, the Times said, citing a person familiar with the
situation. Herman denied his client was talking to Tygart,
according to the newspaper.  Reducing Ban  According to the World Anti-Doping Code, an athlete may be
eligible for a reduced punishment if he confesses and details
his doping. He also must say who helped him and how he got away
with doping.  Besides losing his spot in athletic events, Armstrong also
was dropped by several sponsors and stepped down as chairman of
Livestrong, the cancer foundation he founded.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  pulled its support for Armstrong one week after
the USADA report on his use of performance-enhancing substances.  A week later, Oakley Inc. severed its “long-standing
relationship” with Armstrong to become the last big company to
fall in the cyclist’s sponsor lineup. Anheuser-Busch InBev, Trek
bicycles, and energy supplement makers FRS and Honey Stinger
also dropped the athlete.  Burns Entertainment Sports Marketing, which tracks
endorsement income for U.S. celebrities, estimated that
Armstrong made $15 million to $18 million from endorsements in
2011, with $8 million to $12 million coming from Nike.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  