-- Australian Wildfires Force Tasmanians to Boats Amid Heatwave
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-01-05T05:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/australian-wildfires-force-tasmanians-to-boats-amid-heatwave.html
Wildfires in  Australia ’s island state
of Tasmania destroyed as many as 100 buildings and homes,
forcing residents to seek refuge on boats and at the former
convict settlement of Port Arthur.  About 700 people have been sheltered at the site of the
historic penal colony, now a tourist destination about 90
kilometers (56 miles) southeast of the state capital, Hobart,
while as many as 2,000 have fled to the nearby town of Nubeena,
according to the  Tasmania police .  As much as 80 percent of the Australian continent was
affected by temperatures higher than 40 degrees Celsius (104
degrees Fahrenheit) yesterday, the most wide-ranging heatwave
since 2001, the weather bureau said. Australia’s hot, dry
climate makes bush fires a major risk in the southern
hemisphere’s summer months.  “The focus of course is on still fighting the fires,”
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said today in an interview on
Channel 9 television. “We’ll keep working with the state
government and local authorities to support communities.”  While temperatures have cooled, fires are still burning,
with the Tasmanian  Fire Service  today issuing an emergency
warning for a blaze along the Tasman Highway on the east coast
near the town of Bicheno.  The worst fires in Australian history, the so-called Black
Saturday blazes, killed 173 people as they swept through rural
parts of Victoria state in February 2009.  Battled Wildfires  Crews also battled wildfires in Victoria and South
Australia states. In Tasmania, fires destroyed about 30 percent
of the buildings in the coastal village of Dunalley east of
Hobart, including a police station and a school, and 40 percent
of the structures in the community of Connellys Marsh, according
to the police. More than 20 homes were destroyed in the Murdunna
area north of  Port Arthur , police said.  At least 100 properties were destroyed in Tasmania as
hundreds of people took shelter on beaches and in boats on the
water, according to reports today by the Australian Broadcasting
Corp. The Tasmania police haven’t confirmed any reports of
deaths from the fires, according to the statement.  The temperature in Hobart reached a high of 21 degrees
Celsius today after hitting a record 41.8 degrees yesterday,
according to the  Bureau of Meteorology . By contrast, Sydney,
Australia’s most populous city, rose to a high of 26.6 degrees
yesterday and reached 29 degrees today.  Crops in Australia, last year’s second-biggest wheat
exporter, may escape the worst of the heatwave. Harvesting of
winter crops including wheat, barley and canola is almost
complete in southern New South  Wales  and Victoria,  GrainCorp
Ltd. (GNC) , eastern Australia’s largest grain handler, said Dec. 24.
The harvest is virtually complete across most of  South
Australia , according to Viterra Inc.  The  Insurance Council  of Australia, an industry group,
called the southeast Tasmanian wildfires a catastrophe and said
in a statement on its website that it’s too early to estimate
the cost of the damage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  