-- Hussey Underlines Value in Final Innings as Australia Cricketer
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-06T13:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/australia-nears-sri-lanka-cricket-sweep-after-late-wicket-haul.html
Mike Hussey  steered  Australia  to a 3-
0 sweep of  Sri Lanka  in his last international cricket match to
underline what the team will miss in its remaining 13 Tests of
2013 against  India  and  England .  Hussey, who announced his surprise retirement Dec. 29, hit
27 not out to help guide Australia to a five-wicket win in
Sydney yesterday after arriving at the crease with the home team
37 runs short of its victory target of 141.  The 37-year-old was still in the middle when  Mitchell Johnson  hit the winning run and was applauded off the ground by
the Sri Lanka players and the crowd. He hugged his teammates,
who had formed a guard of honor, and was carried off the field
on the shoulders of Johnson and fast bowler  Peter Siddle  before
leading the squad in its victory song for the final time.  “He’s won a lot of games for Australia,” national team
captain  Michael Clarke  said at a news conference. “That’s
probably the one thing that I’ll remember most about Huss. It’s
not his statistics, it’s the way he plays the game, it’s what he
gives to the team and how much he loves playing for that Baggy
Green cap.”  Nicknamed “Mr Cricket” for his enthusiasm and knowledge
of the game, Hussey ended a 79-Test career that began in 2005
with 6,235 runs, including 19 centuries, at an average of 51.52.
He finished as the highest run scorer in elite five-day matches
between Australia and Sri Lanka with 994 runs at 110.44.  After he signaled his intention to quit at the end of
Australia’s home season following one-day series against Sri
Lanka and West Indies, Hussey’s retirement was brought forward
when he was yesterday omitted from the limited-overs squad.  Total Understanding  “I would have liked to have played but the selectors spoke
to me and said they’re starting to look toward the 2015  World
Cup ,” Hussey told reporters at the Sydney Cricket Ground. “I
totally understand where the selectors are going.”  Finding a replacement in the Test team will be difficult,
according to Clarke, who was named as the player of the series
after top scoring with 316 runs at an average of 79.  Australia is scheduled to play four Tests in India starting
Feb. 22 before back-to-back Ashes series against England, which
won the past two contests between the archrivals.  “We’ve got some time, fortunately,” Clarke said. “We’ll
never be able to replace him, but what it does do is present an
opportunity to someone else. Whoever gets that chance will know
they have a big job to do.”  Hussey, whose retirement follows that of Australia’s all-
time leading run-scorer  Ricky Ponting , said there are “probably
half a dozen very good candidates” vying to take his spot in
Australia’s middle order.  History Lesson  “I’m not worried about the team at all,” he said.
“History’s shown that the game always moves on. Players come
and go, but the team always moves forward. There’s some
brilliant candidates to come in.”  Usman Khawaja, who played the last of his six Tests in
December 2011, and Australia’s Twenty20 captain George Bailey
were among the batsmen picked for the one-day matches, where
they will get a chance to audition for the India tour.  Hussey yesterday officially named spin bowler Nathan Lyon
as his successor as custodian of Australia’s victory song, which
helps foster the team culture.  “He plays the game for the right reasons and he
understands and respects the fabric of the Baggy Green cap,”
Hussey said. “That’s what I want to come through from him when
he leads the team song in the future.”  With a tour of India and two Ashes series in the next 12
months, Clarke said his team is still a work in progress
following a home Test campaign that also featured a 1-0 series
loss to No. 1-ranked  South Africa .  “What you’ve seen this summer probably sums up where we’re
at,” Clarke said. “We are improving slowly as a group but we
know the next 12 months is huge for us. We’ve got a lot of tough
cricket in conditions that are generally tough to play in. We
need to keep trying to get better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  