-- Cabello to Remain Head of Venezuela’s National Assembly
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-01-05T18:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/cabello-wins-vote-to-stay-head-of-venezuela-s-national-assembly.html
Venezuelan lawmakers elected Diosdado Cabello to remain as president of the National Assembly, paving
the way for him to take over the government should President
 Hugo Chavez  be declared too ill to stay head of state.  “I swear to do all I need to do to fulfill the word of
this revolution’s leader,” Cabello said in a nationally
televised address after the vote today, referring to Chavez.
“And so the people that voted in October won’t feel
defrauded.”  Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  said yesterday that Chavez,
who is recovering from cancer surgery in Cuba, will remain in
power even if he fails to attend an inauguration ceremony on
Jan. 10. That would leave Maduro as the de-facto head of the
government. Cabello will only become the acting head of state if
Chavez doesn’t swear in as president and is then declared too
ill to perform his functions.  The president is experiencing a “severe” respiratory
infection that is making it hard for him to breathe after
undergoing his fourth surgery in 18 months, the Information
Minister Ernesto Villegas said late Jan. 3.  Ramon Jose Medina, the deputy head of the opposition
alliance, warned on Jan. 3 that the National Assembly President
must take over the presidency if Chavez’s health impedes him
from assuming his third six-year term. Any changes to the
process laid out in the constitution would be regarded as a
“coup,” he said.  ‘Whenever Possible’  Maduro yesterday rejected that interpretation of the
constitution. The nation’s charter is flexible, and if needed
the  Supreme Court  can set the date, manner and location Chavez
will be sworn in for the third, six-year term he won in the
October election, he said.  “Chavez on that day remains in power and will be sworn in
whenever possible,” Maduro said in an hour-long interview
broadcast on state television, warning the opposition against
trying to carry out a “coup” by interpreting to its advantage
the charter’s provisions for a presidential succession.  If Chavez dies, or his absence is declared “absolute,”
the National Assembly president must call an election within 30
days, Jorge Pabon, a constitutional lawyer and former dean of
the law school at the Central University of  Venezuela , said Dec.
19 in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  