-- Canada Dollar Rises Most Since August as Jobs Gain Tops Forecast
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/canada-dollar-rises-most-since-august-as-jobs-gain-tops-forecast.html
The Canadian dollar posted its
biggest gain versus its U.S. counterpart in almost five months
as employers in December added almost twice the number of jobs
forecast, lending weight to the government’s view that business
investment will fuel an economic rebound.  The currency ended the week higher versus the majority of
its 16 most-traded peers after a report yesterday showed
Canada’s  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to a four-year low
in December and hiring rose for a fifth month. Policy makers
project employers to lead the nation out of a slump that slowed
annualized growth to 0.6 percent in the third quarter.  Bank of
Canada  Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem will  address  students
at Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario on Jan. 10.  “Canadian fundamentals continue to look positive,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada , said by phone from Toronto. “Flows are thin with many
people still off. That said there should be some position
squaring. Dollar-Canada has moved, more or less, on its own
merits.”  The Canadian dollar, called the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 1 percent this week to
98.72 cents per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto, the most since the week
ending Aug. 10. One loonie buys $1.0130.  Oil, Stocks  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, gained 2.6 percent to
$93.13 a barrel in  New York , and the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX) 
of stocks advanced 4.6 percent.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  increased  their
bets that the Canadian dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers by on an
advance in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a drop --
so-called net longs -- was 65,926 on Jan. 1, compared with net
longs of 63,352 a week earlier.  Canada’s longer-maturity government bonds fell for the
fourth time in five weeks, with yields on the benchmark 10-year
security rising 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to
1.94 percent. The 2.75 percent security due in June 2022
declined C$1.52 cents to C$106.96.  The Bank of Canada said it will sell C$3.4 billion ($3.5
billion of five-year notes on Jan. 9. The 1.25 percent
securities will mature in March 2018.  Monetary Policy  Bank of Canada policy makers reiterated Dec. 4 they may
raise  interest rates  while the U.S. Federal Reserve has
increased monetary stimulus to reduce unemployment. Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said that economic growth will
accelerate this year after temporary disruptions in energy
output and weak global demand curbed the country’s expansion.  The Bank of Canada’s bias toward raising its benchmark
interest-rate target contrasts with global central banks around
the world that have resorted to monetary stimulus to try to
foster growth this year.  Carney has kept the key rate at 1 percent for more than  two
years , the longest pause since the 1950s. Carney will leave the
central bank June 1 to run the  Bank of England .  Overnight index swaps show greater odds of a Bank of Canada
rate rise this year, with traders assigning a 54 percent chance
to a rate increase in October, up from 19 percent two months
ago, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Royal Bank of Canada forecast the central bank may boost
its interest-rate target twice this year, in the third and
fourth quarters, to 1.5 percent.  Jobs Data  The country’s  jobless rate  fell to 7.1 percent from 7.2
percent and employment rose by 39,800,  Statistics Canada  said
yesterday in Ottawa. None of the 23 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  predicted a drop in the  unemployment rate  and the
gain in jobs was almost double the highest forecast.  “We were very surprised by the Canadian employment number
as we expected some give back after last month’s strong
reading,” Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign
exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The Canadian dollar will trade in a range
close to 98.5 per U.S. dollar in the foreseeable future, he
said.  The loonie rose as payrolls in the U.S., Canada’s largest
trade partner, climbed by 155,000 workers last month, following
a revised 161,000 advance in November that was more than
initially estimated, the Labor Department said in  Washington .
The median estimate of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for an increase of 152,000. The U.S.  unemployment rate 
was higher than forecast at 7.8 percent.  Canada ’s currency has gained 1.4 percent this year versus
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  