-- Chelsea Wins 5-1 in F.A. Cup; Manchester United Rallies for Tie
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-05T20:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/chelsea-wins-to-open-f-a-cup-title-defense-newcastle-loses.html
Chelsea routed Southampton 5-1 to
open the defense of its F.A. Cup title, as  Manchester United 
rallied to tie West Ham and Brighton upset Newcastle.  Demba Ba scored twice in his debut for Chelsea, which is
seeking to win English soccer’s top club competition for the
fifth time in seven years.  Robin van Persie ’s goal in injury
time gave Premier League leader United the draw to force a
replay of the match.  “They’re a quality side and they’ve done that countless
times,” West Ham’s  Joe Cole  said in an interview with ITV. “I
thought we defended really well. Good concentration, good heart
and good discipline. We were unlucky not to win.”  Newcastle was the only Premier League team to lose to a
lower-level team after its 2-0 defeat at Brighton of the second-
tier Championship.  Manchester City , Aston Villa, Reading,
Norwich and Tottenham all won as top-flight clubs entered the
F.A. Cup’s third round.  Luton and Macclesfield, which play in the fifth tier of
English soccer, upset Championship teams to move into the fourth
round. Luton defeated Wolverhampton 1-0 and Macclesfield beat
first-place Cardiff 2-1.  Hastings United, which plays in  England ’s seventh level and
was the lowest-ranked team left in the competition, was routed
4-1 by Middlesbrough.  Southampton took the lead in the 22nd minute as Jay
Rodriguez got past defender  Gary Cahill  and chipped the ball
over goalkeeper Ross Turnbull.  Completed Transfer  Ba, who completed his transfer from Newcastle yesterday,
tied the score in the 35th minute and Victor Moses put the Blues
in front in first-half injury time. Branislav Ivanovic and Ba
scored in the second half before  Frank Lampard  rounded out the
scoring with a penalty kick.  Tom Cleverley gave Manchester United, which has a record 11
F.A. Cup titles, the lead in the 23rd minute and James Collins
drew West Ham even with a header four minutes later.  Collins scored with another header in the 59th minute to
give the Hammers the lead. Facing its second third-round upset
loss in four seasons, United tied the score in the first of four
added minutes.  Ryan Giggs  sent a long cross-field pass toward van Persie,
who replaced Javier Hernandez midway through the second half.
The Dutchman controlled the ball on the right side of the
penalty area and sent a shot into the bottom left corner of the
net.  “When you’re 2-1 down with a couple of minutes left you
just hope you get a break,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told
ITV. “But the manner of goal -- the pass from Ryan Giggs and
first touch from Robin van Persie and his finish -- is
absolutely world class, absolutely fantastic.”  Newcastle Out  Andrea Orlandi and Will Hoskins scored as Brighton knocked
out Newcastle for the second straight year. Newcastle’s Shola
Ameobi was sent off in the 63rd minute after picking up his
second yellow card.  Manchester City beat Watford 3-0,  Aston Villa  defeated
Ipswich 2-1, Reading won 3-1 at Crawley Town, Norwich beat
Peterborough 3-0, and Tottenham defeated Coventry 3-0.  Premier League rivals Queens Park Rangers and West Brom
drew 1-1 to force a replay. Sunderland tied 2-2 at Bolton, Stoke
finished goalless at Crystal Palace, Fulham rallied for a 1-1
home draw with Blackpool and Wigan drew 1-1 at home with
Bournemouth.  Championship clubs Barnsley, Blackburn, Huddersfield,
Derby, Leicester and Millwall all advanced to the fourth round,
along with Oldham and Sheffield United from third-tier League
One and League Two’s Aldershot.  Southend drew 2-2 with Brentford, Leeds and Birmingham tied
1-1, as did Hull and Leyton Orient, and Sheffield Wednesday and
Milton Keynes Dons finished goalless to set up replays.  Swansea hosts Arsenal and Liverpool visits Mansfield Town
in tomorrow’s games, while Everton is at Cheltenham in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 