-- China Ex-Housing Official Probed for Corruption, Xinhua Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-05T05:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/china-ex-housing-official-probed-for-corruption-xinhua-reports.html
A former Chinese housing official is
under investigation after allegations that his family owned 29
apartments were corroborated by the district government, the
 Xinhua News Agency  reported late yesterday.  Prosecutors in Zhengzhou, capital of central  Henan
province , will investigate Zhai Zhenfeng, the former director of
the housing administration bureau in the city’s Erqi district,
Xinhua said. The allegations, from a whistle-blower, were first
posted on a microblog last week, the agency said.  Similar online revelations in recent months have brought
down government officials who maintained extramarital affairs,
bought property and luxury items or abused their power. Xi
Jinping, the new head of the ruling Communist Party, warned top
leaders in November that corruption could kill the party and
ruin the country, the official  China Daily  reported at the time.  Zhai was removed from his post in September 2011 for
offenses including seeking profits for his family, Xinhua said
yesterday. Among details of his family’s property dealings
posted online last week were his daughter’s ownership of 11
apartments and two  identity cards , revelations that “sparked
outrage” online, Xinhua said.  In a separate  report  yesterday, state television said the
daughter’s properties were purchased during Zhai’s tenure as
head of the housing department between January 2002 and
September 2010. Four members of Zhai’s family had a total of
eight identity cards, with four registered in other provinces or
cities, CCTV reported. Chinese citizens can legally have only
one identity card.  Discipline Violations  Xi has intensified a crackdown on corruption and ordered
officials to abandon extravagance, cut down on lavish ceremonies
and live more frugally, as part of a broader push to win back
people’s trust.  Li Chuncheng, a deputy party secretary of southwestern
Sichuan province, became the first minister-level official to be
investigated following a once-a-decade  power transfer  to new
leadership in November. Li was put under investigation on
suspicion of a “severe violation of discipline,” Xinhua
reported on Dec. 6, citing the party’s Central Commission for
Discipline Inspection.  The nation’s legislature last month passed rules requiring
people to identify themselves when signing up for Internet and
phone services, a move that may give the party greater control
over microblogs and websites that have become platforms for
people to air dissent, rumor and claims of corruption not
tolerated in print media.  A district party secretary was fired in November after a
sex tape of him circulated on the Internet, Xinhua said at the
time. Cai Bin, an official in the southern city of Guangzhou was
put under investigation for corruption after he was found to own
21 homes, the agency reported in October.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  