-- Citigroup Said to Seek Stock Buybacks in Capital Plan, WSJ Says
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/citigroup-said-to-seek-stock-buybacks-in-capital-plan-wsj-says.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, will seek Federal Reserve approval to boost
shareholder returns by buying back a small amount of stock under
an annual capital plan, the Wall Street Journal reported.  The bank probably won’t request a dividend increase and the
buyback request may be “minimal,” according to the Journal,
which cited unidentified people familiar with the plan.  The biggest Wall Street firms are preparing to submit
capital plans to the Fed as the central bank carries out stress
tests of the lenders’ financial safety. Citigroup Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  is seeking to avoid a repeat of
last year, when the lender failed to get permission to increase
rewards for shareholders.  Edward Skyler, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
declined to comment.  Directors ousted Corbat’s predecessor Vikram Pandit in
October, partly because of last year’s capital plan failure, a
person familiar with the matter said at the time. Pandit, who
scrapped the bank’s  dividend  in 2009 before reintroducing a 1-
cent quarterly payout in 2011, had said that the firm was ready
to “return capital” to shareholders.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, may request a
dividend boost, the Journal said, citing a person it didn’t
identify. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimate the bank will
announce a quarterly dividend increase in March to 37 cents a
share from 30 cents. The Bloomberg Dividend Forecast, compiled
from data including company guidance, analysts’ forecasts and
other trends, predicts a payout of 35 cents a share.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s request to the Fed is likely to focus on
winning approval to purchase the rest of its brokerage joint
venture with Citigroup, a person familiar with the matter told
 Bloomberg News  in October. Morgan Stanley pledged to buy
Citigroup’s remaining 35 percent stake in the unit, previously
known as Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, by June 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  