-- Cornell’s Archer Is Youngest Division I Football Coach in U.S.
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/cornell-s-archer-is-youngest-division-i-football-coach-in-u-s-.html
David Archer, the 27th head football
coach at  Cornell University , is the youngest National Collegiate
Athletic Association Division I football coach in the U.S.,
Athletics Director Andy Noel said.  Archer, 30 years and two months, replaces Kent Austin, who
resigned last month to return to the Canadian Football League as
head coach and general manager of the Hamilton Tiger-Cats.
Cornell was 4-6 overall and 2-5 in the Ivy League Conference
last season.  “Cornell is such a special place that changed my life,”
Archer said yesterday at a news conference. “I can think of no
better job in the country than being Cornell’s head football
coach.”  Archer, a 2005 economics graduate of Cornell, is a former
Big Red captain of the Ithaca, New York-based college football
team. He has worked with the team for six years as an assistant
coach and the last four as a recruiting coordinator.  Archer is one year and nine months younger than Davidson
College’s Paul Nichols, the next youngest coach.  “Many will consider David’s meteoric rise to this level of
responsibility as unconventional,” Noel said in a statement.
“However, to those who have worked with David or have had a
window into his leadership acumen will not be surprised in the
least.”  Archer developed an offensive game plan that broke more
than a dozen school records in 2011, including total offense,
passing yards and a modern-day scoring mark.  After graduation, Archer taught eighth and fourth grades as
part of the Teach For America program at the Dr. William H.
Horton School in  Newark ,  New Jersey . He also was an assistant
coach at Fairleigh Dickinson in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  