-- Dollar Ends First Week of 2013 Higher Versus Euro on Fed Outlook
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/dollar-ends-first-week-of-2013-higher-versus-euro-on-fed-outlook.html
The dollar closed higher versus the
euro in the first week of the year after the  Federal Reserve 
suggested bond-buying operations may end in the middle of 2013
and concern grew the U.S. will struggle to reach a debt accord.  The yen fell for an eighth week, its longest losing streak
in 24 years, as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe reiterated
his goal of weakening the currency and boosting inflation. The
euro pared losses yesterday as a higher-than-forecast U.S.
 unemployment rate  spurred speculation the Fed won’t hurry to end
its quantitative-easing stimulus. The  European Central Bank 
meets Jan. 10.  “The more aggressive tone out of the Fed drove people into
the dollar, thinking perhaps policy action will come to an end
earlier than anticipated,” said Noel Hebert, chief investment
officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon  Wealth
Management , which oversees about $250 million. “The yen has
become more interesting on daily basis depending on how
aggressive Abe can ultimately be in trying to effectively
nationalize the central bank to drive their inflation mandate.”  The U.S. currency gained 1.1 percent to $1.3069 per euro
this week in  New York  after falling the previous three weeks. It
was the biggest jump since September. The dollar rose 2.6
percent to 88.15 yen and touched 88.41 yesterday, the highest
level since July 2010. It hasn’t fallen for as many weeks since
February 1989. The yen slid 1.4 percent to 115.21 per euro.  Volatility Drops  A gauge of price swings fell for the first time in three
weeks. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G7  Volatility Index , based on
three-month options for Group of Seven currencies, touched 7.54
percent on Jan. 3, the lowest level since Dec. 21. The average
in 2012 was 9.23 percent. A drop makes investments in currencies
with higher benchmark  interest rates  more attractive as the risk
in such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Futures traders reversed wagers that the euro will decline
against the U.S. dollar, betting on a gain by the 17-nation
currency for the first time since August 2011, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 5,126 on Jan. 1 ,
compared with net shorts of 2,549 a week earlier.  New Zealand ’s dollar was the biggest winner over the past
month among 10 developed-nation currencies monitored by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, gaining 1.3 percent. The
 U.S. dollar  added 0.2 percent, while the euro was little changed
and the yen lost 7.7 percent in the biggest decline.  ‘Bold’ Policy  Japan ’s newly installed prime minister  said  on Jan. 1 the
most urgent issue for his country was to break out of currency
appreciation and deflation. “Bold” monetary policy is one of
the three prongs of his economic measures, Abe said. The  Bank of
Japan  will hold its first 2013 policy meeting Jan. 21-22.  Mexico ’s peso and the  New Zealand dollar  were the biggest
winners this week among the U.S. currency’s 16 most-traded
counterparts as risk appetite rose after Congress approved a
deal on Jan. 1 avoiding the so-called fiscal cliff. The
agreement made income-tax cuts from the George W. Bush-era
permanent for most workers.  If no accord had been reached, $600 billion in automatic
tax increases and spending cuts would have started this month,
which the  Congressional Budget Office  said might lead to
recession this year.  The peso climbed 2.2 percent to 12.7417 to the greenback,
and New Zealand’s currency rose 1.5 percent to 83.17 U.S. cents.  Debt Ceiling  Appetite for higher-yielding assets was tempered by concern
the  U.S. Treasury  will exhaust what it called “extraordinary”
measures to keep funding the government by February or March
after the nation hit its $16.4 trillion  debt ceiling  Dec. 31.
Lawmakers will grapple over raising the limit.  The dollar reached a three-week high yesterday versus the
euro after minutes released a day earlier of the Fed’s Dec. 11-
12 meeting showed board members said they’ll probably end the
central bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases in its
third round of quantitative easing some time in 2013. The Fed
bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and mortgage-related debt from
2008 to 2011 in the first two rounds of the stimulus strategy.  “The dollar got a lift out of the latest Fed minutes,
which for the first time entertained the notion of the bank
scaling back some of its easy monetary policies,”  Joe Manimbo ,
a market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business
Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co., said Jan. 3. “The Fed’s
low-rate policies have been a leading source of weakness for the
greenback.”  The central bank said Dec. 12 it would hold borrowing costs
at virtually zero “at least as long” as the jobless rate
remains above 6.5 percent and inflation projections are for no
more than 2.5 percent.  Jobless Rate  The greenback pared gains yesterday after data showed the
U.S. jobless rate was higher than forecast in December,
tempering bets on when the Fed will end its stimulus.  The unemployment rate was 7.8 percent in December after the
November figure was revised to that level from a previously
reported 7.7 percent, a Labor Department report showed. The
median forecast for December in a Bloomberg News survey was for
7.7 percent.  “I looked at the unemployment report, and I didn’t see any
improvement,”  Joseph Trevisani , chief market strategist at
WorldWideMarkets Ltd. in Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey , said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “Nobody one thinks their
policy is going to end any time soon.”  The agency also said U.S. employers added 155,000 workers
last month following a revised 161,000 advance in November.  The ECB will hold its benchmark  main refinancing rate  at a
historic low of 0.75 percent at its policy meeting next week,
economists forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  