-- Egypt Appoints 10 Ministers in Cabinet Overhaul
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-06T15:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/egypt-to-appoint-10-ministers-in-cabinet-overhaul.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
swore in new security and finance chiefs and bolstered the
Islamists in his government in an overhaul aimed at charting a
new course for the nation as it pushes ahead with the resumption
of talks with the IMF.  Mohamed Ibrahim, former head of the prisons department,
took over as the interior minister, the state-run Middle East
News Agency reported. El-Mursi el-Sayed Hegazi, a University of
Alexandria economics professor and specialist in  Islamic
finance , replaced Momtaz el-Saieed as finance minister a day
before a meeting with the International Monetary Fund’s Middle
East and Central Asia Director, Masood Ahmed.  The new lineup, which may be altered as a result of
parliamentary elections this year, is aimed at replacing at
least some of the ministers blamed for realizing few of the
gains hoped for following the January 2011 uprising that ousted
 Hosni Mubarak . Almost two years of turmoil has hampered economic
recovery, draining almost 60 percent of the country’s foreign
reserves and prompted the Central Bank to auction dollars, a
move amid at stemming the drop even as it pushed the Egyptian
pound to an all-time low.  Divisive Vote  “This will more or less be a government that tries to run
things on a daily basis and realize achievements on an economic
scale,” Omar Ashour, director of the Middle East program at the
U.K.’s University of Exeter, said by phone today. The strategy
for Prime Minister Hisham Qandil “is to deliver quick results
to say ’we did something’,” ahead of the parliamentary vote.  Mursi chaired a meeting of the Cabinet after the swearing-
in ceremony, according to MENA. Qandil said after the meeting
that realizing “security stability is the key to economic
stability.”  With the challenges confronting  Egypt  and the polarization
that emerged as a result of the divisive constitution vote last
month, it will be “difficult to have major achievements” ahead
of the elections, Ashour said.  The elections for parliament’s lower house, which was
dissolved earlier last year on a court order, are to be
announced within 60 days of the ratification of the
constitution. Officials have said they hope to have a new
parliament seated in the summer, with the lower house recovering
legislative authority that has been temporarily handed over to
the upper chamber with the passage of the constitution.  Revised Government  The April 6 youth movement, which had initially supported
Mursi for the presidency, rejected renewed calls to work with
the revised government. The group had wanted to see a more
sweeping reshuffle, and said the new changes now boosted the
portfolios held by the Brotherhood’s political arm, the Freedom
and Justice Party, to at least seven.  “How can we stand by a government whose political and
economic policies contradict our principles,” Mohamed Adel, a
co-founder of the group, said in an emailed statement. He
described the government’s policies as leading Egypt into “an
economic abyss.”  The drop in foreign reserves is a sign of the problems
confronting the Arab world’s most populous nation. In a bid to
stem the decline, the central bank began dollar auctions last
week, a move that saw the Egyptian pound weaken by more than 3
percent against the U.S. currency. The bank sold $60 million
today, with the Egyptian currency extending its slide to a
record of 6.4518 to the dollar.  Donor Support  The sales reflect the regulator’s inability to defend the
currency as it did before and highlights the importance of
securing a $4.8 billion loan from the IMF, Raza Agha, chief
regional economist with VTB Capital Plc in  London , said in an e-
mailed note.  “Egypt urgently needs donor support,” Agha said. Without
it, the pound “is extremely vulnerable” and the central bank
cannot continue to auction such amounts daily “given its
precarious level of usable reserves.”  Hegazi said in an interview today before being sworn in
that Egypt was ready to resume talks with the IMF.  Still, the government faces the challenge of showing a
commitment to reform while trying to ensure that those measures
do not further anger Egyptians.  The changes in the Cabinet, which include the addition of
at least two people linked to the Muslim Brotherhood
organization that fielded Mursi for the presidency, may factor
prominently into how well the Islamists fare in the
parliamentary race, Ashour said.  Brotherhood Links  The local development and supply ministers are both linked
to the Brotherhood or its political party, which may capitalize
on the group’s traditional strength of working at grassroots
level.  In addition, the replacement of the interior minister with
someone who hails from the ministry’s prisons department, often
seen as the bottom tier, reflects anger at the security forces’
inability to protect the Brotherhood headquarters from attack
during the showdown between Islamists and secularists over the
constitution, Ashour said.  The opposition, comprising secularists, members of the
Christian minority and youth activists, has rejected calls for
talks. Some groups have set Jan. 25, the second anniversary of
the start of the uprising, as a date to overturn the new
charter.  The tensions surrounding the constitution, which was passed
in a two-stage referendum with almost 64 percent backing it last
month, was a factor in the decision by the government to delay
the IMF loan, for which Egypt had signed a preliminary deal.  Fiscal Measures  The IMF’s Ahmed is to discuss with the Egyptian government
“the most recent economic developments, their policy plans for
addressing Egypt’s economic and financial challenges, and
possible IMF support for Egypt in facing these challenges,” the
organization said in a statement yesterday.  “Fiscal measures, and particularly those that reduce
subsidies or increase taxes, will be very difficult to implement
prior to the February 2013 lower house elections,” Agha wrote.
“The latter is all the more true given reports that the Muslim
Brotherhood (and its political arm, the Freedom and Justice
Party) has seen its support base weaken” since Mursi’s election
in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  