-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Gain Since November
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-01-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-gain-since-november.html
  European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly gain since November, rising to a 22-month high, after
U.S. lawmakers agreed on a budget, avoiding sweeping tax
increases and spending cuts that had threatened to push the
world’s largest economy into a recession.  Xstrata Plc and Glencore International Plc jumped more than
7 percent as a report showed  China ’s manufacturing industry
expanded for a third month. Transocean Ltd. surged 17 percent,
its biggest weekly advance in 2 1/2 years, after settling with
the U.S. government on the claims arising from the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill in 2010. ArcelorMittal rose 5 percent after
selling a 15 percent stake its Canadian mining unit.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 3.3 percent to 287.83 this
past week, its largest rally in six weeks. The equity benchmark
surged 14 percent last year as the  European Central Bank 
introduced a bond-buying program and the  Federal Reserve  opted
for a third round of asset purchases.  “It’s good news that the U.S. didn’t miss the deadline.”
said  Michael Morris , who oversees $1 billion as head of European
equities at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management in  London . “Though
they’ve kicked the can down the road again and I don’t believe
the bill solves the problem, there’s a window in the next few
months when both parties can come to an agreement to deal with
spending. So I wouldn’t be too gloomy about that.”  The Stoxx 600 rallied to its highest level since February
2011 after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a budget
bill on Jan. 1 that delayed automatic spending reductions by two
months. The legislation also prevented taxes from rising for
more than 99 percent of households.  U.S. Economy  A Labor Department report on Jan. 4 showed that the U.S.
economy created more jobs in December than expected. Payrolls
increased 155,000 last month, beating the average economist
forecast of 152,000. The  unemployment rate  remained at 7.8
percent after the Labor Department revised the figure for
November to 7.8 percent from 7.7 percent.  In China,  manufacturing  expanded for a third consecutive
month in December. The purchasing managers’ index remained
unchanged at 50.6, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on Jan. 1. A reading
above 50 means that  activity  increased.  “It doesn’t look like the authorities in China are going
to officially lower their growth forecasts, so that’s a
positive,” Morris said.  Commodity Producers  A gauge of  mining companies  jumped 4.2 percent, its biggest
weekly rally in 3 1/2 months, as Xstrata added 7.8 percent and
Glencore surged 7.7 percent. Anglo American Plc, a mining
company with operations from  Africa  to  Chile , rose 5.2 percent.  Transocean soared 17 percent, its largest weekly advance
since August 2010, after the world’s biggest operator of
offshore drilling rigs agreed on Jan. 3 to settle all federal
claims following the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon platform
for $1.4 billion. The accident killed 11 people and led to the
world’s worst accidental oil spill. The U.S.  Justice Department 
agreed to end its criminal investigation of the company,
Transocean said in  a statement .  ArcelorMittal (MT)  added 5 percent. The  world’s largest
steelmaker  sold the stake in ArcelorMittal Mines Canada Inc. for
$1.1 billion to a group led by China Steel Corp. and Posco. A
person familiar with the matter said on Oct. 20 that
ArcelorMittal had studied selling about 30 percent of the
business to help it repay debt. The company run by billionaire
 Lakshmi Mittal  dropped 8.5 percent in 2012.  Alcatel-Lucent surged 19 percent for the shares’ biggest
weekly rally in almost two years. The telecommunications-
equipment maker slumped 17 percent last year. Imagination
Technologies Group Plc rose 11 percent, its biggest weekly gain
in more than a year. It dropped 28 percent in 2012.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  declined 2.6 percent as the price of silver
dropped. UBS AG lowered its rating on the stock, saying the
shares had outperformed the metal and its peers. The company
rose 21 percent last year, while silver gained 9 percent.
Fresnillo is the world’s largest primary producer of the metal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  