-- Florida Brain-Injury Facility Files for Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-05T06:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/florida-brain-injury-facility-files-for-bankruptcy.html
A U.S. brain-injury treatment center
has filed for bankruptcy following reports of abuse and neglect
of patients by their caregivers.  The Florida Institute for Neurologic Rehabilitation Inc.
and three affiliated corporations filed Chapter 11 petitions in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in in Tampa yesterday. They said in court
filings that they estimated they owe between $3 million and $30
million to 103 to 346 creditors and that their assets total
$150,000 or less.  The bankruptcy action came on the same day that a unit of
 Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  sued the institute, known as FINR,
claiming it defaulted on $31 million in real-estate loans.
Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions Bank said in its lawsuit that
patients’ welfare is at risk because of financial problems and
mismanagement at the rehabilitation center in Wauchula, about 50
miles southeast of Tampa.  Florida officials in August ordered FINR to move about 50
patients to other facilities. The center has been fighting the
directive, issued after a Bloomberg News story revealed a
history of violence there. Caregivers beat patients and goaded
them to fight each other and fondle female employees, according
to reports by state officials released to Bloomberg.  The list of creditors in the bankruptcy filings includes
insurance companies, law firms, medical supply companies, water
and electric utilities, the county tax collector and a public
relations firm. FINR officials couldn’t be reached for comment.  In its suit, Regions Bank asked that a court-appointed
receiver take control of the center “pending the foreclosure or
other disposition of the collateral” for the loans.  FINR stopped making payments to the bank in August, has
failed to give the government the payroll taxes withheld from
employees and hasn’t paid real estate taxes and routine
operating expenses, according to the lawsuit.  The case is Florida Institute for Neurologic
Rehabilitation, 8:13-bk-00102,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Middle
District of Florida (Tampa).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  