-- Florida Brain-Injury Facility Sued by Regions Bank
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/florida-brain-injury-facility-sued-by-regions-bank.html
Florida  Institute for Neurologic
Rehabilitation Inc., a brain-injury facility where patients
allegedly have been abused or neglected by staff, was sued by a
unit of  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  over $31 million in defaulted
real-estate loans.  Regions Bank said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Tampa, Florida, that it wants a court-appointed
receiver to oversee the facility that secures the loans.  The Wauchula-based facility, known as FINR, stopped making
payments on the loans in August, according to the complaint. The
transitional living facility draws patients from across the U.S.
and abroad and is said by competitors to be the largest such
rehabilitation center in the country.  Caregivers at a the institute have beat patients, goaded
them to fight each other and fondle female employees and in one
instance laughed at complaints of mistreatment, according to
investigative reports by state officials released to  Bloomberg
News .  The center is fighting a state directive that it move about
50 patients to other facilities. That order followed a Bloomberg
story revealing a history of violence at the center southeast of
Tampa.  Michael Markham, a lawyer who represents FINR and its owner
Joseph Brennick in a separate lawsuit by Allstate Insurance Co.,
didn’t immediately return a call to his office in Clearwater,
Florida, after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment
on the Regions Bank complaint.  The case is Regions Bank v. Florida Institute for
Neurologic Rehabilitation Inc., 13-00047, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 