-- Missoni Says Vittorio Missoni, Partner Missing in Venezuela
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-01-05T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/missoni-says-vittorio-missoni-partner-missing-in-venezuela.html
Vittorio Missoni and his partner are
missing in  Venezuela  after the small plane they were traveling
in vanished, the Italian fashion house said yesterday.  The company is working with the Italian foreign ministry in
aiding the searches under way, Sumirago-based Missoni SpA said
in a statement. Two other passengers and two crew members were
aboard, Venezuelan authorities said. Reports have identified
Missoni’s partner as Maurizia Castiglioni.  The plane left the archipelago of Los Roques for the
Caracas airport at 11:29 a.m. local time on Jan. 4, Justice and
Interior Minister Nestor Reverol said in a telephone call on
state television in Venezuela. The craft was last reported 10
nautical miles (18 kilometers) from Los Roques, he said.  “In accordance with international aviation norms, it is
declared officially disappeared,” Reverol said. Venezuela sent
two planes and two patrol boats to locate the missing craft.  Missoni’s younger brother, Luca, was traveling to Venezuela
yesterday, the Associated Press reported. The fashion brand’s
founder Ottavio and his wife Rosita were at their home in  Italy ,
awaiting information on the search, AP said, citing Corriere
della Serra.  The Missoni fashion house began in 1953, when Ottavio and
Rosita set up a workshop in the Lombardy region of northern
Italy, according to the company’s  web site . Vittorio, Luca and
their sister Angela eventually became owners of the company,
which lists Madonna and Jennifer Lopez among its celebrity
clients.  Abstract Florals  Vittorio is responsible for the company’s marketing, the
site said.  Missoni knitwear is known for its multitude of patterns,
which feature colored stripes, geometric patterns and abstract
florals.  Over the years, Missoni has diversified its luxury-goods
business. In 2005, Missoni and Rezidor Hotel Group AB signed an
agreement to create Missoni hotels, five-star properties with
interiors designed by the Italian company.  In September 2011, discount retailer Target Corp. began
sales of Missoni-branded products, which included clothing,
housewares and bikes. Target’s web site crashed on the first day
of sales, overwhelmed by demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  