-- Obama Says Rich Should Pay More Tax Through Fewer Loopholes
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-05T18:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/obama-says-rich-should-pay-more-taxes-through-fewer-loopholes.html
President  Barack Obama  said rich
Americans and companies should pay more taxes beyond this week’s
accord to avoid the spending cuts and tax increases known as the
fiscal cliff as Congress seeks other ways to pare the  deficit .  “Spending cuts must be balanced with more reforms to our
tax code,” Obama said in his weekly radio and Internet  address .
“The wealthiest individuals and the biggest corporations
shouldn’t be able to take advantage of loopholes and deductions
that aren’t available to most Americans.”  Congress passed legislation just after the fiscal cliff
deadline of Dec. 31 that raised taxes on the wealthiest
Americans while extending tax cuts for lower incomes and
delaying automatic spending cuts until March 1. Markets rallied
in response to the agreement, even as Obama and congressional
Republicans face a new struggle over raising the U.S.
government’s  debt ceiling .  Obama, who on Jan. 2 signed the law raising income-tax
rates on couples to 39.6 percent for annual income above
$450,000, reiterated in his address that he would refuse to
negotiate with Republicans over borrowing authority.  “One thing I will not compromise over is whether or not
Congress should pay the tab for a bill they’ve already racked
up,” Obama said. “If Congress refuses to give the United
States the ability to pay its bills on time, the consequences
for the entire global economy could be catastrophic.”  Debt Limit  The U.S. reached its $16.4 trillion legal debt limit on
Dec. 31, and the Treasury Department began using extraordinary
measures to finance the government. It will exhaust that avenue
as early as mid-February, the Congressional Budget Office says.  “The last time Congress threatened this course of action,
our entire economy suffered for it,” the president said in the
address from  Hawaii , where he is on vacation. He is scheduled to
return to Washington tomorrow.  After partisan gridlock last brought the government to the
brink of default in August 2011, the stock market fell and
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit rating to AA+ from
AAA. House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, withdrew
from negotiations on July 22, 2011, and the S&P 500 Index fell
more than 16 percent in the next 11 trading days.  Bond investors were unrattled. Yields on 10-year U.S.
Treasury notes declined from 2.96 percent on July 22 to 2.56
percent on Aug. 5, 2011, the day of the S&P downgrade. Yields
continued to drop, reaching 1.72 percent on Sept. 22 of that
year.  No Default  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp offered
assurances yesterday that, even with the disagreements between
congressional Republicans and the White House, lawmakers would
raise the $16.4 trillion debt limit in time to avoid missing
payments on U.S. obligations.  “Absolutely, we’re going to not default,” Camp said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing
this weekend. “That’s just not even part of the issue.”  Camp, in the Republicans’ weekly address today, said the
U.S. government “spends too much and wastes too much,” and
“the spending problem is getting worse, not better.” Camp also
advocated changes to the tax code.  “We have to start to work on real solutions to return
accountability to our tax code by eliminating special-interest
loopholes,” Camp said in the address. “I believe in a simple
principle: when it comes to the tax code, everyone should play
by the same rules.”  Republican Split  The fiscal cliff tax deal produced a split in the House
Republican leadership. Boehner and Budget Committee Chairman
Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin  voted for the bill. Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia  and Whip Kevin McCarthy of  California , the
party’s No. 2 and 3 leaders in the chamber, voted against it.  Camp voted in favor of the agreement.  Still, rebellious Republicans chose not to challenge
Boehner in his re-election as House speaker, perhaps because a
possible candidate, Cantor, wasn’t willing to take on the role.
He received three votes for speaker from those protesting
Boehner.  While Boehner sought, during his first year as speaker, a
consensus approach to solving debt and budget crises, Cantor
became a spokesman for anti-tax House Republicans in favor of
limited government.  United Front  Boehner and Cantor have recently presented a united front.
They made a point of always appearing together during key
moments: after Boehner’s compromise plan to raise taxes only on
those earning more than $1 million failed on Dec. 20 to get
Republican votes in the House, Cantor faced the cameras next to
the speaker.  With the fiscal cliff agreement, U.S. stocks rallied for
the week, sending benchmark indexes to their biggest gains in 13
months.  All  10 industry groups  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced in the holiday-shortened week.  Bank of America Corp .
and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  climbed at least 6.6 percent, pacing gains
among financial and industrial companies. An index of consumer
stocks jumped to a record as Ross Stores Inc. and TJX Cos.
announced same-store sales that topped estimates. General Motors
Co. and Ford Motor Co. rallied more than 5.4 percent as auto
sales beat forecasts.  The S&P 500 rose 4.6 percent to 1,466.47, the highest level
since December 2007. The benchmark gauge had the best three-day
start of a year since 2009. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
added 497.10 points, or 3.8 percent, to 13,435.21. Both measures
posted the best weekly increase since December 2011. The Russell
2000 Index of small companies and the S&P Midcap 400 Index
reached all-time highs after jumping 5.7 percent and 5.2
percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  