-- Payrolls in U.S. Keep Growing Even Amid Fiscal Talks
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/payrolls-in-u-s-keep-growing-even-amid-fiscal-talks.html
The U.S. wrapped up a third year of
employment growth with a gain in December, showing the world’s
largest economy was able to endure an intensifying budget battle
on  Capitol Hill .  Employers added 155,000 workers last month after 161,000 in
November, Labor Department figures showed yesterday in
 Washington . The jobless rate held at 7.8 percent, matching an
almost four-year low, after the November figure was revised up
from a previously reported 7.7 percent.  The advance in hiring was accompanied by a bigger-than-
projected gain in wages and a longer workweek that will give
households the means to sustain spending, benefiting retailers
from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to  Gap Inc. (GPS)  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
closed yesterday at the highest level since December 2007 on
signs an improving jobs picture will help soften any blow to the
economy from higher payroll taxes.  “Job growth here is just very steady,”  James Glassman ,
senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , said
yesterday during a radio interview on “ Bloomberg
Surveillance .” The challenge “is how the rise in the payroll
tax affects the consumer, because that is probably a bit of a
headwind. Once we are over that, I think there is every reason
to believe that the economy should do better than last year.”  The  S&P 500  added 0.5 percent to 1,466.47 at the close in
New York, putting the gain for the week at 4.6 percent. The
index soared 2.5 percent on Jan. 2 after Republicans and
Democrats agreed on a compromise budget that avoided the so-
called fiscal cliff of sweeping tax increases slated to take
effect this year.  Debt Ceiling  Next, Republican leaders in the House are vowing to exact
deep spending cuts from President  Barack Obama  and the Democrats
in exchange for raising the debt ceiling as the U.S. Treasury
bumps up against its legal borrowing limit.  The jobs report “provides further evidence that the  U.S.
economy  is continuing to heal,” Alan Krueger, chairman of the
White House Council of Economic Advisers, said in a statement.
“It is important that we continue to move toward a sustainable
 federal budget  in a responsible way that balances revenue and
spending while protecting critical investments in the economy
and essential support for our most vulnerable citizens.”  A pickup in employment was also evident in a report
yesterday on the  service industries , which account for almost 90
percent of the economy. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
non-manufacturing index climbed to 56.1 in December, the highest
in 10 months, from 54.7 in November. Readings above 50 signal
expansion.  Orders Climb  The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s employment gauge rose to
the highest level since March, while orders grew at the
strongest pace in 10 months.  The increase in U.S. employment was in line with the
152,000 median estimate of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the Labor Department’s figures.  For all of 2012, the economy created 1.84 million jobs,
matching the gain in 2011. It’s the best back-to-back reading
since 2005-2006.  Rod Prince landed a new position last month as a senior
database administrator for Sausalito, California-based
Glassdoor, a jobs and career website. In the four weeks leading
up to his hiring, Prince said he received phone calls about six
different openings.  “I now feel pretty confident,” said Prince, 59.  “I
don’t have to pinch money. I feel the economy is doing better.”  In managing databases for Glassdoor, Prince said job
listings are “accelerating quite significantly.”  Construction Gains  Payroll gains were broad-based with construction firms,
manufacturers, health-care companies and restaurants all adding
staff in December, the Labor Department’s data showed.  Nonetheless, the increases probably don’t satisfy some of
the policy makers at the  Federal Reserve , who last month said
they will keep pumping money into the economy until the job
market improves “substantially.”  Central bankers on Dec. 12 expanded a third round of so-
called quantitative easing and said they would hold their target
interest rate low “at least as long” as the  unemployment rate 
remains above 6.5 percent and inflation projections are for no
more than 2.5 percent.  “News on the unemployment rate was not quite as good as
other parts of the report,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, who
accurately projected the December payrolls figure. “The Fed has
the green light to continue with its quantitative easing.”  8.1 Percent  The jobless rate for all of 2012 was 8.1 percent, the
lowest annual average in four years.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said that he sees the possibility of unemployment dropping to
7.1 percent by the end of this year.  “I think that unemployment will continue to tick down
through 2013,” Bullard said yesterday in an interview on CNBC.
A 7.1 percent rate “would probably be substantial improvement”
in the labor market, he said, referring to the Fed’s goal for
halting its open-ended monthly purchases.  Yesterday’s report also showed hourly earnings climbed to
$23.73 on average in December, increasing by 0.3 percent for a
second month and beating the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg that called for a 0.2 percent advance.
They rose 2.1 percent from December 2011, the biggest gain in a
year. Additionally, the work week climbed six minutes to 34.5
hours.  Factory Jobs  Factory payrolls increased by 25,000, the most since March,
yesterday’s report showed. Employment at private service-
providers increased 109,000.  Winnebago Industries Inc. (WGO) , a Forest City, Iowa-based maker
of motor homes, was among companies expanding to increase
production. It hired about 160 people, or 12 percent more hourly
employees, in the quarter ended Dec. 1.  “We’re still supplementing by working overtime in many,
many areas of the company,” Sarah Nielsen, chief financial
officer, said on a Dec. 20 earnings conference call. “That’s
been a factor for the last six months plus.”  The jobs report showed construction companies added 30,000
workers, the most since September 2011. The figures may have
received a boost from rebuilding efforts following superstorm
Sandy, which left about 8 million homes and businesses without
power for days after making landfall on Oct. 29.  Progress in the labor market is driving Americans’
confidence and spending. Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S.
department-store company, reported a 4.1 percent rise in
December sales at stores open at least a year, while Gap, the
largest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer, had a 5 percent
increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  