-- Plosser, Bullard Say Fed’s Asset Purchases Contingent on Jobs
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/plosser-bullard-say-fed-s-asset-purchases-contingent-on-jobs.html
Two Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents said a decline in unemployment may prompt a halt to
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases, speaking a day after the
Fed indicated it may end the buying as early as this year.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said yesterday
the  unemployment rate  may fall to 6.8 percent to 7.0 percent by
year end, which he said would meet the “substantial progress”
required to stop purchases. A drop in joblessness near 7 percent
could lead to an end to the Fed bond buying, said St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard , who votes on policy this year.  Fed officials are debating when to end purchases of
mortgage bonds and  Treasury securities  that are aimed at fueling
economic growth and reducing  7.8 percent  unemployment. The U.S.
generated 155,000 jobs last month, according to a Labor
Department report released yesterday. In addition, gains in
wages and the workweek exceeded projections.  “Several” members of the  Federal Open Market Committee 
said it would “probably be appropriate to slow or stop
purchases well before the end of 2013,” according to minutes of
their Dec. 11-12 meeting released this week. A “few” were
willing to let the program run to the end of the year while “a
few others” didn’t give a time frame.  Bullard said in September he opposed the FOMC decision to
begin a third round of asset purchases with the  U.S. economy 
growing at about a 2 percent rate in the second half of last
year and poised to accelerate in 2013. In July 2011, he became
the first policy maker to call for a second round of bond
buying, which the FOMC approved that November in a decision to
buy $600 billion in Treasuries through June 2012.  Timing Contingent  The timing for an end to bond-buying is “contingent on
substantial progress on employment,” said Plosser, who doesn’t
vote on policy this year. He warned in 2012 that the Fed risked
losing its credibility by beginning a third round of large-scale
bond purchases in September.  “There is now a discussion about when will we see that,”
Plosser said, referring to improvement in the job market.  “Some people think we will see that sooner rather than
later,” he said at a conference in San Diego. “But we haven’t
been very specific. That is a qualitative judgment call.”  At the Dec. 11-12 meeting, the Fed expanded its bond
purchase program to offset the end of Operation Twist, in which
the Fed swapped short-term securities for longer-term bonds.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker , who was the sole
dissenter of the December FOMC decision, warned yesterday that
further monetary stimulus was unlikely to boost growth.  ‘Withdraw Stimulus’  “At some point, we will need to withdraw stimulus by
raising  interest rates  and reducing the size of our balance
sheet, and the larger our balance sheet, the more vulnerable we
will be to seemingly minor miscalibrations in policy,” Lacker
said in a speech to the Maryland Bankers Association in
Baltimore.  The FOMC said it will also keep rates near zero as long as
 joblessness  is above 6.5 percent, inflation is projected to be
no more than 2.5 percent and longer-term price expectations are
well anchored. The Fed had previously said it will keep rates
low through at least mid-2015.  Still, the Fed didn’t provide explicit guidance on when it
will stop its bond purchases, instead saying it is waiting to
see substantial improvements in the labor market. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Dec. 12 the bank can’t link the quantitative
easing to indicators because the potential effects of bond-
buying are less certain compared to the impact of interest
rates.  Performance Linked  The bond buying program is “supposed to be a state-
contingent policy” linked to performance of the economy,
Bullard said to reporters after a panel discussion at a San
Diego conference. “Why are we talking about dates” for the end
of bond buying?  Stocks (SPX)  rose yesterday as the payrolls report showed the
U.S. job market is on the mend. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increased 0.5 percent to 1,466.47.  “I have been very clear all along. I have had the view
that the efficacy of asset purchases is not very high” and
“there are risks associated with these policies that will occur
down the road,” Plosser said in  San Diego .  “In the last two years unemployment has come down by
almost 2 percentage points -- about 1 percentage point a year,”
and that may occur again this year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  