-- Plosser Says Fed Must Defend 2% Explicit Target for Inflation
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-01-05T21:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/plosser-says-fed-must-defend-2-explicit-target-for-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank should take the
steps necessary to ensure inflation stays near its goal of 2
percent.  “It is important that the Fed credibly commit to defending
that target either on the upside or the downside,” Plosser said
today to a meeting of economists in  San Diego . “Right now, it
would not be good either for our credibility or for the economy
for us to have deflation. For the Fed at this point, we have
established a target and we need to defend that target.”  The central bank’s preferred measure of inflation, the
personal consumption expenditures index excluding food and
energy, rose 1.5 percent in November from a year earlier. The
broader  consumer price index  gained 1.8 percent, the Labor
Department said on Dec. 14.  At the same time, “small but steady deflation is not
something that we should necessarily be terrified of,” Plosser
said to the American Economic Association’s annual meeting.  While  Japan  has suffered from falling prices in recent
years, that is not the country’s main economic obstacle, he
said.  A “minus-1 percent labor force growth” and low
productivity gains are inhibiting Japan’s economic expansion,
Plosser said. “It is not really deflation” that is Japan’s
biggest challenge, he said.  The Fed last month said it will keep its benchmark  interest
rate  near zero as long as joblessness is above 6.5 percent,
inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent and
longer-term price expectations are well anchored. The Fed
previously said it will keep rates low through at least mid-
2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  