-- Saudi Arabia, Egypt Call for Peaceful Handover in Syria
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-05T23:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/saudi-arabia-egypt-call-for-peaceful-handover-in-syria.html
Saudi Arabia and  Egypt  yesterday
called for a “peaceful handover” of power in  Syria , signaling
closer cooperation as violence mounts with more than 60,000
people reported killed since the protests against President
Bashar al-Assad began nearly two years ago.  “A peaceful exit is an Arab and international demand,”
Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud Al-Faisal told reporters
yesterday in  Riyadh  after talks with his Egyptian counterpart,
Mohamed Kamel Amr. “It is up to the Syrian people to decide the
conditions of the exit from power” of Assad.  Amr called for “stepping up the efforts to achieve a
peaceful handover of power.” Assad will address his nation
today to discuss developments in the region, according to Syrian
state television.  Saudi Arabia , the largest Arab economy, and Egypt, the most
populous Arab state, for the first time made a joint call for
Assad to step down, signaling closer cooperation on the Syrian
situation, Khalid al-Dakhil, a professor of political studies at
King Saud University in Riyadh, said.  “They see how important the fall of the Syrian regime is
on an Arab and regional level,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Saudi Arabia stayed away from a foreign ministers’ meeting
on Syria held in September in Cairo at the invitation of
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, with the participation of
Shiite  Iran , which supports Assad, a member of the Alawite sect
affliated with Shiite Islam, and  Turkey , which supports the
rebellion. Participants failed to agree on a compromise.  Region’s Future  With the future of the Assad regime in doubt, analysts have
begun contemplating how his fall might affect a region upended
by the two years of uprisings -- some democratic and peaceful,
others violent -- referred to as the Arab Spring.  Anne-Marie Slaughter, a professor at  Princeton University 
and former U.S. State Department official, predicted that Syria
would “split into multiple regions” and that, even if Assad
falls, there won’t be a government to replace him by the end of
this year.  “You’re going to have a Kurdish autonomous zone in Syria
that is going to create major trouble for Turkey,” Slaughter
said in taped remarks on  CNN ’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program
scheduled for broadcast today. Turkey has a substantial
population that is ethnically Kurdish.  The refugee flow from the Syrian civil war is “already
starting to destabilize Jordan just in terms of inability to
cope,” Slaughter said. Lebanon faces Syrian-inspired conflict
between Assad’s Alawites and Sunni Muslims, she said.  Pilot Defects  At least 60,000 people have been killed in the conflict
that began as peaceful protests, the United Nations High
Commissioner for  Human Rights , Navi Pillay, said Jan. 2.  A Syrian pilot defected yesterday to Turkey and landed with
his MiG-23 military jet at Adana airport, Al-Jazeera television
reported.  Saudi Arabia’s Al-Faisal renewed accusations that Iran is
“interfering in the internal affairs of the states of the
region,” and criticized Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki,
its Shiite Muslim neighbor, without naming him.  “Iraq’s security will not stabilize before it moves away
from its sectarian policy,” he said.  Iraqi opponents of Maliki have been holding street protests
in various regions with mostly Sunni Arab and Kurdish
populations. Many Sunnis, Kurds and followers of Iraqi Shiite
leader Moqtada al-Sadr have demanded to share more power.  Twenty-one Iranians aboard two boats were arrested by the
Saudi coast guard off the Saudi city of Al Khafji in the  Persian
Gulf , Saudi newspaper Asharq al-Awsat said. Coast guard
spokesman Colonel Khalid al-Arqoubi told the newspaper the
detainees will be investigated to establish whether they are
fishermen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ; Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at +1-
   cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 