-- Saudi Arabia, Egypt Call for Peaceful Handover in Syria
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-01-05T16:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/saudi-arabia-egypt-call-for-peaceful-handover-in-syria-1-.html
Saudi Arabia  and Egypt called for a
“peaceful handover” of power in Syria, signalling closer
cooperation as violence mounts with more than 60,000 people
reported killed since the protests against President Bashar al- Assad began nearly two years ago.  “A peaceful exit is an Arab and international demand,”
Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud Al-Faisal told reporters
today in  Riyadh  after talks with his Egyptian counterpart,
Mohamed Kamel Amr. “It is up to the Syrian people to decide the
conditions of the exit from power” of al-Assad.  Amr called for “stepping up the efforts to achieve a
peaceful handover of power.”  It’s the first time Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy,
and  Egypt , the most populous Arab state, have made a joint call
for Assad to step down, signalling closer cooperation on the
Syrian situation, Khalid al-Dakhil, a professor of political
studies at King Saud University in Riyadh, said.  “They see how important the fall of the Syrian regime is
on an Arab and regional level,” he said today in a telephone
interview.  Saudi Arabia stayed away from a foreign ministers’ meeting
on Syria held in September in Cairo at the invitation of
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, with the participation of
 Iran , which supports Assad, and  Turkey , which supports the
rebellion. Participants failed to agree on a compromise.  Pilot Defects  At least 60,000 people have been killed in the conflict
that began as peaceful protests, the United Nations High
Commissioner for  Human Rights , Navi Pillay, said Jan. 2.  A Syrian pilot defected today to Turkey and landed with his
MiG-23 military jet at Adana airport, Al-Jazeera channel
reported. The Syria Observatory for Human Rights said the Syrian
army shelled districts around the capital Damascus and villages
in the central province of Hama.  Saudi Arabia’s Al-Faisal renewed accusations that Iran is
“interfering in the internal affairs of the states of the
region,” and criticized Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki,
its Shiite Muslim ally, without naming him.  “ Iraq ’s security will not stabilize before it moves away
from its sectarian policy,” he said.  Iraqi opponents of Maliki have been holding street protests
in various regions with mostly Sunni Arab and Kurdish
populations. Many Sunnis, Kurds and followers of Shiite leader
Moqtada al-Sadr have demanded to share more power.  Twenty-one Iranians aboard two boats were arrested by Saudi
coast guards off the Saudi city of Al Khafji in the  Persian
Gulf , Saudi newspaper Asharq al-Awsat said today. Coast guard
spokesman Colonel Khalid al-Arqoubi told the newspaper the
detainees will be investigated to establish whether they are
fishermen.  Syrian state television on Jan. 2 said the oil ministers of
Iraq, Syria and Iran will meet in  Baghdad  this month to discuss
the construction of a natural-gas pipeline to supply Syria with
the fuel from Iran through Iraq.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  