-- Serena Williams Wins Brisbane Tennis Title; Murray Into Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-05T14:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/serena-williams-wins-brisbane-tennis-title-murray-into-final.html
Serena Williams  beat Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova 6-2, 6-1 in the final of the Brisbane
International tennis tournament for her 47th career title.  Williams, ranked No. 3 by the Women’s Tennis Association
Tour, needed just 51 minutes to complete the victory against the
21-year-old Russian in  Australia . Since losing in the first
round of the French Open in May, the American has won 35 of 36
matches and captured titles at Wimbledon, the Olympics, the  U.S.
Open  and season-ending WTA championships.  “Today was really good,” Williams, 31, said on the WTA
Tour website. “I kind of zoned, where I’m in a really calm
place and not panicking, I’m not overthinking it and not just
blasting every ball. I get really calm and kind of serene.”  Williams now sets her sights on the Australia Open, which
begins Jan. 14 in Melbourne. She has won the first Grand Slam
tournament of a season five times.  “I definitely worked hard for this week, and I’m going to
do a little more work so I can be ready in eight days,” the 15-
time Grand Slam champion said.  Defending champion  Andy Murray  of Britain advanced to the
men’s final in Brisbane, where he’ll take on Grigor Dimitrov.  Murray was leading 6-4, 2-0 when Japan’s Kei Nishikori
retired from their semifinal with a left knee injury. Dimitrov
beat  Marcos Baghdatis  of Cyprus 6-3, 5-7, 7-6 (7-5) to send the
48th-ranked Bulgarian to his first ATP Tour final appearance.  “I have nothing to lose,” Dimitrov said of tomorrow’s
matchup against the Olympic and U.S. Open champion on the ATP
Tour website. “I just want to go out there and compose myself
and say, ‘OK, it’s your first final. Don’t be nervous.’”  In other Australian Open warmups, Agnieszka Radwanska of
Poland beat Belgium’s Yanina Wickmayer 6-4, 6-4 in the final of
the ASB Classic in Auckland, while  Li Na  captured the Shenzhen
Open title in her native China by beating Klara Zakopalova of
the Czech Republic 6-3, 1-6, 7-5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 