-- Shell Gets Approval From Alaska to Move Drilling Ship
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-01-07T09:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/shell-drill-ship-repairs-had-to-be-done-in-seattle-company-says.html
(Corrects reference for Anchorage in second paragraph of
story published Jan. 5.)  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has received
approval from the state of  Alaska  to remove the Arctic drilling
ship Kulluk, which ran aground after the vessel broke from a tow
boat during a storm on Dec. 31.  The Kulluk is grounded and upright near Sitkalidak Island,
on the north edge of Ocean Bay, about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
southwest of Kodiak, Alaska, according to a statement on the
website of the Unified Command in Anchorage. The crew has been
evacuated and the vessel isn’t leaking fluid.  The command said it planned to hook a tow line to the
Kulluk, depending on local weather and tidal conditions, in
preparation for its recovery. Booms will be deployed to Kodiak
Island, in particular to help protect salmon streams connected
to Ocean Bay, according to the  statement .  Shell, in its own statement, said the needed maintenance
work on the Kulluk couldn’t have been completed in Alaska and
the ship had to be sent to  Seattle . The Kulluk’s grounding is
the latest setback Shell has faced in its efforts to tap Arctic
oil.  Environmental groups said Jan. 3 they would ask President
 Barack Obama  to suspend all current and pending Arctic drilling
permits until operators prove they can work safely in the
region’s harsh conditions.  The decision to move the Kulluk “was based on an approved
tow plan, which included weather considerations, and safely
executing a planned maintenance schedule for the vessel,” Shell
said in an e-mailed statement today. “The plan was always to
move the Kulluk in December.”  The Unified Command system includes the U.S. Coast Guard,
Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, Kodiak Island
Borough and Shell. As much as 143,000 gallons of diesel and
about 12,000 gallons of other refined oil-products are currently
stored on board the Kulluk, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  