-- Turkey to Clarify Capital Markets Law to Quell Concern, HT Says
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-01-05T13:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/turkey-to-clarify-capital-markets-law-to-quell-concern-ht-says.html
Turkey  plans to clarify what is
considered criminal under legislation that provides for
imprisonment for certain financial commentary, HaberTurk
reported, citing  Capital Markets ’ Board Chairman Vahdettin Ertas.  Turkey’s Capital Markets Law, enacted Dec. 31,  stipulates 
punishment for “those who provide untruthful, wrong or
misleading information, start rumors, or provide news,
commentary, or prepare reports with the intention of influencing
prices, values of capital markets instruments or investor
decisions.” Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Commerzbank AG
said they were reviewing how the new law will affect their
business in Turkey.  “We were planning to make secondary legislation concerning
this article within six months but we may bring this forward,”
Haberturk cited Ertas as saying. “As the result of these
regulations, what is a crime and what is not will be clear.”  Commerzbank has called off analyst trips to Turkey “until
the law has been clarified,”  Tatha Ghose , a London-based
economist at the bank, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. Arko Sen, a debt and currency strategist at Bank of America in
London, said he’s asked the compliance team to review the law.  “Those who commit a crime will of course face punishment
but there will be no situation that needs to cause fear and
panic in the market,” Ertas also said.  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-markets strategy at  Societe
Generale  in London, said by e-mail yesterday that the bank
resumed its commentary on Turkey, because “the new law doesn’t
affect normal research activities.”  International Criticism  International criticism of Turkey’s record on free
expression intensified last year. The New York-based Committee
to  Protect Journalists  said in an October report that Turkey has
the most reporters imprisoned of any nation and that Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  was leading “one of the biggest
crackdowns on press freedom in recent history.”  The European Commission expressed “serious concern” over
the rising number of court cases related to freedom of
expression, in a report published the same month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  