-- Armstrong Hasn't Made Approach About Drug Confession, WADA Says
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-05T22:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-05/wada-chief-says-lance-armstrong-hasn-t-made-approach-to-body.html
The head of the World Anti-Doping
Agency says Lance Armstrong hasn’t approached the organization
after the  New York  Times reported the cyclist is considering
admitting to using performance-enhancing drugs.  The Times said today that Armstrong, who was stripped of
his seven Tour de France titles and barred for life from
competing in Olympic sports, is talking to associates and anti-
doping officials about a public admission to restore his
competitive eligibility. The newspaper cited people with
knowledge of the discussions.  WADA Director General David Howman said in an e-mailed
statement today that the organization has “read with interest”
the article but has yet to hear from Armstrong.  “To date,  WADA  had had no official approach from Mr.
Armstrong or his legal representatives, but -- as with anyone
involved in anti-doping violations -- it would welcome any
discussion that helps in the fight against doping in sport,”
Howman said.  Armstrong was banned for life from competing in sanctioned
events by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, which cited a career
“fueled from start to finish by doping” when it released a
202-page summary of its investigation into the rider and the
U.S. Postal Service cycling team on Oct. 10.  Armstrong, who has denied using performance-enhancing drugs
and blood infusions to further his cycling career, lost his
titles on Aug. 23 after he declined to take the USADA case to
arbitration.  In Discussions  Armstrong has been in discussions with the USADA Chief
Executive Travis Tygart as he tries to get the lifetime ban
reduced, the Times said, citing a person familiar with the
situation.  Tim Herman, Armstrong’s attorney, denied his client was
talking to Tygart and said he said he didn’t have knowledge of
Armstrong’s decision to admit to doping, according to the
newspaper. Both Herman and the USADA didn’t respond to e-mailed
requests for comment today.  According to the World Anti-Doping Code, an athlete may be
eligible for a reduced punishment if he confesses and details
his doping. He also must say who helped him and how he got away
with doping.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 