-- Macau-Style A$4.2 Billion Cairns Resort Considered by Queensland
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-02T01:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/macau-style-a-4-2-billion-cairns-resort-considered-by-queensland.html
Australia ’s Queensland state is
considering a A$4.2 billion ($3.75 billion) casino and hotel
project  proposed  by Hong Kong-based businessman Tony Fung in the
state’s north.  The state government will look in full at the plan to
redevelop 343 hectares (848 acres) of rural land north of
Cairns, enabling Fung to avoid seeking separate approvals for
different parts of the proposal, a spokesman for Deputy State
Premier Jeff Seeney, who asked not to be identified citing
department policy, said by telephone. The Aquis Great Barrier
Reef resort proposal includes nine luxury hotels, 1,200
apartments and 135 villas, an 18-hole golf course, a sports
stadium and a conference center, according to the state
government  website .  The Cairns development is the latest in a series of
proposals for new casinos in Australia. It also comes after a 16
percent drop in the Australian dollar since mid April, making
the nation more attractive to overseas visitors.  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) , which has exclusive licenses
to run casinos in Sydney and Brisbane, is battling proposals by
billionaire  James Packer ’s  Crown Ltd. (CWN)  to build second casino
resorts in both cities. The companies are seeking to cash in on
tourist dollars from high-rolling Asian gamblers who’ve doubled
Macau’s gaming revenues over the past three years.  Asian Tourism  Aquis will “drive Asian tourism awareness of North
Queensland and the Great Barrier Reef,” Fung said in a  letter 
accompanying his proposal. “I have recognized the unique
suitability of the Cairns region to develop an integrated
resort, based upon the Macau model” of including a variety of
facilities in one location.  Tony Fung, son of Sun Hung Kai Securities founder Fung King
Hey, started closely held Yu Ming Investments in 1996, according
to the project proposal. He served as chairman of SHKI Group,
which was managed by Yu Ming, until May 2008, according to
company documents.                                      The next
step is an environmental impact assessment and  further
government approvals for the project to proceed, according to
the website. The resort, which will include one of the world’s
largest aquariums, a lake and a reef lagoon, is expected to be
completed in 2018 and create 19,300 jobs, the plan said.  The Queensland state government said in March it had
approved a A$600 million Great Keppel Island resort development
that included a hotel, eco-resort villas and apartments, a
marina and a golf course.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  