-- Alleged SAC Tipper Aggarwal Released on $500,000 Bond
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-08-02T22:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/alleged-sac-tipper-aggarwal-released-on-500-000-bond.html
Sandeep Aggarwal, a former research
analyst accused of giving inside tips about a  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and
Microsoft Corp. venture to former SAC Capital Advisors LP fund
manager Richard Lee, won release on a $500,000 bond.  Aggarwal, 40, formerly worked at Collins Stewart LLC in San
Francisco, said a person familiar with the situation. He made an
initial appearance in federal court in San Francisco on July 30
after being arrested the day before by Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents in San Jose,  California , as part of a probe
tied to insider trading at SAC.  SAC Capital, owned by billionaire Steven Cohen, was
indicted July 25 in what the U.S. called an unprecedented,
decade-long insider trading scheme. That day, Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara announced Lee’s guilty plea and said Lee
was cooperating with prosecutors.  “We continue to review the allegations,” Sam Braverman,
Aggarwal’s lawyer, said in an interview today after court. “The
defendant as promised came to New York to address the charges
directly.”  U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in Manhattan granted
Aggarwal’s release on a personal recognizance bond and ordered
him to surrender all travel documents. Maas also required that
Aggarwal get an additional financially responsible person who is
a U.S. citizen to sign his bond by Aug. 12.  Visit Home  Aggarwal lived in Northern California and had recently
returned home to of Gurgaon,  India , the U.S. said. Braverman
said his client would live in the U.S. while the case is
pending.  In July 2009, Aggarwal provided material nonpublic
information about a strategic partnership in Internet search and
advertising between Microsoft and Yahoo to two different hedge
funds, including SAC, the U.S. alleged in a criminal complaint.  According to the U.S., on July 9, 2009, Aggarwal learned
from a friend employed by Microsoft about the partnership
discussions and that a transaction was likely to be announced
within weeks. The next day, Aggarwal gave the information to
Lee, who was then a portfolio manager at SAC, the U.S. said. He
also passed the information to about 14 traders or hedge fund
managers, the U.S. said.  Aggarwal, who is charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and a second charge of conspiracy to
commit wire fraud, faces as long as 25 years in prison if
convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Aggarwal, 13-mj-01877, and the SAC case
is U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-cr-00541, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  