-- Allianz Quarterly Profit Rises 27% on Non-Life Unit
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-08-02T09:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/allianz-quarterly-profit-rises-27-on-non-life-unit.html
Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest insurer,
posted second-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates after
higher earnings at its non-life and asset management units.  Net income rose 27 percent to 1.59 billion euros ($2.1
billion) from a year earlier, the Munich-based company said in a
 statement  today. That compared with the 1.33 billion-euro
average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Allianz, which was one of nine insurers designated
systemically important by global financial rule makers last
month, confirmed a target for operating profit of 8.7 billion
euros to 9.7 billion euros this year compared with the 9.5
billion euros  reported  for 2012. The company said the upper end
of that target range was “in reach” after reporting profit by
that measure of 5.16 billion euros in the first half.  “The guidance is conservative as the fourth quarter is
seasonally their best one, so everybody is expecting them to
beat their own target range,” said  Peter Eliot , a London-based
analyst at Berenberg Bank with a buy recommendation on the
stock.  Allianz shares  rose  1.4 percent to 120.40 euros at 11:14
a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has gained 15 percent this year,
valuing the company at 55 billion euros. That compares with an
18 percent increase for the 30-company Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index.  European Floods  “Although we faced record floods in  Central Europe ,
persistent low  interest rates  and erratic  capital markets , our
business continued to grow profitably,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael Diekmann said in the statement.  The June floods in Central Europe cut earnings by about 330
million euros, Allianz said. The insurer expects losses of about
200 million euros from a hailstorm that hit parts of  Germany  at
the end of July, it said in the  quarterly report  filed on its
website.  The flooding in May and June was “by far” the most
expensive natural catastrophe in the first half and resulted in
insured losses of more than 3 billion euros, according to
 estimates  by  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer. Total
insured losses of about $13 billion for the first six months of
the year remained below the 10-year average of $22 billion,
according to the reinsurer.  Asset Management  Net income at Allianz’s property and casualty insurance
unit rose 23 percent to 1 billion euros from a year earlier,
while profit at the asset management division advanced 41
percent to 488 million euros.  The asset-management unit, which includes  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., increased
its managed assets by 6.6 percent to 1.86 trillion euros in the
quarter.  Pimco, the world’s largest active fixed-income manager, had
a record $14.5 billion in net redemptions in June across its
U.S. mutual funds. The last time Pimco’s U.S. mutual funds had
net withdrawals was in December 2011, according to Chicago-based
research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , which provided the June
estimate. The redemption was Pimco’s highest since Morningstar
started estimating the monthly flows in February 1993.  “Our Asset Management business has frequently demonstrated
its ability to handle changing situations,” Dieter Wemmer, the
company’s chief financial officer, said in the statement. “With
these good results, the segment shows why it is an important
pillar of our diversified business model.”  Lower Impairments  Allianz’s second quarter profit was boosted by non-operating earnings of 132 million euros after lower impairments
and higher realized gains reversed a year-earlier loss of 151
million euros, the insurer said.  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-largest insurer, today reported a 3
percent decline in first-half net income on costs from floods in
Germany and interest-rate hedging.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (UCG) ,
Italy’s biggest insurer, yesterday reported a 74 percent rise in
second-quarter profit to 478 million euros as higher non-life
earnings outweighed a drop at its life business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  