-- Allstate MBS Suit Against Goldman Saches Is Discontinued
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-08-02T20:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/allstate-mbs-suit-against-goldman-saches-is-discontinued.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) ’s 2011 lawsuit against
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  over the alleged fraudulent sale of
residential mortgage-backed securities has been discontinued,
court records show.  The  insurer  sued Goldman Sachs in state court in  Manhattan 
over the sale of more than $100 million of residential mortgage-backed securities, asking for damages including the lost market
value of the investments. The parties agreed to the suit’s
dismissal, according to a filing yesterday.  Allstate, based in Northbrook,  Illinois , the largest
publicly traded U.S. home and auto insurer, filed similar suits
against lenders including Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley in the same court, also in
2011.  Justice Eileen Bransten in March denied bids by Morgan
Stanley, Deutsche Bank and Bank of America to dismiss the cases.
The insurer and Citigroup agreed to a settlement in May.  Allstate said this week that second-quarter profit climbed
on investment gains and reduced costs tied to natural disasters.  The company didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail
message left on its media line seeking comment on yesterday’s
filing.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment
on it.  The investments, pools of home loans securitized into
bonds, were a central part of the housing bubble that helped
send the U.S. into the biggest recession since the 1930s. The
housing market collapsed, and the crisis swept up lenders and
investment banks as the market for the securities evaporated.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Goldman, Sachs & Co.,
652273/2011,  New York  state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 