-- Man Group Rises as Profit Beats Estimates on GLG Performance
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-08-02T16:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/man-group-rises-after-first-half-profit-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge-fund manager, surged the most in three
months after its first-half earnings beat analysts’ estimates,
helped by higher performance fees at its GLG Partners unit.  Adjusted pretax profit rose 9.8 percent to $134 million,
with fees for investment gains more than tripling to $90
million, the London-based company said in a statement today.
That beat the $84 million pretax profit estimate of RBC Capital
Markets analyst Peter Lenardos and the $95 million forecast by
Barclays Plc analyst Daniel Garrod.  GLG accounted for $59 million of Man Group’s performance
fees as its hedge funds benefited from a calming of the European
sovereign debt crisis and lower correlation between stocks and
bonds, making it easier to pick profitable investments. Man
Group’s assets under management shrank 8.8 percent in the first
half to $52 billion on June 30 amid losses at AHL Diversified,
the firm’s biggest hedge fund.  “The outlook remains, rightly, cautious,” Rae Maile, an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note to clients
today. “AHL’s performance will remain the key driver of the
share price, we are sure, but management does at least deserve
some plaudits for no longer simply waiting for an upturn.”  The stock  jumped 9.5 percent to 91.5 pence in London
trading today, the biggest gain since May 3. The shares have
climbed 10.6 percent this year, valuing the company at about 1.8
billion pounds ($2.8 billion).  Dividend Payout  Man Group said it will pay a first-half dividend of 2.6
cents a share, following company policy of passing on the
company’s management fees to investors. Man Group charges
clients fees for overseeing investments and more lucrative
performance fees for any profits made in its portfolios.  GLG’s main  equity  hedge fund gained 4.7 percent in the
first half of the year, while its fund focused on buying
 distressed  assets in  Europe  rose 5.1 percent. Its main  macro 
fund, which makes wagers based on global macroeconomic trends,
returned 7.2 percent.  Hedge funds  on average  rose  3.4 percent in the first six
months of 2013, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research
Inc. Assets at GLG hedge funds declined by $1 billion to $14.2
billion in the first half.  Man Group’s share price has followed the fortunes of AHL, a
$13.9 billion hedge fund that relies on computer algorithms to
spot profitable trends in  interest rates , bonds, stocks and
currencies.  AHL Reversal  AHL climbed 11 percent through April of this year, boosted
by trends such as a falling  Japanese yen  and rising stock prices
in the U.S. The gains helped trigger a 24 percent increase for
Man Group shares through the first four months of 2013.  AHL then reversed course after U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  began signaling in May that the central
bank may scale back asset purchases, triggering a selloff for
bonds and some currencies. AHL is now down 4.3 percent this year
through July, and Man Group stock has fallen 34 percent since
May 21, when it set its high for the year.  AHL was “hit badly” by Bernanke’s comments on so-called
tapering, Man Group Chief Executive Officer Emmanuel Roman said
on a conference call today.  ‘Renewed Volatility’  Man Group today said it will reduce expenses by a further
$75 million, bringing total cost cuts announced since 2011 to
$270 million. The latest reductions will include closing the
company’s offices in  Singapore , which has “single digit”
employees, Roman said on the conference call.  The company’s asset decline stands in contrast to the
broader hedge-fund industry, which has increased funds under
management by 20 percent to $2.41 trillion since the end of
2011, according to Hedge Fund Research. Investors redeemed $11.5
billion from Man Group’s funds in the first-half of 2013,
offsetting new sales of $6.5 billion.  “Trading conditions remain tough and we do not see any
improvement in the near-term outlook,” Roman, 49, said in Man
Group’s statement. “Investor appetite remained muted as renewed
market volatility tempered investors’ willingness to put their
money to work.”  Man Group has been hurt by the fact that it has few
investors in the U.S., a market that has accounted for about
two-thirds of the flows into hedge funds in recent years,
according to UBS AG analyst Arnaud Giblat.  Roman, 49, has responded to falling assets by cutting
costs, restructuring management and buying back Man Group’s
debt. A slide in Man Group’s share price over the past three
years prompted the company to remove former CEO  Peter Clarke  and
replace him in February with Roman, who had been chief operating
officer. Roman joined Man Group in 2010 as part of the company’s
$1.6 billion acquisition of London-based GLG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  