-- Man Group Clients Pull Funds, Shrinking Assets to $52 Billion
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-08-02T06:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/man-group-clients-pull-funds-shrinking-assets-to-52-billion.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge-fund manager, said clients pulled money
from the firm in the first half, reducing assets under
management by 8.8 percent to $52 billion.  Investors redeemed $11.5 billion from Man Group’s funds,
offsetting new sales of $6.5 billion, the London-based company
said in a statement today. Barclays Plc analyst Daniel Garrod
estimated that assets would fall to $51.6 billion.  Man Group shares have plunged 38 percent from their 2013
high reached in May, putting renewed pressure on Chief Executive
Officer Emmanuel Roman to stem client outflows and boost
investment returns. AHL Diversified, the firm’s biggest hedge
fund, which holds $16.3 billion of assets, posted losses in the
second quarter as bonds and currencies fell amid signs the U.S.
Federal Reserve may scale back asset purchases.  “Trading conditions remain tough and we do not see any
improvement in the near-term outlook,” Roman said in the
statement. “Investor appetite remained muted as renewed market
volatility tempered investors’ willingness to put their money to
work.”  AHL, which relies on computer algorithms to spot profitable
 trends  in  interest rates , bonds, stocks and currencies, has
fallen 4.3 percent this year through July. After posting gains
through April, the fund started losing money when Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may begin curtailing
fixed-income purchases. AHL declined 2.1 percent in 2012 and 5.5
percent in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tapering Impact  AHL was “hit badly” by Bernanke’s comments on so-called
tapering, Roman said on a conference call today.  Man Group’s asset decline stands in contrast to the broader
hedge-fund industry, which has increased funds under management
by 20 percent to $2.41 trillion since the end of 2011, according
to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. Man Group has been
hurt by the fact that it has few investors in the U.S., which
has accounted for about two-thirds of the flows into hedge funds
in recent years, according to UBS AG analyst Arnaud Giblat.  Roman, 49, has responded to declining assets by reducing
costs, restructuring management and buying back Man Group’s
debt. A slide in Man Group’s share price over the past three
years prompted the company to remove former CEO  Peter Clarke  and
replace him in February with Roman, who had been chief operating
officer. Roman joined Man Group in 2010 as part of the company’s
$1.6 billion acquisition of GLG Partners Inc., a London-based
hedge fund and investment firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  