-- Apple Seeks Obama Reprieve on IPhone Import Ban
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/apple-seeks-obama-reprieve-on-iphone-import-ban.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may learn as early as
today whether President  Barack Obama  and U.S. Trade
Representative Michael Froman will intervene to let it keep
selling all versions of its iPhone 4 and iPad 2 in the U.S.  Obama and Froman have until midnight Washington time on
Aug. 4 to overturn an import ban imposed by the U.S.
International Trade Commission, which found June 4 that some
older Apple devices infringed a  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  patent
for a way data is transmitted.  No president has overturned an ITC import ban since Ronald Reagan did it in 1987, in a case involving Samsung. Cupertino,
California-based Apple is counting on Obama’s increased interest
in patent disputes to win another exception.  “I would hope that if he decides to wade in, that he would
do so in a way that aims for more reasonable and coherent
intellectual property policies to remove some of the
gamesmanship,” said Charles Golvin, an analyst with Forrester
Research. “That would be a lot more helpful than if it was seen
as protecting a U.S. company versus a Korean one.”  If no action is taken by the deadline, Apple would have to
stop selling the affected devices on its website and its stores,
and wouldn’t be able to bring any new devices into the U.S.
Phones and tablets already on store shelves for companies like
AT&T Inc. or  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  could remain for sale.  The import ban applies to the iPhone 4 and iPad 2 3G models
designed for networks run by AT&T, T-Mobile US Inc. and two
regional carriers in Texas and  Alaska .  IPhone 4 models sold for other networks weren’t impacted,
nor were newer devices including the iPad mini and iPhone 5.
Apple counts on older iPhone models, often given away with a
two-year contract, to entice people it hopes will become loyal
customers.  Ecosystem Enticement  “They rely on some of the older models to feed the
ecosystem and get people into the wonderful world of Apple,”
said  Will Stofega , program director at researcher IDC in
Framingham,  Massachusetts .  Sales of older models helped Apple top analysts’ earnings
projections in the fiscal third quarter. The company is expected
to release updated versions of the iPhone and iPad later this
year.  “The smartphone market at the high-end is largely
saturated,” Golvin said. “Anyone who is well-heeled and wants
one already has one. It’s the latecomers, for whom price is all-important, that are the ones who are still out there. Not having that
product to sell to those customers would be a big impediment.”  Standard Patents  The Samsung patent is for a way data is transmitted over
communications networks. It’s a feature in a widely used
technological standard established by a number of companies.  Companies that get together to establish industry standards
have the advantage of ensuring their inventions are included in
that standard so everyone uses them. In turn, they pledge to
license any relevant patents on “fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory” terms.  Obama’s administration in January sent the ITC proposed
guidelines to consider before issuing import bans based on a
finding that standard-essential patents were infringed.  It said that while patent owners have the right to exclude
others from using their inventions, the public benefit of
allowing that is limited when it comes to standards patents. The
U.S. Federal Trade Commission filed a similar paper with the
agency last year.  ‘Unwilling Licensee’  Four senators wrote to Froman on July 30, asking him to
“assess the substantial public interest considerations”
regarding the use of standard-essential patents at the ITC. The
senators were Democrats Amy Klobuchar of  Minnesota  and Barbara Boxer of  California , and Republicans Mike Lee of Utah and James Risch of  Idaho .  Apple and Microsoft Corp. have promised not to use any
patents they have on industry standards to block competing
products. Samsung and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which owns Motorola Mobility
and the Android operating system that’s the most popular
platform for mobile phones, reserved the right to use them if
the other side is considered an “unwilling licensee.”  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, said Apple has
refused to negotiate licensing terms, and overturning the trade
agency’s finding of infringement would “create incentives for
implementers to unreasonably refuse to negotiate.”  Samsung demanded 2.4 percent of Apple’s iPhone and iPad
revenues, which would come to about $18 per phone -- a figure
Apple called unreasonable.  Global Outlier  Companies won’t want to create new products that comply
with industry standards if they fear a patent owner demanding
high royalties, Apple argued in its filing with the trade
representative. It said the ITC was an “outlier internationally
and domestically” on the issue.  Samsung, which is under investigation by European
regulators on allegations of patent misuse, agreed to not seek
sales bans based on any of its standard-essential patents on
that continent. It made no such promise in the U.S. and defended
its position, saying Apple refused to a licensing deal on any
terms.  Two U.S. judges have said Google’ Motorola Mobility unit
can’t use standard-essential patents to seek bans of products.  One of those rulings, against Apple, is scheduled for
arguments at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
in Washington on Sept. 11. The other involves a  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
breach-of-contract complaint against Google that’s scheduled for
trial in  Seattle  later this month.  Apple can ask that court to put the current order on hold
until the underlying infringement finding is reviewed. While the
Federal Circuit doesn’t often grant such requests, it might in
this case because of the case coming up in September, said
Rodney Sweetland, a patent lawyer with Duane Morris in
Washington.  The Apple case against Samsung is In the Matter of
Electronic Digital Media Devices, 337-796, and Samsung’s case is
In the Matter of Electronic Devices, Including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computers, 337-794, both U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  