-- Audi Plans to Upgrade A8 Sedan to Rival Mercedes S-Class
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-08-02T13:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/audi-plans-to-upgrade-a8-sedan-to-rival-mercedes-s-class.html
Audi AG, the world’s second-biggest
maker of  luxury vehicles , will upgrade the top-of-the-line A8
later this year to compete with a new generation of the
Mercedes-Benz S-Class.  The Audi luxury sedan will be equipped with new LED
headlights as part of its push to set a new sales record this
year, the Ingolstadt, Germany-based unit of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said
today in a statement. The carmaker also plans to outfit A3
models with high-speed wireless technology to boost appeal.  Audi reiterated today that revenue will increase
“slightly” this year on demand for the Q3 and Q5 sport-utility
vehicles and the revamped A3 line, which is being expanded to
include a sedan version. The carmaker, which has a goal of
surpassing  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  in sales by the end of
the decade, plans to sell more than 1.5 million autos for the
first time in 2013, two years earlier than its initial target.  “We’re investing heavily in new products, developing
leading-edge technology and expanding our global production
network,” Chief Financial Officer Axel Strotbek said in the
statement. “Despite challenging economic conditions, we’re
sticking to our goals,” including operating profit at the upper
end of its range of 8 percent to 10 percent of sales.  Higher Spending  Audi’s investments will be higher in the second half of the
year than in the first six months. The company plans boost
expenditures even further over the next two years, Strotbek said
at a press briefing in Munich.  The VW unit will invest 11 billion euros ($14.5 billion) by
2015 to increase production and widen its model lineup in
pursuit of BMW, according to figures previously released by the
company.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes is expanding as well, adding entry-level models like the CLA compact four-door coupe, which will
challenge the A3 sedan. The brand’s sales surged 20 percent in
July on new compact models and a refreshed version of the E-Class mid-sized sedan. Mercedes is targeting 1.4 million
deliveries this year.  To hold off Mercedes and overtake BMW, Audi is seeking to
boost sales in the lucrative executive-sedan segment, where it
trails competitors. The carmaker delivered 38,600 A8s last year,
compared with 80,300 S-Class vehicles and 59,200 BMW 7-Series
cars. The updated A8 is due to hit showrooms as soon as
November.  Audi may sell 2 million cars a year before its target date
of 2020, sales chief Luca de Meo said today in Munich. Audi has
reached previous sales targets ahead of schedule and could also
achieve this one “sooner,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  