-- Australia to Issue Dark Pool, High Frequency Rule Changes
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-08-02T11:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/australia-to-issue-dark-pool-high-frequency-rule-changes.html
Dark pool operators in  Australia  will
have to give investors the choice to opt out of trading in their
systems and operate by a common set of procedures that do not
discriminate between users, according to the government.  Details of the new rules will be released next week, Justin
Koek, media adviser to Australia’s Assistant Treasurer David Bradbury said in an e-mailed statement today. Changes will come
into effect in stages during the next nine months, according to
a statement from Bradbury’s office. The  Australian Securities
and Investments Commission  will issue guidance to clarify the
new rules, the release said. Dark pools are private venues that
don’t display prices until after trades take place.  Dark pool volumes have plunged in Australia since the
introduction of a rule enacted May 26 requiring any trades done
through the venues to have a better price than the public
market. Dark trading had accounted for 25 percent to 30 percent
of Australian equity market volume, according to an ASIC study
released in March.  “These rules provide improved investor protection in dark
pools by requiring dark pool operators to improve transparency
of their market’s operation and restricting preferential
treatment for some investors,” Bradbury, also minister for
competition policy and consumer affairs,  said in the statement.
“The rules also improve market integrity by harmonizing market
manipulation rules across licensed markets.”  Other new measures include mandated public disclosure of
information, client disclosure on the details of a dark pool’s
operations, the extension of existing automated order processing
rules to dark pools, notification to clients and the regulator
about system issues, improved management of conflict of interest
issues and prohibition of negative commissions as payment for
order flow.  Under the stewardship of Chairman Greg Medcraft, ASIC has
proposed that operators of crossing systems that match orders
away from the public exchange must make information about their
system publicly available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  