-- Budget Blows Out as Australia’s Rudd Prepares for Vote: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-08-02T05:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/australia-sees-a-33-billion-shortfall-as-growth-slows-sky-says.html
Australia ’s budget deficit will blow
out to A$30.1 billion ($26.8 billion) this fiscal year, limiting
the scope for Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  and opposition leader
 Tony Abbott  to embark on a spending spree in an election
campaign that may be announced this weekend.  Treasurer Chris Bowen today projected a revenue shortfall
of A$33.3 billion over the next four years from forecasts 2 1/2
months ago. The government cut its growth estimate this fiscal
year to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent seen May 14 and said
unemployment will rise to a more than decade-high 6.25 percent.  “Faster than expected falls in commodity prices have
resulted in a weaker outlook for company tax,” Bowen said in a
statement. “The government has made the clear decision to allow
the tax write-downs to flow through to the budget balance.”  Rudd’s  Labor party  is framing the looming election as a
battle between David Cameron-style austerity from the opposition
and its own program that allows the deficit to widen as it
prioritizes jobs and economic growth. Labor has closed the gap
in opinion polls since Rudd regained the leadership five weeks
ago and may call an election for as early as Sept. 7.  “Rudd is really trying to ensure that there are no harsh
cuts in the economy, and that is perfectly within the Labor
tradition,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst and
lecturer in politics at Melbourne’s  Monash University . “Labor
is trying to discredit the coalition over austerity measures,
which are never popular. It’s a useful weapon against them.”  Smaller Deficit  Australia’s 2013-14 deficit will amount to 1.9 percent of
GDP, the statement showed. That compares with a U.S. deficit
equivalent to 5.4 percent of the economy in 2014, Japan’s
shortfall of 7 percent and the euro area’s gap of 2.6 percent of
GDP in the period, according to the International Monetary
Fund’s  fiscal monitor  in April.  “Announcing the revenue shortfall now gets that out of the
way and the government will hope it doesn’t become an election
issue by announcing it this early ahead of the formal election
campaign,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research
at TD Securities in  Singapore . “Growth this far below trend --
even if trend is now 3 percent -- certainly does mean the labor
market is likely to be weaker for longer and the  Reserve Bank 
has some further heavy lifting to do.”  Investors are pricing in a 93 percent chance the  Reserve
Bank of Australia  will cut the benchmark  interest rate  by a
quarter percentage point to a fresh record 2.5 percent at its
Aug. 6 meeting, according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Australian dollar traded at 89.09 U.S. cents at 3:15 p.m. in
Sydney, from 88.92 cents before  Sky News  announced the revenue
shortfall an hour before Treasury’s release.  ‘Conservative Approach’  Standard & Poor’s  said today’s statement is consistent with
its view that the government “will continue to take a
conservative approach” to public finances in the medium term.  “With the government taking further action to improve the
budget position over the forecast period, we expect government
debt to remain low,” said Craig Michaels, a Melbourne-based
sovereign analyst at S&P. “In our view, the government has the
flexibility and willingness to address further revenue pressures
that arise going forward.”  A 2016-17 surplus projection was cut to A$4 billion from
the A$6.6 billion seen in May, the documents show. The 2014-15
deficit is now expected to be A$24 billion and the 2015-16
shortfall is now seen at A$4.7 billion, from a balance forecast
in the May 14 budget handed down by Bowen’s predecessor  Wayne
Swan .  Tobacco Tax  To raise receipts, the government will increase tobacco
taxes by A$5.3 billion; save A$1.8 billion by tightening tax
breaks for business car use; target A$827 million of unpaid tax
and pension savings; and charge banks a fee for  deposit
insurance . The government’s decision to scrap the fixed carbon
price and bring forward the start date of emissions to July 1,
2014, will cost the budget approximately A$3.8 billion over the
forward estimates, while offshore asylum seeker management costs
will be A$1.3 billion higher than seen in May.  Rudd is selling himself as the best leader to steer
Australia through a downturn as he flags the end of a China-led
mining boom, ditching the optimism of predecessor  Julia Gillard .
As employers including Ford Motor Co. cut jobs, and the central
bank says growth is likely to remain below trend in the near
term, Rudd’s language has put him more in tune with voters.  Treasury is predicting an unemployment rate of 6.25 percent
at June 30, 2014, versus 5.75 percent seen in May. A  jobless
figure  of that level would be the highest in more than 10 years.  Abbott Attacks  With signs of a slowdown in the world’s 12th-largest
economy, including a waning mining boom, Abbott’s conservative
coalition has attacked Labor’s economic management as it seeks
to win office for the first time since 2007.  “Australia is undergoing an economic transition,” Bowen
told reporters in Canberra after the release of the statement.
“This transition is brought about by the Chinese mining
investment boom coming to an end.”  Elsewhere in  Asia , Indonesia’s economy expanded less than
economists estimated in the second quarter.  The U.S. probably added 185,000 jobs in July, and the
jobless rate may have fallen to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent the
previous month, economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted.  Euro-area producer prices probably rose in June from a year
earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey, while U.K. house
prices may have climbed in July, a separate survey showed ahead
of a report by  Nationwide Building Society .  Rudd Return  Labor has made up ground since Rudd’s return, after
trailing the coalition by 14 percentage points in a poll
conducted before be defeated Gillard on June 26 in a leadership
ballot. The coalition took a 52 percent to 48 percent lead on a
two-party preferred basis in a Newspoll published in The
Australian on July 23.  Newspoll surveyed 1,141 people and the poll had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. The two-party
preferred measure is designed to gauge which party is most
likely to form government under the country’s preferential
voting system.  Rudd, 55, is burnishing his record as leader through the
2007-2009 financial crisis, when Australia sustained growth as
much of the developed world slid into recession. An election
must be held by Nov. 30, and could come as early as Sept. 7 if
Rudd calls the ballot this weekend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  