-- Australia Resources Boost Japan Traders’ Profits as Energy Lags
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-08-02T07:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/australia-resources-boost-japan-traders-profits-as-energy-lags.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Mitsui & Co.,
 Japan ’s two biggest trading houses, posted their best quarterly
earnings in as many as two years as their Australian coal and
iron ore operations recovered.  Faced by slowing Chinese growth, Mitsubishi cut costs at
coal mines it owns with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and sold more cars in
Asia on the back of a weaker yen, to grow net income 15 percent
to 115.7 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in the three months ended
June 30, the Tokyo-based company said today in a statement. That
was its highest profit in six quarters.  Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest trader, said the yen’s
decline boosted gross profit from mining led by iron ore 22
percent in the period, helping the Tokyo-based company raise net
income by 20 percent to 125.8 billion yen. That’s the highest in
two years.  “The global economy continues its recovery, albeit at a
very slow pace,” Mitsui said in a statement today. While iron
ore entered a bull market last week as  China  replenished stocks,
the world’s second-largest economy is “clearly shifting its
policy focus from the pace of growth to the sustainability of
growth,” Mitsui said.  Even as the pace of China’s growth falters along with other
emerging economies, more advanced economies are gaining in
strength to compensate, Mitsui said.  Sells More  The company sold more oil, grain, iron ore and
petrochemicals in the three months to July, it said. “The price
for iron ore, coal, oil and other commodities is lower than last
year, but with higher volumes of iron ore production and the
weaker yen we’ve been able to offset this in some way,”
Mitsui’s Chief Financial Officer Jiji Okada said at a briefing
in Tokyo.  “A modest recovery” in the U.S. and in Japan under Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe is improving trade volumes, according to
Mitsubishi, whose own consolidated operating transactions rose
13 percent to 5.4 trillion yen in the first quarter.  The two trading firms fared worse in energy. Mitsui said it
wrote down 3.3 billion yen on an investment in an unnamed
liquefied natural gas project because of a decline in its value.  Writedowns from shale gas and lower dividends from energy
projects outside Japan pushed Mitsubishi’s energy segment, its
biggest earner, down 11.8 billion yen to 42.5 billion yen, the
company said.  Itochu Corp. (8001) , Japan’s third-largest trader, said yesterday
it booked about 3 billion yen in impairment losses on North
American shale gas assets. The company’s profit rose 9.4 percent
to 77.3 billion yen in the quarter to July based on rising
machinery sales and contributions from the Dole canned fruit and
Asian fresh vegetables business, which it bought this year.  While Japanese trading houses are expanding in businesses
such as medicine and retail to lessen the impact of volatile
metal and energy prices, commodities are still their biggest
profit drivers.  Energy and metals made up more than 73 percent of Mitsui’s
and more than 51 percent of Mitsubishi’s profit last quarter. At
Itochu, it accounted for less than 32 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  