-- Australia Leads England by 475 Runs in Third Ashes Cricket Test
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-02T17:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/australia-reaches-392-5-against-england-in-ashes-cricket-test.html
Australia leads England by 475 runs
after declaring in its first innings on day two of the third
Ashes cricket Test.  Captain  Michael Clarke  scored 187 to lead Australia to
527-7 at Old Trafford in Manchester. Mitchell Starc was 66 not
out and  Brad Haddin  was on 65 when Clarke ended the innings and
put England in to bat.  Peter Siddle  dismissed Joe Root and night watchman  Tim Bresnan  as England was 52-2 at the close of play. Captain
Alastair Cook is 36 not out with Jonathan Trott on two.  Australia resumed on 303-3 this morning and Clarke and
 Steven Smith  added 40 runs to the total before Graeme Swann
broke through after about an hour of play. Smith went for a big
shot and was caught by Jonny Bairstow for 89 to end a 214-run
partnership, the highest fourth-wicket total ever at Old
Trafford.  David Warner  then came in for Australia to boos from the
home fans. Warner missed the first two Tests after serving a
suspension for punching Root in a bar last month during the
Champions Trophy tournament.  He lasted just 10 balls before his edge ricocheted off the
leg of wicketkeeper Matt Prior and was easily caught by Trott.
Warner called for video review, which confirmed his dismissal to
the delight of the England fans.  Haddin received a reprieve when his under-edge was dropped
by Prior, who could only get one hand to the ball as he dived to
his left after initially moving the other way and the visitors
would go to lunch on 392-5.  Clark fell 13 short of his double-century after the break
when he was dismissed by  Stuart Broad , who took his 200th Test
wicket. Swann claimed his fifth wicket by bowling out Siddle to
leave Australia 430-7. Haddin and Starc then teamed for a 97-run
stand before Clarke declared.  Siddle then dismissed Root and Bresnan, both caught behind
by wicketkeeper Haddin. Bresnan chatted briefly with Cook about
reviewing before walking off and television replays showed he
missed the ball, which hit his trousers.  England won the first two games of the five-Test series and
would claim the Ashes for the third straight time with a draw or
victory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 