-- Maybank Names Farid CEO After Najib Taps Wahid for Cabinet
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-08-02T09:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/maybank-names-abdul-farid-ceo-after-najib-taps-wahid-for-cabinet.html
Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) ,  Malaysia ’s
biggest lender, promoted Abdul Farid Alias to become chief
executive officer after his predecessor was tapped by Prime
Minister Najib Razak to become a government minister.  Abdul Farid, the bank’s current head of global banking,
will take up the new post with immediate effect, Maybank
Chairman Megat Zaharuddin Megat Mohd Nor said in a statement in
Kuala Lumpur today.  “We need somebody with a strategic mindset to take us to
the next higher level,” Megat told reporters in the Malaysian
capital. “We need somebody who could take bold decisions to
move ahead.”  The Kuala Lumpur-based lender has accelerated its overseas
expansion, buying a controlling stake in PT Bank Internasional
 Indonesia  in 2008 and Singapore brokerage Kim Eng Holdings Ltd.
in 2011. Abdul Farid, 45, will be expected to complete Maybank’s
goal of having a footprint in all 10 Southeast Asian countries
by 2015, including possibly making an acquisition in  Thailand .
It also owns smaller stakes of lenders in Vietnam and Pakistan.  Abdul Farid started his career at Maybank’s investment
banking unit in 1992 after graduating from  Pennsylvania State
University  with an accounting degree and University of Denver
with an MBA in Finance, according to the company. He rejoined
the bank in 2009 after serving as a director of investments at
Khazanah Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state wealth company.  ‘Psyching Myself’  He was selected after a review of both internal and
external candidates, Megat said. Abdul Farid said he was
informed of his appointment at about 11 a.m. today during a
management committee meeting.  “I’ve been psyching myself up for this,” he told
reporters in Kuala Lumpur.  Maybank shares have risen 12 percent this year,
outperforming a 5.5 percent gain in the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index. The stock closed 0.8 percent lower today at 10.32 ringgit
before the appointment was announced.  Abdul Wahid Omar, who led Maybank for five years, was
appointed a minister in the Prime Minister’s Department
overseeing the country’s Economic Planning Unit after Najib’s
government was returned to power in Malaysia’s May 5 general
election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji in  Hong Kong  at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  