-- Banks Replacing Enron in Energy Incite Congress as Abuses Abound
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-08-02T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/banks-replacing-enron-in-energy-incite-congress-as-abuses-abound.html
The U.S. government permitted Wall
Street firms to expand in the  energy industry  a decade ago, when
the collapse of Enron Corp. and its army of traders left a void
in the market. The results aren’t pretty.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  settled  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  claims this week that employees engaged in 12 bidding
schemes to wrest tens of millions of dollars from power-grid
operators. A  Barclays Plc (BARC)  trader stands accused of bragging he
“totally fukked” with a Southwest energy market. Deutsche Bank
AG workers, faced with losses on a contract, allegedly altered
electricity flows to make it profitable instead.  The FERC’s investigations are fueling a debate among
lawmakers and the  Federal Reserve  over whether to reverse more
than a decade of policy decisions that let Wall Street banks
keep or build units handling commodities and energy. Senators
examining the firms’ roles have said they may call bankers and
watchdogs to a September hearing amid concern traders are
abusing their ability to buy and sell physical products while
betting on related financial instruments.  Banks have been seen as “sources of  capital investment  and
market liquidity,” said Marc Spitzer, a partner at law firm
Steptoe & Johnson LLP in Washington and a former FERC
commissioner. “But the tradition and culture of large banks is
different than the conservative and risk-averse culture of
regulated utilities.”  Rolling Blackouts  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender, announced last week that
it’s considering ways to exit the physical commodities business,
which includes energy trading. The New York-based company, led
by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 57, will pay a $285
million fine and disgorge $125 million in gains to settle the
FERC’s  case  without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  “We’re pleased to have this matter behind us,”  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for the firm, said as the accord was
announced.  “It is up to Congress, and not FERC, to decide if banks
should continue to be allowed to participate,” FERC Chairman
Jon Wellinghoff said in an e-mailed statement. “We welcome
anybody in the markets who wants to play in those markets
fairly, whether it be banks, traditional utilities or other
traders. We just want to make sure that they play by the
rules.”  Details of Enron’s market abuses surfaced in the years
after the world’s biggest power trader collapsed in an
accounting fraud in 2001. The company, whose actions led to
rolling blackouts in California, eventually reached a $1.5
billion settlement with state authorities, while employees
pleaded guilty to criminal charges.  Enron’s Void  To prevent future misconduct, a congressional overhaul of
U.S. energy policies gave the FERC additional enforcement powers
in 2005, setting the stage for the current jump in cases.  Enron’s fall left a hole in the market. Utilities and
companies needed more stable and dependable power brokers for
their transactions. Banks, with relatively strong balance sheets
and credit ratings, were among companies that saw an
opportunity. Congress already had loosened energy-market
restrictions in the 1990s, as well as a ban on banks’
involvement in commercial businesses in 1999. Regulators let
firms proceed.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest lender, bought Enron’s
energy-trading business in 2002, later shrinking the unit. That
same year,  Bank of America Corp.  also won the FERC’s approval to
make electricity transactions. Altogether, more than 50 firms
including banks filed applications with the FERC from December
2001 through February 2003 to make trades in that market.  Edison’s Backer  “Banks have assumed a prominent role in energy trading
since the collapse of Enron and other energy marketers, in part,
because financial institutions generally have significant
financial assets to back their trades,” said Richard Drom, a
partner at law firm Andrews Kurth LLP who focuses on energy
regulation. “Such trading can improve energy markets by
promoting market liquidity and energy price transparency.”  JPMorgan’s website  credits a predecessor  of the bank with
helping bring about the advent of electricity by financing
Thomas Edison’s research. In 2005, a unit of the company won
FERC approval to provide power in wholesale electricity markets,
according to the agency. Three years later, the firm inherited
U.S. energy holdings and sales arrangements, including  power
plants  in Southern California and Michigan, through its
acquisition of failing investment bank Bear Stearns Cos.  The FERC found that J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp., a
unit overseen by commodities chief Blythe Masters, engaged in 12
separate bidding strategies from 2010 to 2012. Ten allegedly
began while the agency’s probe was in progress.  Profits Predicted  The bank controlled older power plants that had marginal
costs that were typically higher than the market prices of
electricity, according to its  consent agreement  with the FERC.
To ensure their profitability, the firm sought to exploit 
pricing rules, the agency wrote.  JPMorgan used strategies such as offering below-market
rates for some hours of energy production, then charging
exorbitantly high rates for hours that state bidders agreed to
pay for the plants to “ramp” production, according to the
FERC.  Masters, 44, was told in an October 2010 document that the
firm’s bidding strategies would enable it to produce $1.5
billion to $2 billion in gains through 2018, according to the
FERC. She wasn’t accused of wrongdoing. The company’s settlement
releases her from any future FERC enforcement actions in the
case.  Enron Worse  Some JPMorgan bidding tactics were similar to abuses that
occurred in the Enron era, FERC Chairman Wellinghoff said in an
interview this week.  “That doesn’t mean that they are as widespread or that
they are resulting in the level of consumer losses that we saw
during that period,” he said.  A recent jump in the watchdog’s cases targeting a variety
of companies stems from the additional authority Congress
granted its investigators in 2005. Wellinghoff has said that the
agency isn’t seeking to single out Wall Street firms.  “We now have a very sophisticated and very deep
enforcement team” able to identify and stop market manipulation
swiftly, he said in the interview.  The FERC’s case against Barclays and Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank centered on their alleged abuse of power-market
influence to benefit related positions on financial instruments.  Barclays Fighting  At Barclays, the FERC’s  investigators found  traders made
transactions in fixed-price electricity products -- often at a
loss -- with the intent of moving an index to benefit the
London-based bank’s other bets on swaps. The regulator’s staff
estimated that the abuses, spanning 2006 to 2008, caused $139
million “in harm to the market.”  Barclays has said the FERC’s accusations are without basis.
The firm has vowed to fight an order that it pay $469.9 million
in penalties and forfeited profits. Swaps allow investors to
hedge or speculate on changes in underlying assets such as
 interest rates , currencies or the ability of a borrower to repay
debt.  Deutsche Bank agreed to pay the FERC more than $1.6 million
in January without admitting or denying wrongdoing. The bank was
accused of moving electricity to benefit its position on
financial instruments known as congestion revenue rights.  Enron employees targeted by prosecutors took a direct
approach: They sought to drive up electricity prices to squeeze
more money out of power-starved utilities, businesses and
consumers. Wholesale power prices soared and electricity
supplies dwindled, leaving millions of Californians to suffer
blackouts in 2001. The state’s two largest utilities became
insolvent.  Enron Testimony  The focus on derivatives in some of the bank probes echoes
at least one Enron case. In 2004, Enron  settled  claims brought
by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that employees
rapidly bought up natural gas in the  spot market , creating
“artificial” prices for natural gas futures contracts.  That behavior helped make Enron a repeat topic during a
Senate Banking Committee subcommittee hearing on July 23 to
examine whether banks are abusing their roles in  commodities
markets .  “There is at least a very plausible argument that Enron
was the pioneer in discovering a business model” that combined
the handling of physical commodities and derivatives bets, Saule
T. Omarova, a law professor at the University of  North Carolina 
at  Chapel Hill , told the Senate panel. “Once that model was
discovered, that model was up for the taking.”  The notion that some firms are emulating Enron “suggests
that this movie does not end well,” Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said at the hearing. It shows “we are
now putting more and more risk into this system.”  ‘Grandma Millie’  The cases against banks in the past year have resurrected
concerns that traders are disregarding markets and consumers.  Enron workers were caught on audiotapes as they discussed
tactics with code names like “Death Star” and “Fat Boy” that
could be used to take advantage of consumers, whom they termed
“Grandma Millie.” In that case, prosecutors said employees
used a variety of strategies, such as creating artificial
congestion on transmission lines so that Enron could earn
additional fees for relieving the crunch.  One Barclays trader accused of manipulating prices in the
U.S. Southwest wrote in an internal message that he had
“totally fukked with the Palo mrkt today,” the FERC said in an
 order  this month. Another trader wrote that he was “trying to
drive price in fin direction,” referring to transactions he
made to benefit derivatives positions, the agency said.  At Odds  The claims against banks are fueling a regulatory debate
that may push those firms back out of certain markets. The Fed
said July 19 that it’s reviewing a 2003 decision that physical
commodities are “complementary” to banking, allowing lenders
such as JPMorgan to operate in both industries. Such a reversal
would demonstrate authorities’ growing discomfort with allowing
complex trading strategies into markets that ultimately heat
people’s homes.  Banks’ and utilities’ interests are fundamentally at odds,
with financial firms earning more from volatility and consumers
needing stability, said Miki Kolobara, a Phoenix-based attorney
who specializes in energy-trading cases. Banks’ hunt for gains
will gravitate to derivatives, where profits are theoretically
unlimited, rather than in  power lines  and physical
infrastructure, where returns are capped by regulators, he said.  Electricity and natural gas -- the two main commodities
under the FERC’s oversight -- are areas in which banks should
tread carefully, because the government is wary of practices
that hurt people’s ability to meet basic needs.  “Trading in energy requires not just expertise, but also
an awareness of a highly complex regulatory structure,” said
 Harvey Pitt , the SEC chairman during Enron’s collapse. “If
traders view energy as just another commodity, then they will
find themselves on the wrong side of FERC.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keri Geiger in  New York  at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  