-- Bank Bonds Recapture Pre-Crisis Glory as Undulations Ebb
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-08-02T15:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/bank-bonds-recapture-glory-as-undulations-ebb-credit-markets.html
Bonds of Wall Street’s biggest banks
are the least volatile since the credit crisis as confidence
mounts that new regulations aimed at reducing leverage have made
the financial system safer.  Relative yields on dollar-denominated bank notes withstood
the selloff in May and June better than in any downturn since
2008, widening 1.3 times as much as the broader corporate  bond
market , compared with 3 times at the peak of the credit seizure,
according to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  data. Average spreads on financial
bonds of firms from Morgan Stanley to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) 
outperformed industrial debt last month by the most since
November, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Five years after the crisis that led governments worldwide
to bail out the banking system, investors are regaining faith in
its debt as lenders reduce holdings of riskier assets and cut
proprietary trading units in response to higher  capital
requirements  and new rules. Strategists at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and Barclays are recommending investment-grade bond buyers hold
the notes even after they beat industrials by almost 10
percentage points since the end of 2011.  “Prior to the financial crisis banks were very low beta,
banks were considered by the market to be very safe,” said Hans Mikkelsen, head of U.S. investment-grade credit strategy at Bank
of America in  New York . “That’s where we’re going once again.”  Favoring Banks  Bank bonds were considered safer than industrials in the 10
years before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy ignited
the worst credit crisis since the Great Depression, with
investors demanding less extra yield over government debt to own
them. In the four years after Sept. 15, 2008, their relative
yields were an average 117 basis points wider than industrials,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The gap has
shrunk to 8 basis points as of July 31.  Buyers have been gravitating back to the notes as they view
rising interest rates as a bigger risk than a disruption to the
banking system with Federal Reserve policy makers debating when
to taper stimulus that’s pushed borrowing costs to record lows.
In addition to strengthening balance sheets, financial debt
typically has shorter maturities than industrial notes, reducing
its sensitivity to rising interest rates.  Ford Bonds  “From a bondholder’s point of view, it’s going to be good
having those stronger capital withholding requirements,” said
Brian Machan, a Des Moines, Iowa-based  money manager  at Aviva
Investors North America In. who helps oversee $433 billion and
is overweight bank bonds. “With the steeper Treasury curve,
that’s going to help banks too. We have liked the banking
sector.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. decreased, with the
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declining 1.1 basis points to a mid-price of
73.2 basis points as of 11:44 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.1 basis point to 17.4 basis points as
of 11:44 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors seek
the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when
they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s biggest
brokerage, are the most actively traded dollar-denominated
corporate securities by dealers today, accounting for 3.9
percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more as
of 11:45 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Debt of New York-based Morgan Stanley and Macquarie,
Australia’s largest investment bank, led a 1 percent return for
dollar-denominated bank bonds in July, compared with a 0.6
percent return on industrials, Bank of America data show. Morgan
Stanley’s notes generated excess returns of 1.8 percent while
Macquarie’s were up 1.7 percent.  Basel Rules  “If I had to pick a sector of the investment-grade
corporate-bond market that was most attractive, I’d point to
financials,” said Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in  San
Diego  with LPL Financial Corp., which oversees $350 billion.
“Financials have attractive fundamentals, improving  credit
quality  metrics and valuations are more compelling relative to
industrials.”  To help prevent another financial seizure, the 27-country
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  voted to raise minimum
capital requirements in 2010 and  U.S. Congress  passed the Dodd-Frank Act seeking to limit banks’ trading with their own money.  The 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed cut their
corporate-debt holdings by 76 percent from the peak in 2007
through the end of March, Fed  data show .  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest bank, said on July 30 that
it already meets more stringent global standards on leverage, a
day after Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays announced plans to
shrink.  Improving Fundamentals  Bank of America , the second-largest  U.S. bank , estimated
last month that its ratios of capital to total assets are close
to the proposed U.S. minimum, and Lloyds Banking Group Plc said
yesterday it will seek to resume dividends, five years after
receiving a taxpayer bailout.  Revenue at the six biggest U.S. banks climbed to $215
billion during the first six months of the year, compared with
$208 billion for the same period in 2012, Bloomberg data show.
It was the first time revenue rose during the period since 2009
and came as  consumer confidence  improved, the housing market
rebounded and stocks reached record highs.  “Bank fundamentals have continued to improve quite
significantly over the past couple of years,” said Shobhit
Gupta, a strategist at Barclays in New York. “The lower
volatility is, the better the risk-adjusted return.”  Investment-grade bonds in the U.S. posted their worst
monthly loss since October 2008 in June as Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the central bank may start dialing down its $85
billion monthly bond purchasing program this year. The comments
sparked declines from bonds to stocks as investors weighed the
possibility of an end to easing that’s suppressed borrowing
costs and pushed investors into riskier assets.  Europe Crisis  During May and June, relative yields on financial debt
increased by 19 basis points, 11 basis points more than the
increase in industrial spreads, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  In the first three months of 2009, bank bonds deepened
their slump with their relative yields widening 127 basis points
even as industrial spreads contracted by 95, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Relative yields on financial notes widened 142 basis points
more than industrial spreads in the selloff from May through
November 2011 as European policy makers negotiated an accord
with  Greece ’s creditors to avoid a default that threatened to
unravel the  euro zone .  “The beta has been declining as the credit quality is
improving,” Gupta said.  Bank bonds have returned 14.2 percent since the end of
2011, compared with 4.7 percent for industrials in the period,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Bank debt’s
effective duration, a measurement of their sensitivity to rising
 interest rates , is 4.6 compared with 7.1 on industrial notes.  “We prefer to avoid, as much as possible, exposure to
high-quality industrials,” wrote Bank of America credit
strategists led by Mikkelsen and Yuriy Shchuchinov in a July 30
report. “We are also long-term overweight financials, and
especially life insurance companies and banks as their business
models benefit from higher interest rates and the underlying
drivers of the rise in rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  