-- Bankrupt Gamemaker Index Said to Draw Interest From Sega
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-08-02T08:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/bankrupt-gamemaker-index-said-to-draw-interest-from-sega-1-.html
Index Corp., the bankrupt Japanese
developer of handheld games trying to sell itself, has drawn
interest from about 20 potential bidders including  Sega Sammy
Holdings Inc. (6460) , people with knowledge of the matter said.  Index will pick a shortlist of preferred bidders in the
next two weeks and aims to reach an agreement by the end of
August, said the people, asking not to be identified as the
information is private. Prospective buyers made first-round
offers of as much as 20 billion yen ($201 million) this week,
one of the people said.  Index, based in  Tokyo , develops software for  Nintendo Co. (7974) ’s
3-D handheld players and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation as well as
smartphone applications. It was forced to seek court protection
from creditors in part because of investment losses from earlier
acquisitions, Index said on June 27.  Kazumasa Otsuka, a lawyer at Nijubashi Partners
representing Index in bankruptcy, declined to comment on the
planned sale. Tetsuya Hasegawa, a spokesman for Sega Sammy, also
declined to comment.  The acquisition would give Sega access to game developers
and titles for both mobile devices and consoles. Japanese
software makers are trying to speed up development of digital
games, as consumers shift to play them with smartphones and
tablet computers.  Index’s  titles  include the “Shin Megami Tensei” role-playing game for Nintendo’s 3DS handheld player and the
“ Snowboard Kids HD ” for mobile devices.  Index has been investigated by  Japan ’s Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission on suspicion that it falsified
financial reports, according to a June 12 statement. Index
shares have been delisted, and were last traded on July 26 after
plunging 97 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  