-- Banks Issue Least Credit-Linked Notes for Any July Since 2001
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-02T09:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/banks-issue-least-credit-linked-notes-for-any-july-since-2001.html
Sales of credit-tied structured notes
dropped to a 12-year low for July as investors shunned the
securities while preparing for an eventual end to unprecedented
central bank stimulus.  DZ Bank AG, Societe Generale SA and Deutsche Bank AG led
$1.7 billion of issuance of the securities last month, about
half of the $3.2 billion in the same period last year and the
least since the $873 million of sales in 2001, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The securities are linked to the
creditworthiness of companies and countries, from Italian
utility  Enel SpA (ENEL)  to  Sri Lanka .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s remarks in May
that stimulus from the U.S. central bank won’t continue
indefinitely sparked a flight from fixed-income assets.
Investors are still wary of credit-tied notes, which aren’t
actively traded, as they pause to consider the consequences of
an easing of monetary policy even as Bernanke said in July that
the central bank’s position will remain accommodative.  “With the Fed now talking about tapering, there is a
feeling that fixed income will not do so well in this
environment and maybe we will even see a rotation into
equities,” said Nordine Farsi, head of structured credit
trading at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in  London . “This has
curtailed demand for credit-linked notes.”  ‘Curtailed Demand’  The private banks and wealthy individuals ranking among
investors in the securities typically hold them until maturity
and are reassessing whether they want to own the notes during
the next few years, Farsi said. The notes failed to benefit from
a surge of investor demand in July for global corporate bonds,
which returned 1.02 percent on average after losing 2.45 percent
in June, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index  data .  U.S. bond mutual funds attracted $2.1 billion last week,
marking the first inflows in almost two months, according to the
 Investment Company Institute .  Bernanke told Congress on May 22 that the Fed may reduce
the pace of its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases of
Treasuries and mortgage bonds if the economy showed sustained
improvement. On July 17, he said the central bank would maintain
a “high degree” of monetary accommodation.  Banks typically sell less structured notes in July than in
other months because of the U.S. and European vacation season,
said William Sjoberg, a senior analyst for structured products
at Nordea Bank AB in  Stockholm . Through the first seven months,
the bank had its best year on record for selling credit-linked
notes, issuing $1.1 billion of the securities, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  