-- Barrick Gold Closing Mines to Curb Output as Price Drops
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-08-02T14:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/barrick-gold-closing-mines-to-curb-output-as-price-drops.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  plans to either
sell, close or curb production at 12 of 27 mines as the world’s
largest gold producer tries to bolster profitability after
reporting the industry’s biggest write-off.  Barrick wrote down $8.7 billion of the value of global
assets, slashed its  dividend  by 75 percent and cut 30 percent of
corporate-office staff, the Toronto-based miner said yesterday
in its second-quarter earnings statement.  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky is attempting to
restore profit margins after gold tumbled 22 percent this year
and had its steepest quarterly drop in  London  in more than nine
decades. Operations from  Peru  to  Papua New Guinea  that have
costs higher than $1,000 an ounce will undergo mine-plan
adjustments or be closed or sold, Sokalsky said. The 12 mines
under review account for about 25 percent of Barrick’s output.  “If you have a number of assets that aren’t making money
at a certain gold price, then you have to deal with them, and
that does mean less production,” Sokalsky said yesterday in an
interview at the company’s headquarters.  Sokalsky’s stance that every mine must be profitable at
lower gold prices is positive for the company, said Kerry Smith,
a Toronto-based analyst at Haywood Securities Inc. who rates the
shares a buy.  ‘Hard Decisions’  “The guys at the corporate level are saying, You know
what, we want these mines to make money and if they’re not we’re
going to do something, we’re going to shut them down,” Smith
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “They’re making the
hard decisions and they’re doing what needs to be done.”  Sokalsky’s efforts are starting to pay off. Production
costs declined year-over-year and beat analysts’ estimates.
Barrick reduced its  capital spending  budget by about $1 billion
and also cut its forecasts for costs this year.  Barrick rose 2.3 percent to C$17.86 at 9:52 a.m. in
Toronto. The stock is still down 49 percent this year, compared
with a 40 percent decline in the 49-company S&P/TSX Global Gold
Sector Index. The  stock  has 17 holds, 11 buys and one sell,
according to analysts’ recommendations compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold, which rose for 12 consecutive years, slipped into a
 bear market  in April. Prices may average $1,358 an ounce next
year and decline to $1,335 in 2015, according to the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sokalsky says gold prices are bound to rise.  ‘Forming a Base’  “We’re forming a base here that the fundamentals can now
build on to ultimately get the price moving back up,” he said.
“Maybe not in the short term but over time I think we can start
to trend back up. I think the fundamentals are still there for
that.”  Valuations for gold-mining companies also probably “can’t
get much lower,” Sokalsky said. Even after gold’s decline,
producers are trading near their cheapest relative to the metal
in at least 29 years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m a buyer of gold-mining companies because they’re dirt
cheap,” Ned Goodman, CEO of Toronto-based holding company
 Dundee Corp. (DC/A) , said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office
yesterday. Barrick is “the largest producer in the world, they
have a very low cost of production, and they’re really under new
management.”  Since taking over as CEO in June 2012, Sokalsky’s mantra
has been a focus on returns and free  cash flow . Returns will
drive production, not the other way around, he repeated
yesterday.  ‘Very Optimistic’  Barrick said it has abandoned a production target of 8
million ounces a year by 2016 because of a delay at its Pascua-Lama project in the Andes, expected mine-plan changes and
potential asset sales.  While some of the company’s mines operate at higher costs,
57 percent of Barrick’s gold output comes from five mines with
production costs less than $700 an ounce and another 18 percent
is produced at a cost below $1,000, Sokalsky said on an earnings
call yesterday, referring to  slides  posted on Barrick’s website.  “Our core assets are very, very strong,” he said in the
interview. “I’m very optimistic about what our underlying
business can do in this environment.”  Output cuts are most likely to come from the 12 mines that
have forecast all-in sustaining costs this year above $1,000 an
ounce. The company is reworking mine plans at several operations
including Bald Mountain in Nevada and Hemlo in  Canada , to focus
on the most profitable ounces.  Pascua-Lama  It’s also evaluating options for the Porgera mine in Papua
New Guinea and will optimize mine plans or sell some Australian
mines. At Pierina in Peru, the company’s assessing options to
close the mine, it said yesterday.  Barrick also would consider taking on a partner to help
finance its delayed Pascua-Lama project on the border of Chile
and  Argentina , Sokalsky said. While there have been conceptual
discussions in the past, there are no talks currently, he said.  The company said it expects increased  capital costs  for
Pascua-Lama. Construction on the Chilean side has been halted
since April, after a court accepted an injunction filed by
indigenous communities and the country’s environmental regulator
later ordered work to protect water supplies before the project
can restart.  Barrick, which raised the cost estimate for the mine twice
last year, to as much as $8.5 billion, said June 30 it now
expects first production from the mine in mid-2016, compared
with a previous target of the second half of 2014.  Reduced Budgets  While Sokalsky is taking steps to adjust Barrick’s
portfolio, the company remains burdened by high debt, and
 capital spending  will remain high for several years while
Pascua-Lama is built, said  Greg Barnes , a Toronto-based analyst
at TD Securities Inc. The company’s  net debt  as of June 30 was
$13.4 billion.  “If the gold price takes another step lower to the sub-$1,200 per ounce range, concerns about liquidity are likely to
resurface,” Barnes said in a note today.  Barrick posted a second-quarter net loss of $8.56 billion,
or $8.55 a share, compared with net income of $787 million, or
79 cents, a year earlier, the Toronto-based company said
yesterday. Profit excluding impairments and other one-time items
was 66 cents a share, ahead of the 56-cent average of 17
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The miner also reduced its
quarterly  dividend  to 5 cents a share from 20 cents to improve
liquidity.  Kinross, Yamana  Barrick isn’t the only producer making adjustments in
response to lower gold prices.  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , Canada’s
largest producer by revenue after Barrick and  Goldcorp Inc. (G) ,
said July 31 it has reduced its capital and exploration budgets,
closed an office in  Vancouver  and reduced staff at its Toronto
head offices by 7 percent this year.  Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI) , Canada’s fourth-largest gold miner, also
cut production forecasts because of efforts to reduce costs.  While Barrick and its competitors have been talking about
improving margins for some time after years of rising costs, the
changes are starting to gain momentum, Smith said.  “Everybody has a sense of urgency, it’s not just
Barrick,” Haywood’s Smith said. “The gold price tanking gave
people a lot more urgency in terms of we’ve got to get this
done, we’ve got to get it done now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  