-- Bayer Lung Drug Should Be Approved at Low Dose, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-08-02T12:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/bayer-lung-drug-should-be-approved-at-low-dose-fda-says.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s experimental treatment for
two forms of pulmonary hypertension is being recommended for
approval by U.S. regulatory staff at a lower dose than what the
company sought.  Bayer’s riociguat improved the distance patients can walk
during a six-minute test in clinical trials, Food and Drug
Administration staff said today in a  report  ahead of a meeting
of agency advisers Aug. 6. The pill would be the first to treat
pulmonary hypertension that lasts six months or longer often
caused by a blood clot in the lungs.  Chronic pulmonary thromboembolic hypertension can cause the
vessels that carry blood from the heart to the lungs to become
hard and narrow, making the heart work harder to pump, the
 National Institutes of Health  said on its website. Riociguat,
which Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer has proposed calling
Adempas, may generate $498 million in sales by 2017, according
to the average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “This drug is approvable so long as its dosing algorithm
is modified,” Preston Dunnmon, an FDA reviewer, wrote in the
report.  Chronic pulmonary thromboembolic hypertension affects about
5,000 people each year and can now only be treated with a
complex surgery, the  Cleveland Clinic  says on its website.  Dosing Recommendations  Bayer was seeking approval for a maximum 2.5 milligram
dose.  FDA staff recommended patients with both forms of pulmonary
hypertension start at a 0.5 milligram dose three times daily and
increase the dose 0.5 milligrams to a maximum of 1.5 milligrams
three times a day. Chronic patients who don’t respond could
increase the dose to 2.5 milligrams, staff said “though there
is no clinical trial evidence of benefit from these higher doses
and there appears to be an increased incidence of drug-induced
hypotension,” or low  blood pressure .  Bayer also is seeking U.S. approval for riociguat to treat
pulmonary arterial hypertension, which is high blood pressure
that can cause arteries in the lungs to constrict abnormally.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , based in Allschwil,  Switzerland , is seeking
FDA approval for macitentan to treat pulmonary arterial
hypertension. Actelion’s best-selling Tracleer was approved in
2001 for the condition and generated $1.6 billion in sales last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tracleer’s patent
expires in November 2015 when the drug may face competition from
low-cost generic copies.  The FDA may make a decision on whether to approve riociguat
or macitentan in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  