-- Berlusconi’s Party Pushes for Pardon as Mass Resignation Readied
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-08-02T22:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/berlusconi-s-party-pushes-for-pardon-as-mass-resignation-readied.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s party is preparing a push for a pardon of its
leader’s tax-fraud conviction and will consider a mass
resignation from parliament in protest.  “It was a strong possibility, but it will be in the hands
of the chief whips,” Lucio Malan, a senator with Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party, said late yesterday about his
colleagues’ discussion of a pardon request in a party meeting in
Rome. Of a resignation, he said in an interview, “If we decide
together to do it, then I’m ready.”  A group resignation by Berlusconi’s allies, who together
represent the second-biggest bloc in the ruling parliamentary
coalition, would bring down Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s
government. President Giorgio Napolitano, who as head of state
holds the power to grant pardons, said Aug. 1 in a statement
that the justice system deserves trust and respect.  A spokesman for Letta declined to respond to the comments
from members of People of Liberty, or PDL. Letta said earlier he
didn’t expect Berlusconi’s legal troubles to upset his
government and that the interests of individuals must be
subordinated to an agenda for the nation.  “I am absolutely aware of the politically delicate
moment,” Letta said yesterday prior to the PDL meeting. “I
hope that collective interests prevail for the good of the
country, the good of  Italy , and not partisan interests.”  Renato Brunetta, the PDL’s chief whip in the lower house of
parliament, told party members in the closed-door meeting that
they must be ready to defend democracy in Italy if their request
for a pardon isn’t accepted, Ansa reported. The  news agency  said
Renato Schifani, chief whip in the Senate, told the group that
he and Brunetta will ask Napolitano to intervene.  Berlusconi, 76, is under increasing pressure from the
courts. The tax-fraud verdict, which was upheld by Italy’s top
tribunal on Aug. 1, may lead to his expulsion from parliament.
His appeals of convictions in two separate criminal cases are
still pending.  He has denied all wrongdoing, saying the trials are
motivated by prosecutors and judges out to destroy him
politically.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  