-- Corporate Bond Yield Premiums Fall in Europe as Offerings Slow
-- B y   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-08-02T13:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/bond-risk-falls-to-nine-week-low-in-europe-before-u-s-payrolls.html
Yield premiums on corporate bonds in
Europe dropped to the lowest in more than a month this week
before a report showed U.S. employment rose in July. Note sales
slowed.  The extra yield investors demand to hold investment-grade
company bonds in euros rather than government securities fell to
107.2 basis points this week, the lowest since June 19,
according to Bloomberg  bond index  data. A U.S. payrolls report
showed employers added 162,000 workers in July, below the
185,000 forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 93 economists.  Federal Reserve officials, debating whether to trim bond
purchases meant to boost growth and cut the jobless rate, said
earlier this week the labor market has shown “improvement.”
High-grade bond yields fell from an eight-month high reached in
June as the European Central Bank and Bank of England indicated
they would continue stimulus measures and Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said there’s no fixed schedule for slowing stimulus.  “There’s a more benign backdrop to the market than last
month,” said Hans Lorenzen, a credit strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in London. “Supportive language from the Bank of England
and the European Central Bank, and even the Fed, has reduced
yield-related concerns in risk assets. Until we see a pick-up in
issuance or a more tangible negative catalyst, we expect spreads
to tighten further.”  Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods maker,
was among companies selling 4.8 billion euros ($6.3 billion) of
bonds this week, the least this year and below the weekly
average of 13.4 billion euros for 2013, according to Bloomberg
data.  New Issuance  The European Investment Bank sold 500 million euros of 17-year bonds today, according to a person familiar with the deal
who asked not to be identified because it’s private. The notes
were rated Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service and priced to yield
25 basis points more than the mid-swap rate, the person said.  In the high-yield bond market, Italian gaming machines
operator Gruppo Cogemat SpA is marketing 165 million euros of
bonds to yield about 10 percent to 10.25 percent, a person
familiar with the matter said yesterday.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings has fallen 4.5 basis
points this week to 97.4. The gauge rose 0.6 basis point today.
The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on 50 high-yield companies rose 2.3 basis points to 400.5 today, reducing
the weekly decline to 10.9 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Verity Ratcliffe in  London  at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  