-- Brazil Phone Towers Spur Race for Returns Topping 80%
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-08-02T18:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/brazil-phone-towers-spur-race-for-returns-topping-80-.html
The race to snap up phone towers
being sold by companies from Oi SA to Telefonica Brasil SA is
driving up prices, prompting some investors to hold off on
signing new agreements.  Lured by gross profit margins of more than 80 percent to
operate the towers, buyers have pushed prices up as much as 60
percent in the past year, to about $200,000 apiece, Wells Fargo
& Co. analyst  Jennifer Fritzsche  said. With thousands of towers
up for grabs, foreign and Brazilian private investors are going
up against U.S. public companies such as  American Tower Corp. (AMT) 
and  SBA Communications Corp. (SBAC)   Goldman Sachs & Co. (GS)  and Gavea Investimentos Ltda. this year
created tower-investment fund Cell Site Solutions, while Patria
Investimentos SA, a firm that includes  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  among
its investors, has allocated 300 million reais ($130 million) of
capital to its Highline do Brasil. Highline and Cell Site
Solutions have yet to sign any deals amid concern current
returns may not be worth the level of risk involved, said a
person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  “The size of these tower portfolios is luring private
equity funds and U.S. companies looking for large deals as they
can put a lot of money to work at one time,” said short-seller
 Carson Block , founder of Muddy Waters LLC in Isleton,
 California , which was critical of American Tower in a report
last month. “The problem is that some of these players -- AMT
among them -- are pushing valuations up to the absurd levels we
see today,” he said in an e-mail.  No Deals  Highline estimates that the 60,000 cell sites in  Brazil 
will have to double or triple to keep up with rising demand for
 Internet access  over mobile devices, the company wrote in a
statement at the time of its creation in December. While
countries such as  Japan  and the U.S. have sites for every 400 to
1,200 people, Brazil only has one for every 4,500 users,
Highline said.  Representatives of Highline, Goldman, Gavea and Cell Site
Solutions declined to comment.  A plan by  NII (NIHD)  Holdings Corp. to sell towers will fetch
prices of as much as $200,000 apiece, according to estimates
fromFritzsche. Last month Oi, the most indebted Brazilian
operator, sold the right to operate towers to  Boca Raton ,
Florida-based SBA Communications for $143,000 each, a lower
price than others have fetched because of their technical
characteristics.  ‘Tremendous’ Returns  Tower-lease returns are “tremendous,” and the Brazilian
market offers significant growth opportunities, Fritzsche said.
Owners can rent space on each tower to various phone companies,
maximizing profits.  “With two tenants, it’s like an 85 percent margin,”
Fritzsche said in a phone interview from Chicago. “It’s very
easy as you lease up. The first is break-even, and the rest is
gravy.”  Matthew Peterson, an American Tower spokesman in the U.S.,
and the company’s Brazilian press office didn’t respond to
several phone and e-mail messages. The Boston-based company said
in a regulatory filing that a report last month by  Muddy Waters 
claiming the firm overstated the value of acquisitions
“included inaccurate statements.” Muddy Waters stood by its
statements in a new  report  published yesterday.  American Tower fell 0.4 percent to $71.01 at 2:13 p.m. in
 New York .  Tough Comparisons  While prices between $125,000 and $200,000 are “cheap,”
direct comparisons with rates in different countries are
difficult, James Moorman, an S&P Capital IQ analyst, said by
telephone from New York. Companies “will be cautious if they do
start to see prices go up too much.”  The value depends upon the “revenue opportunity, how many
tenants you can put on a tower,” he said. “It depends on the
rent increase you can put in. There are a lot of complexities
involved.”  Brazil’s communications ministry has long been vying for
the industry to share towers,  Paulo Bernardo , communications
minister, said in an interview in Brasilia on July 25.  “The reality is that our operators fight a lot about the
question of infrastructure,” he said.  Brazil’s government is mandating investments surrounding
the 2014  World Cup  and 2016  Olympic Games  and is providing tax
incentives for development.  “There are a lot of incentives and there’s just a lot of
potential growth and a pretty big market,” said Moorman of S&P.  Phone companies also have incentives to sell to raise cash
for investments the government is demanding. Oi, the nation’s
largest landline phone company, is selling assets to pay for 6
billion reais in infrastructure investments and reduce its 27.5
billion-real debt, according to company filings.  Oi’s Sales  Rio de Janeiro-based Oi has sold more than 6,000 towers for
1.8 billion reais and has an estimated 5,000 additional wireless
towers it could offer, Marcela Nagib and Jacob Steinfeld,
analysts at JPMorgan, wrote in a report on July 15.  Oi’s press office declined to comment, as did Telefonica
Brasil’s and SBA’s.  The next deal to watch is with Reston, Virginia-based NII,
which sells mobile-phone service under the Nextel brand. It is
close to a deal to sell 4,500 towers in Brazil and Mexico, Chief
Executive Officer Steve Shindler said yesterday on a conference
call. Claudia Restrepo, a company spokeswoman, said NII had no
further comment.  “There are certainly interested buyers for these towers,”
said Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  