-- British Airways Parent IAG Reports Profit on Spanish Revamp
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-02T07:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/british-airways-parent-iag-reports-profit-on-spanish-unit-revamp.html
British Airways parent  IAG SA (IAG) 
reported an operating profit in the second quarter following a
year-earlier loss as the overhaul of its Spanish Iberia
subsidiary takes hold and it saw improvements in the U.K.  Profit before one-time items reached 245 million euros
($324 million), compared with a 4 million-euro loss in the year-earlier period, London-based International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA said in a statement today. British Airways accounted
for a profit of 247 million euros, while Iberia paired its loss
to 35 million from 93 million euros.  IAG has announced plans to cut about 3,000 jobs at Iberia
as it concentrates the unit on more profitable long-haul routes,
leaving short-distance activities in  Spain  to Vueling and Iberia
Express, established last year with less-generous employee
contracts. IAG acquired full control of Vueling, in which it
already held a 45.85 percent, in April.  “The benefits of Iberia’s restructuring are beginning to
show,” Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said in the
statement. “Having reduced capacity at Iberia in the first
quarter, costs began to be taken out in the second quarter
following the implementation of the mediator’s proposal.”  First Step  IAG advanced as much as 15.2 pence, or 5.1 percent, to
312.3 pence in London, the most in three months, and traded at
306.7 pence as of 8:14 a.m. The stock has advanced 66 percent
this year, making it the third-best performer on the 31-member
Bloomberg World Airlines Index.  Walsh said almost 1,700 employees have left Iberia, calling
it “the first step in the restructuring.” Another 700 staff
will depart by year-end with the rest to exit in the following
two years, he told reporters by phone.  The lower loss at Iberia managed to break a negative
earnings trend at the Spanish arm that ran for 11 quarters,
Walsh said. The unit benefitted from a 14 percent capacity cut
in the first quarter, he said. While there remains “a lot of
work to do,” he added “the trend is clearly positive.”  BA benefitted from strong  London  market and good
transatlantic traffic, with improved commercial performance also
at its London Gatwick operations, Walsh said.  Vueling delivered a 27 million euro profit since joining
IAG, it said. “The airline continues to increase capacity
profitably” and is targeting more business in  Germany , Walsh
said.  Target Maintained  IAG said trading continues to be “in line with recent
trends.” The company said in February that profit before
exceptional items would at least equal the 485 million euros it
reported in 2011. The airline has stopped giving guidance
pending a shareholder meeting next month to approve plane
purchases.  The group is sticking to its target of delivering a 1.6
billion euro operating profit.  British Airways has embarked on a fleet renewal plan to
help reduce fuel costs as it replaces older jets. The airline
received the first of 12 Airbus SAS A380 on July 4 a week after
introducing Boeing 787 Dreamliners.  Regularly scheduled British Airways flights using the
Dreamliner will be unaffected by a probe into the jets emergency
locator transmitter with the airline carrying out the
instructions from regulators, Walsh said. Flights to Toronto are
due to start next month.  IAG spent 2.9 billion on fuel in the first six months, a
2.1 percent reduction over the first half last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  