-- British Airways Parent Wins Favor as Revamp Beats Lufthansa
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-02T10:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/british-airways-parent-wins-favor-as-revamp-outpaces-lufthansa.html
British Airways parent  IAG SA (IAG)  won
investors’ praise for the speed it’s applying to the turnaround
at its unprofitable Spanish unit, contrasting with the cool
reception  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  received for its own efforts.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA reported
operating profit of 245 million euros ($324 million) for the
second quarter, compared with a 4 million-euro loss a year
earlier, helped by a lower deficit at Iberia that broke a
negative trend at the Spanish arm that had lasted 11 quarters.
At Lufthansa, reported operating profit fell 27 percent to 431
million euros on stagnant sales of 7.89 billion euros.  IAG rose as much as 5.1 percent, the most in three months,
while Lufthansa dropped 5.3 in Frankfurt as investors questioned
the pace at which Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz is
turning around  Germany ’s largest carrier. Both airlines are
implementing thousands of job cuts, with IAG saying today the
1,700 reductions so far are only the beginning.  “Lufthansa staff costs have not improved to the extent we
would have liked while Iberia’s have progress much more,” said
Donal O’Neill, a Dublin-based analysts at Goodbody Research.  Falling Yields  IAG rose as much as 15.2 pence and traded at 309 pence as
of 11:00 a.m. in  London , bringing the gain this year to 67
percent and making the company the third-best performing stock
on the Bloomberg World Airlines Index of 31 members. Lufthansa
has advanced 5 percent this year. The stock traded a 14.86 euros
at 12:04 p.m. in  Frankfurt , the worst performer on Germay’s
benchmark DAX Index.  London-based IAG,  Europe ’s third-largest airline, said
passenger revenue per available seat kilometer rose 2.8 percent
in the first six months, while Lufthansa reported a 1 percent
decline. In the second quarter, yields at Lufthansa declined 2.5
percent, after rising 0.9 percent in the first, and 3 percent in
the fourth quarter last year.  IAG CEO Willi Walsh has built a reputation for turning
around ailing airlines, and he overruled Spanish unions this
year that threatened to sabotage his cost-cutting efforts with
drawn out strikes. Lufthansa has also suffered from several work
stoppages this year as employees protest Franz’s effort to lift
profit and operate more discount flights.  Missing Expectations  Yields on Lufthansa’s Asia-Pacific routes declined 9.5
percent in the second quarter, while declining 6.6 percent on
routes to the  Middle East  and  Africa . Chief Financial Officer
Simone Menne said the weakness on Asian routes will continue.  “Earnings and sales are well below our expectations.
Progress on cost savings is slow,” said Ruxandra Haradau-Doeser, an analyst in Frankfurt at Kepler Cheuvreux.  High labor costs and competition from low-cost rivals such
as  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s largest, and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  have
driven Europe’s network carriers to revamp operations to stem
losses. Air France-KLM has set a target to reach earnings of 2.5
billion euros to 3 billion euros, with IAG targeting a 1.6
billion euro operating profit the year after when Lufthansa
wants to deliver a 2.3 billion euro operating profit.  IAG said British Airways accounted for a profit of 247
million euros, while Iberia trimmed its loss to 35 million from
93 million euros, with Walsh calling the trend “clearly
positive.” The company has cut 1,700 of at least 3,140 jobs
with 700 more to depart before year-end.  Faster Progress  Employee costs were 5.2 percent lower in the second quarter
at IAG than in the year-ago period. By contrast, personnel
expenses rose 27 percent at Lufthansa to 1.82 billion.  “Results suggest faster progress eliminating costs is
being made at Iberia,” said Damian Brewer, a London-based
analyst at RBC Capital.  Iberia is targeting a new agreement with unions to achieve
further cost cuts and productivity gains beyond those in the
current mediation, unit CEO Luis Gallego told analysts. The
effort is aimed at achieving profitable growth and would open
the door to fleet renewal that could include buying as many as
32 Airbus SAS A350-900 long-range jets and 12 Boeing Co. 787-9s.  Air France-KLM (AF) , Europe’s largest airline group, which last
week said it would deliver an operating profit this year,
announced a further 2,600 job cuts to be implemented before 2015
on July 31. The carrier also is consolidating its regional
operations in a new entity, HOP! and is cutting fares on some
routes by stripping out benefits such as free hold baggage and
air miles.  British Airways also has changed pricing at some flights
out of  Gatwick airport  to fend of low-fare rivals. “The cost
base has been adjusted quite significantly,” Walsh said, with
planes flying with more passengers on board than before.  Lufthansa’s effort to shift more short-haul operations to
its low-cost unit is also gaining traction, and the company said
Germanwings is being “extremely well received.” Forward books
are “very satisfying,” she said.  IAG has benefited from “some easier wins” early on, with
Lufthansa’s major cost savings due at the tail end of its cost
cutting effort, O’Neill said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  