-- Business Groups Lobby Congress for Immigration Rewrite
-- B y   C a i t l i n   W e b b e r
-- 2013-08-02T21:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/business-groups-lobby-congress-for-immigration-rewrite.html
Technology and agriculture group
leaders say Congress’s five-week recess starting today will be a
prime chance to lobby House lawmakers to pass a comprehensive
immigration bill.  Leaders of the  Silicon Valley Leadership Group  and the
 California Strawberry Commission  said they are working together
to show how labor shortages affect both low-skilled and high-skilled jobs as they pitch a broad rewrite of U.S. immigration
law.  “We have an opportunity in time for comprehensive
reform,” said  Carl Guardino , president and chief executive
officer of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group. “While it’s in
our enlightened self-interest to meet our own needs, we need to
do what is best for the economy as a whole.”  Guardino, whose group represents companies including
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , spoke today lunch in
Washington sponsored by Bloomberg Government.  The congressional recess will give advocates a chance to
focus on key districts, Guardino said. Even as visas for high-skilled immigrants top the Silicon Valley companies’ priorities,
he said they aren’t seeking a bill that only benefits them.  The groups are primarily targeting  House Republicans , who
have said they will consider immigration bills in a piecemeal
fashion later this year, instead of taking up the comprehensive
measure passed by the Senate June 27. The bipartisan Senate plan
would heighten border security and create a path to citizenship
for about 11 million undocumented immigrants now in the U.S.  Unemployment Paradox  Agriculture, manufacturing and technology industries are
struggling under a “paradox of high unemployment and major
unresolved labor shortages,” said Steve Berglund, president and
chief executive officer of  Trimble Navigation Ltd. (TRMB)  Trimble
manufactures electronic navigation products using global
positioning systems and is a member of the Silicon Valley group.  A shortage of farmworkers persists though strawberry
pickers can make as much as $40 an hour during peak season,
according to Lorena Chavez, a strawberry grower and
representative from the California Strawberry Commission.  “There are jobs available, but it’s a skill and a choice
and most people don’t want to go out in the field,” Chavez
said.  While the Silicon Valley Leadership Group supports the
Senate-passed immigration measure, S. 744, Guardino said the
House could make improvements on issues affecting high-skilled
jobs, including  H-1B visas  for temporary workers. The Senate
bill would increase the annual limit on those visas to as many
as 180,000 from 65,000, restrict the number available per
company and increase filing fees.  Guardino said a House bill may be “more favorable” on
technology issues because Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat
representing Silicon Valley, is one of seven lawmakers of both
parties negotiating the measure, which hasn’t been introduced.  “She’s going to nail the provisions for high-tech in that
bill,” Guardino said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caitlin Webber in  Washington  at 
 cwebber4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  