-- Cablevision Misses Sales Estimates After Customer Losses
-- B y   M a d e l i n e   M c M a h o n
-- 2013-08-02T20:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/cablevision-misses-analyst-sales-estimates-as-it-loses-customers.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-largest U.S. cable provider in terms of subscribers, reported
second-quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates after a
surprise drop in total subscribers.  Revenue rose 0.8 percent to $1.57 billion, the Bethpage,
New York-based company said today in a statement. Analysts had
projected $1.58 billion on average, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Cablevision’s total customers fell by 11,000 to 3.22
million in the period. Analysts had projected a gain of 33,000.
The company also is coping with escalating fees from cable-television programmers and a saturated market in broadband
Internet, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Moffett Research LLC
in New York.  “Cablevision is between a rock and a hard place,” Moffett
said. “They have successfully penetrated their markets with
broadband to such a degree that incremental growth will be very
hard to come by.”  Even as its growth slows, Cablevision is increasingly seen
as a takeover target, said Jaison Blair, an analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in New York. The company could be acquired by
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable company,
or  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the fourth-largest, Blair said.  ‘Never Say Never’  Bloomberg News reported today that Cox Communications Inc.
has held talks with  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  about a combination with
Charter, which Liberty partly owns. Merger speculation helped
push up Cablevision shares today. The stock rose 4.9 percent to
$19.56 at the close in New York, leaving the shares up 31
percent this year.  Cablevision will “never say never” to potential
consolidation activity, Chief Executive Officer  James Dolan  said
today on a conference call.  The company is signaling that it’s more open to getting
acquired, said Richard Tullo, an analyst at Albert Fried & Co.
in New York. Cablevision said that it’s focusing on customer
retention -- something typical of a business that’s preparing to
sell itself, he said.  “Jim Dolan let the cat out of the bag,” said Tullo, who
gives the shares a buy rating. “The big reason you focus on
retention is because you want to retain those subscribers for
the company that acquires you.”  Cablevision serves customers in New York,  New Jersey ,
Connecticut and parts of Pennsylvania. The company lost 20,000
video subscribers, gained about 1,000 high-speed  Internet users 
and added 3,000 phone customers last quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madeline McMahon in New York at 
 mmcmahon26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  