-- California Rejected by High Court on Inmate-Release Order
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-08-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/california-rejected-by-high-court-on-inmate-release-order-1-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court let stand a
lower court order that compels California to reduce its prison
population by almost 10,000 inmates by year-end.  The justices yesterday rejected 6-3 California’s bid to
delay the order, which the state said will force the early
release of “violent and serious offenders.” Justices Antonin Scalia,  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito  voted to grant a delay.  A three-judge federal panel in June required the state to
take new steps, potentially including expansion of good-behavior
credits, to reduce its prison population to 137.5 percent of
design capacity by Dec. 31.  The Supreme Court in 2011 upheld an earlier order requiring
the state to cut the number of inmates by tens of thousands. The
 high court  said that order, the largest of its kind in U.S.
history, was an appropriate step to remedy the constitutionally
inadequate level of health care provided to prisoners.  “While California’s stay request was denied today, the
state will pursue its appeal to the U.S.  Supreme Court  so that
the merits of the case can be considered without delay,”
California Corrections and Rehabilitation Secretary Jeff Beard
said yesterday in a statement. The effort will focus on the June
implementation order in light of improved prison conditions.  Alternative Steps  The three-judge panel left open the possibility that the
state could meet the required level by reassigning prisoners to
leased detention space or letting inmates finish their terms in
county jails. California says those steps won’t be sufficient to
meet the target.  California’s prisons operated at 200 percent of design
capacity for more than a decade. In the 2011 ruling, the high
court said that as many as 54 prisoners had to share a single
toilet and that suicidal inmates had been held in cages the size
of a telephone booth because of a shortage of treatment beds.  In the latest court appearance,  California ’s lawyers argued
that the appellate panel should have considered changes in the
penal system during the interim.  The prisoners suing the state argued that officials
“adopted a stance of outright defiance” after the court’s 2011
ruling.  California has cut its prison population by 37,000 inmates
since 2008 and now holds 119,000.  The case is Brown v. Plata, 13A57.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  