-- California Mayor Attacks ‘Greed’ With Eminent Domain Bid
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-08-02T04:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/california-mayor-attacks-greed-with-eminent-domain-bid.html
Gayle McLaughlin marched in  Occupy
Wall Street  protests and rails against “corporate domination.”
Now, as mayor of Richmond,  California , the largest U.S. city
with a Green Party leader, she wants to seize home loans and
make lenders take less than they’re owed to help residents.  The  refinery town  of 106,000, where almost half of
mortgages have higher values than the homes they financed,
threatens to use eminent domain to force discounted sales of the
notes. Investors say that would mean unfair losses, push lenders
to withdraw from the market and expose the city to legal risks.  “The banks and financial institutions are not helping,”
McLaughlin, 61, said by e-mail. “Their greed caused the problem
and they have no solution for cities like Richmond.”  Governments have long used eminent domain to take private
property for public uses, including highways, and for economic
development such as shopping malls, providing compensation to
the owner. The city plans to issue new loans to homeowners that
reflect current property values, easing their debt burdens.  “Cities like Richmond have a right and obligation to
utilize such a program for the public benefit,” the mayor said.  It is a theme common in McLaughlin’s decades of social
justice, civil rights, peace and environmental activism.  The daughter of a union carpenter, McLaughlin grew up in
 Chicago , according to her city  profile . She was a teenager when
police there clashed with antiwar protesters at the 1968
Democratic National Convention, and the violence set her on the
path of political activism, she told the  Sacramento  Bee in 2006.  Demonstrations, Nonprofits  In the 1980s, McLaughlin demonstrated against U.S.
intervention in Central America and worked with the Reverend
Jesse Jackson’s Rainbow Coalition and other nonprofit activist
organizations, according to her official biography. She has said
she also worked as a teacher and clinician for special-needs
children, as well as a postal clerk.  In 2004, McLaughlin won a seat on the Richmond City Council
when she placed third out of 15 candidates for four positions.
Two years later, she toppled Mayor Irma Anderson, a Democrat who
had been endorsed by major party figures such as U.S. Senator
 Dianne Feinstein  and  Phil Angelides , then the state treasurer.  McLaughlin had refused to accept corporate donations and
raised $28,000 through a door-to-door campaign. Anderson had
raised more $110,000 from donors such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , whose
refinery is the city’s largest employer and taxpayer. A third
candidate, Democrat Gary Bell, helped split the vote on election
night and McLaughlin won with a margin of less than 300.  Missing Recovery  McLaughlin says the economic recovery that has slowly crept
across the U.S. has mostly bypassed Richmond, a largely blue-collar city north of San Francisco with long ties to heavy
industry.  The community swelled during World War II as tens of
thousands of workers flocked to the Kaiser shipyards to build
Liberty ships. After the war, the city struggled even as  San
Francisco  and Silicon Valley prospered.  The 17 percent poverty rate is higher than the California
average of 14 percent, and two-thirds of Richmond residents are
black or Hispanic, according to U.S. Census Bureau data.
Unemployment averaged almost 12 percent in the past decade
compared with about 8 percent for the  state .  McLaughlin’s 2010 re-election campaign was marked by a city
employee union drive to discredit her. Labor leaders said she
collected disability pay for an emotional condition for almost a
decade and sought  bankruptcy protection  after accumulating more
than $100,000 in unpaid college loans, according to the  San
Francisco Chronicle . At a news briefing, McLaughlin responded
that she “overcame those challenges,” the newspaper said.  ‘Little Guys’  She was returned to office because “she’s represented her
constituents and they’ve voted for her over and over,” said Tim
Laidman, a member of the coordinating council for the  Green
Party  of California. “She takes care of the little guys and
they’ve stood up for her at the polls.”  Now the mayor says she’s standing up for them. The city
this week sent letters to 32 banks and trustees with offers to
buy 624  mortgages  whose loan balance exceeds the underlying
property value. The loans are the first targeted by the city,
which said it would seize them unless servicers agree to sell.  Richmond’s plan to help “underwater” homeowners has drawn
opposition from bondholders such as Pacific Investment
Management Co. and DoubleLine Capital LP as well as at least 18
trade groups of lenders, homebuilders and real estate firms.  Other municipalities, including California’s San Bernardino
County and Chicago, considered the move last year and put it
aside even as the housing recovery failed to help many
homeowners escape oversized debts.  Wall Street  It isn’t just  Wall Street  that McLaughlin is willing to
take on. She has long contended that the city should find ways
to be less reliant on heavy industry and large corporations such
as Chevron, with its sprawling  refinery  that processes 240,000
barrels of crude oil a day.  “The way you treat your largest taxpayer is an indication
of how you treat the smallest taxpayer,” City Councilman
Nathaniel Bates, who ran against McLaughlin in 2010, said in an
interview. “It sends a negative message to the business
community and potential investors who are interested in coming
into the city of how they would be treated just because they are
big business.”  A pipeline rupture on Aug. 6 at the Chevron plant ignited
one of California’s worst refinery fires in 13 years and sent
more than 15,000 people to hospitals complaining of respiratory
difficulties and eye, nose and throat irritation. The incident
led California to levy a record $963,200 in fines for Chevron.  Chevron Critic  McLaughlin has tried to get the City Council to sue the
company to pay for damages and claims by residents. She also
spearheaded a campaign to change how Chevron is taxed.  “Chevron U.S.A. has worked hard to identify areas of
common ground with Mayor Gayle McLaughlin and the City Council,
which has been challenging and not particularly productive,”
said Melissa Ritchie, a spokeswoman for the  San Ramon ,
California-based company. “Despite this, we remain committed to
our partners in the Richmond community and to helping to improve
the quality of life for all Richmond residents.”  In 2011, McLaughlin riled some in the city when she skipped
a Veteran’s Day observance sponsored by Chevron. Instead, she
went to an Occupy Wall Street rally honoring an Iraqi War
veteran who had been injured during a clash with police at a
protest in nearby Oakland.  In an open letter to Occupy Wall Street that year, the
mayor complained that the city had a growing number of poor
residents while Chevron was making billions of dollars.  “Chevron recently doubled its quarterly profits and is
brazen enough to simultaneously be seeking a property tax
refund,” the mayor wrote. “This is a reflection of an obscene
economic inequity that threatens to get far worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  