-- California’s Brown to Decide on Sexual Identity in School
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-12T19:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/california-s-brown-to-decide-on-sexual-identity-in-school.html
(Corrects affiliation of Ilona Turner in first paragraph
under Equal Access subheadline in a story published Aug. 2.)  California  would have the first state
law permitting elementary and high school students to use
bathrooms and join sports teams based on their gender identity,
rather than their biological sex, under a bill going before
Governor Jerry Brown.  California, which has the nation’s largest public-school
enrollment at  6.2 million , would expand nondiscrimination  laws 
to children born as boys who relate as girls, and those born as
girls who relate as boys. The measure  passed  the state Assembly,
46-25, on May 9, and the Senate, 21-9, on July 3.  The Golden State would be the first to address the issue
through statewide legislation.  Massachusetts ,  Connecticut ,
 Washington  and  Colorado  have adopted policies to protect
transgendered pupils without passing laws, according to Equality
California, the state’s largest gay-rights group.  The California law is aimed at ending exclusion that
“negatively impacts students’ ability to succeed in school and
graduate with their class,” said Jesse Melgar, a spokesman for
Equality California, in a statement. “For example, physical
education classes help students develop healthy fitness habits
and teach values like teamwork and fair competition -- and P.E.
credits are required, so students cannot graduate without
them.”  In 2011, Brown signed a bill making California the first
state to require schools to highlight the history and
achievements of gay individuals in civic lessons.  Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat who was elected with  support 
from Equality California, hasn’t indicated whether he will sign
the transgender bill. Brown rarely reveals his position on
legislation before signing or vetoing, said a spokesman, Evan Westrup.  ‘Politically Correct’  The California Catholic Conference, which advocates for the
church and its 11 million members in the state on matters of
public policy, calls the bill “a politically correct, one-size-fits-all” plan on its website.  “Accommodating an individual student who may be the object
of discrimination is more appropriate than highlighting his or
her struggles with a public mandate,” according to the
statement on the conference website. “Solidarity with each
other lifts us all.”  Other opponents are the Concerned Women for America and the
Traditional Values Coalition, according to a legislative
 analysis , while supporters include the American Civil Liberties
Union of California, the California State PTA and the public-school districts in Los Angeles and San Francisco.  If Brown vetoes the bill, school districts would be faced
with “countless” lawsuits alleging discrimination against
transgendered students, diverting money from classrooms, Melgar
said.  Equal Access  Federal law also guarantees transgendered students access
to programs and facilities that fit their gender identity,  Ilona
Turner , legal director for the Transgender Law Center, said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  The California bill “will make it clear that under
California law, transgender students must be provided equal
access to all school programs on the same basis as all other
students,” Turner said.  The bill is in the process of being sent to the governor.
Once it reaches Brown’s desk, he will have 12 days to sign or
veto it, Westrup said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  