-- Callaway Golf Bargain Seen Driving Deal Appeal: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-08-02T14:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/callaway-golf-bargain-seen-driving-deal-appeal-real-m-a.html
Callaway Golf Co. (ELY)  is offering suitors
a bargain deal for the designer of  golf clubs  that helped  Phil Mickelson  win this year’s British Open.  The $505 million maker of  Mack Daddy 2  wedges, golf balls
and accessories trades at a lower sales multiple than 89 percent
of similar-sized North American leisure- and sporting-goods
producers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While the
 stock  gained 32 percent in the past year as Chief Executive
Officer Chip Brewer pursues a turnaround, Callaway may attract
buyers while it’s still languishing at a lower valuation,
according to Adirondack Research & Management Inc.  The Callaway brand and the Carlsbad, California-based
company’s foothold in golf equipment could lure  Nike Inc. (NKE) , said
Grace & White Inc., which also sees Kering SA, owner of the
Cobra brand, as a potential buyer. Private-equity firms also may
be drawn by the chance to carry out Brewer’s turnaround plan on
their own, said Gilford Securities Inc.  In golf, Callaway is “the biggest, best-known brand name
out there available for an acquirer,” Casey Alexander, New
York-based director of equity research and a special-situations
analyst at Gilford, said in a phone interview. Even after the
rally, it “can still be considered quite a bargain today.”  A representative for Callaway said the company had no
comment.  Callaway traces its  roots  back three decades to when
founder Ely Callaway delivered clubs personally from the trunk
of his Cadillac car, and now counts top golfers including
Mickelson and Ernie Els as well as all-time greats  Arnold Palmer 
and Annika Sorenstam as  endorsers , according to its website.  ‘Huge Missteps’  The club maker last had an annual  profit  in 2008. Since
then, it accumulated losses as consumers curtailed discretionary
spending amid an economic slump and competition from rivals such
as Adidas AG’s TaylorMade brand.  “First and foremost, you’ve had a stagnant golf market,”
Marc Ravitz, executive vice president of New York-based Grace &
White, which oversees more than $800 million including Callaway
shares, said in a phone interview. “They made huge missteps in
marketing and addressing their larger competitors. They’re
starting to regain the market share that they lost over the last
few years.”  While Brewer, who took control in March 2012, is seeking to
restore profitability by reducing costs, streamlining operations
and building market share, Callaway last week said it will post
an annual adjusted loss of as much as 12 cents a share, which
would be wider than projected by analysts.  Buying Opportunity  The company also cut its 2013  revenue  forecast for the
second time to $810 million to $820 million, its lowest annual
sales in a decade and down from its $850 million projection in
January.  Callaway trades at 0.62 times its projected revenue this
year, a lower multiple than all but two North American leisure
products and sporting-goods manufacturing companies valued at
more than $100 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Potential acquirers have an opportunity to obtain a well-known brand at a discount before results improve under Brewer’s
plan, according to Matt Reiner, a  fund manager  at Guilderland,
New York-based Adirondack Research.  “Callaway might be an interesting target for one of the
large sporting-goods conglomerates,” Reiner, whose firm
oversees about $150 million, including shares of Callaway, said
in a phone interview. “It’s one of the most popular brand names
in golf. It’s probably a good time to look at them because the
turnaround hasn’t been completed yet.”  Today, Callaway shares climbed 1.7 percent to $7.22 at
10:13 a.m. New York time, rising for the first time in six days.  Valuable Brand  Nike, the world’s largest sporting-goods company, is a
logical suitor for Callaway, said Ravitz of Grace & White  “Callaway is a very valuable brand name,” Ravitz said.
While Nike’s golf apparel line has been successful, “I really
don’t think they’ve acquired a lot of market share in the club
business and purchasing Callaway would be a perfect fit.”  Kering, (KER)  the luxury goods conglomerate formerly known as PPR
SA that owns a controlling stake in  Puma SE (PUM) , also could be lured
to Callaway and the chance to supplement its  Cobra  products and
Puma golf attire line, Ravitz said.  Beth Gast, a spokeswoman for Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike’s
golf division, and Helene Saint-Raymond, a spokeswoman for
Paris-based Kering, declined to comment on whether their
companies would be interested in acquiring Callaway.  Kering CEO Francois-Henri Pinault said in February that the
company’s priority in sports and lifestyle will be Puma’s
turnaround, with the company last week reporting steeper
declines in quarterly earnings than analysts had  estimated .  “Once we’ve achieved that, we will resume acquisitions,”
Pinault said.  Buyout Appeal  Callaway could even be an attractive target for private-equity firms, which may be drawn by the company’s  brand  and the
potential profit tied to completing the turnaround strategy on
their own, said Alexander of Gilford Securities.  “A private-equity firm would certainly be happy to get
what might appear to be an advantageous price today that would
allow them an exit a few years down the road as the company is
further into this turnaround at a significantly increased
price,” he said.  Shareholders may prefer that the company wait to sell
itself until after it has returned to profitability and can
command a higher price, according to James Gibson, an analyst at
Punch & Associates Investment Management Inc.  ‘Early Innings’  “They’re really in the early innings of the turnaround,”
Gibson, whose Edina, Minnesota-based firm oversees about $630
million, including Callaway shares, said in a phone interview.
“We would much rather see them just continue on this strategy
for the next few years before any takeout. The company will
continue to be more valuable as Chip continues to make
progress.”  While Callaway would likely fetch a higher premium after
Brewer’s turnaround is completed, it could lure offers of as
much as $13 a share today, an 83 percent premium, said Reiner of
Adirondack.  “That would be a fair number where we stand today,” he
said. “I’d like to see what he could do with this over the next
couple of years, but it always comes down to, ‘If the right
offer came, you have to consider it.’ You could see it be an
interesting fit for a larger player.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  