-- Camp Seeks Individual Rate Cuts, Resists Obama Plan (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-08-02T16:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/camp-seeks-individual-rate-cuts-resists-obama-plan-transcript-.html
Republican Representative  Dave Camp ,
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and the party’s
top congressional tax-writer, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, that the U.S. tax systems for individuals and
corporations should be revamped together.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with House Ways and Means
Committee Chairman Dave Camp of  Michigan . Thank you for being
with us, Mr. Chairman.  DAVE CAMP: Well, great to be here, Al.  HUNT: You want to take on tax reform this fall. You want to
do individual and corporate and business. A number of Democrats
and a few Republicans say the individual is just too tough a
slog right now. Would you consider breaking off and just doing
corporate?  CAMP: Well, it’s really important we do both, Al. The
economy isn’t recovering. The fundamentals aren’t strong. This
month’s jobless numbers show that the worker participation rate
or the level of workforce is the lowest since the Carter
administration and going down. So we really need to do both,
because most business activity now is done in what we call the
pass-through or individual form.  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: So if you didn’t do individuals, you’d have Main
Street at 44.6, the top rate, and the corporate at 25 to 28.  HUNT: But they could switch to corporate if they wanted to.  CAMP: Well, they could switch to corporate, but what about
families? And the fact that people, you know, don’t have the
jobs they need and -  HUNT: So you are adamant it’s got to be individual, as
well as -  CAMP: Absolutely. It needs to be - for the economy. For the
American people.  HUNT: Well, let me ask you about both, then. The corporate
rate you want to lower to 25 percent. Obama says 28 percent.
That’s negotiable?  CAMP: I think certainly that puts us in the ballpark. Now,
many of the folks that have come to us think that 25 is the rate
they need to get to, to close all the loopholes, to get the sort
of rate reduction we need. But the reason we are at 25 is that’s
the OECD average, and we need to make sure that our businesses
are able to be competitive as they go around the world, so 28
would put us out of that range.  HUNT: So, therefore, negotiable, but not at 28?  CAMP: Well, look, I’m glad the president’s involved in the
issue. We need to move this issue forward. And I don’t think
that’s necessarily an impediment to moving ahead.  HUNT: You also would take the individual rate to 25
percent. That would lose $3.8 trillion of revenue just by
itself. Would you be willing, as  Ronald Reagan  did in 1986, to
treat capital gains and dividends as ordinary income, then,
increase those taxes?  CAMP: We’re certainly going to look at that. Obviously, I
think the goal is, how do we get, you know, families in a better
position? First, how do we get a simpler, fairer, flatter  tax
code ? And one of the things that’s driving Americans crazy is
the complexity of this tax code. They send something to the IRS,
and they don’t know what their responsibilities are going to be.
And obviously, with this IRS, that’s a real problem. But if we
can get to 25, if we can get the kind of growth that we might
see, and obviously, in a static score -  HUNT: And that would be easier to make  capital gains  then
ordinary income, right?  CAMP: It would be. But I think the real important thing is
to get the policy right. We got to get that rate low. And we’ve
got to make sure that we have the kinds of policies that will
grow this economy.  HUNT: Still trying to find out if we’re going to get…  CAMP: It’s sure on the table  HUNT: Is - is - is the home mortgage deduction and
charitable contributions, is that - are they on the table?  CAMP: Well, I wouldn’t consider those loopholes. Those are
important provisions. And obviously, we’re going to need to make
sure that we have a consensus to move ahead. But I think there’s
a way to move ahead on both of those issues that either - first
of all, a growing economy helps the housing market. A growing
economy helps people give more to charity.  Those issues don’t
necessarily track  tax policy  as much as they do growth, so what
we need to do is if we can get a stronger economy, people will
buy houses and they’ll give to charity.  HUNT: But would you consider those tax provisions as part
of your bill where you might reduce them, you might change them,
you might alter them?  CAMP: You might be able to alter them. They don’t
necessarily have to be eliminated to get to 25.  HUNT: OK. You said the other day you’re thinking about
running for the Senate. Now, you can’t possibly work for months
and months on a tough  tax reform  bill and launch a huge Senate
campaign in Michigan. I guess my question is, if the - if the
 House Republicans  would waive the  term limits  as chairman, would
you stay as Ways and Means Committee chairman, too?  CAMP: Well, obviously, that would certainly be something
I’d put in the mix. Look, this is - that’s a big decision. It’s
an important state, a big state. A lot of people have urged me
to take a look at it, and I think I owe them the respect of
taking a serious consideration, because I think so much of the
people who’ve talked to me about it.  HUNT: But how long do you think it’ll take you to do tax
reform?  CAMP: Well, I’m hopeful that at least in the committee,
which is really the area that I hope I can impact, will be this
fall.  And certainly by the end of the year -  HUNT: So you think you can finish - you think you can
finish a bill through the Ways and Means Committee for
individual and corporate tax reform by December?  CAMP: Look, we’ve been working on this for two-and-a-half
years. Between the House and the Senate, we’ve had more than 50
hearings. We’ve had 11 working groups on this. A lot of this has
been done, whether it’s in Simpson-Bowles, you know, in
presidential commissions or other areas. These issues have been
on the table for a long time.  HUNT: So if you finish it by December, you then have to
have the Senate take it up. I’m getting to the Senate race now.
You have to go to a conference eventually. Is that going to be -
are you going to have to make a choice between tax reform and
running for the Senate?  CAMP: Look, I always knew I was going to be on the ballot.
We run every two years in the House. I just don’t know where I’m
going to be on the ballot at this point.  HUNT: When will you make that decision?  CAMP: Sometime soon.  HUNT: I mean, by - by January?  CAMP: You know, it’s not to imagine - I think certainly by
January, I’ll be able to know whether I’m going to do one or the
other.  HUNT: OK. Let’s - let’s talk about the Democrats for a
moment. First of all, they insist there be no dynamic scoring. I
assume - now, you concur with that, right?  CAMP: Well, the only problem with that is it’s in the House
rules. So the  House of Representatives  is going to require
dynamic scoring, but we’ll also have a static score, which the
Democrats want, as well, and we do, too.  HUNT: OK. The Democrats also say this has to be a net
revenue raiser, because we have this huge deficit problem. Is
that negotiable?  CAMP: The House bill is going to be revenue-neutral. I
think it’s very important, with the huge taxes that - revenue
that were raised at the end of the day, $600 billion or more,
with the economy not recovering, we need to now look at growth.
And that’s why it’s so important - when former Leader Dick
Gephardt and former Secretary of the Treasury  James Baker  came
together and testified before our committee, they together said,
to really get this done, you need to be revenue-neutral.
Otherwise, it comes apart before it starts, because people say,
‘why should I pay for those tax increases?’  HUNT: Can you get Democrats with a revenue-neutral bill?  CAMP: Look, we want to get the policy right. And I think to
get the policy right, you need to have a revenue-neutral bill.
Otherwise, it comes apart.  HUNT: Do you have to have a Democrat - Democrat sponsors,
too, Democrat support, bipartisan?  CAMP: This - this has been a very bipartisan process. Our
11 working groups have had one Republican and one Democrat
leading them -  HUNT: But in the end, do you have to have Democratic
support for this bill?  CAMP: Well, ultimately, I think to have a Republican House,
a Democrat Senate, and a Democrat president sign a bill, it
needs to be bipartisan.  HUNT: OK.  CAMP: It doesn’t mean every issue will be bipartisan as we
move through this.  HUNT: When the president said he wanted tax reform,
corporate tax reform, but he also wanted to use some of the
revenues to pay for infrastructure, to help workers, would - did
that advance the cause or impede the cause of corporate tax
reform?  CAMP: I think the idea that we’re doing this for more
spending at this point is not the approach I would take. But,
look, I’m glad the president’s at least talking tax reform and
has put it on the table, particularly revenue-neutral corporate
reform.  But to do the kinds of revenue increases that many
Democrats are talking about -  Harry Reid  I think has said almost
$1 trillion - the only way you could have that revenue is to
raise taxes on the middle class. That would be the wrong
approach. That would be something that would actually hurt the
few bright spots we have in the economy.  HUNT: Mr. Chairman, in this process, is it possible to
consider a carbon tax or a value-added tax, you know, as a
partial replacement?  CAMP: I think another layer of taxation only complicates
the code. And actually, those are taxes that are very easy to
raise. I think what we really need to do is have a code where
the average American can fill out their own taxes -  HUNT: So you’d take those off the board?  CAMP: I would take those off the table.  HUNT: American corporations have as much as, what, I think
$2 trillion parked overseas. And you’ve proposed that they could
bring it back and pay, I believe, a 5 percent toll. My question
is, would you give a break to companies that have non-liquid
foreign assets and would have to borrow or sell to pay?  CAMP: Well, there is a difference, obviously, between the
non-liquid assets or the sort of intangibles that are overseas.
The important point here is that we do need to get those dollars
that are trapped overseas flowing back on a regular basis, so
they’re not invested over there and become hard assets, but we
also are going to have to have a strong what we call base
erosion provision, which that - intangibles which are easy to
move around the world in today’s world, that they’re done - that
there’s some safeguards so they aren’t just moved to either zero
or low-tax jurisdictions, and there’s a reward to keeping that
intellectual property and those intangibles here in the  United
States .  This is why we need tax reform. The world has changed since
30 years ago, the last time we did this -  HUNT: So you might give an extra break to those that do
have the non-liquid foreign assets?  CAMP: We would give a break to recognize there’s a
difference between what’s liquid and illiquid that’s trapped
overseas, but more importantly that we’d have an incentive for
keeping those intangibles here in the United States.  HUNT: You are going to probably have to whack away at
depreciation deductions as part of the corporate tax reform.
That’s going to be great for a Microsoft, with the lower rates,
but isn’t that going to clobber a lot of manufacturing firms?  CAMP: I think what the important thing is, is that we - we
have a simpler code. And we’ve had a lot of testimony on this.
And it’s certainly something that we’re going to look at. No
final decisions have been made there.  But what we’re going to have to do is have a code that
doesn’t pick winners and losers, that is - some of these
provisions, you know, flipping a hamburger counts as
manufacturing. So I think we have to make sure that we have a
code that is transparent, that’s fair, that’s easy to
understand, both for individuals -  HUNT: That sounds like depreciation -  CAMP: - and business.  HUNT: That sounds like depreciation is on the chopping
block.  CAMP: We’re going - we’re looking at it, certainly.  HUNT: OK. Let me ask you about the IRS. You spent time -
 Darrell Issa , it seems, has spent a lifetime looking at
revelations about the IRS. I know you’re upset that the head of
the tax-exempt group said something to the FEC, but let’s stay
away from that for a minute. Have you seen anything, anything at
all, that would suggest that the Obama White House applied any
political pressure?  CAMP: One of the things that we don’t have yet is all the
information.  HUNT: But from what you’ve seen, do you see anything?  CAMP: From what I’ve seen so far, I don’t see any direct
White House involvement. But we only have about 3 percent of the
documents that we’ve asked for. And what we really need, Al, are
the e-mails. We don’t have those yet.  So this investigation is continuing. I wish that we were
getting these documents faster in a more productive way and we
could maybe conclude this, but we can’t, because we don’t have
the full information.  HUNT: OK. Chairman Dave Camp, have a wonderful August
recess. I understand the Max-and-Dave show will be on the road
again.  CAMP: That’s right.  HUNT: But thank you very much for being with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<587628.1204164.3.4.1.0.25>#
 