-- Camp Insists on Individual Rate Cuts in Obama Resistance
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-08-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/camp-insists-on-individual-rate-cuts-in-obama-resistance.html
The U.S. tax systems for  individuals 
and corporations should be revamped together, said the top
Republican tax writer in Congress, resisting President  Barack Obama ’s call for a business-only approach.  Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, plans to advance legislation through his panel
by the end of the year that would lower tax rates for
individuals and companies to 25 percent, he said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend.  To pay for those changes and produce a revenue-neutral
bill, Camp said he’s considering altering the deductions for
mortgage interest and charitable contributions. Camp said he’s
still determining whether to tax  capital gains  as ordinary
income, which he said would help cover the cost of rate cuts. He
ruled out a carbon tax and a value-added tax.  “Another layer of taxation only complicates the code,” he
said. “And actually, those are taxes that are very easy to
raise.”  Camp, a 60-year-old Michigan Republican, said he would
decide by January whether to run for the  U.S. Senate . Republican
rules will require him to give up the Ways and Means
chairmanship at the end of 2014 unless he receives a waiver to
continue, which he said would affect his thinking about his
political future.  Signaling a potential change in his international tax plan,
Camp said he was considering accommodating companies with
illiquid assets overseas.  Overseas Profits  Under Camp’s plan to reduce future taxation of U.S.
companies’ overseas profits, he has proposed a 5.25 percent tax
on the approximately $2 trillion of accumulated foreign profits
that haven’t been taxed -- regardless of whether the companies
bring the money back.  Companies such as  Corning Inc. (GLW)  and 3M Co., which have
significant portions of their overseas profits invested in
facilities, active businesses and other illiquid assets, have
warned Camp of potential hardships.  “This can be a harsh result for a capital-intensive
company like Corning that often must put its manufacturing
facilities in the same country as its customers,” Susan Ford, a
Corning vice president, wrote in a letter to Ways and Means this
year.  Camp said he recognized that there was a difference between
liquid and illiquid assets.  ‘Flowing Back’  “We do need to get those dollars that are trapped overseas
flowing back on a regular basis, so they’re not invested over
there and become hard assets,” Camp said. “We would give a
break to recognize there’s a difference between what’s liquid
and illiquid that’s trapped overseas.”  Obama said earlier this week that Congress should consider
a business-only approach to a tax-code rewrite that would devote
one-time revenue toward spending on infrastructure. Camp said
more spending was “not the approach I would take.”  Camp also said that Obama’s proposed 28 percent rate for
corporations wasn’t low enough, compared with other
industrialized countries.  “We need to make sure that our businesses are able to be
competitive as they go around the world, so 28 would put us out
of that range,” he said.  Camp, who has been working closely with Democratic Senate
Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , said he recognized that a final
bill would have to be bipartisan, meaning that he will need to
grapple with Democrats’ demands that a tax rewrite raise new
revenue of as much as $975 billion over 10 years.  Middle Class  The only way to generate that revenue would be “to raise
taxes on the middle class,” he said. “That would be the wrong
approach. That would be something that would actually hurt the
few bright spots we have in the economy.”  Camp also criticized the  Internal Revenue Service  for what
he called the slow pace in producing documents for his
investigation into the scrutiny of Tea Party groups applying for
tax-exempt status.  “We only have about 3 percent of the documents that we’ve
asked for,” he said, saying what committee staffers “really
need” are e-mails.  Representative  Darrell Issa , chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, issued a subpoena
yesterday to Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew to produce the
documents, maintaining that the IRS chief counsel’s office was
compromised.  “You are slow-rolling us,” Issa said to acting IRS
commissioner Danny Werfel.  Werfel said Issa’s charges were untrue and that the agency
was working as quickly as it could.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  