-- Canada Dollar Drops on Bets Jobs Data Won’t Stop Tapering by Fed
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-08-02T21:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/canada-s-dollar-pares-decline-as-u-s-jobs-gains-trail-forecasts.html
The Canadian dollar fell versus 15 of
its 16 most-trade peers amid speculation that a weaker-than-forecast report on U.S. employment won’t keep the  Federal
Reserve  from slowing monetary stimulus as soon as next month.  The currency trimmed a loss against its U.S. counterpart
after data showed American employers added fewer jobs than
anticipated in July even as the jobless rate fell. Earlier the
loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, touched a two-week low versus the
greenback. Benchmark government-bond yields fell from a two-year
high. The U.S. is  Canada ’s biggest trade partner.  “It’s certainly not a game changer,” Adam Button, a
currency analyst in  Montreal  at forexlive.com, said of the
payrolls report. “The  Bank of Canada  is very confident in this
U.S. recovery. One number never really changes anything.”  The loonie depreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0392 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, falling against all of its major
peers except the  New Zealand dollar . The Canadian currency,
which lost 1.1 percent over the past five days, touched
C$1.0403, the weakest level since July 18. One Canadian dollar
buys 96.23 U.S. cents.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. currency, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in Canada’s currency
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was
11,434 on July 30, compared with net shorts of 16,758 a week
earlier. This week’s total was the least in a month.  Bonds Gain  Canada’s government bonds rose, pushing yields on the
benchmark  10-year (GCAN10YR)  security down six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.49 percent. Yields touched 2.6 percent
earlier, the highest level since August 2011. The price of the
1.5 percent debt due in June 2023 increased 48 cents to C$91.46.  The Canadian currency briefly erased losses against the
greenback after the U.S. Labor Department reported a 162,000-job
increase in U.S. payrolls last month, the smallest in four
months. The median forecast of 93 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 185,000 gain. The U.S.  unemployment rate 
declined to 7.4 percent, from 7.6 percent the previous month.  Oil, Canada’s biggest export, dropped for the first time in
three days, with futures losing 1 percent to $106.83 a barrel in
 New York . The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of commodities
declined 0.6 percent.  Canada Impact  “All of a sudden it became ‘maybe the  U.S. economy , which
is Canada’s biggest export partner, is not as strong as we
thought, and how is that really going to impact Canadian
growth?’” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income
strategies at GMP Securities LLC, by phone from New York. “That
does not bode well for Canadian exports.”  The jobs figures followed reports this week that showed
U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 1.7 percent annualized
pace in the second quarter, versus a Bloomberg survey’s forecast
of 1 percent, while  home prices  rose in May by the most since
2006 and manufacturing expanded.  Fed policy makers are discussing whether the U.S. economy
has improved enough for them to start slowing the pace of their
monthly bond purchases, which tend to devalue the greenback.  The U.S. central bank buys $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage debt each month in its quantitative-easing strategy to
put downward pressure on borrowing costs. Half of 54 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg last month said the Fed may decide at its
Sept. 17-18 policy meeting to reduce the purchases to $65
billion a month.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress in July that any
reduction in stimulus would depend on the economy’s performance.  Canadian Jobs  Canada gained 10,000  jobs  in July, after losing 400 the
previous month, economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast before
a government report due Aug. 9. The unemployment rate was
unchanged at 7.1 percent, economists projected.  The nation’s gross domestic product  rose  0.2 percent in May
from 0.1 percent the month before,  Statistics Canada  reported
July 31 in Ottawa. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had
estimated 0.3 percent growth.  The loonie is little changed this year against nine other
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has advanced the most, rising 6.1
percent, while the Australian dollar is the biggest loser,
sliding 11 percent. The  U.S. dollar  has added 5.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  