-- Chevron Profit Declines as Crude Prices Fall With Output
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-08-02T14:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/chevron-profit-declines-as-crude-prices-fall-with-output.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the world’s second-largest energy company by market value, posted its biggest
second-quarter profit decline in four years and missed analysts’
estimates as crude  oil prices  and production fell.  Net income dropped by 26 percent to $5.37 billion, or $2.77
a share, from $7.21 billion, or $3.66, a year earlier, San
Ramon, California-based Chevron said in a statement today. The
per-share result was 19 cents below the average of 21 estimates,
excluding one-time gains and losses, compiled by Bloomberg.  Chevron’s oil and natural gas output fell 1.6 percent to
the lowest second-quarter average in  half a decade  as new wells
in Angola, the  Gulf of Mexico  and Pennsylvania failed to make up
for declining production from older fields, according to the
statement. The price the company fetched for crude sold overseas
dropped 5 percent, while profit from refining crude into fuels
tumbled 59 percent.  “Chevron is looking at a natural decline in its resource
base of 6 to 10 percent a year before they even do anything, so
it’s kind of like running up a down escalator,” Edmund Cowart,
who helps manage $22 billion, including Chevron shares, at Eagle
Asset Management Inc. in  St. Petersburg , Florida, said in a
telephone interview today. “Refining’s been tough for
everybody.”  Sales dropped by 8.4 percent to $57.4 billion. Chevron fell
2.4 percent to $123.40 at 9:54 a.m. in New York.  Shrinking Margins  Chevron received an average of $94 a barrel for non-U.S.
crude during the quarter, compared with $99 a year earlier,
according to the statement. The company’s so-called upstream
earnings fell 12 percent during the April-to-June period as
worldwide demand for petroleum-based fuels failed to keep pace
with production growth.  Chevron’s refineries posted a $766 million profit compared
with $1.88 billion a year earlier as prices for transportation
fuels fell faster than crude, and the lingering effects of a
California refinery fire hindered production.  Refining  margins  in the U.S., the world’s largest motor-fuels market, narrowed as lower gasoline use reduced  retail
prices  by 3.6 percent to a quarterly average of $3.601 a gallon,
based on Energy Department figures.  Chevron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John S. Watson
pledged in March to raise oil and gas output by one-fifth to the
equivalent of 3.3 million barrels a day by the end of 2017
through mega-projects such as the $47 billion Gorgon gas-export
development in Australia. Last month, Watson signed a $1.24
billion agreement with Argentina’s state-controlled YPF SA to
explore a shale formation in the Latin American nation for oil
and gas.  Global Production  Chevron estimated in March that its global output this year
will rise 1.5 percent to an average of 2.65 million barrels a
day, assuming crude prices around $112 a barrel.  Chevron has been the best-performer among the largest
international oil producers this year with a 17 percent increase
in its share price through yesterday.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the
biggest  oil company , has risen 7.1 percent, followed by  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s 0.5 percent gain, Total SA’s 3.8 percent rise
and  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 7.9 percent increase. PetroChina Co. Ltd. has
fallen 17 percent.  Brent crude  averaged $103.35 a barrel during the quarter,
compared with $108.76 a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Prices fell as worldwide oil production rose 0.6
percent at a time when demand increased by 0.1 percent.
Consumption increases in expanding economies such as China and
India were more than offset by demand declines in the U.S.,
western Europe and Japan, according to figures published by the
 International Energy Agency  in Paris.  Gas Prices  U.S. natural  gas prices  climbed 71 percent to an average of
$4.018 per million British thermal units during the April-to-June period from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chevron has been raising gas production in the Marcellus
Shale formation in the eastern U.S. since its 2011 acquisition
of Atlas Energy Inc. The transaction included a previously
signed joint venture between Atlas and  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) 
that committed the Indian company to cover most of the drilling
costs in exchange for a stake in each well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  