-- China Starts Website to Refute Rumors as Scrutiny Grows
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-08-02T06:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/china-starts-website-to-refute-rumors-as-scrutiny-grows.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and  Sina Corp. (SINA)  are among
Chinese Internet companies that have jointly created a website
for refuting rumors, the latest step in government efforts to
increase scrutiny of information spread online.  The website officially began operations yesterday under the
oversight of the Beijing Internet Information Office and the
Beijing Internet Association, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  and  NetEase Inc. (NTES)  also contributed to
creating the site, which is hosted by Qianlong.com, a news
portal controlled by the Beijing city government.  The site refutes rumors collected from Twitter-like
microblog services, news portals and other websites. One entry
detailed the rumor a woman in the city of Qingdao was sent a
kangaroo when she bought milk powder online from  Australia .
Qingdao police and customs officials were cited saying they’d
never received reports of such an incident, according to the
entry. Other rumors refuted include those of misconduct by
government officials.  Social media sites including Sina Weibo have become the
main platforms used by Chinese citizens to expose corruption and
wrongdoing in a country where all newspapers, television and
radio stations are state-owned. A vice chairman of China’s
economic planning agency was fired in May after a Chinese
journalist posted allegations of improper business dealings on
his microblog.  “China is unique in that social media has become such an
important venue for news,” said Doug Young, author of the book
“The Party Line: How the Media Dictates Public Opinion in
Modern  China .” The rumor refuting website is the government’s
attempt to have a voice in the information flow that can result
in serious damage to reputations, he said.  Web Censorship  China censors the Internet by blocking access to websites
with pornography, gambling and content critical of the Communist
Party. Earlier measures to increase control over the spread of
information online include rules requiring individuals to
provide identification when signing up for Internet services and
registering their real names when opening a microblog account.  The nation was home to more than 591 million web users at
the end of June, according to the  China Internet Network
Information Center . That’s more than the population of any
country except India.  “The government is quite annoyed about how the spread of
information is getting out of control on microblogs, so they are
stepping up control efforts,” said  Wen Yunchao , a visiting
scholar at Columbia University’s Institute for the Study of
Human Rights. “Though there’s little use in this if people
don’t believe in the government in the first place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  