-- China May Let More Families Have Second Child, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-03T07:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/china-may-allow-more-families-to-have-second-child-xinhua-says.html
China  is studying whether to relax
its one-child policy to allow more couples to have two children,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing the National
Health and Family Planning Commission.  Policy makers are considering a change that would allow a
second baby if either parent was a sole child, according to
Xinhua. Currently both parents must be only children to qualify
for a second birth. No time frame for a decision was mentioned
in the report.  China started its one-child policy in the late 1970s to
alleviate poverty and cap population growth, imposing fines for
violations. Government researchers last year called on the
nation to ease the one-child policy as soon as possible to cope
with an aging population and labor shortages.  “We believe the reform-minded President Xi and Premier Li
will use the opportunity of abolishing the one-child policy to
build up their authority, show their determination in making
changes and convince the Chinese people that they do have a
roadmap for reforms,” Hong Kong-based Bank of America Corp.
economists Lu Ting and Zhi Xiaojia wrote in a report today,
referring to Xi Jinping and  Li Keqiang .  The window for reform could be around the ruling Communist
Party’s annual meeting in the fourth quarter or the annual
session of the National People’s Congress in the first quarter
of 2014, they said.  More Babies  The government is also studying whether to let all couples,
regardless of whether they are only children, have a second baby
after 2015, the 21st Century Business Herald reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified person.  Bank of America estimates the reforms would lead to around
9.5 million additional births, based on calculations and
assumptions using a 2005 population survey and census data.  National Health and Family Planning Commission spokesman
Mao Qunan was cited by Xinhua as saying China needs long-term
family planning as fundamental national policy because
population pressure continues to have an impact on the economy,
society, environment and natural resources.  At the same time, one of the major tasks of the commission,
which was formed in March through the merger of the Ministry of
Health and the National Population and Family Planning
Commission, is to improve family planning policy, Mao was quoted
as saying.  Relaxed Policy  When China’s one-child policy was first introduced, it
limited most urban couples to one child and allowed a second for
most rural couples if their first child was a girl. Ethnic
minority groups were exempted from the restrictions.  China relaxed the policy in all provinces except Henan
around 2007, allowing a second birth when both parents were only
children, Xinhua said in its report yesterday. Henan, a province
in central China, introduced the change in 2011, it said.  The restriction on family size will cut the number of 15-to
24-year-olds, the mainstay of factories that have driven China’s
growth for two decades, by 27 percent to 164 million by 2025,
according to United Nations estimates. During the same time, the
number of people aged over 65 will surge 78 percent to 195
million, according to its projections.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  