-- China Swap Rate Set to Snap Three-Week Rally as PBOC Adds Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-02T02:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/china-swap-rate-set-to-snap-three-week-rally-as-pboc-adds-cash.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
was poised to end a three-week rally after the central bank
pumped funds into the financial system to help alleviate a cash
squeeze that drove up borrowing costs.  The People’s Bank of China added 34 billion  yuan  ($5.5
billion) to markets yesterday by issuing 14-day reverse-repurchase agreements, according to a statement on its website.
On July 30, the PBOC injected funds using the contracts for the
first time in five months after the seven-day repurchase rate, a
measure of interbank funding availability, touched a four-week
high of 5.25 percent.  “The extension of reverse repos for the first time since
February sent a very important policy signal, which suggests the
central bank has shifted its policy bias to being a tad more
dovish,” said Pin Ru Tan, an interest-rate strategist at HSBC
Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Banks’ funding demands in
August have historically been more subdued than in July, so the
downward pressure on rates should persist.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, this week to 3.88 percent as
of 10:14 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate dropped three basis points today.  The central bank added a net 136 billion yuan of capital
into the financial system this week, compared with none in the
five days through July 26,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.
Chinese regulators reined in  money supply  in June in an effort
to force investors to shift funds out of shadow banking, which
allows lenders to bypass controls and capital requirements.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell 18 basis points this week to 4.23
percent, according to a weighted average rate compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It declined 36 basis points
today.  The yield on the 3.38 percent government bonds due May 2023
rose one basis point this week to 3.7o percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. It was unchanged today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  