-- China’s Tallest Building Reaches Highest Point
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-03T05:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/china-s-tallest-building-reaches-highest-point-amid-slowdown.html
Shanghai Tower, which will be  China ’s
tallest building when completed in 2015, reached the highest
point of its main structure, adding to the country’s
construction boom even as the economy slows.  A topping-out ceremony today marked the placement of the
final beam on the main structure of the 632-meter (2,074-foot)
project in the city’s Pudong business hub. Shanghai Tower is set
to be the tallest building in  East Asia , and second in the world
to the 828-meter Burj Khalifa in Dubai, according to the
Chicago-based  Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat . The
125-story complex will include offices, a luxury hotel and
retail space, according to the developer, Shanghai Tower
Construction & Development Co.  “We could have built taller technically, but we didn’t aim
for physical height when we planned the building,” Gu Jianping,
president of Shanghai Tower Construction & Development, said at
a press conference in Shanghai yesterday. The new tower
integrates with two nearby skyscrapers: Jin Mao Tower and
Shanghai World Financial Center, he said. Shanghai World
Financial Center, also in Pudong, is currently China’s tallest
building at 492 meters.  Competition to build the country’s skyline higher is
continuing even as  China’s economy  slowed for a second quarter
and Premier Li Keqiang reins in a credit boom. China completed
22 buildings higher than 200 meters last year, accounting for 33
percent of the global number, more than any other country,
according to the council on tall buildings.  Vacancy Rate  Shanghai Tower will include a five-star hotel with the
lobby on the 101th floor, at 470 meters, through a venture with
Shanghai Jin Jiang International Hotels Group Co.  The vacancy rate for prime offices in Shanghai rose to 6.2
percent in the second quarter, compared with 4.3 percent at the
same time last year, the eighth lowest among 29 cities tracked
by Cushman & Wakefield Inc. in the Asia-Pacific region. Office
rents fell 4.5 percent from a year ago to $6.82 per square foot
a month, it said.  About 2 million square meters of prime office space will be
added to the  Shanghai  2015 if projects are completed on
schedule, according to CBRE Group Inc.  “Huge supply could intensify competition on the landlord’s
side and hence place pressure on office leasing and rents,”
said Sam Xie, a Shanghai-based analyst at CBRE, wrote in an e-mailed response to queries.  Shanghai Tower will start marketing to attract tenants
around the world after today’s event, according to Gu.  The 660-meter Ping An Finance Center in the southern city
of Shenzhen will be China’s tallest building when it is
completed in 2016, according to the council’s database.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  