-- Chinese Defense Professor Says Army Closing Corruption Loopholes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-02T10:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/chinese-defense-professor-says-army-closing-corruption-loopholes.html
China ’s army is closing loopholes
that allowed for corruption and led people to become unhappy
with the military, a professor at the National Defense
University said in remarks posted online.  Corruption is a problem for the whole of Chinese society,
yet people have higher expectations for the army since it has to
fight wars, Gong Fangbin wrote on the People’s Daily website
yesterday, in response to questions submitted by readers. The
National Defense University is part of the  People’s Liberation
Army .  “You are fighting, national security is on your
shoulders,” Gong said, according to a transcript posted on the
website. “If you get into problems, how can you fight?”  China’s President Xi Jinping has pledged to crack down on
corruption and launched a yearlong “mass line” campaign in
June to require Communist Party officials to pay greater
attention to the people. Gong’s comments come as the military
undergoes a modernization program that will see  defense spending 
rise 10.7 percent this year, with Xi saying the army must be
prepared to fight wars.  While former Premier  Wen Jiabao  called corruption the
greatest danger to the party, graft within the military is
rarely publicly discussed. State media regularly stress the
army’s role in serving the party instead of the state.  China should unswervingly stick to the party’s leadership
over the army and resist the military’s de-politicization, Fan
Changlong, vice chairman of the Central Military Commission,
wrote in the Communist Party journal Qiushi yesterday.  Cases of corruption such as Gu Junshan, a former vice
minister of the general logistics department, have caused people
to be dissatisfied, Gong said, without giving further details.
Gu left his position, the official Xinhua News Agency  said  in
February 2012, without giving a reason. He was arrested on
suspicion of corruption last year, the  New York  Times reported
in November.  This is the first mention of Gu’s case publicly by a
military person since he left his post, Caixin magazine reported
today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  