-- China Policy Lender Reprimands Bankers for Playing Golf
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-02T07:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/china-policy-lender-reprimands-bankers-for-playing-golf.html
China Development Bank Corp., the
world’s largest policy lender, reprimanded bankers for playing
golf during work hours as the Communist Party cracks down on
extravagance by officials and state-owned company executives.  The lender investigated the issue after receiving tips from
the public, according to an article by the Communist Party’s
official People’s Daily newspaper that was posted to China
Development Bank’s website. The bankers involved have been
“solemnly criticized,” it said.  Chinese President Xi Jinping has curbed extravagant
government spending since taking office in March, as part of a
campaign against corruption and misconduct by officials that
have spurred criticism of the Communist Party’s rule. Producers
of luxury goods from Chinese distiller  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519)  to
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  have reported slowing sales
since the start of the campaign.  China Development Bank also asked bankers to cut down on
overseas trips and hiring cars for official use, according to
the article. The bank is also cracking down on mid-level
managers hiring secretaries in violation of rules, it said.  Departments are banned from hosting banquets for each
other, according to the article. China Development Bank
officials are required to stay at government hotels when on
business trips and should dine at the hotels’ buffets or at the
canteens of bank branches that they visit, the People’s Daily
said.  China Development Bank is China’s biggest foreign currency
lender, with $248.2 billion of such loans at the end of 2012.
The bank, founded in 1994 and wholly owned by the government,
carries out the state’s policy objectives.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  