-- Victory in China Chicken Case Seen Aiding U.S. Trade Wars
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-08-02T21:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/china-loses-wto-trade-dispute-over-duties-on-u-s-chicken-parts.html
The Obama administration declared
victory after the  World Trade Organization  ruled China unfairly
penalized imports of U.S. poultry, and said the decision should
stop other nations from trying to thwart its exports.  China’s duties and tariffs on chicken legs and other parts
violated WTO rules, the Geneva-based trade arbiter said in a
 decision  yesterday. China must drop the duties within 60 days,
or appeal.  “WTO members must use trade remedies strictly in
accordance with their commitments, and we hope that this win
will discourage further violations that hurt American
exporters,” U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman  said in a
statement.  U.S. poultry exporters including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) ,
 Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , and  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC) , a unit of  JBS
SA (JBSS3)  of  Sao Paulo ,  Brazil , had backed the case.  The ruling is a setback for China as the Obama
administration challenges the nation over its trade actions. The
U.S. and China -- the world’s largest economies -- have sparred
on issues including clean-energy technology, autos and rare-earth elements in recent years. The poultry decision settles a
two-year-old dispute, unless China appeals the final ruling from
the WTO dispute settlement panel.  “This is a good example of our whole-of-government
approach we’re taking to opening markets and enforcing our trade
laws,” Froman said yesterday at a press conference with
Commerce Secretary  Penny Pritzker  and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack.  Two Years  Officials from the Chinese embassy in Washington didn’t
respond to phone and e-mail requests for comment. The nation’s
 Ministry of Commerce  will evaluate the report and carry out
necessary measures, the official Chinese Xinhua News Agency
reported.  China imposed the sanctions, of as high as 105.4 percent of
the price of the goods, in 2010. The U.S. filed its WTO
complaint against the tariffs in September 2011.  The WTO decision “supports our view that these duties on
chicken exports to China aren’t justified,” Worth Sparkman, a
Tyson spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “However, we
recognize this is the first step in what could be a continuing
process at the WTO.”  Tyson of Springdale,  Arkansas , is the largest publicly held
U.S. chicken producer. The domestic industry last year exported
to China more than 240,000 metric tons of broilers valued at
$283.4 million, according to the USA Poultry & Egg Export
Council.  Recordkeeping Disputes  Trade officials in President  Barack Obama ’s administration
had been concerned that other nations were rejecting the
recordkeeping of American companies and using their own
methodologies to consider whether products have been sold below
cost, also known as dumping, Froman said.  “China had adopted this flawed approach, and the WTO panel
found that China breached WTO rules,” he said. “This is a
significant win for American chicken producers.”  U.S. officials said the WTO ruling will help poultry
producers regain market share in China. Exports of the broiler
products, which include chicken wings and leg quarters, fell 80
percent after the duties took effect, according to the U.S.
trade office.  The tariff on products other than chicken feet, also known
as paws, made shipping to  China  “economically unfeasible,”
according to Mike Cockrell, chief financial officer of Sanderson
Farms, said in a phone interview. The Laurel, Mississippi-based
company stopped exporting other chicken products such as dark
meat, he said.  Cockrell said China may become a good market for dark meat
if the ruling stands and the country removes the tariffs.  The WTO panel circulated its findings to the U.S. and China
in June, upholding an interim report from the previous month
that said China had imposed the duties against international
trade standards, Bloomberg BNA reported last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  