-- Developers Rise on Policy Easing Signs: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-02T08:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/china-developers-rise-on-signs-of-policy-easing-shanghai-mover.html
(Corrects time frame in fifth paragraph.)  Chinese developers rose in Shanghai
trading, extending their biggest weekly gain in more than three
months amid signs that the government is easing its property
curbs in support of the industry.  A  gauge  of Shanghai-listed developers climbed 2.1 percent
by the mid-day break, extending the week’s rally to 5 percent,
the most since the week ended April 19.  Xinhu Zhongbao Co. (600208) ,
which said it plans to raise as much as 5.5 billion  yuan  ($897
million) in a private placement to finance two real estate
projects, rose by the daily limit.  Xinhu Zhongbao’s share sale reinforces expectations that
regulators will ease limits on fundraising by developers as
slowing economic growth spurs adjustments to policies aimed at
curbing property prices, according to Ping An Securities Co.
China will seek a “stable and healthy” development of the
property market, the Communist Party’s Politburo said July 30,
the first time this year authorities didn’t mention further
tightening of curbs, according to Credit Suisse Group AG and
Orient Finance Holdings (H.K.) Ltd.  “The announcement of the refinancing plan has a lot of
symbolic significance and will again open up the market’s
expectations for a policy shift,” Zhou Yating, Ping An
Securities’ Shenzhen-based analyst, wrote in a report, adding
that stock sales would help reduce developers’ funding costs.
“We recommend that investors actively participate in this round
of investment opportunities.”  New Approach  The country hasn’t allowed developers to raise money by
selling shares since 2010, said Dai Fang, a Shanghai-based
property analyst at Zheshang Securities Co.  The July 30 statement indicates that top leaders have
formulated longer-term property controls that would include
increasing housing and land supplies and expanding property-tax
trials, CCB International Securities Ltd. analysts led by Edison Bian wrote in a July 31 report. The new policy approach would
replace existing curbs that focus on restricting demand such as
purchase restrictions, and would benefit developers such as
 China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , they wrote.  Xinhu Zhongbao’s board approved a plan to sell as many as
1.79 billion shares in a private placement for at least 3.07
yuan a share, according to a statement to the Shanghai stock
exchange.  The stock, which resumed trading without the right to a
dividend of 0.061 yuan a share since July 8, rose to 3.65 yuan
today. After adjusting for the dividend, today’s gain represents
an almost 10 percent increase from the closing price on July 5,
the last trading day before the suspension.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  