-- China Metal Liquidators Sue Chairman Chun for Fraud
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-08-02T03:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/china-metal-liquidators-sue-chairman-chun-for-fraud.html
The provisional liquidators of  China
Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. (773)  sued its founding chairman Chun Chi Wai and his wife for unspecified damages for fraud.  Chun, Lai Wun-Yin and 10 companies orchestrated false
trading schemes, disclosed false or misleading information to
China Metal and paid dividends on inflated profits, according to
a lawsuit filed on July 31 at Hong Kong’s  High Court .  China Metal, which called itself the nation’s biggest
scrap-metal dealer, inflated the size of its business to gain a
listing in Hong Kong in 2009, the Securities and Futures
Commission said July 29 when it announced that it had won a
court order appointing provisional liquidators for the company.  The liquidators have obtained an injunction freezing more
than HK$1.6 billion ($206.3 million) in assets of the
defendants, a lawyer for the SFC told a court hearing today
which agreed to continue their appointment.  Chun’s company Wellrun Ltd. said July 29 as China Metal’s
single largest shareholder it objected to the liquidators’
appointment. Alexander Lee, a lawyer for Chun and Wellrun,
declined to comment on the lawsuit today.  Three people have been arrested in connection with the case
and officers obtained documents after searching the company’s
office and other locations last week, according to the police.
It identified the three as a 46 year-old man surnamed Lam, a 42
year-old woman surnamed Lai, and a 37 year-old man surnamed
Fung.  China Metal falsified a majority of purchases from its
three major suppliers from 2007 to 2009, the regulator said.  Share Sale  The company  raised  HK$1.55 billion when it sold shares in
June 2009. Wong Hok-leung, a former chief financial officer,
resigned in November 2009 after saying he was denied proper
access to the company’s financial information. China Metal
called Wong’s allegations unfounded.  Short-seller Glaucus Research Group said in January the
company was “a blatant fraud that has deceived the market about
the size of its business.” China Metal suspended trading of its
shares and called the allegations groundless, saying its
chairman planned legal action against Glaucus.  The cases are China Metal Recyling Holdings Ltd. and Chun
Chi Wai, HCA1412/2013 and Securities and Futures Commission and
China Metal Recycling, HCCW 210/2013, both in  Hong Kong ’s Court
of First Instance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  