-- CME Must Improve Surveillance of Derivatives Trades, CFTC Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-08-02T16:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/cme-must-improve-surveillance-of-derivatives-trades-cftc-says.html
CME Group (CME)  Inc., owner of the world’s
largest futures exchange, must improve surveillance of
transactions on its systems and require traders to keep better
records, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said.  CME, which is also a self-regulatory organization, had
inadequate systems to oversee trades that result in an exchange
for a related cash or derivative position, the Washington-based
CFTC said in a 75-page enforcement review released today.  “An improved and robust program is necessary,” the agency
said in the review. Chicago-based CME should require all firms
that clear the trades to have a “more robust audit process,”
the agency said.  The CFTC conducts reviews of trading platforms to ensure
compliance with derivatives regulations, including new measures
required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The enforcement review released
today covered trades between November 2010 and October 2011.  Many of the CFTC’s recommendations have already been
implemented, according to Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman for CME.  “We are committed to ensuring fair, well-regulated markets
for all of our customers and are continually working to enhance
the oversight of our markets,” Bischel said in an e-mail
statement.  The CFTC review focused on transactions known as exchanges
for related positions. The trades are privately negotiated and
can include futures, options, swaps and cash positions. There
were about 484,000 such trades during the period of the review.  The exchange’s market surveillance unit opened only 16
cases related to the trades, the CFTC said. The “relatively
small number” of cases opened and growth in such trades since
the review requires the exchange to examine whether they are
“adequately targeting, reviewing and, where necessary,
escalating potentially problematic” trades, the agency said.  The review also requires CME to improve oversight of
potential violations of limits on speculation. The exchange’s
surveillance unit should use its discretion to refer matters for
possible enforcement action, the CFTC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  