-- Colombia Talks to Drummond and Miners in Bid to End Coal Strike
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-08-02T22:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/colombia-talks-to-drummond-and-miners-in-bid-to-end-coal-strike.html
The Colombian government is holding
talks with Drummond Co. and its striking workers in a bid to end
a dispute that has halted output at the nation’s second-biggest
 coal  producer.  Labor Ministry officials are trying to organize direct
talks between the two sides later today in Santa Marta, on
 Colombia ’s Caribbean coast, to broker a deal to end the 10-day
strike by Drummond’s mine, rail and port workers.  “A deal in the next few days is possible,” union
negotiator Humberto Suarez said in an interview in Santa Marta.
Strikers could return to work as early as next week if the
company agrees to pay workers a monthly salary rather than by
the hour, Suarez said.  The company declined to comment in an e-mailed message.  Colombia,  South America ’s biggest supplier of coal, is
losing roughly 1.6 billion pesos ($850,000) in royalties for
every day that the strike continues, according the national
mining agency. Workers are striking over pay, working conditions
and health benefits, according to Sintramienergetica union.  Union members have set up camp near the entrance of Pribbenow 
mine in Cesar province, with about one hundred miners lying in 
hammocks or sitting at tables playing cards. In a makeshift kitchen, 
two women stir large mettle pots of food above a campfire, while a 
lay preacher delivers a sermon with the help of a microphone,
mixing passages from the bible with calls for worker rights.  In 2012 Drummond produced 26 million metric tons of coal,
according to the national mining agency, or roughly 29 percent
of Colombia’s total output.  The strike, which started July 23, is the second major
industrial dispute to hit the nation’s coal sector this year.
Workers at Cerrejon, Colombia’s biggest coal mine owned by  BHP
Billiton Plc (BLT) ,  Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and  Anglo American Plc. (AAL) , went on
strike for more than a month starting February 7 after failing
to reach a wage agreement with management.  That strike, and Drummond’s 3-week loss of its loading
license after a sinking barge dumped coal into the Caribbean,
cut first quarter economic growth by half a percentage point,
according to Finance Ministry estimates.  The central bank cited “paralysis” in coal mining in its
decision to cut  interest rates  by a quarter point in February.
Colombia has cut its policy rate by 2 percentage points over the
last 13 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  