-- Criminal Investigations of ID Theft on the Rise at IRS
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-08-02T15:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/criminal-investigations-of-id-theft-on-the-rise-at-irs.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service 
opened 1,100 criminal investigations of  tax fraud  by June 30
this year, exceeding the 2012 total with three months remaining
in the fiscal year.  The agency has doubled the number of employees working on
tax-fraud cases to more than 3,000 and is approaching last
year’s total of 5 million suspicious tax returns rejected,
interim IRS leader Danny Werfel told a congressional committee
today in Washington.  Those efforts would be complicated by additional budget
cuts proposed in Congress, Werfel said. A budget cut of about $1
billion since 2010 has led the agency to cut about 8 percent of
its full-time staff, or about 8,000 workers, he said.  With further cuts, “we would no longer be able to sustain
our current level of effort on  identity theft  without
significantly weakening other programs,” Werfel said.  House Republicans have proposed reducing the agency’s
budget by 24 percent.  Werfel’s testimony to a subcommittee of the House Oversight
and Government Reform panel comes as the agency is mired in
controversies over its scrutiny of Tea Party groups, spending on
conferences and payment of bonuses to agency officials.  President  Barack Obama  forced out Werfel’s predecessor,
acting IRS commissioner  Steven Miller , and yesterday nominated
 John Koskinen  to take over the agency.  “Refund fraud caused by identity theft is one of the
biggest challenges facing the IRS today,” Werfel told the House
subcommittee.  Death Records  Criminals with access to taxpayers’ identifying information
-- sometimes from death records or employer payroll files -- can
create fraudulent tax returns and obtain refunds before the
actual taxpayer is aware of the theft.  Obama’s 2014 budget plan included proposals to curb a rise
in identity theft occurring through tax returns. It called for a
$5,000 civil penalty for tax-related identity theft, restricting
access to Social Security death records and allowing employers
to avoid putting Social Security numbers on W-2 wage reporting
forms.  For fiscal year 2012, the IRS’s identity-theft unit
received about 450,000 cases, up 78 percent over the previous
year, according to the National Taxpayer Advocate, an
independent organization within the agency. This year, the IRS
has resolved 565,000 cases, Werfel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in  Washington  at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  