-- Davy Said Set to Take Biggest Stake in 220-Year-Old Irish Market
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-08-02T14:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/davy-said-set-to-take-biggest-stake-in-220-year-old-irish-market.html
Davy, Ireland’s largest securities
firm, is poised to become the Irish Stock Exchange’s biggest
shareholder under plans which will trigger a 26 million euros
($34.5 million) windfall for six members of the 220year-old
market, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  will be paid to waive its
claim to a stake in the exchange as it becomes a private
company, said the people, who asked not to be identified as the
talks are private. The ISE will have five owners, each with
minority stakes, once the plan is finalized, the people said.  The Dublin-based  ISE , a branch of the London Stock Exchange
until 1995, has missed out on a wave of mergers and acquisitions
in the industry in the past decade. The plan comes about seven
years after guarantor members first began to explore in detail
how to release its cash reserves, which remain tied up under its
current structure, according to the people.  The ISE posted a 35 percent increase in pretax profit to
6.3 million euros in 2012.  The accord between the companies comes as the liquidator of
Dublin-based Bloxham, the securities firm forced to cease
trading last year by the central bank, challenges the ISE’s
decision to remove it as a guarantor member. Bloxham valued its
interest in the exchange at 6.3 million euros in court filings
last year.  Goodbody Stockbrokers, owned by Kerry, Ireland-based Fexco
Holdings,  Investec Plc (INVP) ,  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP and Campbell
O’Connor & Co. will be the other shareholders under the accord,
one of the people said.  Officials from the Irish Stock Exchange, Goodbody,
Investec, Cantor Fitzgerald and Campbell O’Connor declined to
comment. Spokesmen for RBS, Davy and Bloxham’s liquidator said
they weren’t immediately in a position to comment.  The allocation of shares each firm will receive in the
exchange will be linked to the  amount of trades they route
through the exchange, according to the people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  