-- Detroit Judge Approves Retiree Panel as Ex-Workers Picket
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-08-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/detroit-bankruptcy-judge-says-retiree-committee-needed.html
Detroit  needs a committee as soon as
possible to represent retired public employees in the city’s
record municipal bankruptcy, a judge said as he pushed lawyers
to avoid slowing the pace of the case.  In comments and rulings yesterday at a hearing in federal
court in Detroit, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes made clear
he will impose deadlines that one lawyer said “may be extremely
aggressive.” Rhodes ordered the retiree panel set up within 21
days by the U.S. Trustee, the arm of the U.S. Justice Department
that monitors business and municipal bankruptcies.  Outside the courthouse, about 40 protesters, including
former city workers, picketed, some with signs that read “Bail
Out the People, Not the Banks.”  Detroit filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy on July
18, saying decades of decline had left the traditional home of
U.S. automakers unable to pay its debt and provide an acceptable
level of police, fire and other services. The city’s emergency
manager has proposed cutting some retiree benefits as part of a
plan to restructure $18 billion in debt.  Detroit will “enthusiastically accept” the judge’s
schedule for a reorganization plan, David Heiman, an attorney
for the city, said in court.  “Time is our enemy,” he said. “The facts are not going
to change, no matter how long we wait.”  Procedural Changes  Creditors including city employee unions, bond insurers and
one bank all unsuccessfully asked the judge for documents,
witness interviews or procedural changes that might have delayed
his schedule.  “These deadlines may be extremely aggressive,” Lynn Brimer, a lawyer for an association of retired police, told the
judge when he solicited opinions on the proposed timetable.  Heiman told Rhodes it’s the city’s “hope and desire to
file a plan by year-end,” even sooner than the March 1 deadline
the judge had proposed.  Rhodes said yesterday that he would leave the composition
of the committee up to the U.S. Trustee, staying out of a
dispute between current and retired city workers. The committee
should represent the interests of about 20,000 retirees, the
judge said.  Former municipal workers have said Detroit should be barred
from any role in setting up the committee. Organizations of
retired police officers, firefighters and general workers also
oppose allowing any current city employees or union officials to
sit on the proposed panel. Lawyers for the unions have said they
want a seat on any retiree committee.  Retired Policeman  Donald Hudson, who retired in January from the Detroit
police force after 39 years, said he wouldn’t mind if the
committee included current employees.  “We have common interests,” Hudson, who makes about
$50,000 a year from his pension, said outside the courthouse. He
said Detroit doesn’t have the right to cut pensions. “It’s not
the city’s money. It never has been.”  Hudson and some of the other protesters said they live in
the city and have witnessed the slow decay of its neighborhoods.
They said the best way to save Detroit is by cutting debt owed
to bondholders, not employees.  Before the bankruptcy, Orr proposed canceling about
$2 billion in what the city claims is unsecured bond debt and
$3.5 billion in future pension obligations. Those debts would be
replaced with about $2 billion in new notes the city would
issue.  Water Department  David Sole, 65, said he retired in January after 22 years
with the water department, where he worked as a chemist.  Eliminating pensions would do more economic harm to the
city, he said as he stood outside court. He has lived on the
city’s east side since 1991 and his block now has 10 abandoned
homes on it. He can’t sell because there are no buyers in the
Detroit market, he said.  Workers have already given up 20 percent of their pay to
help the city budget, he said. Cuts in services have made
neighborhoods like his worse, he said.  “Residents are waiting for garbage pickup that doesn’t
come,” he said.  Under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , which governs
municipal bankruptcies, unsecured creditors including retirees
don’t automatically have the right to form a committee. In a
Chapter 11 bankruptcy, which is used by companies, a committee
is usually formed to represent unsecured creditors.  Committee Needed  Detroit’s emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, has said a retiree
committee is needed because, unlike union members or bond
investors, the former workers don’t have a strong organization
backing them. He said the other groups don’t need a court-approved committee to help them.  Maria Giannirakis, an attorney for U.S. Trustee, said her
office hasn’t taken a position yet on who should be on the
committee.  Orr yesterday offered unions a new proposal to retain a
city-paid health-care plan for employees, raising deductibles
while preserving the 20 percent share employees now pay for
premiums. The proposal streamlines 20 different health plans and
would save the city almost $12 million a year, Orr said in a
statement.  He previously proposed shifting most retirees to federal
health programs and offering a city-paid plan with minimal
coverage.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in federal court in Detroit at   schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Durisin in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  