-- Dollar Drops After U.S. Employment Gain Is Smallest in 4 Months
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-08-02T21:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/dollar-erases-advance-as-u-s-employment-gains-trail-forecast.html
The dollar fell against the majority
of its 16 most-traded peers after U.S. employers added fewer
workers than forecast in July, damping speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will slow the pace of asset purchases anytime soon.  The dollar pared its first weekly gain in a month as the
162,000 increase in payrolls was the smallest in four months,
Labor Department figures showed in  Washington . The Fed said this
week it will maintain its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases
to spur growth, a move that tends to debase the currency.
 Mexico ’s peso surged on speculation Fed stimulus would aid
capital flows into the country.  “We have disappointment about the pace of payroll growth,
and that is feeding into a softening dollar performance,” said
 Jens Nordvig , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Nomura
Holdings Inc., by phone from  New York . “We need to see the
growth momentum pick up a little in the third quarter in order
for the Fed to be confident about their forecast being on
track.”  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, dropped 0.6 percent to
1,028.74 at 5 p.m. in New York. It gained 0.6 percent this week
after falling the previous three.  The U.S. tender fell 0.5 percent to $1.3276 per euro and
declined 0.6 percent to 98.94 yen.  Japan ’s currency gained 0.1
percent to 131.34 per euro.  Peso, Real  The  Mexican peso  gained 1.3 percent to 12.6625 per  U.S.
dollar  after adding 1.5 percent, its biggest move in two weeks.
The U.S. is Mexico’s largest trade partner. The erased a weekly
loss.  Brazil ’s real rose from a four-year low as the central bank
intervened to support the currency’s gain after the U.S.
payrolls report. The currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 2.2874
per U.S. dollar. The real closed yesterday at a level weaker
than 2.3 per dollar for the first time since 2009.  The  New Zealand dollar  was the biggest loser among major
currencies, falling 0.7 percent to 78.38 New Zealand cents per
U.S. dollar, touching the lowest point in two weeks. The dollars
of Canada and  Australia , fellow commodities-exporting nations,
also dropped.  Reduced Urgency  The employment gain followed a revised 188,000 rise in June
that was less than initially estimated. The median forecast of
93 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 185,000 jobs
gain. Workers spent fewer hours on the job and hourly earnings
fell for the first time since October.  “The market had been positioned probably for a stronger
number and there was a bit of a disappointment,”  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc, said by phone
from New York. “The market’s view will be formed with data, and
I think data remains reasonably strong to keep September
tapering very much in play.”  The  unemployment rate  dropped to 7.4 percent from 7.6
percent, according to the Bloomberg survey median, versus a
forecast drop to 7.5 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 after the Fed’s
policy meeting that the central bank may start dialing back its
bond-buying program this year and end it entirely in mid-2014 if
the economy achieves sustainable growth. The Fed has been buying
$40 billion of mortgage bonds and $45 billion of Treasuries to
inject cash into the economy.  The economy has added an average of 201,000 jobs each month
this year through June, Labor Department data show. Payrolls
expanded in 2011 and 2012 by an average of 179,000 positions a
month, the data show.  Jobless Outlook  The Fed plans to hold its target interest rate near zero at
least as long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the
outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent. Asset
purchases may continue in 2014 until unemployment declines to
about 7 percent, Bernanke said in June.  The employment report “doesn’t necessarily change the view
on when tapering will happen, but it reduces the urgency in the
market because of the positioning,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA, said by
phone from New York. “I would guess the market is no longer
long dollar. It’s probably marginally short dollar, and that’s
helped put that move higher in euro.” A long position is a bet
an asset, in this case the U.S. dollar, will increase in value.
A short position is a wager it will decrease.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $33 billion, compared with $28 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $8.3 billion, the
largest share of trades at 25 percent. Options on the dollar-Chinese  yuan  rate totaled $5.4 billion, or 16 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 17 percent more than average
for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yuan options trading was
206 percent more than the average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  