-- Eastern Afghanistan Clash With Taliban Kills Dozens
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-08-02T19:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/eastern-afghanistan-clash-with-taliban-kills-dozens.html
At least 22 Afghan policemen and 76
Taliban militants were killed today in clashes over a besieged
tribal elder in eastern  Afghanistan , according to a local
official.  The deaths followed an attack by dozens of Taliban
guerrillas on the leader’s residence in the Sherzad district of
Nangahar province, Ahmadzia Abdulzai, a spokesman for the
province, said in a telephone interview. The guerrillas were
armed with light and heavy weapons, he said.  “We rescued the tribal elder by killing 16 Afghan and
Pakistani Taliban fighters on the ground,” he said.  As the police forces left the area, he said, they were
ambushed by more than 100 Taliban guerrillas who killed the 22
policemen. In the ensuing clashes, an additional 60 Taliban
militants were killed and dozens were wounded.  A Taliban spokesman,  Zabihullah Mujahed , confirmed the
clashes in an e-mailed statement while saying that only five
Taliban fighters were killed and four were wounded.  Taliban attacks are increasing as U.S.-led combat forces
hand over control of the war to their Afghan counterparts in
advance of plans to depart by the end of next year. The
country’s  Interior Ministry  said almost 300 Afghan policemen
were killed and 618 wounded in June, a 22 percent increase from
the same period a year earlier, during operations and clashes
with Taliban fighters. The ministry estimated that the
militants’ casualties were more than double the police’s.  A report by the United Nations mission in Afghanistan said
that more than 1,300 Afghan civilians were killed and 2,533
wounded in the war in the first half of this year, a 23 percent
increase from the previous year. It attributed 74 percent of the
deaths to the Taliban insurgency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in  New Delhi  at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  