-- Leiderman Withdraws Bank of Israel Candidacy in Netanyahu Blow
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-02T14:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/leiderman-withdraws-bank-of-israel-candidacy-in-netanyahu-blow.html
Leonardo Leiderman withdrew his
candidacy to become the next Bank of Israel governor, becoming
the second nominee to pull out in a week and dealing a blow to
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .  Leiderman, who is head of the economics department at Bank
Hapoalim Ltd., said he is removing himself from consideration,
according to a text message from Prime Minister’s office. The
announcement did not give reason for his decision.  “This is a major embarrassment for Netanyahu, no doubt,”
said Abraham Diskin, professor of political science at the
 Hebrew University of Jerusalem . “While the domestic political
fallout will be limited, it will likely raise questions
internationally about his handling of the economy.”  Netanyahu picked Leiderman to succeed  Stanley Fischer  on
July 31 after Jacob Frenkel announced he was pulling out. In
choosing Leiderman, Netanyahu passed over acting Governor Karnit
Flug, who tendered her resignation in response to the
announcement.  “ Bank of Israel  Governor nominee Leo Leiderman informed
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Finance Minister Yair
Lapid a short time ago that he is withdrawing his candidacy,”
the text message from the prime minister’s office said.
Leiderman was scheduled to meet with a government vetting
committee on Sunday.  Frenkel withdrew after the Haaretz newspaper reported that
was allegedly detained in Hong Kong seven years ago after he
left an airport shop with an item that had not been paid for.  Frenkel said the incident was a misunderstanding that was
fully clarified without further consequence. He said he no
longer wanted the job after being subjected to an “avalanche of
abuse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  