-- Telecom Italia Writedowns Exceed $18 Billion Since 2011
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-08-02T12:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/telecom-italia-reports-first-half-loss-on-2-9-billion-writedown.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s 2.2 billion-euro
($2.9 billion) goodwill writedown for the first half brings the
amount of impairment losses by Italy’s largest phone company to
14 billion euros since 2011 as its stock heads for the ninth
consecutive annual decline.  The cost sank Milan-based Telecom Italia into a net loss of
1.41 billion euros, compared with net income of 1.24 billion
euros a year earlier. The carrier reported 7.4 billion euros in
goodwill writedowns in 2011, followed by 4.3 billion euros in
2012. Telecom Italia today cut its full-year earnings forecast
as wireless competition intensifies.  With its debt rating one step shy of junk and after failing
to sell a stake to  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , Telecom Italia is
working on spinning off its fixed-line assets to bargain for a
regulatory reprieve. Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe is
relying on growth in Brazil and Argentina, which account for
 about 40 percent  of the company’s revenue, to offset a slump in
its home market.  “It’s a mistake to believe the spinoff may solve all the
phone company’s problems, as it is only one ingredient of a
recipe,” Oreste Pollicino, a professor at Bocconi University,
said in a phone interview. “Telecom Italia should aim to solve
its financial issues by exploiting the most valuable markets
like Brazil and Argentina.”  Italy Slump  Telecom Italia will continue to pursue consolidation
opportunities even after talks to combine with Hutchison’s local
unit ended because of valuation differences, Bernabe said during
a conference call. The CEO ruled out a capital increase or a
sale of the Brazilian business to reach a debt-reduction target.  The shares fell 3.9 percent to 49.2 cents at 2:36 p.m. in
Milan. Down 28 percent this year, the stock is the  worst
performer  on the 24-company Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication
Services Index, which has gained 9.3 percent.  Telecom Italia has a market value of 8.9 billion euros.
That compares with its 28.8 billion-euro in adjusted net debt at
the end of June.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service
both rank the carrier’s debt at the lowest investment grade. The
carrier today confirmed its goal to lower the measure to less
than 27 billion euros this year.  Downgrade Risks  “The previously mentioned unfavorable macroeconomic and
market context also forces us to consider the downgrading of the
 credit rating  assigned by the rating agencies as one of the
possible risks that the company must face,” Bernabe said in a
note.  Credit-default swaps insuring Telecom Italia’s debt for
five years rose as much as 7.7 percent to 368 basis points,
signaling a deterioration in creditworthiness. The derivatives
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  First-half revenue declined 7 percent to 13.76 billion
euros, compared with the 13.7 billion-euro average estimate of
four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in Italy, where competitors include  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) ’s Wind unit, slumped 10 percent, while
Ebitda dropped 13 percent. The carrier didn’t break out second-quarter figures.  Argentina, Brazil  Earlier this week,  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , Telecom Italia’s
Brazilian unit, reported an 8.7 percent jump in second-quarter
revenue and a 12 percent increase in net income. The Argentinian
unit boosted first-half sales by 22 percent and profit by 14
percent.  Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  is the biggest investor in Telco SpA,
the holding company that owns almost 22.5 percent of Telecom
Italia. Other holders are  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)   Telco’s partners, which agreed in February 2012 to renew
their agreement for three years with an exit option in September
2013 and August 2014, may use the first window in September to
revoke the accord, a person with knowledge of the matter has
said. Yesterday, Generali CEO  Mario Greco  said the insurer would
dispose of its Telecom Italia stake under the right conditions,
while Generali hasn’t made a decision on an eventual exit from
Telco in September.  Last month, Telecom Italia said it ended talks with Hong
Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison to combine their
Italian mobile-phone businesses. Weeks later, Telefonica and
 Royal KPN NV (KPN)  agreed to merge their German wireless businesses to
become the country’s biggest carrier by customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  