-- Energy Future Quarterly Loss Narrows to $71 Million
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-08-02T12:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/energy-future-quarterly-loss-narrows-to-71-million.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp., the
Texas power company seeking to restructure at least $32 billion
of debt, said its quarterly loss narrowed as it reported a gain
from contracts that hedge interest expenses.  The second-quarter loss narrowed to $71 million from $696
million a year earlier, the Dallas-based company said in a
 filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made
public today. Excluding one-time items, the loss was $450
million from $233 million a year earlier, as sales fell at its
competitive power business because of mild weather and the
refueling of a nuclear plant.  Energy Future, formerly known as TXU, has struggled to
reduce debt since it was taken private by KKR & Co. and TPG
Capital six years ago in the largest leveraged buyout in
history. Wholesale electricity rates have dropped as natural gas
prices declined about 70 percent from a July 2008 high.  Total debt rose to $43.55 billion among all the company’s
units as of the end of June, from $43.4 billion at the end of
the first quarter. The company said in April that creditors had
rejected a pre-packaged bankruptcy plan to restructure $32
billion in debt held by Energy Future’s competitive power unit.
The plan called for creditors to forgive obligations in exchange
for equity and $5 billion in cash and new debt.  ‘Additional Discussions’  The company said today it has “engaged in additional
discussions” with a broader group of creditors and continues to
evaluate changes in capital structure that include voluntarily
filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy for some or all of the company.  Talks include creditors of the regulated-unit holding
company, Energy Future Intermediate Holdings, according to the
filing. Junior bondholders of that unit hired restructuring
advisers, people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Total interest expenses and related charges for the quarter
fell to $598 million from $1.02 billion a year earlier, as the
company reported a $339 million gain from interest rate swaps,
compared with a $106 million loss.  Operating revenues rose 2.5 percent to $1.42 billion.  Energy Future’s units include Luminant, which owns more
than 15,400 megawatts of power plant capacity in  Texas ; TXU
Energy, a retail electricity seller; and Oncor Electric
Delivery, a regulated power-line unit that supplies electricity
to more than 3 million homes and businesses.  Energy Future’s Texas Competitive subsidiary owns Luminant
and TXU Energy. The unit’s $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent notes
due November 2015 traded at 6.5 cents on the dollar on July 25,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  