-- Terra Firma Agrees to Sell Phoenix Energy to Hastings Funds
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-08-02T13:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/terra-firma-agrees-to-sell-phoenix-energy-to-hastings-funds.html
Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.,
the private-equity firm run by Guy Hands, agreed to sell its
Northern Irish gas distribution company Phoenix Energy Holdings
Group to Hastings Funds Management Ltd.  The buyout firm announced the sale in a statement today,
without disclosing the price. Hastings, founded in 1994 as one
of  Australia ’s first infrastructure fund managers, agreed to pay
about 700 million pounds ($1.06 billion) for Phoenix, a person
familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Phoenix was established in 1996 to bring natural gas to
Northern Ireland and has about 140,000 domestic and business
customers and employs more than 3,000 people, according to the
company’s  website . Terra Firma invested in Northern Ireland’s
largest natural gas distribution and energy services company in
2005, its  website  shows.  The deal is Terra Firma’s second sale of an asset this year
following the initial public offering of German residential
landlord  Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN)  on the Frankfurt Stock
Exchange in July.  “The success of this investment highlights the expertise
of Terra Firma in transforming asset-backed businesses in
essential industries,” Hands said in today’s statement.
“Phoenix is well positioned for future growth, and we are
confident that under Hastings’ ownership it will continue to
thrive.”  Private-equity firms typically pool money from pension
plans and insurance companies and use it to buy companies. They
usually charge a management fee of as much as 2 percent and keep
20 percent of the profits from investments.  The pools are largely structured to last a decade with an
investment period of five years, after which the private-equity
firm will look to raise a new fund. Terra Firma raised 5.4
billion euros ($7.1 billion) for its last private-equity pool in
2007, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  