-- European Commission Approves Chinese Solar-Panel Pact
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-08-03T10:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/eu-solar-panel-accord-with-china-approved-by-european-commission.html
The European Commission approved
trade chief Karel  De Gucht ’s plan for curbs on Chinese solar
panels, allowing import tariffs to be removed in three days in
Europe’s largest dumping dispute.  The commission, the European Union’s executive arm,
yesterday endorsed a negotiated settlement with China that sets
a minimum price and a volume limit on EU imports of Chinese
solar panels until the end of 2015. Chinese manufacturers that
take part will be spared EU duties meant to counter below-cost
sales, a practice known as  dumping .  “This is going to stabilize the market,” De Gucht, the
28-nation EU’s trade commissioner, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday in Brussels. “I hope that this
deal is going to give the necessary oxygen to the European
companies, and also companies from other countries, to invest
again in research and development so that we can develop a new
generation of solar panels.”  The goal is to limit Chinese competition against European
manufacturers such as  Solarworld AG (SWV)  without resorting to anti-dumping duties that some EU national governments, including in
Berlin and  London , oppose. The renewable-energy case covers EU
imports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic modules or panels,
and cells and wafers used in them -- shipments valued at 21
billion euros ($28 billion) in 2011.  ‘Intensive’ Talks  With Chinese companies controlling 80 percent of the EU
solar-panel market and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  leading
warnings about punitive levies to boost import prices, De Gucht
announced a settlement with China on July 27 after weeks of what
he called “intensive” talks. He didn’t disclose the minimum
price and volume limit in the agreement, which then had to be
approved by the full commission.  In early June, the commission introduced provisional anti-dumping duties as high as 67.9 percent on Chinese solar panels
as part of a probe begun in September. The commission decided to
apply an initial lower rate of 11.8 percent for two months to
encourage the government in Beijing to negotiate a solution.  As of Aug. 6, without the accord, the provisional levies
applied would have ranged from 37.3 percent to 67.9 percent,
depending on the company. The  import taxes  target more than 100
Chinese companies including Yingli Energy (China) Co., Wuxi
Suntech Power Co. and Changzhou Trina Solar Energy Co.  Participating Producers  Those three manufacturers are among the Chinese companies
taking part in the agreement, according to a list published by
the commission today in the EU  Official Journal . Other
participating producers include Jiangsu Aide Solar Energy
Technology Co., Delsolar (Wujiang) Ltd., ERA Solar Co., Jiangsu
Green Power PV Co. and Konca Solar Cell Co., according to the
list of more than 90 companies.  The agreement fixes a minimum price of 56 euro cents a watt
for annual imports from China of as much as 7 gigawatts, a trade
official in  Europe  said last week when the commission announced
that a deal had been reached. The pact covers Chinese exporters
that have about 60 percent of the EU solar-panel market,
according to the official, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity.  EU ProSun, which represents around 40 European solar-panel
producers including Solarworld of  Germany , has called the accord
unacceptable and vowed to file a lawsuit.  The group, which lodged the complaint against China that
led to the commission’s dumping investigation, said on July 27
that the agreed minimum price matches that at which Chinese
exporters are selling solar panels in the EU.  Minimum Price  Without disclosing the agreed minimum price, De Gucht said
yesterday that the South Korean industry sold panels at
“exactly” the floor agreed with  China  while not engaging in
dumping. He also said a price floor of around 80 euro cents a
watt sought by EU ProSun wasn’t ever entertained during the
negotiations with China.  “We have never been discussing about the level of prices
that, for example, the complainants now say they would need to
be competitive,” De Gucht said. “If that is the case, then
they will never be competitive again.”  EU governments, acting on a commission proposal, have until
Dec. 6 to decide whether to accept the agreement as a
“definitive” measure. While definitive EU anti-dumping
measures usually last five years, De Gucht said the pace of
change in the solar-panel market justifies the shorter period of
protection that he negotiated.  Five Years  “An intervention in the market should not last too long,
the more so that we are in a sector that is very quickly
changing,” he said. “Nobody has a clear idea of what will be
the situation in the solar-panel market within five years.”  De Gucht expressed optimism that EU governments will
approve the negotiated package later this year, saying “a very
large majority” signaled support during consultations in the
run-up to the commission decision.  The EU is also threatening to impose a separate set of
duties on Chinese solar panels to counter alleged subsidies.
That’s the focus of a second investigation in which the deadline
for introducing any provisional anti-subsidy duties is Aug. 8
and for imposing any definitive measures is early December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  