-- European Stocks Gain for Week on Results, Draghi Comments
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-08-02T16:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/european-stocks-gain-for-week-on-results-draghi-comments.html
European stocks  climbed this week as
companies from Anheuser-Busch InBev NV to Bayer AG posted
quarterly earnings that beat estimates and as the  European
Central Bank  said  interest rates  will remain low.  AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, jumped 11 percent,
leading  food-and-beverage stocks  higher. Bayer paced gains among
chemical makers as it surged 7 percent. Alcatel-Lucent SA soared
17 percent after quarterly profit exceeded projections. K+S AG
posted its biggest weekly drop in more than 14 years as OAO
Uralkali forecast that potash prices will plummet.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 1.8 percent to 304.15
this week. The equity benchmark has risen every day this week,
its longest winning streak since April. That pushed its
valuation to 13.8 times estimated earnings, the highest since
December 2009. More than 140 Stoxx 600-listed companies reported
earnings this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors have a far more positive outlook on European
equities now than before as they are hoping the economy will
oblige and show an improvement next year,” Andrew Parry, who
oversees about 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) as chief executive
officer of Hermes Sourcecap Ltd. in London, said in a phone
interview. “Expectations for profit have already fallen so much
that if a company is posting slightly better earnings on
depressed estimates, that’s a welcome relief.”  Analysts have lowered their profit forecasts for companies
listed on the Stoxx 600 since the beginning of this year.
Estimates have fallen 8.3 percent to 22.09 euros per share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest Rates  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 1 that interest
rates in the  euro zone  will remain low for an extended period of
time. He also said there are indications that the combined
economy of the currency bloc is stabilizing. The ECB and the
 Bank of England  left their benchmark interest rates unchanged at
0.5 percent, as forecast by economists in Bloomberg surveys.  In  China , the government’s gauge of manufacturing activity
unexpectedly rose to 50.3 in July. Economists had forecast a
decline to 49.8. An index of factory output released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on Aug. 1 fell to 47.7, its
lowest level in 11 months. A reading of 50 is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report on July 31 showed
that the world’s largest economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, more than the 1 percent forecast in
a Bloomberg survey. Gross domestic product expanded at a revised
1.1 percent pace in the first three months of the year.  Jobs Report  A Labor Department release today showed that the  U.S.
economy  created fewer jobs last month than forecast. Employers
added 162,000 workers in July. Economists had predicted net
hiring of 185,000.  National benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western-European
markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 advanced 1.4 percent,
while  France ’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  climbed 1.9 percent and  Germany ’s DAX
Index added 2 percent.  Gauges of food-and-beverage producers and chemical makers
posted the  biggest gains  of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx
600 this week. AB InBev rallied 11 percent, its biggest jump
since March 2009. The brewer of Stella Artois lager said so-called organic normalized earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 5.8 percent in the second
quarter. Analysts had called for profit growth of 3.7 percent.
SABMiller, the second-biggest brewer, increased 4.1 percent.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  added 5.3 percent after the brewer of Guinness
stout posted full-year operating profit excluding some items of
3.53 billion pounds ($5.4 billion). That beat the 3.48 billion-pound  median estimate .  Bayer Rallies  Bayer jumped 7 percent as the German maker of chemicals and
drugs said Ebitda rose 1.2 percent to 2.20 billion euros in the
second quarter. That exceeded the 2.16 billion euros  predicted
by analysts  in a Bloomberg survey.  Elementis Plc surged 11 percent as the British supplier of
specialty chemicals said operating profit will improve in the
second half of this year. Umicore SA advanced 6.7 percent as the
world’s biggest precious-metals recycler maintained its profit
forecast on July 30 following a drop in metal prices.  Alcatel-Lucent surged 17 percent, its biggest gain since
January, after the French maker of networking equipment on July
30 reported second-quarter sales and operating profit that beat
analysts’ estimates and said Qualcomm Inc. agreed to buy a
minority stake.  K+S Tumbles  K+S sank 29 percent, its biggest drop since at least 1998,
as Uralkali, the world’s biggest producer of potash, said July
30 that prices of the crop nutrient may fall below $300 a ton.
Uralkali ended a joint venture with Belaruskali that had
controlled potash exports from Belarus. Uralkali said it will
increase annual production and export independently. The venture
had set potash prices well above producers’ cash costs.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc declined 5.2 percent as  Europe ’s
biggest oil company on Aug. 1 reported earnings that missed
estimates by the most since 2008. Shell posted a 20 percent drop
in second-quarter profit, saying it lost about 100,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day during the period because of crude
theft, sabotage and a blockade of gas shipments.  BP Plc, Europe’s second-largest oil producer, dropped 3.3
percent after reporting second-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ projections. An  index of oil and gas companies  posted
the worst performance on the Stoxx 600.  Barclays Plc plunged 11 percent as the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets said on July 30 it will raise 5.8 billion
pounds in a rights offering to increase capital as first-half
profit fell 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  