-- Ex-FBI Agent Charged With Two Others in Bribery Scheme
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-08-02T22:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/ex-fbi-agent-charged-with-two-others-in-bribery-scheme.html
A former FBI agent, Robert Lustyik,
was accused by federal prosecutors of disclosing confidential
law enforcement documents in exchange for bribes.  Lustyik, 50, was charged in federal court in  White Plains ,
 New York , today along with two alleged co-conspirators,
according to a statement from the office of Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara. The government claims Lustyik and a
friend, Johannes Thaler, 49, solicited payments from Rizve
Ahmed, 34, a native of  Bangladesh , in exchange for Lustyik’s
agreement to turn over confidential documents and information.  The government said Ahmed wanted to use the information to
harm an unnamed person from an opposing political party in
Bangladesh. Thaler and Ahmed were arrested today and presented
before U.S. Magistrate Judge George Yanthis, according to the
statement. Thaler was released on a personal recognizance bond.
Ahmed was ordered held without bail, according to the statement.  Lustyik is being held in connection with separate charges
in  Utah , according to Bharara’s office.  The three men are each charged with conspiracy to bribe a
public official. Lustyik and Thaler are accused of soliciting
and bribes. Ahmed is charged with bribing a public official.
Lustyik is also charged with illegally disclosing a suspicious
activity report.  If convicted, Lustyik faces a maximum prison sentence of 25
years. Thayer and Ahmed face as much as 20 years in prison if
they are convicted.  Andrew Rubin, a lawyer for Lustyik, didn’t immediately
return a voicemail message seeking comment on the charges.  The case is 13-mg-1921, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  