-- Mexico Peso Gains as Bonds Rally on Outlook for U.S. Stimulus
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-08-02T14:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/mexico-peso-gains-as-bonds-rally-on-outlook-for-u-s-stimulus.html
Mexico’s peso strengthened the most
in two weeks and benchmark bonds advanced after smaller-than-forecast gains for the U.S. jobs market eased concern the
 Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus.  The peso jumped 1.1 percent to 12.5914 per dollar at 8:38
a.m. in Mexico City, heading to the biggest gain on a closing
basis since July 17, and reducing its weekly decline to 0.2
percent. Yields on Mexican government peso bonds maturing in
2024 fell 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 5.88
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s local-currency securities rallied along with U.S.
Treasuries after the Labor Department said payrolls increased
162,000 last month, the smallest increase in four months and
compared with a median forecast for a 185,000 gain among
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. This week Federal Reserve
policy makers repeated a pledge they have used since September
to continue monthly asset purchases until the U.S. labor market
outlook has improved substantially.  “It’s really a product of the uncertainty about how sure
it is that the  U.S. economy  is recovering and how soon the
Federal Reserve will begin reducing stimulus,” Salvador Orozco,
deputy director for money markets and exchange at Grupo
Financiero Santander Mexico SAB, said by phone from Mexico City.
“What the market thinks is that maybe the Fed won’t act as soon
as September.”  In a monetary policy decision earlier this week, the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said July 31 that it will maintain
its $85 billion in monthly bond buying. Half of the economists
surveyed by Bloomberg in a July 18-22 poll said the Fed will
trim its monthly bond buying to $65 billion in September.  Benchmark Rate  Policy makers also left unchanged their commitment to hold
the target lending rate near zero as long as the jobless rate
remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation over one
to two years doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  After today’s Labor Department report the U.S. unemployment
rate is 7.4 percent.  Foreign investors boosted holdings of peso bonds to a
record earlier this year as they sought to profit from  Mexico ’s
higher-yielding securities while escaping near-zero rates at
home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  