-- Mexican Peso Becomes Swedish Export Target as Trading Shifts
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-08-02T07:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/mexican-peso-becomes-swedish-export-target-as-trading-shifts.html
Sweden’s state-backed export bank is
targeting emerging-market currencies including the  Mexican peso ,
the Brazilian real and China’s  renminbi  to help companies in the
largest Nordic economy build markets outside Europe.  “The best-functioning market is still the dollar, and then
the euro is also good and functioning, but we are trying very
much to borrow in other currencies that are harder to get, to
offer those to export companies,” Peter Yngwe, chief executive
officer of SEK, said by phone from Stockholm yesterday. “They
can then, through us, get hold of these currencies, and at a
relatively good cost.”  Yngwe, who also singled out the  Thai baht , said SEK is
targeting currencies from markets where exporters are enjoying
growth. Sweden’s government is urging companies to rely less on
sales to  Europe , where the debt crisis is entering its fourth
year, and more on markets with brighter expansion prospects.
Swedish sales abroad make up half the $550 billion economy,
while about 70 percent of exports go to Europe.  “We have had this strategy for quite a long time but it is
particularly distinctive now as  capital markets  are functioning
better and as companies now have a greater need for these kind
of currencies than ordinary currencies,” Yngwe said.  Less Vulnerable  Trade Minister Ewa Bjoerling has promoted a shift away from
European markets to make Sweden less vulnerable to economic
shocks. She says she wants manufacturers to target buyers in
countries such as China, India and Brazil.  A 0.8 percent decline in Swedish exports led to a 0.1
percent economic contraction in the second quarter, official
data showed this week. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
predicted 0.1 percent growth.  Finance Minister  Anders Borg  on May 7 urged Swedish
manufacturers also to target  Africa , saying that his country is
“in a tough neighborhood because the rest of Europe is growing
very slowly.” Sweden is already “heavily diversifying our
trade toward Asia, but also I think to Africa and  Latin
America ,” he said. “We don’t want to be stuck in a low-growth
Europe.”  Swedish exports dropped 3.5 percent to 1.17 trillion kronor
($178.2 billion) last year and slumped an annual 9.8 percent to
548.8 billion kronor in the first six months of 2013, according
to  Statistics Sweden . Of total exports in 2012, 57 percent went
to countries in the European Union.  Debt Sales  The government of Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
estimates Swedish exports to Asia will jump 32 percent between
2012 and 2016 and grow 27 percent to central and South America,
North Africa and the  Middle East , according to  information  on
its website. Shipments to sub-Saharan Africa are seen rising 19
percent. In contrast, exports to the EU and  North America  are
forecast to rise 16 percent and 7 percent, respectively.  In the first half of this year, new lending at SEK rose to
 38.1 billion kronor  from 28.5 billion kronor in the same period
a year earlier, according to information on its website. It
raised 54.2 billion kronor in funding in the six months through
June, more than the entire volume raised in 2012 as a whole.  At the end of last year,  36 percent  of SEK’s total long-term funding was in U.S. dollars while 27 percent were in
Japanese yen and 8 percent in euros. Some 6 percent were in
Swiss francs, 6 percent in Australian dollars, 4 percent in
British pounds and 3 percent in Swedish kronor. SEK also had 3
percent of funding in Brazilian real, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  