-- Fed’s Bullard Urges Wait for 2nd-Half Data Before Tapering
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2013-08-02T19:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/fed-s-bullard-urges-wait-for-2nd-half-rebound-before-tapering.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , who backed this week’s Fed decision to
continue bond buying, said the Fed should wait for evidence the
labor market and economy are strengthening before tapering
purchases.  “The committee needs to see more data on macroeconomic
performance for the second half of 2013 before making a judgment
on this matter,” Bullard said today in a speech in  Boston .
While improvement is forecast, “it is important to wait to see
if better macroeconomic outcomes materialize in the months and
quarters ahead.”  Bullard backed the Federal Open Market Committee decision
to keep buying $85 billion in securities each month after saying
in a June 19 dissent that  the committee  needed to defend against
inflation running too far below its 2 percent target. The FOMC
echoed Bullard’s concern in its July 31 statement, saying
“persistently” low price gains “pose risks” to the economy.  “The committee would not normally remove policy
accommodation in an environment where inflation is below target
and is projected to remain there,” Bullard said at the 2013
Municipal Finance Conference, hosted by Brandeis International
Business School. He said there is a concern that “inflation may
be pushed even lower by a decision to taper and hence the risk
of deflation may increase.”  Half of 54 economists in a July 18-22 Bloomberg News survey
expect the FOMC to trim asset purchases at a Sept. 17-18
meeting.  Press On  Fed officials have pledged to press on with bond purchases
until achieving sustainable gains in the U.S. labor market. The
FOMC this week cited “further improvement” in the labor
market, while saying the  unemployment rate  “remains elevated.”  Measured by job growth and the unemployment rate, “labor
markets have clearly improved since September 2012,” Bullard
said. Still, other measures, such as labor-force participation,
are “weak” and improvement is “considerably muddled.”  Employers added 162,000 jobs last month and the U.S.
jobless rate dropped to 7.4 percent, Labor Department figures
showed today.  The jobs report represented “basically good news” and the
unemployment rate will probably decline further, Bullard said to
reporters after the speech. He said he opposed setting any
timetable for scaling back asset purchases, while describing a 7
percent unemployment rate as a “softer target” for an end to
bond buying.  ‘Modest Pace’  “Today makes it less likely they taper in September,”
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The
labor market continues to improve but at a frustratingly modest
pace,” and some indicators suggest improvement is “very
fragile.”  U.S. stocks were little changed, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index declining less than 0.1 percent to 1,706.76 at 3:22
p.m. in  New York . Treasuries gained, with the 10-year Treasury
yield falling 0.1 percentage point to 2.61 percent.  In response to audience questions, Bullard said the central
bank will probably hold mortgage-backed securities among its
assets longer than it had expected.  “We are more inclined to hold these longer than we were
previously,” he said after a speech in Boston. “We will
probably hold mortgage backed longer” and “a couple years in
the future make a decision on what to do.”  Taper Buying  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference after
the FOMC’s June 18-19 meeting that the Fed may trim its bond-buying program later this year and halt it around mid-2014 if
economic performance tracks the central bank’s forecast. About
half the committee’s 19 participants favor ending the program by
year’s end, according to minutes released after the June
meeting.  Bullard has been a leading voice for open-ended
quantitative easing, with no set end date and the size of
purchases varying in response to changes in economic data.  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, the personal
consumption expenditures index, increased 1.3 percent through
June.  The U.S. central bank began its third round of large-scale
asset purchases in September by buying $40 billion a month of
mortgage-backed securities. The Fed added $45 billion of monthly
Treasury purchases in December.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George dissented this week
as she has at every meeting this year, continuing to cite
concern record accommodation may create financial and economic
imbalances and increase long-term inflation expectations.  In speeches this year, George cautioned about excessive use
of margin accounts at broker-dealers and leveraged loans, or
packages of higher-risk commercial loans.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  