-- Fed Calming Market as Foreign Buyers Return: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-08-02T09:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/fed-calming-market-as-foreign-buyers-return-south-africa-credit.html
Foreign investors returned to South
 Africa ’s bond market in July following the biggest two-month
sell-off since 2011 as concern eased that the  Federal Reserve  is
poised to reduce monetary stimulus.  Foreigners bought a net 8.68 billion rand ($878 million) of
South African debt last month following  outflows  of 11.1 billion
rand in May and June, the most over two months since September
2011, according to Johannesburg Stock Exchange data. South
African 10-year bond yields rose 21 basis points in July,
compared with an increase of 23 in  Hungary  and 44 in  Turkey .  Emerging-market bond rates have surged since May 22, when
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that policy makers may
begin tapering U.S. asset purchases that helped spur demand for
higher-yielding debt. While U.S. gross domestic product growth
beat forecasts in the second quarter, the Fed said two days ago
it will maintain its $85 billion of monthly quantitative easing.
South Africa’s central bank has left its benchmark rate at a
three-decade low for more than a year after growth slumped.  “There is still some uncertainty as to what the Fed will
do, but even if they start to taper it won’t be a significant
move away from their accommodative policy,” Sean McCalgan, head
of real-time research at ETM Analytics in Johannesburg, said by
phone yesterday. “The market may have overpriced its
expectations. That is important for the local  bond market .”  Major Threat  The rand gained 2.2 percent against the dollar in the two
months to end-July, damping concern about the effect on
inflation after a 16 percent slump in the previous five months.
Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus has said that currency
weakness is a major threat to price growth. The rand slipped 0.5
percent to 10.0213 per dollar as of 11:06 a.m. in Johannesburg
today. The yield on rand bonds due December 2026 climbed eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 8.26 percent.  Inflation unexpectedly slowed to 5.5 percent in June from
5.6 percent a month earlier, remaining below the 6 percent upper
limit of the central bank’s target range. Analysts predicted an
increase, according to a Bloomberg survey. The first quarter
current-account  gap  shrank to 5.8 percent of gross domestic
product, from 6.5 percent, according to the  Reserve Bank . The
trade deficit shrank for a second month in June, to 7.7 billion
rand, the Revenue Service said on July 31.  Demand in Africa’s biggest economy is weak as  consumer
spending  remains under pressure, according to the central bank.
Policy makers last week lowered their economic growth forecast
for this year to 2 percent, while unemployment increased to 25.6
percent in the second quarter, the highest jobless rate in two
years.  Temporary Breach  “The Reserve Bank forecasts a slowdown in growth,” while
it “expects any breach of the inflation target to be
temporary,” Kamilla Kaplan, a Johannesburg-based economist at
Investec Ltd., said in an e-mail on July 31. “ Monetary policy 
is likely to remain accommodative with  interest rates  remaining
on hold until the end of 2014.”  Inflows into the nation’s bond market may be short-lived,
given the relatively large current-account deficit, according to
Guillaume Salomon, an emerging-market strategist at Societe
Generale SA.  The current-account and fiscal deficits, together with a
low growth rate and accommodative monetary policy, leave South
Africa vulnerable to external shocks. The nation needs average
inflows of 16 billion rand a month to finance the  shortfall  on
its current account, according to Standard Bank Group Ltd. The
budget gap for the fiscal year that ended in March is estimated
at 5.1 percent, according to the National Treasury.  Extreme Liquidity  “We are in a transition phase where the Fed is going to be
gradually removing some of the extreme liquidity we have seen,”
Salomon said by phone from  London  yesterday. “Whether it is in
September, whether it is further down the road, the market will
have to gauge that. Eventually it is going to make it quite
challenging for markets that require bond inflows to finance
their current-account deficits.”  Credit default swaps for  South Africa , contracts insuring
the nation’s debt against non-payment, dropped 42 basis points
since reaching a four-year high in June to 222 yesterday. The
extra yield investors demand to hold South Africa’s dollar debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped seven basis points to 266.  Foreign demand for rand bonds is set to continue in coming
months even as the fiscal deficit and rising inflation puts
pressure on yields, McCalgan at ETM said.  “A lot of it will be reliant on offshore policy
expectations,” he said. “We will probably see inflows carry on
in months ahead, presuming there is no shock in that respect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  