-- Forint Snaps Eight-Day Drop After U.S. Payrolls: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-08-02T14:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/forint-snaps-eight-day-drop-after-u-s-payrolls-budapest-mover.html
Hungary ’s forint appreciated for the
first time in nine days after lower than expected U.S. payroll
figures fueled bets the  Federal Reserve  may delay curbing the
bond buying that has triggered gains in emerging assets.  The currency strengthened 0.6 percent to 298.97 per euro by
4:10 p.m. in Budapest, trimming the decline this week to 0.6
percent and erasing an earlier drop of 0.1 percent. The forint’s
recovery from a three-month low was helped by a report that
quoted a central bank official as saying the rate will not
threaten the nation’s financial stability.  The 162,000 increase in U.S. payrolls in July was the
smallest in four months, Labor Department figures showed,
missing the median estimate of 93 economists on Bloomberg. The
Fed said this week persistently low inflation may hamper
economic growth, and pledged to keep buying $85 billion in bonds
every month. In May, the Fed signaled the program could be
tapered should the economy show sustained improvement.  “This news is emerging-markets positive,” Karoly Bamli, a
Budapest-based trader at Commerzbank AG, said by phone. “Had
the data been better, we would be at 301 forint per euro.”  The forint depreciated 1.4 percent in July after government
plans to phase out foreign-currency mortgages and the central
bank’s pledge to continue cutting  interest rates  dented the
currency’s allure.  Hungary’s central bank has no exchange-rate target,
Managing Director Daniel Palotai said in an interview with news
website Portfolio today. In cases of drastic changes in the
rate, “subtle verbal signals” have been enough to stabilize
markets, he said.  “The current rates near 300 forint per euro cannot be
considered exceptionally weak,” the  Economy Ministry  said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  