-- France Plans Dassault Combat Jet Demand Review Amid Export Hopes
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-02T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/france-plans-dassault-combat-jet-demand-review-amid-export-hopes.html
France will review how many  Dassault
Aviation SA (AM)  Rafale combat jets it buys in 2015 as the government
looks to exports deals to sustain production.  An export order from  India  is all-but assured and one or
two more export buyers will sign on as  Brazil ,  Malaysia , the
United Arab Emirates and Qatar show interest, said French
defense officials, who asked not to be identified. Dassault was
named preferred bidder in India to supply at least 126 jets.  The French government, eager to cut defense costs, has been
trying to help Dassault secure export orders to share the burden
of building the 11 Rafales each year needed to sustain
production. A defense white paper unveiled by the government in
April trimmed the total combat aircraft force to 225 planes from
300 in a previous planning document.  France  will pair its planned deliveries to 26 Rafale
between 2014 and 2019 under a new budget plan to be approved by
the cabinet today in anticipation of foreign commitments, one of
the defense officials said. The initial batch of planes for
India would be built in France, with final assembly then
shifting overseas.  France faces competition for some of the commitments.  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/)  Chief Executive Officer Ian King said yesterday the
company is pursuing exports of the Typhoon combat jet in the UAE
and Qatar as well.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest
weapons maker, is also in talks with the UAE to increase a
purchase of F-16 combat jets.  Equipment Plans  Annual  defense spending  in France will average about 31.4
billion euros a year, with 17.1 billion euros earmarked for
equipment spending financing the purchase of helicopters and
transport planes made by Toulouse-based European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co., soon to be rebranded as Airbus.  France wants to take delivery of 12 armed Reaper drones in
the period and remains in talks with the U.S. government over
how unmanned aircraft built by San Diego-based General Atomics
Aeronautical Systems Inc. can be adapted to local requirements.
The government also wants to buy 14 shorter-range drones, the
official said.  The spending plan also confirms plans for France to start
buying 12 refueling planes from next year with the first two to
be delivered in 2019. By then, the French air force should also
receive 15 A400M military transports from Airbus, with the first
now entering service.  Other equipment deliveries projected during the five-year
plan include one Barracuda attack submarine built by French
naval yard DCNS, owned partly by  Thales SA (HO) , 42 NH90 troop
transport helicopters and 16 Tigre attack choppers.  A new M51 submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic
missile is also due to be delivered, the official said. The
French bill to sustain its nuclear deterrent force is about 3.4
billion euros each year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  