-- Freeport’s Grasberg Output May Fall 20% Short of 2013 Target
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-08-02T11:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/freeport-s-grasberg-output-may-fall-20-short-of-2013-target.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s (FCX) 
production at Grasberg in  Indonesia , the world’s second-largest
copper mine, may be 20 percent below this year’s target after a
deadly tunnel accident in May suspended work.  Daily production at Grasberg, which has open-pit and
underground facilities, is close to 80 percent to 90 percent of
its normal rate, Rozik B. Soetjipto, president director at unit
PT Freeport Indonesia, told reporters in Jakarta today. The
underground mine may take some time to reach its capacity, he
said.  Freeport had targeted output of 1.1 billion pounds of
copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold this year, the company
said today. The deposit, located in Papua province, normally
produces 220,000 tons of ore a day.  Phoenix-based Freeport halted work for more than a month at
Grasberg after a tunnel collapse on May 14 killed 28 workers.
Shipments from the mine resumed last month after the Indonesian
government allowed operations to restart.  The suspension at Grasberg affected production by about 125
million pounds of copper and 125,000 ounces of gold in the
second quarter, the company said on July 23.  Higher Royalties  Indonesia’s government has been pushing metal mining
companies in the country, including Freeport and Vale SA, to
raise the royalties they pay to 10 percent, as part of
negotiations to extend the companies’ mining contracts.  Freeport has agreed to raise royalties for copper to 4
percent from 3.5 percent, for gold to 3.75 percent from 1
percent, and for silver to 3.25 percent from 1 percent,
Soetjipto said.  The government is also seeking higher state revenues from
the  mining industry  by increasing domestic metals processing to
lift the value of shipments. It plans to ban all mineral-ore
exports starting from 2014.  Freeport will still be allowed to export concentrates in
2014 as the company is committed to developing domestic metal
processing, Soetjipto said.  “I don’t expect that there will be a drastic decision by
the government,” Soetjipto said. “And so far from our
understanding, the government agrees to give us hopefully some
time for us to still continue exporting our concentrate.”  Freeport exports about 60 percent of its concentrates and
the rest of its output is processed at  PT Smelting , Indonesia’s
only copper smelter, he said.  Freeport will sign concentrate-supply agreements with three
companies that plan to build smelters and is conducting a
feasibility study to build a processing plant in the country,
Soetjipto said. The smelters, which are expected to be completed
by 2017, will need supplies of as much as 1.6 million tons of
concentrates to produce a total of 500,000 tons of copper
cathode, said Rudy Seba, Freeport’s Vice President of Technical
Affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  