-- Fuchs Second-Quarter Profit Tops Estimates on Demand From China
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-08-02T05:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/fuchs-second-quarter-profit-tops-estimates-on-demand-from-china.html
Fuchs Petrolub SE, the world’s
largest independent lubricant maker, posted second-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates as demand from Asia-Pacific
and Africa rose.  Earnings before interest and taxes gained 10 percent to
80.4 million euros ($106.2 million), the Mannheim, Germany-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had predicted 78.1 million euros.  Fuchs said today it is sticking to a full-year target to
increase earnings and sales, with new factories in  Russia  and
northern  China  on schedule to start operations in the second
half. The remainder of the year will probably be similar to the
first, although exchange rates will have to be monitored, the
company said today.  “Our companies in China and South Africa enjoyed
particularly strong growth,” Fuchs said today. “However, the
South African rand, the Australian dollar and the Japanese yen
all suffered significant losses relative to the euro.”  Sales rose 1.5 percent to 468.3 million euros and net
income was 55.8 million euros, both in line with an average
analyst estimate.  Chief Executive Officer Stefan Fuchs has said he is seeking
acquisitions to boost this year’s revenue increase beyond the
“low single-digit percentage range” that is forecast for
organic growth.  Tighter emission regulations and fuel efficiency mean that
demand will increase for higher-grade lubricants, John Philipp Klein, an analyst at Berenberg Bank, said in a note to clients
before the earnings release. Those require Fuchs to use a higher
quality of base oil as a raw material, pushing up fixed costs at
the company, he said.  The lubricant maker, majority owned by the the Fuchs
family, has a market value of 3.8 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  