-- Italian Bonds Rise After U.S. Jobs Data; German Bunds Erase Drop
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-08-02T16:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/german-bunds-fall-before-european-producer-prices-u-s-payrolls.html
Italy’s bonds rose, extending a third
weekly gain, as a U.S. report showing employers added fewer
workers last month than economists forecast fueled bets central
banks around the world will keep policy accommodative.  The nation’s  10-year yield  fell to a six-week low after the
country’s highest court said yesterday that former Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s ban from holding office must be
reviewed by a lower court. German bonds erased an earlier
decline after U.S. payroll data revived demand for the region’s
safest securities. The extra yield investors get to hold Italian
10-year bonds over German ones narrowed for a second day.  “The environment in general is supportive for peripheral
bonds,” said Christian Lenk, a fixed-income analyst at DZ Bank
AG in Frankfurt. “The yield tightening is most expressed for
Italian bonds. Now we have had the Berlusconi trial. We have
seen a verdict and investors seem to take this news with some
relief.”  Italy’s 10-year  yield  fell 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 4.25 percent at 5:02 p.m. London time, the
lowest since June 19. That increased its weekly decline to 15
basis points. The 4.5 percent bond due in May 2023 rose 0.86, or
8.60 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,327) face amount, to 102.29.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of similar-maturity bunds contracted nine basis points
to 260 basis points, the narrowest since June 20.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said after a
policy meeting yesterday that interest rates will stay low for
the foreseeable future.  ‘Extended Period’  Officials expect “key ECB interest rates to remain at
present or lower levels for an extended period of time,” Draghi
said at a press conference in  Frankfurt , even as he acknowledged
that some indicators “tentatively confirm the expectation of a
stabilization in economic activity.”  Italian bonds returned 3.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spain’s
securities rose 6.5 percent, while German bonds lost 1.3
percent, the gauges show.  Berlusconi’s conviction for tax fraud was upheld late
yesterday by Italy’s top court, setting up a Senate showdown
over his potential expulsion from parliament. The upper house’s
committee for immunities is required to vote on whether to strip
Berlusconi, a three-time premier and now a senator, of his
seat.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party will continue to
support the government, Nitto Palma, a member of the party in
the Senate, said in a statement.  U.S. Payrolls  Spain’s 10-year bond yield declined six basis points to
4.57 percent.  The 162,000 increase in U.S. payrolls in July was the
smallest in four months and followed a revised 188,000 increase
in June that was less than initially estimated, the Labor
Department said in  Washington . The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 185,000 gain.  Germany ’s  10-year yield  was little changed at 1.65 percent
after rising as much as seven basis points.  Bunds dropped earlier after a euro-area report showed
producer prices increased in June from a year earlier, damping
demand for safer assets.  Producer prices  in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.3 percent
after a 0.2 percent annual drop in May, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  