-- Global Credit Misled by Failed First Strut Over Ratings
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-08-02T09:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/global-credit-misled-by-failed-first-strut-over-ratings.html
First Strut (Pty) Ltd., which may
become the first South African company to default on a bond,
misled Global Credit Ratings Co., which assessed the engineering
and manufacturing company’s debt, the ratings company said.  First Strut “wasn’t completely honest with us,” Eyal Shevel, head of corporate ratings at Johannesburg-based Global
Credit, said in an interview yesterday, without giving more
details. “We rely heavily on audited accounts. We rely on
auditors doing their jobs.”  First Strut is being wound down after attempts to salvage
the Johannesburg-based company failed. Lenders refused more
funding and bondholders won a court order to gain control of
assets for security, Leslie Matuson and John Louw, appointed to
try and rescue the business, said in court papers filed July 16.
Global Credit Ratings gave First Strut’s 925 million rand ($94
million) of secured three-year bonds an investment-grade BBB
rating, higher than the company’s non-investment level.  Mark Shelley, who is listed as First Strut’s auditor in
court documents filed by Matuson and Louw, couldn’t be reached
for comment. Three calls to Indigo Chartered Accountants, where
Shelley works according to the  Independent Regulatory Board for
Auditors , weren’t answered. There was no response to an e-mailed
request for comment sent to the account supplied by the
regulator for Shelley. Calls to phone numbers provided on First
Strut’s website weren’t answered and e-mails didn’t receive
responses.  First Strut was given clean audit reports with no
qualifications, Shevel said.  Murder Link  First Strut’s liquidation came after the murder of Chairman
Jeff Wiggill in June in Soweto, southwest of Johannesburg.
Wiggill’s shooting may have been a contract killing, the
Johannesburg-based Star newspaper reported last week, citing the
bail application of a man arrested for his death. The company,
which was founded more than 20 years ago, had 18 units supplying
industries ranging from rail to mining and employed about 5,000
people, according to its website.  Wiggill picked up an employee on the night of the murder
and then drove to Soweto where he was found shot dead the next
morning, the Mail & Guardian reported today, citing surveillance
cameras and evidence gathered from his Bentley.  Investors, including Investec Asset Management and  Sanlam
Ltd. (SLM) , bought First Strut’s notes through a specially-created
company called Bacarac Trading 142 (Pty) Ltd., according to the
court documents. The debt was secured through a general notarial
bond over First Strut’s movable assets, such as plant equipment
and the debtors’ book, Shevel said. Bacarac enforced the
notarial bond on July 12, according to court papers.  Looming Loss  Banks and investment funds may lose at least 1.5 billion
rand, according to Bloomberg’s calculations. Many lenders,
including  Africa ’s largest, Standard Bank Group Ltd., have
refused to disclose how much they loaned the company.  Cosira  South Africa  (Pty) Ltd., a subsidiary that First
Strut bought for 425 million rand last year and which worked on
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.’s Medupi and Kusile power plants,
applied to be placed under business rescue proceedings a week
before Wiggill’s death, according to an affidavit filed by First
Strut Chief Executive Officer Andris Bertulis.  Wiggill, 54, was the main contact between the ratings
company and First Strut, Shevel said. Global Credit Ratings
didn’t get responses for requests for information from First
Strut after Cosira was placed into liquidation, he said.  “I don’t know how they turned from a seemingly OK company
to this,” Shevel said.  There was no immediate response to an e-mail seeking
comment that was sent to an address for Bertulis listed on the
website of one of First Strut’s units. Zeenath Kajee of Westrust
(Pty) Ltd., who was appointed as provisional liquidator of First
Strut, has declined to comment following repeated attempts from
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  