-- Gluten-Free Labels Defined Under New U.S. FDA Standard
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-08-02T16:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/gluten-free-labels-defined-under-new-u-s-fda-standard.html
Food labeled as gluten-free must now
adhere to a uniform standard in the U.S. as the result of a new
federal requirement.  The Food and Drug Administration today defined “gluten-free” as food that contains less than 20 parts per million of
gluten, a protein found in wheat, rye and barley. Food makers
such as Minneapolis-based  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , which has rolled
out a line of gluten-free Betty Crocker products, will have one
year to ensure labels on their cans and boxes meet the standard.  About 3 million Americans have celiac disease, a condition
that causes an immune reaction when they eat gluten. Gluten can
cause intestinal damage to those with the disorder, which may
lead to nutritional and bone deficiencies, infertility and
intestinal cancer. As a result, health gains from the rule may
total $110 million annually, the FDA said in a  statement .  “Adherence to a gluten-free diet is the key to treating
celiac disease, which can be very disruptive to everyday life,”
FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said in the statement. “The
FDA’s new ‘gluten-free’ definition will help people with this
condition make food choices with confidence and allow them to
better manage their health.”  The FDA first proposed the standard in 2007 in response to
a 2004 law on food-allergen labeling that required a definition
of gluten-free.  European Standard  The U.S. has lagged behind its European counterparts in
establishing such labeling, and the 20 parts per million set by
the FDA is in-line with what is used and accepted overseas,
 Carol Shilson , executive director of the University of Chicago’s
Celiac Disease Center, said in an interview.  “Until now, gluten-free has had no clear definition so
companies have been on the honor system,” Shilson said.
“Companies could say a tomato is gluten-free or that something
was gluten-free if it was made in a factory where gluten is
used. This will help people with celiac disease and those” who
choose to eat gluten free.  The FDA says it used an analytical methods-based approach
to determine the 20 parts per million limit.  The  Food Marketing Institute , which represents grocery
wholesalers and retail supermarkets, welcomes the FDA’s
definition, Hilary Thesmar, vice president of food safety
programs at the Arlington, Virginia-based trade group.  “This will be helpful because it gives us clarity and
informs us what gluten-free is for the industry,” Thesmar said,
adding that cost to industry shouldn’t be significant because
the rule is voluntary. “It does seem to make sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  