-- GM Names Tim Lee as China Chief for Biggest Car Expansion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-02T20:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/gm-names-tim-lee-as-china-chief-for-biggest-car-expansion.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest
foreign automaker in  China , has named Tim Lee as the chairman of
its Chinese unit as the U.S. company gears up for expansion in
the world’s largest auto market.  Lee, who was the head of GM’s international operations,
will oversee 12 joint ventures and more than 55,000 employees in
the newly created position, the Detroit-based company said in a
statement on its website. Lee, 62, will keep his position as
executive vice president of global manufacturing, with Bob Socia, president of GM China, reporting to him.  “China obviously is a priority for a high-ranking
executive to be here,” said  Yale Zhang , a Shanghai-based
managing director of auto consultancy Autoforesight Shanghai Co.
“It shows the importance of this market to GM.”  GM sold 2.84 million autos in China last year, making the
country its biggest single market, and expects to deliver 3
million vehicles this year. The U.S. automaker is spending $11
billion by 2016 on new plants and products in China and is
building four assembly plants there to boost its production
capacity to five million vehicles a year by 2015.  “We are also in the midst of the most aggressive product
rollout in our history,” Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson
said in the statement. “Tim is critical to building on our
success in China and to ensuring flawless vehicle launches
around the globe.”  Lee joined GM in 1969 and is also on the supervisory board
of Opel, GM’s European unit.  Jacoby’s Appointment  GM also named  Stefan Jacoby  to the position of executive
vice president of Consolidated International Operations, which
cover more than 100 countries and territories, according to the
statement. Jacoby, 55, was replaced as global CEO of Volvo Cars
last October by Hakan Samuelsson.  Besides Volvo Cars, Jacoby has also worked at  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. (7211) , where he was the chief of global sales, and at
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the company said.  GM rose 1.3 percent to $36.95 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 28 percent this year, compared with a 20
percent climb for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  