-- Goldman Sachs, London Exchange Sued Over Aluminum Supply
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-08-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/goldman-sachs-london-exchange-sued-over-aluminum-supply-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and the
 London  Metal Exchange are restraining aluminum supplies and
driving up the metal’s price in violation of federal antitrust
law, according to a lawsuit.  The suit, for which the aluminum products company  Superior
Extrusion  seeks class-action status, was filed Aug. 1 in federal
court in Detroit.  “Through an interconnected series of agreements in
unreasonable restraint of trade, Goldman and LME restrained
approximately 1.5 million tons of aluminum in LME Detroit
warehousing,” causing delays of as long as 16 months between
customer orders and corresponding deliveries, Gwinn, Michigan-based Superior alleged.  Buyers in  Michigan ,  Ohio ,  Illinois  and elsewhere in the
U.S. Midwest suffered harm in the form of inflated prices,
according to the complaint. The plaintiffs asked for an order
barring the practice and money damages tripled under U.S.
antitrust law.  “We believe the suit is without merit and will contest it
vigorously,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based
Goldman, said yesterday in a phone interview. The market price
for the metal has fallen about 40 percent since 2006, he said.  Chris Evans , a spokesman for the LME in London, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail yesterday after regular 
business hours seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Aluminum buyers from beer makers to wire fabricators have
complained that owners of London Metal Exchange warehouses,
including banks, are manipulating availability of supply.  Rising Costs  Global aluminum costs were inflated by $3 billion in the
past year through unfair rules that allow warehouse owners to
slow deliveries, Tim Weiner, a global risk manager at Chicago-based brewer MillerCoors, said in written testimony before his
appearance July 23 at a U.S. Senate subcommittee hearing.  The practices of warehouse owners authorized to hold
aluminum by the LME created artificial limits on available
supply, leaving prices “inflated relative to the massive
oversupply and record production,” Weiner said.  The premium added to aluminum for immediate delivery on the
London Metal Exchange rose in recent months as warehouse
operators offered incentives to attract aluminum into storage,
forcing consumers of the lightweight metal to compete with them.  In February 2010, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bought Romulus,
Michigan-based Metro International Trade Services LLC -- a
defendant in the Superior complaint -- which as of July 11
operated 34 of 39 storage facilities licensed by the LME in the
 Detroit  area, according to exchange data.  Goldman Statement  Goldman Sachs said in a statement July 31 that it isn’t
involved with the daily management of the company.  Orders to remove the metal from storage make up 63 percent
of total stockpiles in Detroit, the biggest U.S. repository of
the metal.  Goldman Sachs said this week that no client has accepted
the bank’s offer to swap metal stuck in queues for immediately
available aluminum.  The LME said July 1 that it’s trying to quicken deliveries
from stockpiles in warehouses where waiting times exceed 100
calendar days.  Those sites would have to deliver out more metal than they
take in, based on a formula, the LME said. Market participants
are being consulted until Sept. 30, the exchange said. Its board
is expected to review the plan in October, and the proposal
would take effect April 1 if approved.  The case is Superior Extrusion Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., 13-cv-13315, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  