-- Gold Bears Dominant Again as U.S. Growth Quickens: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-08-02T16:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/gold-bears-dominant-again-as-u-s-growth-quickens-commodities.html
Gold traders are bearish for the
first time in six weeks as accelerating U.S. economic growth and
weaker sales of physical bullion curbed demand for the metal.  Twelve analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to fall
next week, nine were bullish and four neutral. The metal
retreated for a fifth day yesterday, the worst losing streak
since May 17 and slipped below $1,300 an ounce earlier today for
the first time since July 22. Physical demand slowed in the past
several weeks, according to  Standard Bank  Group Ltd.  Gold is heading for the first annual drop in 13 years after
some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value. The
slump that wiped $58.9 billion from the value of gold funds hurt
investors including hedge fund billionaire John Paulson as well
as  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and other mining companies. U.S. equities
reached a record this week after data showed the nation expanded
1.7 percent in the second quarter, more than economists surveyed
by Bloomberg had expected.  “Why would I want to hold gold if the  U.S. economy  is
recovering and equities are doing so well?” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a commodity strategist in  London  at VTB Capital, a
unit of Russia’s second-largest lender. “Physical buying
probably won’t be enough to revive gold and have a sustained
rebound. The sentiment will still remain bearish.”  Bond Index  The metal fell 22 percent to $1,312.13 an ounce in London
this year. Last month’s 7.3 percent gain was the most since
January 2012 as prices rebounded from a 34-month low of
$1,180.50 on June 28. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities lost 0.4 percent since the start of January and the
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 11 percent.
Treasuries declined 3.1 percent, the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury
Bond Index shows.  Second-quarter U.S. growth announced July 31 was higher
than the median projection of 1 percent in a Bloomberg survey of
85 economists and more than the 1.1 percent gain in the three
months through March. Job gains and rising home and stock prices
are shoring up consumer sentiment. Expansion will accelerate in
this and the following four quarters, according to the median of
as many as 101 economist estimates.  U.S. 10-year Treasuries fell to a three-week low two days
ago, before rebounding after the  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep
buying $85 billion in bonds every month. The note resumed
declines yesterday. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in July it’s
too early to decide whether to curb debt buying, after saying
June 19 that purchases could slow if the economy improves.
Bullion rose 70 percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as the
Fed bought more than $2 trillion of debt.  Physical Purchases  While gold’s record 23 percent slide in the second quarter
spurred demand for jewelry and coins, July’s rally slowed those
purchases, Standard Bank said. The metal for immediate delivery
in  China  averaged about $18 more than the London price since
mid-July, Shanghai Gold Exchange data show. That’s lower than
the premium of about $33 from mid-April, when bullion entered a
 bear market .  India , last year’s biggest buyer, will limit imports to
less than the 845 metric tons bought in the year ended in March
as it restricts inbound shipments to curb a record trade
deficit, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said July 31.
Physical demand in China will be “strong” so long as prices
are “attractive,” UBS AG said in a July 30 report, following
talks with clients in Asia last week. China was the second-biggest buyer last year.  Metal Vaults  Asian demand led banks from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to UBS to
Deutsche Bank AG to offer gold-storage services in  Singapore .
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. opened a vault that
can hold 50 tons in the nation last month. The bank, whose
clients include central banks, sovereign wealth funds and asset
managers, is one of the top three providers of gold into China.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators more than doubled
bets on price gains since cutting net-long  positions  to a six-year low on June 25, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. They held 70,067 contracts by July 23, the most in
four months. The increase was mostly driven by short covering,
or purchases to close out bets on price drops, in addition to
bullish wagers, Barclays Plc wrote in a July 29 report.  While holdings in  exchange-traded products  backed by gold
reached a three-year low of 1,965.2 tons yesterday as investors
sold 666.7 tons this year, the sales slowed every week since the
end of June, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors sold 4.6
tons so far this week.  Paulson’s Holding  Billionaire  John Paulson  owns the largest  stake  in the SPDR
Gold Trust, the biggest bullion ETP. His PFR Gold Fund tumbled
23 percent in June, extending this year’s loss to 65 percent.
Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. sold some gold and bought shares in
gold miners in the second quarter, Chairman  David Einhorn  said
July 30 on a conference call. Einhorn, who has said central
banks’ stimulus efforts will fuel inflation and increase gold’s
value, said his view on the metal hasn’t changed.  The 30-member Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver
Index slid 42 percent this year. Toronto-based Kinross Gold
Corp., Canada’s third-largest producer by sales, said July 31 it
took a $2.29 billion writedown on assets and suspended dividend
payments. Barrick, the biggest gold miner, said yesterday it
took $8.7 billion of writedowns.  Seven of 13 people surveyed expect raw sugar to rise next
week and six were bearish. The commodity slid 14 percent to
16.78 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  this year.  Corn Bulls  Sixteen of 30 surveyed anticipate higher corn prices and 12
said the grain will drop, while 15 of 31 said soybeans will rise
and 12 expect lower prices. Sixteen traders predicted gains in
wheat and nine were bearish. Corn fell 33 percent to $4.6725 a
bushel this year in  Chicago . The December contract, which
reflects supply after the U.S. harvest, declined 22 percent this
year. Soybeans lost 15 percent to $11.9275 a bushel, as wheat
slipped 15 percent to $6.6025 a bushel.  Nine traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to rise
next week, five were bearish and five neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, fell 12 percent to $6,998 a ton this year.  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index increased to 50.3 last
month, exceeding the 49.8 median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
and up from 50.1 in June, the government said yesterday. That
suggested a slowdown in the biggest user of industrial metals
may be stabilizing as the government takes steps to support
growth. An index of the six main metals traded on the LME
dropped 12 percent this year.  “Industrial metals are keeping a close eye on developments
in China,” said Ole Hansen, the head of commodity strategy at
Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “Recent pro-growth statements and
better manufacturing data should help this sector establish a
floor.”  -- With assistance from Agnieszka Troszkiewicz and Isis Almeida
in London, Glenys Sim in Singapore, Jae Hur in Tokyo,  Helen Sun 
in Shanghai, Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne,  Jeff Wilson  in Chicago
and Marvin G. Perez and Luzi Ann Javier in New York. Editors:
 John Deane , Dan Weeks  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  