-- Google Asks Judge to Toss Microsoft Suit Over Phone Ban
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-08-02T22:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/google-asks-judge-to-toss-microsoft-suit-over-phone-ban.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp.
acted too hastily in suing  U.S. customs  officials in a patent
dispute over whether Motorola Mobility phones should be blocked
at the border.  Google, in a court filing today, asked a federal judge to
throw out a lawsuit brought by Microsoft that accused the U.S.
Customs and  Border Protection  of failing to enforce an order to
ban imports of the phones. Microsoft should instead have taken
its complaint back to the trade agency that issued the ban,
Google argued.  Microsoft won an order from the International Trade
Commission that prevents Google’s Motorola Mobility from
shipping Asian-made phones that have a feature that synchronizes
calendars between phones and computers. Google convinced customs
that it was no longer infringing the patent.  Microsoft’s suit is “an unprecedented attempt” by
Microsoft to circumvent the administrative process, Google said,
seeking to intervene in the case. “Customs noted that the ITC
has yet to consider, much less resolve, the issue Microsoft asks
this court to decide: whether Motorola’s use of Google’s
synchronization protocol infringes Microsoft’s patent.”  The ITC in Washington issued the ban in May 2012 after
deciding that Motorola Mobility devices infringed the Microsoft
patent. Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, in a complaint
filed July 12, said that order isn’t being enforced.  Google Appeal  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is appealing
the infringement finding, while Microsoft is challenging the
ITC’s decision that four other patents weren’t infringed. The
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which specializes
in  patent law , is scheduled to hear arguments in both appeals
Aug. 6 in Washington.  In a filing today, the U.S. asked the court to deny
Microsoft’s request, arguing the company “entirely fails to
establish entitlement to the extraordinary remedy of compelling
government to action.”  David Cuddy, a Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment
immediately on the filing.  The case is Microsoft Corp. v. Department of  Homeland
Security , 13-1063, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 