-- Michael Dell Sweetens LBO With Dividend to Sway Investors
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-08-02T21:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/michael-dell-sweetens-lbo-with-dividend-to-sway-investors.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  investors from Franklin
Mutual Advisers to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  signaled support for a
sweetened buyout offer for the computer maker, suggesting
founder  Michael Dell  is gaining the upper hand in a six-month
fight to take the company private.  Franklin Mutual, which had previously opposed the buyout,
changed its position after Michael Dell today agreed to boost
his offer to buy Dell to as much as $24.9 billion with a special
dividend. BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager and
holder of a 4.4 percent Dell stake as of Aug. 1, also plans to
back the offer, said a person familiar with the matter.  “Given the range of possibilities, this offer is
acceptable to most shareholders, and I would put us in that
category,” Peter Langerman, head of Franklin Mutual, said in an
interview. “The market is telling you it is likely to be
accepted.” Langerman runs the $20 billion  Mutual Global
Discovery Fund (TEDIX) , which owned 12.3 million Dell shares as of June.  Dell jumped the most in six months following the offer,
which came with concessions from the board committee that boost
Michael Dell’s odds of winning  shareholder  support. The founder
will finance the extra dividend after the vote had been delayed
twice because he couldn’t muster enough support for the deal.
Billionaire activist  Carl Icahn , who opposes the deal and
yesterday sued Dell to prevent changes to the voting procedures,
said the “war” over the computer maker would continue.  ‘Fair Result’  Dell and partner Silver Lake Management LLC are offering a
dividend of 13 cents a share on top of an already-increased
$13.75-a-share bid for the computer maker, according to a
statement today from the board committee. In exchange, the
investors holding the stock as of Aug. 13 will be eligible to
vote on the deal, allowing arbitragers who bought the stock late
on expectations the deal will go through to weigh in.
Abstentions will no longer be counted as no ballots. The
shareholder vote will be held Sept. 12.  Dell rose 5.6 percent to $13.68, just 7 cents shy of the
offer price. Before today, Dell shares had been  trading  below
the original $13.65 offer  price  since April, signaling investors
weren’t confident about the buyout group’s ability to get the
deal done, nor in alternatives proposed by Icahn.  The sweetened bid won over Matt Halbower, founder of
Pentwater Capital Management LP, a Chicago-based investment firm
with $2.9 billion in assets under management. While he was
previously opposed to the deal, he’s now voting his 29 million
shares in favor of the transaction.  “It is a fair result,” said Halbower. “I am confident a
majority of the Dell shareholders will agree and the vote will
be successful.”  BlackRock’s Position  The improved offer, coupled with a deteriorating market for
the computer maker, is probably sufficient to win over large
institutional investors who were on the fence before, said the
person familiar with BlackRock’s position. BlackRock, which
initially opposed the deal and then changed its position, plans
to back the new offer, said the person, asking not to be
identified because the voting isn’t public.  Lauren Post, a spokeswoman for BlackRock, declined to
comment on how the firm will vote.  Founder Dell is personally financing the extra dividend, or
$230 million, by taking a further discount on his 15.6 percent
stake, according to a person close to the situation. Dell who
rolled his stake into the original deal at $13.36 a share, is
now doing so at about $12.52, said the person, who asked not to
be named because the matter is private.  Hawaii Talks  Michael Dell and Egon Durban, the Silver Lake partner
leading negotiations for the private-equity fund, hashed out the
new deal with the board while they were in  Hawaii , said the same
person. They reached an agreement on July 31 and hammered out
the final details yesterday, the person said.  The offer replaces a bid of $13.65 a share for the
personal-computer maker, which shareholders were scheduled to
vote on today at Dell’s headquarters in  Round Rock ,  Texas . With
the new proposal, shareholders also would be guaranteed to
receive an 8-cent dividend next quarter, in line with previous
periods.  The new offer adds as much as $470 million to the original
bid, including the special dividend and the third-quarter
payout, the board committee said. The total includes the $120
million value of the quarterly dividend.  The new offer “is not a step change,” said Richard Nield,
a manager of Atlanta-based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ’s $6.6 billion
International Growth Fund. “I sense shareholders have grown
frustrated about the lack of an attractive bid by the Icahn-led
group and I could see the shares gradually fall to the $10-$11
level if Michael Dell’s bid is rejected.”  Transformative Deal  Nield didn’t say if he would support the vote. Invesco held
1.1 percent of Dell’s shares as of March 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  By taking the PC maker he started in 1984 private, founder
Dell is seeking to transform it into a bigger provider of
hardware, software and services for corporate-data centers,
after years of ebbing sales and profit as consumers shift away
from PCs toward computing on smartphones and tablets.  Icahn and fellow Dell investor Southeastern Asset
Management Inc. have made a series of alternative proposals to
derail a takeover by Chief Executive Officer Dell, including a
$14-a-share buyback. Icahn asked the board to hold the annual
meeting -- when shareholders would vote on his proposal if the
LBO failed -- at the same time as the vote on the LBO. The
board, however, scheduled Dell’s annual meeting for Oct. 17.
Southeastern and Icahn objected to the new offer and revised
voting rules in separate statements today.  Dell ‘War’  “We believe that an increase of a mere 13 cents is an
insult to shareholders,” Icahn said in his statement. “The war
regarding Dell is far from over.”  Because Michael Dell isn’t a controlling stockholder, the
changes aren’t particularly significant for the court, said
Widener University law professor Larry Hamermesh in a phone
interview today. “I don’t think it raises a red flag, or even a
pink flag, maybe a light rose-colored one.”  Shareholders have sued Dell officials in federal court in
Houston, and at least 20 other Delaware Chancery suits are
pending. The investors contend Dell board members are duty-bound
to get the top price, and have shirked their responsibilities.  Some of the most vocal opponents of the Dell buyout
conceded the momentum may have shifted.  Donald Yacktman ,
president of Yacktman Asset Management Co., said the new offer
doesn’t change his opposition to the deal, though it may sway
enough investors to get the buyout done.  ‘Significant Downside’  “There is no increase in valuation being paid,” Stephen
Yacktman, his son and a portfolio manager at the firm, said in
an e-mailed statement. “Shareholders are just getting paid with
their own money.”  Even so, there may be a limit to how far Icahn and other
opponents will go to block the deal, according to Jeff Fidacaro,
an analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co.  “He understands the alternative is that the deal does not
get done, and there could be significant downside with the stock
closer to $10 a share,” Fidacaro said in an interview.  Once the world’s top supplier of PCs, Dell has spent
billions of dollars on  acquisitions  over the past five years to
add enterprise computing hardware, software and services, though
the deals have yielded little return for investors. Meanwhile,
the company has ceded the fast-growing mobile-computing market
to Apple Inc. and devices running Google Inc.’s Android
operating system.  Since announcing the buyout Feb. 5, the company’s special
committee has argued that the company’s prospects of a
turnaround are better outside of the public lens.  “At this point, the momentum has clearly shifted toward
Michael Dell,” Angelo Zino, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ in  New
York , said in an interview. “Just 24 hours ago it looked really
bleak for him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  