-- Michigan County Puts Off Bond Sale Amid Detroit Penalty
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/michigan-county-puts-off-bond-sale-amid-detroit-penalty.html
A delayed bond sale by a Michigan
county that’s home to the birthplace of  General Motors Co. (GM)  shows
how Detroit’s fiscal distress is penalizing local governments in
the eighth-largest U.S. state by population.  Genesee County put off the $54.2 million offering planned
for yesterday, two weeks after Detroit entered the nation’s
biggest municipal bankruptcy. The sale would’ve been the largest
in Michigan since the court filing, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Flint, GM’s birthplace and the seat of Genesee County, is
about an hour’s drive northwest of the Motor City.  A proposal to pay off part of Detroit’s general-obligation
debt at deep discounts has worried some investors in municipal
securities that the plan may set a precedent for other Michigan
cities enduring fiscal stress. Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn
Orr’s blueprint to avoid bankruptcy included the losses for
bondholders. Yields are rising on  Michigan  bonds, pushing up the
state’s costs to borrow in the $3.7 trillion muni market.  “You’re seeing credits associated with Michigan in general
having a tough time and spreads widening out in sympathy,” said
Dexter Torres, head trader at New York-based Samson Capital
Advisors LLC, which manages about $7 billion of municipal
securities. Munis issued by the state have reflected a penalty
at least since January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yield Penalty  The  extra yield  investors demand to own 10-year general-obligation securities sold by Michigan rather than top-rated
debt rose to 0.44 percentage point yesterday, the most since
July 12, Bloomberg data show. The spread has averaged about 0.45
percentage point this year as Detroit’s fiscal crisis escalated.  Standard & Poor’s  may adjust ratings on general-obligation
bonds from issuers throughout Michigan depending on how
Detroit’s debt is dealt with in bankruptcy, Jane Ridley, the New
York-based company’s primary Detroit analyst, said in an online
presentation yesterday.  Terry Stanton , a spokesman for Michigan Treasurer Andy
Dillon, didn’t respond to a telephone message seeking comment on
the treatment of debt from Michigan issuers.  “We believe it prudent for municipal investors to question
whether they should pay any form of safety premium for Michigan
general-obligation bonds relative to other forms of municipal
liabilities,” Shawn O’Leary and Molly Shellhorn, Nuveen
Investments Inc. analysts in  Chicago , said in a report following
the bankruptcy filing for the state’s most-populous city.  Widespread Poverty  Flint, where GM founder William Durant once made horse
carriages, is also run by a state-appointed emergency manager.
About 38 percent of its 101,000 residents live in poverty,
compared with 36 percent in  Detroit , 19 percent for Genesee
County and the 16 percent Michigan average, U.S. Census Bureau
data show.  The county planned to sell bonds tied to water-system
revenue, backed by a limited-tax general-obligation pledge, to
help finance land and facilities to add supply from Lake Huron,
according to offering documents. The county buys water from
Flint, which gets it from the Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department. S&P rates Genesee debt A+, its fifth-highest rank.  Keith Francis, the county controller, and Deb Cherry, its
treasurer, didn’t respond to e-mails and telephone messages
seeking comment on the delay. Paul Stauder at Stauder, Barch &
Associates, the deal’s financial adviser, also didn’t respond to
a voicemail seeking comment.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co., the lead underwriter, declined to comment.  Wayne Downgrade  Following Genesee County’s delay, Moody’s Investors Service
cut its rating to Baa3 on Wayne County’s almost $726 million in
general-obligation limited-tax debt. Moody’s cited fiscal
pressures from a depreciating tax base and budget deficits, as
well as Detroit’s condition, for the single-step downgrade to
one level above junk. The city is the county seat.  Saginaw County, north of Detroit, still plans to sell
almost $61 million of general-obligation debt next week. The
deal will help the county of about 198,000 residents finance
unfunded pension liabilities of about $60 million. The bonds
have an Aa3 rating from Moody’s, the fourth-highest level.  “We think we will get positive attention towards this
sale,” Robert Belleman, Saginaw County’s controller, said by
telephone yesterday. “The county is in strong financial health
and has limited outstanding debt. And people will see that this
sale is more for budget stabilization.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  