-- If I Bribe City Hall, Can I Reduce My Mortgage?
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-08-02T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/if-i-bribe-city-hall-can-i-reduce-my-mortgage-.html
Richmond,  California , sent the
securities and real estate industries into a  tizzy  this week.
The city said it is moving ahead with plans to use its power of
 eminent domain  to seize home mortgages and restructure them for
residents who owe more money than their homes are worth.  This would be a  first  in the U.S. Normally when governments
do things that upset Wall Street millionaires it’s a sign
they’re going down the right path. There are exceptions, of
course.  Here is another story about  Richmond , a city of about
106,500 on the east side of San Francisco Bay. In May, its No. 2
administrator, Leslie Knight,  stepped down . A corruption
investigation, which started with a whistle-blower complaint,
found she had been using municipal offices and employees to run
a personal gift-basket and party-favor business. She was also
collecting a car allowance and using a city car at the same
time. She later paid back $10,000 to the city, according to
local news reports.  Knight wasn’t fired. The city manager gave her a warning
and let her resign as assistant city manager and head of human
resources, which meant she got to keep her pension. Protesters
have  picketed  the district attorney’s office demanding that he
prosecute her. (He  declined .) The Contra Costa Times in June
 wrote  that Richmond’s city attorney “stonewalled, trying to
block public access to documents about the case” -- which were
released only after the newspaper brought in its own lawyer. The
same city officials would oversee the new eminent-domain program
in one fashion or another.  Local Corruption  This is the nature of local government in much of the U.S.
It tends to be corrupt. Or at least it has been that way
everywhere I have lived, from  Colorado  and New Jersey to Texas,
Florida and  Arkansas . It’s easy to see how a plan to grab loans
from their  out-of-town owners  would inspire graft. Supposedly
city governments would have to pay them fair compensation, but
you can be assured most would offer less. The losers mainly
would be bondholders that own mortgage-backed securities.  Richmond has 4,600 underwater mortgages. It sent purchase
offers this week to the owners of several hundred. Just wait
till some nosy gadfly or enterprising journalist figures out
that some of those borrowers are friends, relatives or patrons
of local politicians -- or on the city’s payroll themselves.
It’s bound to happen, if not in Richmond then in other
municipalities that try to follow its example. Then picture the
recriminations as folks figure out who scratched whose back in
exchange for getting their principal balance reduced by tens or
hundreds of thousands of dollars. This could be the biggest
wealth creator to hit some small towns since the invention of
roadside speed traps.  Imagine what would ensue if a program like this were tried
in some ethically challenged city such as New Orleans or Miami.
Or  Hoboken, New Jersey , the town I call home, where two of the
last four  mayors  have gone to prison for taking bribes. Where I
live, it’s amazing what people have managed to accomplish with
brown paper bags of cash and by knowing the right people.  Some residents who receive help could be hurt worse. Like
game-show contestants who win a new car and suddenly find they
owe the Internal Revenue Service more money than they have, the
lucky borrowers might face big  tax bills  if their loan
reductions wind up counting as income. I suppose the city can
dream up something magical to make those debts vanish, too.  Perhaps using eminent domain in this way is legal. The big
lobbying groups for the financial-services industry say it’s
 unconstitutional . So do civil libertarians. The government
conservator for mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac last
year  said  it “has significant concerns about the use of eminent
domain to revise existing financial contracts.” Litigation
would be inevitable and drag on for years.  So Simple  Cornell law school professor Robert Hockett, in a Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  paper  published in June, explained how
a system like this would work. In typical academic fashion, he
made it all seem so smooth and sensible. I can’t fathom how it
would be in practice.  For instance, we learned from the banking scandals a few
years ago that many of the companies trying to foreclose on
people’s homes  can’t prove  who owns the mortgages. The problem
cuts both ways. What will a city do when it can’t verify
ownership of a loan, especially when it discovers this only
after buying one?  Cities usually use eminent domain to seize land and
buildings. If they’re going to start seizing home mortgages, why
stop there? In some states  cars  are subject to local property
taxes. Why not seize auto loans, in the name of economic
development and promoting the public good? Maybe next they could
go for people’s past-due credit-card debt. How could anyone
stand by idly and not help local voters who are deemed
deserving, right? Then watch city officials complain when banks
charge all of their constituents more money for credit because
of their ZIP code.  Legal or not, well-intentioned or otherwise, this is a
horrible idea. The mortgage market may be dysfunctional, but the
status quo is better than letting city employees choose winners
and losers. It isn’t often that I can say this, but this time
when the banks win they will deserve to.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 