-- Military Bid for Next Stuxnet Confronts Hacker Resistance
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/military-bid-for-next-stuxnet-confronts-hacker-resistance.html
U.S. military and intelligence
officials make a pilgrimage each year to  Las Vegas , where the
annual Black Hat conference showcases how hacking has gone
mainstream, creating a virtual digital-arms supermarket.  This year, however, the pilgrims found few sellers as they
shopped for computer bugs and exploits to develop a new
generation of offensive and defensive cyberweapons.  “I don’t want to be part of a machine that tracks innocent
Americans,” Shane MacDougall, who writes computer programs and
finds network security vulnerabilities, said in an interview.
“You can lose control of your baby and all of a sudden your
technology is being used to track down who the government
determines is the enemy of the state.”  There is a ghost at this year’s Black Hat gathering, billed
as the world’s largest meeting of computer-security experts.
It’s former U.S. contractor Edward Snowden, whose disclosures
about classified spying programs has made some hackers who
previously were eager to work for or sell products to the U.S.
think twice, said Jonathan Pollet, founder of  Red Tiger Security
LLC  in Houston. The company provides cybersecurity services to
protect industrial-control systems.  At Black Hat, U.S. military officers and intelligence-agency officials mingled with more than 7,500 executives,
security researchers and hackers who came to confer, party, test
products and buy and sell their wares. Yet underscoring the
change in attitude, some heckled Army General Keith Alexander,
head of the National Security Agency, as he asked for their
continued help in fighting cyberattacks during a keynote speech.  Exploits Market  The work of researchers who find vulnerabilities in
computer systems and let companies and the government know they
exist has become crucial to U.S. cybersecurity efforts.  Military and intelligence agencies began sending
delegations to hacker conferences like Black Hat about five
years ago, seeking to hire talented researchers and buy software
used to exploit computers, Pollet said in an interview.  “A number of people walking around here at Black Hat are
professional bug sellers,” Alex Stamos, an independent security
researcher, said in an interview. “They find these bugs, they
write exploits and then they sell them to the government.”  The use of “exploits” to develop weapons like the Stuxnet
computer worm, used against  Iran ’s nuclear facilities and
discovered in 2010, was a wake-up call for hackers as to how
their technology can be employed offensively, Stamos said.  ‘Ethical Problem’  “There’s a real ethical problem I think with selling bugs
to the U.S. government,” he said. “You didn’t know before what
they’re doing with it, and now you know.”  Among the 131 companies showcasing their products and
services with booths above the bustling Caesars Palace casino
were McAfee Inc., based in  Santa Clara ,  California ,  Sourcefire
Inc. (FIRE) , the Columbia, Maryland-based company that recently agreed
to be acquired by Cisco Systems Inc.; and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) ,
based in Sunnyvale, California.  Snowden’s leaks, however, renewed old grievances among some
hackers that the government has treated them as free labor or
used their products or services for objectionable purposes.  “Most of us in the community are going to be distrustful
of anyone in the government at this point because it seems like
their motivation is really for self-serving purposes,” Pollet
said.  Espionage Charges  Snowden, who faces U.S. espionage charges, revealed in June
that the government secretly collected telephone records of
millions of U.S. customers of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  under
a classified court order. Another program known as Prism
collects Internet data from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , based in Cupertino,
California, and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , based in  Mountain View , California,
and other companies.  Yesterday, Snowden received asylum in  Russia , where he had
holed up at a Moscow airport since June.  In  Washington , President  Barack Obama  yesterday tried to
head off the concerns being raised about the surveillance
programs at a meeting with a bipartisan group of nine lawmakers.  Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican and
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, called the meeting a
“frank discussion” and said he would hold future hearings
about the NSA’s programs and possible legislation to add privacy
protections for U.S. citizens.  “I stressed to the president that Congress must ensure
that the laws we have enacted are executed in a manner that is
consistent with congressional intent and that protects both our
national security and our civil liberties,” Goodlatte said in a
statement.  ‘Government Betrayal’  In Las Vegas, computer security professionals said they
also were alienated by the surveillance because their phone logs
and other personal information might have been swept up in
government databases, said Brian Meixell, an engineer with
Cimation LLC, a Houston-based maker of control systems for the
oil and gas industries.  Some researchers may be less inclined to share with the
government security vulnerabilities they find, Meixell said in
an interview.  “It almost feels like your government is betraying you,”
he said. “You’re the enemy and you didn’t do anything. It’s
like your citizens have been treated as terrorists and
government is out to get you.”  Personal Appeal  The NSA’s Alexander made a personal appeal for hackers to
continue working with the government in his July 31 speech. It
was his first public remarks to security researchers since
Snowden’s disclosures.  Alexander asked his audience to examine “the facts” about
the spy programs.  Hackers who resist cooperating with the government are
short-sighted, said Howard Teicher, a vice president for the
network-security company  Radware Ltd. (RDWR) , based in  Tel Aviv  and
with offices in  New Jersey .  “The tension I think is going to be short-lived,” Teicher
said in an interview at his company’s Black Hat booth.  “All of the military services and all of the intelligence
agencies have always used the technical skills of American
engineers and scientists to devise solutions to protect our
security,” he said. “Other people will fill the gap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  