-- Time Warner Cable Drops CBS in Three Cities as Talks Fail
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/time-warner-cable-drops-cbs-in-three-cities-as-talks-fail.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  cut off  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  broadcasts and pay TV-channels in New York,  Los Angeles ,
 Dallas  and several other markets after the companies failed to
agree on new terms for program rights.  More than 3 million Time Warner Cable subscribers will be
without shows such as “60 Minutes” and their local CBS news,
the New York-based network said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. It was the first time CBS has been dropped by a cable
system, the broadcaster said.  The companies failed to settle on how much Time Warner
Cable would pay for rights to CBS shows. The second-largest U.S.
cable company said CBS was asking for fees that were 600 percent
higher than the network’s affiliates in other markets. Glenn Britt, Time Warner Cable’s chief executive officer, has been a
critic of rising program costs.  “If there was ever a retrans battle for the distributor to
fight, this is the one,” said  Rich Greenfield , an analyst with
BTIG LLC in New York. “This is a unique opportunity to push
back for the subscribers.”  In addition to CBS broadcasts, Time Warner Cable was also
blacking out the Showtime and TMC premium channels, Flix and
Smithsonian, according to the pay-TV provider.  The two companies had extended their negotiating deadline
several times, most recently to yesterday at 5 p.m. New York
time, when the blackout started.  Programming in some areas was temporarily blocked on July
30 and restored about 30 minutes later after the companies
agreed to keep talking.  Largest Blackout  The blackout is the first of a top broadcaster by a major
pay-TV carrier in New York, the largest U.S. TV market, since
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  shut down Fox for two weeks in 2010.  “We agreed to an extension on Tuesday morning with the
expectation that we would engage in a meaningful negotiation
with CBS,” Time Warner Cable said in a statement. “Since then,
CBS has refused to have a productive discussion.”  Time Warner Cable’s negotiating leverage is strongest now,
because CBS has few new programs or professional football on the
air, Greenfield said. The network is probably seeking “a couple
bucks” a month per subscriber from Time Warner Cable, he said.  “CBS wants to be paid like a cable network,” Greenfield
said. “Yet you don’t see ESPN putting their content over the
air for free or on the Internet for free. They were looking for
a big step up from Time Warner Cable.”  Extended Talks  CBS is the most-watched television network, ahead of
Comcast Corp.’s NBC, Walt Disney Co.’s ABC and 21st Century Fox
Inc.’s Fox.  Time Warner Cable, based in New York, has encouraged
customers to sign up with Aereo Inc. to watch CBS. Aereo is a
startup service, backed by  Barry Diller , that sells access to
the broadcast networks online for $8 a month without paying
retransmission fees for the right to air the programming. Aereo
is currently being sued by New York-based CBS.  When a channel is dropped from a pay-TV service, 7 percent
of subscribers end up switching providers, while 16 percent
watch the lost channel online, according to a survey from  Parks
Associates , a market research firm based in Dallas. The survey,
conducted in the third quarter of last year, looked at 2,500
households and asked residents what they did the last time they
lost a channel in a fee dispute.  Fee Fight  The dispute between the companies focused on retransmission
fees, which have become a frequent sticking point in
negotiations between pay-TV providers and broadcasters that
historically provided their signals for free.  Pay-TV operators will spend more than $3 billion in
retransmission fees this year, according to data compiled by
research firm SNL Kagan.  In a statement, CBS said viewers would miss today’s
coverage of the Bridgestone Invitational golf tournament
featuring  Tiger Woods . Without an agreement, Time Warner Cable
subscribers also won’t get the golf’s final major tournament of
2013, the  PGA Championship , starting Aug. 8, CBS said.  CBS, controlled by  Sumner Redstone , fell 0.6 percent to
$54.53 yesterday in New York. The stock reached its highest in
13 years on Aug. 1 after the company reported an 11 percent
increase in second-quarter profit, led by rising fees from pay
TV systems like Time Warner Cable.  Time Warner Cable, with about 12 million video customers,
declined 0.5 percent to $117.10. The stock is up 20 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  