-- Inchcape Rises After Dividend Increase, Plan to Buy Back Shares
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-02T13:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/inchcape-rises-after-dividend-increase-plan-to-buy-back-shares.html
Inchcape Plc (INCH) , the largest publicly
traded U.K. car retailer and wholesaler, rose the most in 16
months as the company raised its interim dividend by 43 percent
and unveiled a plan to buy back shares.  The stock rose as much as 11 percent, the biggest intraday
increase since March 13 last year, and was up 8.6 percent to
637.5 pence at 2:07 p.m. in  London , making Inchcape the third-largest gainer on the STOXX Europe 600 Index. About 1.9 million
shares traded, 2 times the three-month daily average.  “It’s a sign that the company is more confident than ever
about the outcomes of future deals and their potential impact on
earnings,”  Mike Allen , an analyst at  Panmure Gordon & Co. (PMR) , said
in a telephone interview.  The retailer, which once shipped tea and cotton from  India ,
raised its interim dividend to 5.7 pence a share from 4 pence a
year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected an
increase to 4.5 pence. The retailer also announced a share-buyback plan of 100 million pounds ($153 million) over the next
year.  Inchcape’s revenue in the first half of the year rose 6.6
percent to 3.3 billion pounds. Pretax profit after one-time
gains or costs rose 10.7 percent to 147 million pounds, topping
analysts’ expectations of 136 million pounds. Net cash was 189.1
million pounds as of June 30, about 6.4 percent of market
capitalization.  More Acquisitions  “This is a lot,” Allen said. “The strength of the
balance sheet even after the share buyback means Inchcape has
room to make more acquisitions.”  The acquisition of Australian luxury-car dealer Trivett in
March, together with a “unique geographical spread,”
underpinned first-half performance, the company said.  The Asia-Pacific region and  emerging markets  contributed 70
percent to trading profit, the company said. It’s planning to
open a new Mercedes-Benz site in  China  and a new flagship BMW
facility in Santiago in the second half of this year.  “Inchcape is engineered for sustainable earnings growth,”
Chief Executive Officer Andre Lacroix said in today’s statement.
“We will continue to assess value creating acquisition
opportunities in high growth and high-margin areas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  