-- India’s Rupee Set for Worst Week Since June on Outflow Concerns
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-02T05:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/india-s-rupee-set-for-worst-week-since-june-on-outflow-concerns.html
India ’s rupee headed for the biggest
weekly loss since June after the central bank said steps taken
to boost the currency are temporary amid concern a possible
paring of U.S. stimulus will intensify outflows.  The currency snapped a three-week gain as U.S. data
indicated yesterday that manufacturing rose in July at the
fastest pace in two years and applications for unemployment
insurance payments fell last week to the lowest since January
2008. The  Federal Reserve , which signaled in May it may taper
its stimulus, said July 31 it would maintain the pace. The
 Reserve Bank  of India last week cut its growth forecast for the
year through March 2014 to 5.5 percent from 5.7 percent, and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its rating on Indian shares to
underweight the next day.  “Near-term rupee stability remains a challenge,”
Siddharth Mathur, a strategist at Citigroup NA in  Singapore ,
wrote in a research report today. “We expect flows may still
fall short of the approximately $6 billion per month of non-FDI
capital flows needed to offset the current-account deficit,” he
wrote, referring to foreign direct investment.  The rupee fell 2.8 percent this week to 60.7400 per dollar
as of 9:37 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest drop since the five days
through June 21, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency, which plunged to a record 61.2125 on
July 8, declined 0.5 percent today. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, was little changed from yesterday at
13.24 percent.  Current-Account Deficit  Overseas investors pulled $3 billion from Indian stocks and
bonds last month on concern the Fed will pare stimulus as the
world’s largest economy improves. This leaves the rupee more
vulnerable to a current-account deficit that widened to an
unprecedented 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year
ended March 31.  The RBI yesterday tightened currency hedging rules for
foreigners, following steps last month to curb trading in
derivatives and to restrict cash supply. The monetary authority
on July 30 kept its benchmark repurchase rate at 7.25 percent
and said the liquidity measures will be rolled back once the
currency stabilizes, enabling policy to focus on supporting
growth.  Money managers who have issued so-called participatory
notes to investors or  hedge funds  not registered in India need
to provide a mandate from them stating an intention to hedge,
the RBI said on its website yesterday. Banks in India executing
currency trades on behalf of overseas funds must verify such
mandates, the RBI said.  “We believe the fundamental setup is still inclined toward
a bearish rupee but given that authorities have swung into
action we recommend staying on the sidelines for now,”
Citigroup’s Mathur wrote.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.4 percent from
yesterday to 62.14 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts declined 0.8 percent to
62.31. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  