-- India’s Sensex Rebounds From Seven-Day Loss; Retailers Advance
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-08-02T04:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/indian-nifty-futures-rise-signaling-stocks-to-snap-7-day-slump.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks advanced, with the
benchmark index halting a seven-day losing streak. Retailers’
shares climbed after the government eased requirements for
overseas companies to invest in local supermarkets.  Future Retail Ltd. (FRL)  headed for the biggest gain in three
months.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , the biggest software
exporter, climbed to a record, leading a gauge of 10 technology
stocks to the highest since March 2000. Financial Technologies
(India) Ltd. sank 30 percent after a 65 percent drop yesterday.
Its unit National Spot Exchange Ltd. July 31 suspended trading
in some contracts after the government asked the bourse not to
start new obligations until further notice.  Multi Commodity
Exchange of India Ltd ., 26 percent owned by  Financial
Technologies , plunged by the 20 percent limit for a second day.  The S&P BSE Sensex rose 0.1 percent to 19,322.54 at 10:20
a.m. in Mumbai. The government eased requirements for global
retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  to stem a
widening current-account gap that sent the rupee to a record low
last month. The cabinet also approved proposals yesterday to
amend overseas investment rules for a range of businesses
including commodity exchanges.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed today after reports
showed that factory output from the U.S. to China and Europe
expanded in July, while U.S. jobless claims fell to a five-year
low. The data came after the  Federal Reserve  retained its $85
billion-a-month bond-buying program and as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said interest rates will probably remain
low for an extended period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  