-- Indonesia’s Danamon Faces Funding Pressure as DBS Deal Fails
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e
-- 2013-08-02T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/indonesia-s-danamon-faces-funding-pressure-after-dbs-deal-fails.html
The failed $6.5 billion acquisition
bid for  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  leaves the lender vulnerable
to rising funding costs that may limit profitability and growth
at a time when the nation’s economy is slowing.  The bid by Singapore’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , which
lapsed Aug. 1 as it faced regulatory opposition to majority
control, would have brought cheaper credit for Danamon,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc. and Danareksa Sekuritas.
Danamon shares fell for a second day yesterday after tumbling
the most in more than four years on Aug. 1 in the wake of the
breakdown.  “The collapse of the deal won’t destroy Danamon but it
will severely cap its growth potential,” Wilianto Ie, head of
research at Nomura in Indonesia, said by telephone July 31.
“This will make the stock unattractive.” Nomura today
downgraded Indonesian banks to underweight.  Indonesia ’s economic growth slowed to 5.81 percent last
quarter, statistics bureau figures showed today, adding to risks
for the nation as investments ease, inflation accelerates and
the currency slumps. The central bank has raised interest rates
at the past two meetings to temper prices and reduce capital
outflows -- actions that may hurt domestic spending and compound
the slowdown in Southeast Asia’s biggest  economy .  Funding Pressures  Danamon “is relatively more susceptible to funding cost
pressures during a rising-rate environment,” HSBC Holdings Plc
analysts including Kar Weng Loo wrote in an Aug. 1 report. “The
outlook currently looks tough with rising inflation and interest
rates” and the bank doesn’t have the same deposit strength as
its larger peers, HSBC said.  Danamon gets more than half its total funds in the form of
time deposits on which it pays a 5.4 percent interest rate. By
contrast, PT Bank Central Asia, the country’s biggest bank by
market value, gets less than than a fifth of its funds from this
source and pays 3.7 percent interest on it, according to the
banks’ second quarter earnings statements.  Shares of Danamon closed 5.6 percent lower to 4,200 rupiah
in Jakarta yesterday. The stock plunged 14 percent Aug. 1, the
biggest decline since January 2009, to the lowest since March
2012 -- the month before DBS made its bid to buy a majority
stake from  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte.  Danamon is trading at 1.38 times its book value, the lowest
since March 2009, compared with 2.4 times for the Jakarta
Finance Index. HSBC’s Loo, who downgraded the stock to
underweight and cut its target price by 70 percent to 2,100
rupiah, said it should trade below its book value.  The Indonesian bank sees no impact to its operations from
the lapsed deal and will focus on a plan to strengthen its
lending in the mass market, small and midsized enterprise and
retail segments, Danamon President Director Henry Ho said in an
e-mailed statement on July 31.  Watch Removed  Fitch Ratings removed a “rating watch positive” on
Danamon following the collapse of the acquisition. It had placed
the Jakarta-based bank on the watch in April 2012 to reflect the
benefit to Danamon from DBS’s stronger credit.  Indonesia’s sixth-biggest bank by assets, which depends on
automobile financing for more than a third of its profit, also
faces risks stemming from slowing demand for cars and
motorcycles. Car sales are expected to be unchanged this year,
according to Indonesia’s automotive industries association.
Sales growth has slowed after Bank Indonesia lifted downpayment
requirements last year to avoid potential lending bubbles.  “Danamon is still struggling with the impact from the
higher downpayment rule on the automotive financing, which has
been magnified by the government’s decision to hike subsidized
fuel prices,” said Andy Ferdinand, an analyst at Batavia
Prosperindo Sekuritas in Jakarta. “It could take some time for
Danamon to go through the difficult situation.”  Auto Sales  Indonesia’s domestic auto sales rose 12 percent in the
first half of 2013 from a year earlier, about half the pace of
2012, according to PT Astra International, based on data from
the automotive industries association.  Profit from Danamon’s PT Adira Dinamika Multi Finance
automotive financing unit accounted for 41 percent of the bank’s
979.7 billion rupiah ($95 million) in second-quarter net income,
according to calculations by Syaiful Adrian, an analyst at PT
Ciptadana Securities in Jakarta.  Bank Mandiri (BMRI) , Indonesia’s biggest lender by assets, has
17.7 percent exposure to consumer loans, including personal
finance, credit cards and home loans, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Danamon has to fight the bigger competitors the hard
way,” said Chandra Pasaribu, head of research at Danareksa
Sekuritas. “It seems there is no easy way for them right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Chatterjee in Singapore at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  