-- Inmarsat Surges on RigNet Deal for Energy Sector: London Mover
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-02T15:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/inmarsat-surges-on-rignet-deal-for-energy-sector-london-mover.html
Inmarsat Plc, (ISAT)  the largest provider of
maritime satellite services, rose the most in three months after
forging a distribution partnership with U.S. communications
company  RigNet Inc. (RNET)  and reporting growth in adjusted revenue.  “What makes the deal significant is that RigNet is one of
the two gorillas that dominate the distribution of satellite
communications services into the energy sector,” Giles Thorne,
an analyst at Jefferies, said in a note to investors today. The
London-based company’s stock jumped 6.5 percent, the biggest
advance since May 10.  RigNet will distribute Inmarsat’s Global Xpress broadband
and other services and will buy its retail energy business for
$25 million, Inmarsat said in a statement late yesterday.
Revenue from Inmarsat Global MSS, or maritime satellite
services, climbed 3.7 percent to $380.5 million in the first
half, the company said in a separate  statement  today.  “There has been strength across all of our franchises,”
Inmarsat Chief Executive Officer Rupert Pearce said in a phone
interview. The company is “on track to achieve the top end of
our two-year wholesale MSS revenue growth target, which is what
people use to judge the robustness of our core business.”  Inmarsat closed at 720 pence in  London , taking the advance
to 23 percent this year and giving the company a market value of
3.23 billion pounds ($4.94 billion).  U.S. Defense  Total sales fell 6.4 percent to $640.3 million in the six
months, while underlying revenue, which excludes the
contribution from LightSquared Inc., rose 0.9 percent.  Inmarsat said U.S. budget cuts and troop withdrawals will
continue to pare demand for services in Afghanistan and  Iraq .  Wholesale revenue from operations in Iraq have fallen from
about $60 million in 2010 to $10 million this year, Chief
Financial Officer Rick Medlock said in a phone interview.
“What’s difficult to call is when the next step down will be,”
Medlock said.  In the long term, the U.S. government presents “a real
growth opportunity for us,” with Global Xpress arriving next
year, said Pearce.  The company launched its Alphasat satellite on July 25 and
its delayed Proton satellite launch should take place later this
year, assuming no further setbacks, said Pearce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  