-- Intesa Profit Plunges on Bad Loans; Shares Slide
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-08-02T14:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/intesa-profit-slides-as-bad-loans-climb-interest-income-falls.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank, said second-quarter profit slumped after non-performing loans rose amid an economic recession. The shares
plunged the most in six weeks.  Net income dropped to 116 million euros ($153 million) from
470 million euros in the second quarter of last year, when
Intesa benefited from a 173 million-euro credit that helped cut
taxes 67 percent. Earnings missed the 180 million-euro  average
estimate  of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The results were weaker than expected,” Luigi Tramontana, an analyst at Banca Akros in Milan, said in e-mailed
comments to clients. “The negative surprise was fully due to
much higher loan impairments” which more than offset a stronger
operating performance, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Enrico Cucchiani is reducing costs
and reorganizing Intesa’s branch network as the longest
recession in two decades squeezes profit at banks across  Italy .
The economy may contract 1.8 percent this year after shrinking
2.4 percent in 2012, according to the average of 39 economists’
estimates on Bloomberg.  Intesa’s shares declined as much as 4.5 percent, the
biggest drop in six weeks, and fell 2.3 percent to 1.43 euros at
4:17 p.m., valuing the company at 23.1 billion euros.   The
Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index , which fell 0.1
percent today, has risen 5 percent in the past six months
compared with Intesa’s 3 percent increase.  Loan-Losses  Loan-loss provisions increased to 1.4 billion euros in the
second quarter from 1.08 billion euros a year ago. The bank
wrote down “other assets” by 147 million euros, including its
stake in  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  by 58 million euros.  “This conservative provisioning puts us ahead of the
curve,” Cucchiani said during a conference call with analysts
today. “This will become of paramount importance in the light
of the asset quality review and stress test exercise that will
take place soon,” he said.  Higher  capital requirements  are forcing banks in Italy,
including Intesa, to reduce risk, pare lending and set aside
more money to cover risky loans. The  European Central Bank ,
taking over supervision of the banking industry next year from
national regulators, will conduct an “asset quality review”
that may lead to further writedowns.  Intesa increased its bad-loan coverage ratio by 90 basis
points to 44.2 percent in the second quarter from the previous
three months. Loans to customers shrunk 4.8 percent at the end
of June from six months earlier, while loans as a proportion of
deposits fell to 96 percent from 99 percent.  De-Risking  The stress test and review are “likely to put European
banks’ balance sheets under further pressure,” Cucchiani said.
“In this environment Intesa is focusing on balance sheet
strength, de-risking, efficiency, and fees and commission growth
in order to stay away from capital increases.”  Intesa, which borrowed 36 billion euros in the ECB’s long-term refinancing operations, paid back 12 billion euros in June,
using part of its cash buffer.  The bank, which invests part of its capital in  government
bonds , increased holdings of Italian sovereign debt to 100
billion euros on June 30 from 90 billion euros three months
earlier. The average maturity of the portfolio is 1.7 years,
according to a slide presentation on its website.  The common equity ratio under Basel III rules, a key gauge
of financial strength, rose to 11 percent on June 30 from 10.7
percent in March. Second-quarter revenue fell 1 percent from a
year ago to 4.09 billion euros as interest income dropped an
annual 16 percent to 2.04 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  