-- Hip-Hop Hero Alexander Hamilton, Supertutors Eye Broadway
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-08-02T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/hip-hop-hero-alexander-hamilton-supertutors-eye-broadway.html
Lin-Manuel Miranda, whose funny,
hypnotic rhyming has taken him from “In the Heights” to the cusp
of mainstream stardom, has set his sights on the first U.S.
Treasury Secretary, Alexander Hamilton.  The results have some of Broadway’s top players salivating.  Many of them journeyed 75 miles north last weekend to
Vassar College, where Miranda’s “Hamilton Mixtape,” directed
by Thomas Kail, got a showcase at  New York Stage and Film , an
incubator for Broadway-bound plays and musicals.  “It was terrific,” said veteran producer Margo Lion
(“Hairspray”), who was shepherding another show in the Vassar
lineup.  Miranda, who co-wrote and starred in the Tony Award-winning
“Heights,” employed his signature rapping and percussion to
hip hop, jazz and musical-theater songs. The piece is sung-through, or sung-and-rapped-through, with little dialogue,
people who saw it said.  As he had during an earlier preview last year at Lincoln
Center’s American Songbook series, Miranda played the title
role.  Hamilton (not unlike Usnavi, a character in “In the
Heights”) was born on the island of Nevis in the Caribbean to
unmarried parents, circa 1755. The family moved to St. Croix,
where his parents split and his mother died, leaving him on his
own. As a teenager, he clerked for a merchant and moved to New
York to study at what’s now Columbia University.  Presidential Audience  Hamilton “embodies hip hop,” Miranda said at the White
House in 2009 before  performing  a mesmerizing solo number from
“Mixtape” before an audience that included President  Barack
Obama  and his wife, Michelle.  “The $10 dollar founding father without a father,” he
sang, “got a lot farther, by working a lot harder, by being a
lot smarter, by being a self-starter.”  At Vassar, the Indian-American actor Utkarsh Ambudkar
reprised his role as Aaron Burr, Hamilton’s dueling nemesis.
Ambudkar recently appeared in the hit movie “ Pitch Perfect .”  Christopher Jackson, a “Heights” alumnus who’s to play
Derek Jeter off-Broadway in the fall in “Bronx Bombers,” was
George Washington. Joshua Henry (“The Scottsboro Boys”) played
King George III, who in one comic ballad sings: “I will kill
your friends and family to remind you of my love.”  Pop History  “Mixtape” may do what another show, “Bloody Bloody Andrew
Jackson,” couldn’t: Take an American-history theme, set it to
music and sell it to Broadway’s mainstream audience. “Bloody”
had a critically acclaimed run at the  Public Theater  but flopped
uptown.  Through a spokesman, Jessica Berger, Miranda declined an
interview request. She said in an e-mail that Miranda continues
to write and “we’re not ready to talk about what may happen in
the future just yet.”  Jeffrey Seller and Kevin McCollum, two of the lead
producers of “Heights,” attended the Vassar workshop. At a
party for their 10-year-old musical “Avenue Q,” McCollum
referred questions to Seller. “There’s no news yet,” Seller
said. “There will be.”  New York Stage and Film also hosted the debut of what’s
currently titled “A Musical Inspired by the Brooklyn Superhero
Supply Co.,” co-produced by Amanda Lipitz and Margo Lion.  Michael Mayer directed a cast and crew sprinkled with
alumni of “Spring Awakening,” the groundbreaking hit he staged
in 2006.  In this new musical in development, Matt Doyle played a
hardware store clerk with a talent for science who develops
“Brooklynite” (think Kryptonite) with the aim of taking flight
and joining the superhero ranks.  Pop Score  Peter Lerman wrote the pop score and Simon Rich the book,
based on characters created by married writers Michael Chabon
and Ayelet Waldman. It’s filled with jokes about subway lines
and neighborhoods that may appeal to Brooklyn insiders and
outsiders alike.  Steven Hoggett, an in-demand British choreographer (“Once,”
“American Idiot”), conveyed the heroes’ super powers with subtle
comic flourishes.  The Brooklyn Superhero Supply Co. is a real-life store
stocked with capes and other accessories. In the back is a free
tutoring center, where volunteers help kids with their writing.  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 