-- IPO Boom Grows in Renewables as Dividend Yield Beat Bonds
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-08-02T15:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/ipo-boom-grows-in-renewables-as-dividend-yield-beat-bonds.html
Wind and solar companies are tapping
the stock market for cash at the fastest pace in two years, led
by three initial public offerings in  London  luring investors
with dividends that beat returns on government bonds.  Clean-energy companies raised $3.8 billion in IPOs in the
second-quarter, double the pace of the first three months of the
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Renewables
Infrastructure Group Ltd. (TRIG)  raised 300 million pounds ($460
million) and began trading July 29. Its intention, to pay a 6
percent yield, compares with a 2.31 percent yield on the U.K.
government’s 10-year gilt.  The offering was the biggest of three London IPOs this year
by renewable companies taking advantage of investors’ thirst for
income as the  Bank of England  keeps interest rates at record
lows. Surging share prices have revived stocks as a source of
funds, allowing companies that traditionally rely on banks and
private equity to tap deeper pools of capital at lower costs.  “There’s really nothing out there that has more
predictable cash flows than a solar farm contracted by an
investment-grade utility,” said Brandon Blossman, an analyst at
Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. in Houston. “Everybody likes a
yield vehicle that has growth potential.”  Yield Slump  Yields on the 10-year gilt plunged to as little as 1.41
percent in August 2012 from as much as 5.55 percent in July
2007. The global recession and credit crisis prompted the Bank
of England to slash its benchmark lending rate to 0.5 percent,
the lowest since it was founded in 1694.  Since the yield  bottomed , it has risen to as much as 2.59
percent on June 24. In the U.S., the yield on the 10-year
Treasury climbed past 2.69 percent yesterday, down from 5.29
percent in June 2007.  A rebound in the stock market is encouraging the IPOs. The
 NYSE Bloomberg Solar Index (SOLAR)  of 102 companies has appreciated 65
percent since the beginning of December.  “Over the last few years, there has been a desire for a
yield-oriented vehicle, and one just frankly has not existed in
the power space,” said Julien Dumoulin-Smith, an analyst at UBS
Securities LLC in New York.  London Listings  Greencoat U.K. Wind Plc kicked off the IPO wave in March,
raising 260 million pounds with a pledge to pay a dividend of 6
pence on each 100 pence share.  Bluefield Solar Income Fund Ltd. (BSIF) 
raised 130 million pounds. It will have a dividend of almost 4
percent in the first year after the offering and 7 pence in the
next, according to Bloomberg  forecasts .  North American companies are following suit.  NRG Yield
Inc. (NYLD) , controlled by the largest U.S. independent power producer
 NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , raised $431 million in its July 16 IPO, and
will post a quarterly dividend of 30 cents a share according to
a July 18 filing. The yield will reach 4.25 percent by the end
of next year, according to Bloomberg  projections  based on
company filings.  TransAlta Corp. (TA) ,  Canada ’s top independent power producer
created in June a new unit, TransAlta Renewables. It’s seeking
to raise C$200 million ($193 million) in an IPO this month and
will pay an annual dividend of 75 Canadian cents according to a
July 31 filing. Threshold Power Trust plans an IPO in Toronto in
the first week of August. It intends to pay out 75 percent of
its cash flow to investors as monthly taxable dividends.  Yieldco Cash  The companies, dubbed “yieldcos,” hold operating power
plants with long-term contracts to sell electricity. That
ensures a predictable source of revenue and supports dividends.  The emergence of yieldcos is a sign the renewables industry
is maturing, said Arno Harris, chief executive officer of
Recurrent Energy, a solar developer owned by  Sharp Corp. (6753)  Funds
from an IPO are “significantly less expensive capital” than
funding from private equity backers, he said.  As the industry become more mainstream, more developers are
chasing new sources of capital. Investors in companies like NRG
Yield may be satisfied with returns of about 5.5 percent to 6
percent, compared to an 8 percent “cost of money” that many
paid five years ago, said Harris, who’s also chairman of the
Solar Energy Industries Association, a Washington-based trade
association.  Acquisition Plans  The yieldcos expect to purchase more power plants once
developers finish building them. NRG Yield operates eight wind
and solar farms, two portfolios of solar facilities and three
gas-fired plants. It has rights to buy more projects from NRG,
including five solar farms and a gas plant under development.  TransAlta has 1,076 megawatts of hydropower, wind and
geothermal power plants that may be sold to TransAlta
Renewables. Renewables Infrastructure Group has deals to acquire
14 wind farms and has rights on projects completed by Renewable
Energy Systems Ltd., a related company developing facilities.  The new companies are designed to hold power projects after
other ventures develop them. That removes much of the risk that
comes from spending years planning large power plants that are
undone at the last minute because they threaten an endangered
species, for example, or regulators refuse to approve rates in
power-purchase deals.  “It’s becoming more and more important to drive down all
costs, not just the cost of equipment, but the cost of
capital,” said Keith Martin, a partner with Chadbourne & Parke
LLP, a Washington-based law firm advising clean energy
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  