-- Iran’s Rohani Has Limited Time to Avert Nuclear Showdown
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-08-02T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/iran-s-rohani-has-limited-time-to-avert-nuclear-showdown.html
The inauguration of  Iran ’s President
Hassan Rohani in two days restarts the countdown toward a
confrontation over the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program as it
approaches  Israel ’s “red line” for military action.  After a decade of fruitless negotiations and tightening
economic sanctions, the next 12 months may make or break the
international effort to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear
weapons. Such weapons would pose an existential threat to
Israel, endanger the U.S. and  Europe , and trigger a nuclear arms
race in the Persian Gulf region.  Rohani, who takes office Aug. 4 and was considered a
relative moderate among the candidates permitted to run by the
country’s Guardian Council, has spurred hopes in some quarters
that Iran may be willing to curb its nuclear efforts. That view
isn’t shared by Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who
calls Rohani a “wolf in sheep’s clothing,” and Iran’s nuclear
advances are narrowing the window of time to avoid a conflict.  “There is a 75 percent to 80 percent chance that issue
will have come to a head” by this time next year, said  John McLaughlin , a former deputy director of the Central Intelligence
Agency.  As negotiations stalled during the wait for the election to
choose President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s successor, Iran increased
its stockpile of medium-enriched uranium and added centrifuges
capable of shortening the “breakout” time to produce enough
highly enriched fuel for a nuclear device.  The country could have a nuclear weapon within a year if
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  chooses to do so,
according to former U.S. Marine General James Mattis, who
retired in March as commander of the U.S. Central Command.  Mideast Challenges  Iran joins  Syria  and Egypt on a mushrooming list of Mideast
challenges for President  Barack Obama . During a March visit to
Israel, he said the U.S. “will do what is necessary” to keep
Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. Netanyahu has renewed his
warnings of Israeli military action amid Iran’s nuclear advances
and talk in the West of Rohani’s moderation.  “I’m convinced that last year Prime Minister Netanyahu
wanted to attack Iran and was looking for some kind of green
light, or at least a yellow light from  Washington  -- and he
didn’t get it,” said Gary Samore, who at the time was White
House coordinator for  arms control  and weapons of mass
destruction, proliferation and terrorism.  Obama has said there’s still time for talks and assured
Netanyahu -- as well as declaring publicly -- that “all options
are on the table” to thwart Iran’s nuclear ambitions.  Agreement Sought  By pressuring Iran with sanctions, the U.S. and other world
powers are seeking an initial agreement that halts its
production of 20 percent enriched uranium -- a step short of
weapons grade -- and removes its stockpile of medium-enriched
uranium so it can’t be diverted for weapons.  Iran says its enrichment program is intended solely for
electric power generation and medical research. Netanyahu in
June said Iran needs to stop all uranium enrichment activities
so that the Islamic Republic won’t get nuclear weapons.  The negotiating window will shut if Iran moves to avoid
International Atomic Energy Agency monitoring, such as kicking
out global inspectors. In that case, “I think it would be
impossible to hold back the Israelis,” Samore told a security
conference in Aspen,  Colorado , last month. “In fact, it would
probably be impossible to hold back the  United States .”  U.S. intelligence agencies have assessed that Khamenei, who
has ultimate authority over the nuclear program, hasn’t decided
to produce a weapon, though Iran is developing the ability to do
so quickly.  Three Paths  The situation is complicated because Iran is advancing
along three paths, each with weapons implications.  One is the production of 20 percent enriched uranium, which
is the initial focus of Western concerns because it can quickly
be purified to weapons grade. Netanyahu’s “red line” for a
military strike is tied to the amount of medium-enriched uranium
needed for a warhead, about 240 kilograms (529 pounds).  In May, the Vienna-based IAEA reported that Iran’s
stockpile totaled 182 kilograms (401 pounds), up from 167
kilograms (368 pounds) three months earlier, after removing some
for use in a reactor making medical isotopes. At that rate, Iran
by mid-2014 would have enough to make one weapon, an amount the
U.S. says is far more than needed to fuel its one existing
medical research reactor and four others being planned.  Iran’s second effort involves thousands of new centrifuges
at facilities at Natanz, 209 kilometers (130 miles) southeast of
Tehran, and Fordow, near the holy city Qom, that cut the time
needed to convert power-reactor grade uranium to weapons
material. Iran has 5,000 centrifuges ready to join 12,000 in
operation, Ahmadinejad said July 28, according to the state-run
Mehr news agency.  Elude Safeguards  The growing number of centrifuges will give Iran the
ability by mid-2014 to dash to a bomb while evading IAEA
safeguards, according to a  report  this week by  David Albright 
and Christina Walrond of the Washington-based Institute for
Science and International Security. With enough centrifuges,
“there simply would not be enough time to organize an
international diplomatic or military response,” according to
Albright, a former nuclear inspector, and Walrond, who urge
talks on capping the number of Iranian centrifuges.  Iran’s third path is a heavy-water reactor at Arak, 241
kilometers (150 miles) south of Tehran, that’s to enter
operation in mid-2014 to produce isotopes for medical and
agricultural use, officials say. This type of reactor could
yield about 10 kilograms (22 pounds) of plutonium a year --
enough for about two nuclear weapons -- if the weapons-grade
material is separated from irradiated fuel, according to ISIS.  Iraq Attack  Israel in 1981 bombed a similar facility that was nearing
completion in Iraq, and in 2007 it destroyed what allegedly was
a similar heavy-water reactor secretly being built in Syria with
North Korean assistance. Any attack on Arak would have to come
in the next six to nine months -- before fuel is loaded -- to
avoid spreading radioactive material.  To stop Iran’s programs, the U.S. has led an international
effort to impose an array of sanctions that have hit Iran’s
economy by sharply reducing Iran’s oil revenue, trade and
international financial transactions.  In December, Economy Minister Shamseddin Hosseini said oil
revenue had dropped 50 percent due to sanctions, according to
the Tehran-based Khabar Online website. The national currency,
the rial, lost more than half its value in the past year before
Rohani’s June 14 election, and the  International Monetary Fund 
forecasts a decline in gross domestic product of 1.3 percent
this year, following a 1.9 percent contraction in 2012.  New Talks  Rohani, 64, who was Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator from
2003 to 2005, owes his election in part to public discontent
over economic conditions, and he won’t be able to improve
conditions without sanctions relief.  The six world powers negotiating with Iran -- the U.S.,
U.K., France, Russia, China and Germany -- are prepared for new
talks and think Rohani’s election may provide an opportunity for
progress, a Western diplomat told reporters in Brussels on July
19, speaking on condition of anonymity.  “The atmospherics and the mood have really changed,”  Ray Takeyh, a Mideast analyst at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in
Washington, said in a phone interview. “Given that change of
atmosphere, I suspect that the prospects of confrontation, which
I always thought were low, are likely to be even lower.”  That may depend on what Rohani does in the next few months.
An initial test will be Iran’s response to the outstanding
proposal from the Western nations, which call themselves the
P5+1 because all but Germany are permanent members of the  United
Nations Security Council .  Western Proposal  They’ve offered to ease trade sanctions on petrochemicals,
precious metals and civilian aircraft parts and to provide
technical cooperation on nuclear energy if Iran halts production
of 20 percent-enriched uranium and ships much of its stockpile
out of the country, according to diplomats involved.  That would only be a first step, and wouldn’t give Iran
relief from the main sanctions on the oil and financial sectors.  “The Iranians will be in for some sticker shock,” Samore
said. “They’re going to have to pay a very high price in terms
of limiting their nuclear program.”  Kenneth Katzman , a Mideast analyst at the  Congressional
Research Service , said he doesn’t expect the U.S. to alter its
negotiating strategy following Rohani’s election.  “There’s a very deep hesitancy in the United States to
make any advance concessions to Iran until the U.S. sees what
Rohani wants to do and what he can do,” said Katzman, speaking
at the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington policy group.  Samore said an early test of whether Rohani can take a
different path is whether Iran accepts Obama’s longstanding
offer of a bilateral channel for talks. He called the P5+1
negotiations a relatively ineffective route toward a deal.  “I’ve sat through those meetings, and it’s really kind of
staged event,” he said. To hammer out an agreement, he said,
“you really have to get the two critical parties -- the U.S.
and Iran -- in a room together and do some give and take.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  