-- Koskinen Rescues IRS as Y2K Man & Freddie Mac CEO-CFO-COO
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-08-02T17:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/irs-nominee-koskinen-s-freddie-mac-turnaround-to-get-test.html
Deep into a career turning around
companies and government agencies,  John Koskinen  found himself
doing four jobs at once in 2009.  His title was non-executive chairman of  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , where
he was supposed to rebuild the U.S.-owned mortgage financier
after the credit crisis. Then the chief executive officer quit,
the chief financial officer committed suicide and Koskinen
became CEO, CFO and chief operating officer.  That experience may prove the best preparation for the job
President  Barack Obama  nominated him for yesterday: manic
multitasking in the political whirlwind atop the  Internal
Revenue Service .  “He never gets flustered,” said Ed Haldeman, who
succeeded Koskinen as  Freddie Mac  CEO and worked with him every
day for three years. “He’s dealt with crisis. He’s dealt with
employees that have been beaten up and the morale is down.”  That sense of crisis and low employee morale await
Koskinen, 74, if he is confirmed by the  U.S. Senate  to run the
IRS, which has a pile of troubles from balky computers to
congressional investigations. In nominating Koskinen to run the
tax agency, Obama becomes the third consecutive president to tap
the turnaround guru.  Risky Loans  President  Bill Clinton  chose Koskinen to lead the
government’s efforts to address the Y2K issue, the threat that
aging computers with space for two-digit years would assume that
the year 1900 would follow 1999.  George W. Bush ’s administration
asked him to go to McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac, which was
seized by the U.S. in 2008 after investments in risky loans
pushed it to the brink of insolvency.  At the IRS, Koskinen will encounter congressional
frustration and anger at the controversies swirling around the
agency’s scrutiny of Tea Party groups, its spending on
conferences and its payment of bonuses.  Some of his toughest challenges will be with issues that
have received little recent attention, such as tax-refund fraud
and congressional requirements to administer spending programs
through the tax code, said Lawrence Gibbs, a former IRS
commissioner.  “They get more and more responsibility and less and less
funding,” he said. “On top of that, they’re right in the
middle of a partisan political firestorm between the Republicans
and the Democrats, which makes everything else that much more
difficult.”  Forced Out  Koskinen would replace Danny Werfel, the interim IRS leader
Obama chose in May after he forced out acting commissioner
 Steven Miller . If confirmed, Koskinen’s term would last until
November 2017.  The IRS hasn’t had a commissioner since Douglas Shulman
left in November 2012. Obama had known since at least April 2012
that Shulman was leaving and didn’t pick anyone until yesterday.  Koskinen wasn’t interested in the job when first approached
before May 2013, said a person close to the selection process
who asked not to be identified to discuss a confidential matter.
After the IRS controversy exploded in May, Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew asked him to reconsider, the person said.  Koskinen’s resume, which lacks experience in tax policy or
tax law, includes 21 years at Palmieri Co., where he worked on
corporate turnarounds. He was chairman of  Duke University ’s
board of trustees and president of the U.S. Soccer Federation.  City Administrator  In government, Koskinen was a deputy director at the Office
of Management and Budget under Clinton and then city
administrator for Washington Mayor Anthony Williams.  “The fact that he keeps being willing to come out of
retirement says an awful lot about the man,” said Louis Erste,
who was chief operating officer of the D.C. Public Schools when
Koskinen worked for the city.  Erste, now a school official in Georgia, said he remembers
leaving meetings around dinnertime, when Koskinen would pull out
a tablecloth and candles in his office and eat with his wife on
speakerphone before diving back into work.  “He conveys a sense of calm,” said Erste, who has stayed
in touch with Koskinen after both left the D.C. government.  At Freddie Mac, Koskinen was particularly helpful in
keeping the company focused while they were reading about how
“stupid” they were, said  Nicolas Retsinas , who became a
Freddie Mac director before Koskinen and still is on the board.  “You were in a period where everybody was looking over
your shoulder,” he said. “John was just that voice of reason.
Steady as she goes.”  Koskinen is a director of  AES Corp. (AES) , based in Arlington,
Virginia, and  American Capital Ltd. (ACAS) , which has its headquarters
in Bethesda, Maryland. He made $490,590 from his board work in
2012, including stock awards, according to securities filings.  No Conflicts  A second person close to the selection process, who also
asked for anonymity, said Koskinen wouldn’t retain any
affiliations that pose a conflict of interest.  According to securities filings, Koskinen held 30,322
shares of AES as of May 15, which would be worth $383,877 at
yesterday’s closing price. He held 49,930 shares of  American
Capital  as of March 1, which would be worth $671,308 as of
yesterday’s closing price.  Democratic Donations  Since the beginning of 2007, Koskinen has donated $25,600
to Democratic candidates and causes, including $7,300 to Obama
and $3,000 to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee,
according to Federal Election Commission records.  At the IRS, Koskinen would enter a political storm that has
been raging since May, when the agency apologized for applying
tougher scrutiny to Tea Party groups applying for tax-exempt
status.  At least four IRS officials have lost their jobs. Seven
congressional committees have begun inquiries and the  Justice
Department  started a criminal probe.  Investigations so far have revealed a more complex and
muddled picture of what happened at the IRS, and no link to the
White House has been found.  Jay Carney , the White House press
secretary, said July 31 that the IRS was one of the “phony
scandals” Obama referred to in a speech.  “That doesn’t excuse the conduct, doesn’t say that it’s
the right thing to do,” Carney said. “It means that we have to
address poor performance as poor performance, and reject efforts
to turn it into yet another partisan political football.”  The Republican-controlled House this week is considering a
package of bills aimed mainly at curbing the IRS, as part of
what leaders have dubbed Stop Government Abuse Week. Lawmakers
have complained about the slow pace of the agency’s production
of documents in response to congressional requests.  House Bills  One bill already passed would let the IRS fire employees
for politically motivated targeting. Another, passed today,
would prevent the agency from enforcing the 2010 health-care
law, in which it has major responsibility.  House Republicans 
have also proposed a 24 percent budget cut.  Questions about the scrutiny of Tea Party groups and the
health-care law will come up at Koskinen’s confirmation hearing,
which won’t occur until after Congress returns from a five-week
recess on Sept. 9. Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and
Finance Committee chairman, said he was “pleased” with the
choice and would move the nomination quickly to the full Senate.  Several Senate Republicans said they didn’t know much about
Koskinen, and the top Republican on the Finance panel,  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, said he was “more than a little mystified” that
he wasn’t consulted or given advance notice of the nomination.  ‘Huge Problems’  “We’ve seen there’s some huge problems,” said Senator  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania Republican and a member of the Finance
panel. “We haven’t gotten to the bottom of them yet and that’s
very disturbing. It is not some kind of phony scandal, as the
president seems to believe. It’s a real, real serious problem.”  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, said in a
statement that the IRS needs a turnaround expert.  “A new nominee is not enough,” he said in a statement.
“The nomination shouldn’t be the president’s basis for sweeping
problems under the rug. The IRS hasn’t had a permanent
commissioner since last fall, and it needs one but not just to
put a good face on a troubled agency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  