-- Issa Sends Subpoena to Treasury to Produce IRS Documents
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-08-02T19:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/issa-to-send-irs-documents-subpoena-to-treasury-secretary.html
House Oversight Committee Chairman
 Darrell Issa  sent a subpoena for U.S. Internal Revenue Service
documents to the  Treasury secretary , saying he thinks the
agency’s chief counsel’s office is “compromised.”  The IRS hasn’t been forthcoming in responding to committee
requests for documents related to the agency’s scrutiny of Tea
Party groups seeking tax exemptions, Issa, a California
Republican, said today. He spoke at a hearing of a subcommittee
of his panel in  Washington  and issued  the subpoena  afterward.  “You are slow-rolling us,” Issa told acting IRS
Commissioner Danny Werfel.  “That’s not true,” Werfel responded.  Issa’s move escalates the confrontation between Republicans
and the administration over the IRS, which apologized in May for
applying tougher scrutiny to Tea Party groups applying for tax-exempt status.  As Congress leaves for a five-week recess, Issa rejects
President  Barack Obama ’s attempt to label the matter a “phony”
scandal and insists that incomplete responses make it impossible
to determine what happened and who was responsible.  At least four IRS officials have lost their positions.
Seven congressional committees have opened inquiries into the
IRS, requesting internal documents that would help explain how
and why the agency scrutinized Tea Party groups.  “I’ve asked you for information; you’re not forthcoming,”
Issa told Werfel. “The office of chief counsel, a politically
appointed office, has been compromised.”  ‘Timely Fashion’  “Our expectation is that Treasury Department will take
over the delivery of documents in a timely fashion,” Issa said.
He asked Werfel to remove the IRS counsel’s office from any
“decision making” related to the inquiry.  The IRS is housed within the Treasury Department. In a
statement, Treasury said it is reviewing the subpoena and is
committed to cooperating with the committee’s inquiry.  “This is not about obstruction,” Werfel said. “This is
about offering as much information as we can.”  In a letter today, Werfel said the agency is “fully
committed to transparency and cooperation” with the
congressional inquiries. He wrote that 70 attorneys are
reviewing documents full time and producing documents weekly.  “By any measure, this is an enormous undertaking for the
IRS,” he wrote to Issa. “We are aggressively working to share,
gather and provide information requested by your committee and
others, and we continue to do so.”  Progressive Groups  Also during today’s hearing, Representative  Elijah Cummings , the top Democrat on Issa’s committee, said he was
“disappointed” that Inspector General J. Russell George’s
office was “blocking” information about IRS inquiries into
progressive groups.  “If we do not receive a satisfactory response from the IG
by next week, I would ask that you go ahead, Mr. Werfel, and
produce these documents,” said Cummings of  Maryland .  Democrats say revelations about IRS scrutiny of progressive
groups cast doubt on the idea that only Republican-leaning
groups drew extra attention from the agency.  “Our job is to ensure that all applications for tax-exempt
status are treated fairly, whether they are conservative,
progressive or in between,” Cummings said.  The leaders of the House Ways and Means Committee, who can
obtain confidential taxpayer information without redactions,
wrote a letter to the IRS last week complaining about the pace
of document production.  3 Percent  “We only have about 3 percent of the documents that we’ve
asked for,” Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee, said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “What we really need,” Camp said, “are the e-mails. We
don’t have those yet.”  In a joint statement today, the leaders of the Senate
Finance Committee said they want the IRS to be more cooperative
in releasing documents. Senators  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat,
and  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, said their investigators
have interviewed 14 IRS employees and reviewed more than 21,000
pages of documents.  The Finance panel has held one hearing on the IRS
investigation and has taken a much lower public profile on the
issue than Issa and Camp.  “We are not prepared to make any final conclusions until
our investigation is completed,” Baucus and Hatch said. “Doing
so would undermine our ability to get to the truth and
effectively address the problems within the IRS that led to
these abusive practices.”  Search Terms  In his letter, Werfel estimated that there may be about
1.64 million documents to review, many of which won’t be
relevant. He said the IRS is switching to more focused search
terms to speed up the process.  Issa has been investigating the potential involvement of
William Wilkins, the IRS chief counsel and one of two political
appointees at the tax agency. Documents and testimony so far
have shown only that Wilkins’s office -- which has 1,600 lawyers
-- was involved, not Wilkins himself.  In his letter, Werfel wrote that a search of Wilkins’s e-mails found seven responsive documents, six of which were sent
to Issa’s staff. The other, Werfel wrote, was a copy of the
inspector general’s report containing taxpayer information.  “Further, we have offered to have Mr. Wilkins participate
in an interview with your staff, and they have indicated they
prefer not to interview him at this time,” Werfel wrote.  Interview Timing  Frederick Hill, a spokesman for Issa, said in an e-mail
that the IRS has acknowledged that it hasn’t delivered relevant
e-mails from Wilkins.  “The committee has told the IRS that it wants to interview
Mr. Wilkins and will do so within the framework of the current
process that began with employees in the Cincinnati office and
has been working up toward more senior officials,” Hill said.  The  Justice Department  also has started a criminal
investigation.  Obama yesterday nominated  John Koskinen  to become IRS
comissioner. If confirmed by the  U.S. Senate , he would replace
Werfel, who became acting IRS leader after Obama forced out the
previous acting commissioner,  Steven Miller .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  