-- JPX Says It’s in Talks With Tocom on Trading System
-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-08-02T05:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/jpx-says-it-s-in-talks-with-tocom-on-trading-system.html
Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697) , the
operator of the world’s second-biggest stock market, said it’s
in talks to provide its trading system to Tokyo Commodity
Exchange Inc.  Tocom, as the bourse for gold, rubber and soybean contracts
is known, is examining options beyond next May when its five-year contract to use the trading platform of Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. comes up for renewal, said spokeswoman Sayaka Sato. It may
keep and upgrade the Nasdaq system or shift to a platform
provided by a different domestic or overseas exchange, she said.  “JPX is in discussions with Tocom,” said Naoya Takahashi,
a spokesman for the exchange. “Nothing has been decided at this
time.” Sharing systems would bring revenue for JPX and reduce
Tocom’s systems development costs, he said.  About 25.5 million contracts  changed hands  through Tocom in
2012, down from a recent peak of 87.3 million in 2003, according
to the bourse’s website. The exchange  reported  net income of 20
million yen ($201,126) for the year ended March 31, compared
with a 205 million yen loss the previous year, as investors
increased holdings of risk assets and  gold prices  reached new
highs in February, amid receding risks from  Europe ’s debt crisis
and economic-growth concerns in  developing countries , the bourse
said.  Tocom, CME  Tocom President Tadashi Ezaki said on July 12 the bourse is
also in talks with CME Group Inc. about the possibility of
sharing trading systems and met with CME Chief Executive Officer
Phupinder Gill. CME has tentatively offered the use of its
trading systems for around 8.5 billion yen over five years, the
Nikkei newspaper reported today without attribution. JPX is
asking for as much as 7 billion yen for the same period, Nikkei
said.  JPX subsidiary Osaka Securities Exchange Co. uses the J-Gate trading system, also developed by Nasdaq OMX, for
derivatives. The Osaka bourse and Tocom agreed in December 2010
that the commodity exchange can use the OSE’s J-Gate  backup
facilities  in case of emergencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  