-- Judge, Samsung, Macy’s, Ripoff: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/judge-samsung-macy-s-ripoff-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Senate yesterday confirmed
President Barack Obama’s appointment of  Raymond Chen  for a seat
on the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit.  Chen, who has served as the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office’s deputy general counsel and patent solicitor, was
nominated for the Washington-based court that hears appeals of
patent cases Feb. 7.  He will be taking the seat previously occupied by  Richard
Linn , who was appointed to the court in 1999 by President  Bill
Clinton . Before Linn, the seat was held by  Giles Sutherland
Rich , who served on the court from its inception until his death
in 1999 at 95.  Chen has been with the patent office since 1998, serving
first as assistant solicitor. He argued more than 20 cases
before the Federal Circuit. Before joining the patent office, he
was a technical assistant at the Federal Circuit.  He has an undergraduate degree from the  University of
California ,  Los Angeles , and a law degree from  New York
University .  Apple Against Samsung Over Phones Turns on Who Copied Whom  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  hasn’t had much to show for two years of efforts
to prove  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  “slavishly copied” the iPhone
as its top competitor became the world’s biggest smartphone
maker.  Its next chance at putting a dent in Samsung’s sales comes
Aug. 9, after a decision was delayed yesterday, when a U.S.
trade agency in  Washington  is to announce whether it will block
imports of some of the South Korean company’s phones.  An import ban on some iPhone 4s starts at midnight Aug. 4
unless President  Barack Obama  intervenes, while an appeals court
hears Apple’s arguments for banning Samsung products in a
separate case Aug. 9.  Those three events could alter the balance in the global
smartphone-patent battle -- leaving one company in a better
bargaining position, continuing the cycle of litigation or
forcing both sides to negotiate. The fight is for more share of
a market that grew 34 percent to $293.9 billion last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As it seeks to block Samsung phones from the U.S., Apple is
fighting to overturn an International Trade Commission import
ban on some of its own devices. Apple could be forced to remove
some versions of its iPhone 4s and iPad 2 3G from the U.S.
market next week unless the ban is overturned by the Obama
administration or put on hold by the courts.  Apple will also ask a U.S. appeals court Aug. 9 to reverse
a trial judge’s ruling that has allowed continued sale of
Samsung products which a jury last year said infringed Apple
patents.  The ITC delayed a decision it was scheduled to make
yesterday on Cupertino, California-based Apple’s claims that
Samsung “deliberately copied Apple’s patented designs and
technology” for the iPhone and “undercut Apple’s prices and
captured a significant share of the U.S. market.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Macy’s Makes Final Bid to Block Rival’s Martha Stewart Goods  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department store
chain, made a final bid to block Martha Stewart’s company from
selling bedding, cookware and other merchandise at  J.C. Penney
Co. (JCP)   New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey Oing in
 Manhattan  heard closing arguments yesterday in a nonjury trial
of lawsuits filed by Cincinnati-based Macy’s seeking to block a
December 2011 sales agreement between Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. and J.C. Penney.  Martha Stewart Living breached its 2006 contract with
Macy’s by entering into the later deal with J.C. Penney, Ted
Grossman, a lawyer for Macy’s, told the judge.  Oing is to decide whether Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney
has the right to sell any merchandise designed by Stewart’s
company in categories where Macy’s claims exclusivity. Mark H.
Epstein, a lawyer for J.C. Penney, blamed Macy’s for the
dispute.  Eric Seiler, a lawyer for  Martha Stewart  Living, told the
judge that Macy’s is no longer asking for a court order barring
J.C. Penney from selling goods made by his client that don’t
bear the Stewart brand, and is instead going to seek damages at
a later trial. Macy’s shouldn’t be able to try case a second
time, Seiler said.  Regardless of the outcome, the case will change the way
licensing agreements are drafted, said Steven R. Gursky, a
partner at  Olshan Frome Wolosky LLP  in New York who focuses on
contract negotiations and  intellectual property .  “It may send people out who have existing agreements with
Macy’s and others to say, ‘What does my agreement say? Do I
really have an exclusive and can I have my cake and eat it
too?’” Gursky said.  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v.  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) , 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Lawyer Turns to Copyright to Force Negative-Review Removal  A  Boston  lawyer who won the copyright to negative remarks
about him posted on the Ripoff Report website is suing the
site’s operator for copyright infringement.  Richard A. Goren filed suit in federal court in Boston
against Arizona-based Xcentric Ventures LLC. In May, the Suffolk
County Superior Court awarded him the copyright to a negative
review of his Small Justice LLC law practice that was posted on
the Ripoff Report by a John Doe doing business as Arabianights-Boston Massachusetts, according to court papers.  The state court conveyed all rights to the posting to
Goren, and gave him all rights to require Ripoff Report to take
down the material. Goren next sued Xcentric for keeping the
content up.  He said in his federal complaint that the objectionable
content has been re-indexed to bear different dates from the
original posting and that it continues to appear in Google
search results.  Goren asked the court to bar further publication of the
material and for money damages, litigation costs and attorney
fees.  According to its  website , Ripoff Report doesn’t ever take
down reports. The company said that while it “cannot and will
not consider removal requests from anyone,” it will permit
those who think they have been unfairly targeted to post a
rebuttal.  The case is Small Justice LLC v. Xcentric Ventures LLC, 13-cv-11701, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Fera Persuades Federal Court Not to Dismiss Trade Secrets Case  A  trade secrets  case filed by Fera Pharmaceuticals LLC, a
provider of anti-infective ophthalmic medicines, can go ahead, a
federal judge in Manhattan ruled July 30.  Fera sued business partner  Akorn Inc. (AKRX)  in New York state
court in September 2012, seeking more than $100 million in
damages for contract violations and misuse of trade secrets.  Fera alleged that Akorn, of Lake Forest, Illinois, in 2009
agreed to make Fera products for seven years, “failed to
perform its duties” and sought to acquire Locust Valley, New
York-based Fera’s trade secrets and make at least two products
itself, according to court papers.  The case was moved to federal court in October 2012. Akorn
asked the court to dismiss the case, claiming the issues raised
by Fera were actually mitigated by a supply agreement between
them.  U.S. District Judge Louis L. Stanton disagreed. He said
that if the supply agreement was obtained by fraud, the contract
can’t be used to defend Akorn’s actions.  He found that Fera’s allegations of fraud by Akorn
“adequately specify the time, place, speaker and content of the
alleged misrepresentations” and he dismissed Akorn’s assertion
that Fera didn’t adequately make its claims. He rejected Akorn’s
dismissal motion.  The case is Fera Pharmaceuticals LLC v. Akorn Inc., 13-cv-07694, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  North Carolina Will Keep Insurance Rates Secret, Radio Says  North Carolina refused to release the rates companies can
charge in the state’s new online marketplace for health
insurance, claiming the figures are a trade secret, WFAE, a
 Charlotte  public radio station,  reported .  Although New York, Maryland and Indiana have published the
rates for their insurance marketplace, North Carolina’s
Department of Insurance kept the rates secret at the insurance
companies’ requests, according to WFAE.  Timothy Jost, a consumer representative for the  National
Association of Insurance Commissioners , told WFAE that early
rate disclosure is in the consumers’ interest because it can
force companies to compete on rates.  An intellectual property attorney WFAE consulted told the
station that few companies’ trade-secret claims will hold up
under North Carolina law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  