-- Kabel Deutschland Board Backs $10 Billion Takeover by Vodafone
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-02T09:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/kabel-deutschland-board-backs-10-billion-takeover-by-vodafone.html
Kabel Deutschland  Holding AG’s board
advised shareholders to accept  Vodafone (VOD)  Group Plc’s 7.7 billion-euro ($10.2 billion) offer, clearing the way for the third-largest European telecommunications deal this year.  The 87-euro-per-share price, which includes a 2.50 euro
dividend payment, is “fair from a financial point of view” and
the deal will strengthen both companies, Kabel Deutschland’s
supervisory and management boards said today in a statement.  Kabel Deutschland, Germany’s biggest cable company, is a
key part of Vodafone’s plan to expand outside of wireless
service. Vodafone said yesterday that it will reorganize by
combining its northern and southern European units to make it
easier to sell packages of phone, Internet and television across
the continent. Vodafone had to fend off competing offers from
 John Malone ’s Liberty Global Plc which is also pursuing a
combined-services strategy.  “After a full appraisal of the offer document, we consider
the offer to be financially attractive and strategically
promising,” Kabel Deutschland Chief Executive Officer Adrian Von Hammerstein said in the statement. “Kabel Deutschland and
Vodafone complement each other ideally.”  Liberty Global’s $16 billion purchase of the U.K.’s Virgin
Media Inc. is the largest telecommunications deal announced in
Europe so far this year, followed by  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s 8.1 billion
euro offer for Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus unit in Germany, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , has said it won’t make
significant divestments of Kabel Deutschland’s assets or fire a
large number of employees as part of the deal.  Germany  is
Vodafone’s biggest market, accounting for about 18 percent of
annual sales, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  This week, Vodafone also received approval from Germany’s
financial regulators to publish the details of its offer
document. Shareholders have until Sept. 11 to decide on the bid.
The companies aim to wrap up the deal following Kabel
Deutschland’s Oct. 10 annual shareholder meeting, pending
antitrust approval, people familiar with the matter have said.  Vodafone shares  fell  0.2 percent to 199.80 pence at 10:02
a.m. in London. Kabel Deutschland was  little changed  at 84.58
euros on the Frankfurt exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  