-- Koons’s Retrospective to Skip Los Angeles’ MOCA
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-08-02T20:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/koons-s-retrospective-to-skip-los-angeles-moca.html
A major retrospective of  Jeff Koons ,
the highest-priced living U.S. artist, won’t be seen in  Los
Angeles  next year as previously planned.  The  Museum of Contemporary Art , whose director, Jeffrey Deitch, resigned last week, was to have been the first of three
venues hosting the show marking Koons’s 35-year career. It was
scheduled to open there in January 2014.  Instead, the exhibition will open in  New York  at the
 Whitney Museum of American Art  on June 27, 2014, said Stephen
Soba, a Whitney spokesman. Soba could not say whether the
cancellation was related to the resignation of Deitch, a former
gallery owner and longtime patron of Koons.  “It was decided by MOCA and the Whitney that it would be
better for an exhibition as complex and ambitious at this one to
be developed over a longer period of time,” said Soba. “And
that the show should open in June in New York.”  The exhibition will travel to the  Pompidou Center  in Paris
after its New York stint ends on Oct. 19, as planned, Soba said.  Asked if there will be other venues, Soba said, “That’s
all, as far as I know.”  Lyn Winter, MOCA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return 
calls and emails seeking comment. She later said MOCA still 
plans to present the Koons exhibition and the opening date is 
to be confirmed.    Koons’s sculptures fetch millions of dollars at auction and
are collected by MOCA’s founding chairman  Eli Broad  and its
trustee Victor Pinchuk. Koons’s stainless steel bouquet of
oversize tulips sold for $33.7 million at Christie’s New York in
2012, the artist’s auction record.  Deitch Resigns  Deitch announced his resignation last week, three years
into his five-year contract. A Koons champion for years, Deitch
helped the artist produce his “Celebration” series and hosted
his 50th birthday party in 2005.  The retrospective, organized by Whitney curator Scott
Rothkopf, will include more than 100 pieces, covering every
series the artist produced. It will spill over four of the five
floors in Whitney’s Madison Avenue building, the largest show
devoted to a single artist. The museum will move to its new
location in the Meatpacking district in 2015.  Muse highlights include  Amanda Gordon’s  Hamptons Scene.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  