-- Natural Gas Falls in Survey on Outlook for Mild August Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-08-02T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/natural-gas-falls-in-survey-on-outlook-for-mild-august-weather.html
Natural gas futures may decline next
week on forecasts for unusually mild weather heading into mid-August that would pare demand from  power plants , a Bloomberg
survey showed.  Six of 11 analysts, or 55 percent, predicted that futures
will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through Aug. 9.
Three, or 27 percent, said gas will stay the same and two
predicted prices will advance. Last week, 50 percent of
participants said gas would drop.  Temperatures will be below normal from the East Coast to
the Great Plains through Aug. 15, according to MDA Weather
Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Gas prices  fell to a five-month low yesterday, nearly wiping out this year’s gains, after
the government reported a U.S.  stockpile increase  for last week
that topped analyst estimates.  “I think the market continues to grind lower,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The break below $3.50 suggests that the
market is hunting for the bottom. With the weather forecast in
the coming week and early calls to see a pretty sizeable
injection, the following week isn’t going to be very strong.”  Natural gas futures plummeted 16.8 cents, or 4.7 percent,
to $3.387 per million British thermal units during the first
four days of this week on the Nymex. The futures are up 1.1
percent this year after gaining as much as 33 percent when
prices touched a 21-month high of $4.444 on May 1.  Composite Forecasts  “The composite  weather forecasts  for the first half of
August are tracking just inside the bottom 10 observations since
1950,” said Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at
BNP Paribas SA in New York. Without a change in weather, prices
will trade “within a relatively tight band of $3.25 to $3.50.”  The high temperature in Philadelphia on Aug. 5 will be 81
degrees Fahrenheit, (27 Celsius) 5 below normal, Four days later
the reading in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , may be 13 lower than the
average high at 77 degrees.  Power plants will account for 32 percent of U.S. gas
consumption this year and are the biggest users of the fuel,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  Gas inventories  expanded by 59 billion cubic feet to 2.845
trillion in the week ended July 26, above the five-year average
gain for the period of 47 billion, according to an EIA report
yesterday. Analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed an
increase of 55 billion.  A  deficit  to the five-year average narrowed 1.2 percent
from 1.6 percent the previous week. Supplies were 11.5 percent
below  levels a year earlier  versus 12.5 percent a week earlier.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  2      6      3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  