-- Neste Experiments With Making Biodiesel From Straw and Waste
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-08-02T14:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/neste-experiments-with-making-biodiesel-from-straw-and-waste.html
Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V) , the only Finnish oil
refiner, is experimenting with ways to make biodiesel from straw
and waste as countries seek to cut use of  fossil fuel  in cars.  The company, which has invested about 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion) building four renewable diesel production plants, seeks
to expand the materials it can turn into fuel and move into new
markets, Matti Lehmus, executive vice president of oil products
and renewables at Neste, said in a telephone interview.  Refiners including Neste, BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc
are capitalizing on rising demand as governments promote use of
biofuel. U.S. refiners need to mix 36 billion gallons of clean
fuel a year with their products by 2022 and  Europe  has a target
for 10 percent of transportation fuel to be renewable by 2020.  “Legislation creates the framework which defines demand,”
Lehmus said. “Biofuels are still more expensive than fossil
fuels, so without any legislative framework the demand would be
much lower.”  Neste expects to generate more than 120 million euros from
biofuels in 2013, it said yesterday. It’s focusing on biodiesel,
mainly in Europe, while BP and Shell are experimenting with
ethanol and butanol. Neste said it doesn’t currently plan to
make ethanol because the diesel market is growing faster.  Biofuels made from edible crops like corn have been blamed
for pushing up food prices and causing shortages, spurring
interest in using inedible crops such as straw.  Neste’s technology is able to produce biofuel from several
feedstocks, Lehmus said. It can process more than 10 materials
such as vegetable oil, fat from fish processing and animal fats.
 In October  it opened what it said was Europe’s first pilot plant
for making clean diesel from agricultural and forestry waste.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  