-- Netanyahu Dealt Blow as Leiderman Withdraws Bank Candidacy
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-03T10:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/netanyahu-dealt-blow-as-leiderman-withdraws-bank-of-israel-bid.html
Leonardo Leiderman’s withdrawal as a
candidate to be Bank of  Israel  governor, the second contender to
drop out in a week, dealt a blow to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in his search for a replacement for  Stanley Fischer .  Leiderman, head of the economics department at Bank
Hapoalim Ltd., removed himself from consideration, according to
a text message yesterday from the prime minister’s office in
Jerusalem. It didn’t give a reason for his decision.  The announcement leaves Netanyahu still looking for a
central bank governor six months after Fischer, 69, announced
that he planned to step down early. Jacob Frenkel announced on
July 29 he was pulling out because the atmosphere surrounding
the vetting process was too “poisonous.” Netanyahu’s decision
to tap Leiderman, 62, for the job prompted acting Governor
Karnit Flug to tender her resignation. Flug will remain acting
governor until a replacement is named, the bank said.  “This is a major embarrassment for Netanyahu,” said
Abraham Diskin, professor of political science at the  Hebrew
University of Jerusalem . “While the domestic political fallout
will be limited, it will likely raise questions internationally
about his handling of the economy.”  The cost of protecting Israeli bonds against default rose
to the highest level in two weeks. Five-year credit-default
swaps rose 0.66 basis points to 111.66, the highest since July
15, according to prices compiled by CMA.  The shekel was little changed at 3.5668 per dollar at the
close on Aug. 2.  Abuse  “Bank of Israel Governor nominee Leo Leiderman informed
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Finance Minister Yair Lapid a short time ago that he is withdrawing his candidacy,”
the text message from the prime minister’s office said.
Leiderman was scheduled to meet with a government vetting
committee on Aug. 4.  Israel’s $250 billion economy rebounded from the global
crisis faster than most peers. Between 2009 and 2012, output
expanded 14.7 percent, compared with 3.2 percent in the U.S. and
a contraction of 1.5 percent in the euro region, the  Finance
Ministry  said in a January report.  Bank Vacancy  Growth will probably slow to 3.2 percent in 2014 from 3.8
percent this year, as sluggish global demand cuts into exports,
the Bank of Israel said in June. It has been gradually reducing
 interest rates  from 3.25 percent in 2011 to the current 1.25
percent, in an effort to moderate shekel gains and boost growth
in the export-driven economy. The bank in May announced a plan
to purchase $2.1 billion of U.S. dollars by the end of the year.  Israel’s Channel 10 news said Leiderman’s candidacy was
damaged by a report by the television station earlier this week
that he regularly consulted with an astrologer. The Israeli
station also said the government committee vetting Leiderman had
received letters raising questions about his tenure as head of
emerging-markets research at Deutsche Bank AG a decade ago.  Calls to Leiderman went directly to a voice-mail, and an e-mail sent to him did not get a response.  Mark Regev , a spokesman
for Netanyahu, said he would not comment beyond the official
announcement.  “It turns out that professors of economics are a pretty
colorful and wild bunch,” Lapid said in a message to some of
his political colleagues, Channel 10 reported.  Frenkel Withdrawal  Frenkel, 70, withdrew after the Haaretz newspaper reported
he was detained in  Hong Kong  seven years ago after allegedly
leaving an airport shop with an item that hadn’t been paid for.
Frenkel said the incident was a misunderstanding that was fully
clarified without further consequence. He said he no longer
wanted the job after being subjected to an “avalanche of
abuse.”  Flug said on July 31 she would stay at the bank for a month
to help Leiderman get to grips with this job.  “Netanyahu and Lapid should go to the home of Dr. Karnit
Flug to apologize and beg her to take on the job of  Bank of
Israel  governor,” said opposition Labor party leader Shelly Yachimovich, according to the Haaretz daily. “A bunch of bad
and bizarre decisions that Netanyahu and Lapid took just so as
not to appoint a woman more suited for the position is starting
to look like one big farce.”  Diskin at the Hebrew University said the problems in
selecting a new governor may have been compounded by Netanyahu
being distracted by other issues.  Major Decisions  “Netanyahu is like a juggler overwhelmed by all the balls
he is carrying, and he’s been distracted by other major
decisions he’s had to make on the Palestinians, Iran, etc.,” he
said. “Choosing the Bank of Israel governor is done in
coordination with the finance minister, and Netanyahu has in
Lapid someone from a different party he doesn’t really trust and
is completely new to economics.”  Lapid, a former journalist, heads the Yesh Atid party, the
second biggest faction in the coalition after Netanyahu’s Likud.  Netanyahu’s failed efforts to select a new central banker
echo the difficulties he encountered in 2011 in choosing the
head of Israel’s military. His initial selection, Yoav Galant,
was forced to step aside in favor of Benny Gantz after questions
were raised over allegations Galant had seized public property
for his personal use.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  