-- Amcon of Nigeria Reaches Debt Accord With Ecobank Chairman
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-08-02T15:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/nigeria-s-amcon-reaches-debt-accord-with-ecobank-chairman-lawson.html
The Asset Management Corp. of
 Nigeria , created by the government to buy lenders’ bad loans,
said it reached an agreement with  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) 
Chairman Kolapo Lawson over outstanding debts.  Lawson is in “good standing” with the Asset Management
Corp., known as Amcon, spokesman Kayode Lambo said by telephone
from Lagos, Nigeria, today. Amcon “will take other measures”
should Lawson not honor the deal’s terms, he said, declining to
give further details.  Nigeria’s Securities and Exchange Commission will meet with
the board of Ecobank, based in the country of Togo, on Aug. 5 to
discuss governance, Obi Adindu, a spokesman for the SEC, said by
telephone from Abuja, Nigeria’s capital. Lawson owes Amcon 1.2
billion naira ($7.5 million), the Financial Times said last
month, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
Agbara Estate, a Nigerian property company chaired by Lawson,
has “long outstanding” debts of 1.6 billion naira to Ecobank’s
Nigerian unit, the newspaper said.  Amcon was set up in 2010 after a debt crisis threatened the
country’s banking industry. It owns  10.7 percent  of Ecobank’s
unit in Nigeria, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Founded in 1985, Ecobank has expanded into  France  and 34
African countries. It has representative offices in Beijing,
Dubai, Johannesburg,  London  and Luanda,  Angola . The bank’s
assets were $21 billion at the end of June.  Ecobank’s  shares  rose as much as 1 percent in Lagos before
closing unchanged at 14.6 naira. They increased 29 percent this
year, compared with a 22 percent gain for the 10-member Nigerian
Stock Exchange Banking 10 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  