-- Nomura Predicts $61,000 Default-Swap Discount to Increase
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-08-02T17:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/nomura-predicts-61-000-default-swap-discount-to-increase.html
The prospect of tax and energy
reforms in Mexico is prompting  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  to predict
the nation will become more creditworthy versus  Brazil  than at
any time in seven years.  It costs 0.61 percentage point, or $61,000, less to protect
$10 million of Mexican bonds against non-payment for five years
with credit-default swaps than Brazilian debt, twice the average
in the past year. The gap will swell to 1 percentage point by
year-end, which would be the most since 2006, as Mexico passes
legislation to open the state-controlled oil industry to more
private investment and boost  tax revenue , according to Benito
Berber, a strategist at Nomura.  While Brazil, where surging inflation triggered the biggest
street protests in two decades, is at risk of a downgrade,
Mexico won an upgrade from Fitch Ratings and is on review for a
ratings boost by  Standard & Poor’s  as confidence builds that
President Enrique Pena Nieto will bring lawmakers together to
enact the biggest reforms in 75 years. S&P assigns a BBB rating,
the second-lowest investment grade, to Brazil and Mexico, where
education and telecommunications bills have passed this year.  “The fiscal reform, in addition to the reforms that have
passed, increase the possibility of an upgrade substantially,”
Berber said in a telephone interview from  New York . “The spread
will widen significantly” against Brazil as reforms will
probably pass congress, Berber said.  ‘Strong’ Fundamentals  At 1.26 percentage points yesterday, Mexico’s five-year
credit-default swaps traded lower than those for Latvia and
Ireland, which are rated by S&P one level higher at BBB+, and
below those of Slovenia, whose A- grade is two levels higher,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fitch Ratings  raised Mexico’s rating one level to BBB+ in
May, in line with Moody’s Investors Service’s Baal ranking. It
cited “strong macroeconomic fundamentals” and “greater than
anticipated commitment of the new administration and Congress to
pass structural reforms.”  Pena Nieto said in an Aug. 1 radio interview he’ll present
his energy overhaul next week. The bill may include a
constitutional amendment, according to Senator David Penchyna of
the president’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party , who heads the
upper house’s energy committee.  The opposition  National Action Party  sent its own proposal
to congress July 31 that would offer oil exploration and
production concessions for private companies and pave the way
for  Petroleos Mexicanos , the state-owned oil producer known as
Pemex, to sell shares.  ‘Widen Further’  Pena Nieto said in a June 17 interview he’ll send a bill to
congress in September to increase tax revenue. Taxes and
royalties from Petroleos Mexicanos fund about 34 percent of the
 federal budget .  “The Brazil-Mexico CDS spread could widen further,”
 Alberto Ramos , a senior economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said in an e-mailed message. “The different macro stories and
the positive outlook for reforms definitely justify lower CDS
spreads in Mexico.”  Mexico’s economy will grow 2.8 percent in 2013, outpacing
Brazil’s for a third year, according to analyst estimates in
Bloomberg surveys. At 3.5 percent in early July, annual
inflation in Mexico is almost half Brazil’s 6.4 percent rate.
Mexico’s public debt as a percentage of gross domestic product
is 35.4 percent, compared with 54.9 percent for Brazil,
according to an Aug. 1 report by Grupo Financiero BBVA Bancomer
SA.  ‘Political Fights’  Luis Adrian Muniz, deputy director of economic analysis at
Vector Casa de Bolsa, said investors in  Mexico  may be
disappointed as Pena Nieto could water down the bills to ensure
negotiations run smoothly with the opposition Democratic
Revolution Party, which has opposed changing the constitution to
alter energy policies.  “The risk is that they ignore important points in the
reform due to political fights,” Muniz said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “The limit to the economy in Mexico
lies in politics.”  Pena Nieto will need a two-thirds majority in both
congressional houses and the majority of state legislatures in
31 states and the federal district to pass a constitutional
energy bill.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries climbed two basis points
to 200 basis points at 1:20 p.m. in New York, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The peso rose 1.5 percent to 12.6333 per dollar. Yields on
interbank rate futures due in December, known as TIIE, were
unchanged yesterday at 4.34 percent.  ‘Continuous Progress’  Barclays Plc recommends selling Mexico’s default swaps and
buying Brazil’s as the gap between the two is expected to keep
widening, according to Donato Guarino, a fixed-income
strategist.  “We remain cautious with Brazil credit where fiscal
metrics are degenerating, growth outlook remains uninspiring and
policy actions have been questionable,” Guarino said in an e-mailed comment. In contrast, Mexico “is supported by the
continuous progress on reforms that eventually will lead to a
ratings upgrade.”  More than 1 million Brazilian protesters in June demanded
better public services, an end to corruption and a lower cost of
living after prices for everything from housing to flour surged
in the first half of the year.  “Upside could materialize in Mexico” as reforms are
approved, Sergio Luna, the chief economist at Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit, said in a phone interview. “You may see a better
position relative to Brazil’s case due to the atmosphere in the
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  