-- Loan Funds Add Deposits as High Yield Sees Departures, BofA Says
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-08-02T14:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/loan-funds-add-deposits-as-high-yield-sees-departures-bofa-says.html
Investors added $1.5 billion this
week into funds that purchase leveraged loans in the U.S.,
following record inflows last week, according to  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)   The deposits for the funds this year are now at $42
billion, making the debt the fastest growing segment among
various asset classes, according to a report published yesterday
by the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank. U.S. speculative-grade bond funds reported outflows for the first time in five
weeks, losing $582 million, as investors reacted to widening
relative yieds, according to the report.  “We expect demand to remain strong until supply builds up
sufficiently or spreads compress enough to entice issuers to re-price their loans,” Barclays Plc credit strategists led by Bard
Rogoff, wrote in a research note today.  Funds that invest in senior-ranking floating-rate debt
gained 1 percent last month, the most since January, Standard &
Poor’s/LSTA  index  data show. Prices on the largest, first-lien
loans snapped six straight days of declines to increase 0.03
cent to 98.27 cents yesterday, index data show.  Spreads on  junk bonds  climbed to 463 basis points more than
similar maturity government bonds, from 450 basis points on July
23, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Leveraged loans are a form of high-risk debt that carry
ratings of less than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and below
BBB- at S&P. Investors have made deposits into loan mutual funds
every single week over the last year, Bank of America data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  