-- Obama-Fueled Speculation on Fed Pick Political Circus
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-08-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/obama-fueled-speculation-on-fed-pick-political-circus.html
In Iowa while campaigning in 2007,
then-Senator Barack Obama refused to comment when asked about
the  Federal Reserve , citing the institution’s independence.  President Obama may be wishing he’d heeded that advice.  Since the president in an interview with  Charlie Rose  in
June indicated he wouldn’t reappoint Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , intrigue over his successor has grown to a
level where Fed experts and former administration officials are
concerned that the selection process is so political it could
have long-lasting ramifications for the markets, the eventual
nominee’s confirmation hearings and the Fed as an institution.  “What’s really unfortunate is how public and polarized
this debate has gotten,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
biggest mutual fund, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “This has an impact for the market going forward.”  The president and White House officials have spent the past
week trying to defuse an escalating public contest between
 Lawrence Summers , Obama’s former top economic adviser, and  Janet Yellen , the Fed’s current vice chairman.  Confronted by a chorus of concerns about Summers -- and
letters from House and Senate Democrats voicing support for
Yellen -- Obama on Capitol Hill told his party’s lawmakers on
July 31 that he has interviewed “lots” of candidates. He threw
a new name into the mix, former Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn ,
as he and his aides tried to buy some time, saying the choice
was weeks away and not until autumn.  Parlor Game  Instead of leaving it at that, Obama also contributed to
the Summers-versus-Yellen parlor game.  When pressed by a lawmaker to defend Summers, Obama took
the opportunity to praise the former director of his National
Economic Council, who was by his side at the height of the
financial crisis, in front of skeptics.  In a July 24 interview with the  New York Times (NYT) , Obama said
he wants a chairman who understands the Fed’s dual mandate to
promote maximum employment and price stability, which some Fed
watchers interpreted as an endorsement of Summers, according to
one former adviser.  While Washington has come to expect confirmation drama
around Cabinet picks and Supreme Court nominees, the publicity
and vitriol around the Fed choice has surprised current and
former officials.  Rougher Transition  While Bernanke, during the financial crisis, won
confirmation a second time by the narrowest margin ever for a
Fed chairman, the transitions to new chairmen usually have been
smooth, said former Richmond Fed President J. Alfred Broaddus,
citing  Paul Volcker ,  Alan Greenspan  and Bernanke.  “I can’t remember anything like this in terms of
nominations,” said Broaddus, who started working at the Fed in
1970 as an economist. “It’s one of the more politically intense
episodes in my experience at the Fed that I can remember.”  According to former economic officials, the White House
underestimated how closely financial markets -- both domestic
and international -- would be watching a public argument over
this appointment and they’ve been puzzled as to why Obama has
continued to comment.  If the intrigue intensifies, it could hurt both Summers’s
and Yellen’s chances of being nominated by setting up an intense
confirmation fight. The controversy may bolster Republicans’
case for turning Summers’s confirmation hearings into a review
of the president’s economic policies. And, if Summers were
confirmed, it would make it harder for him to immediately have
the status and respect that a chairman deserves, according to a
former Fed official.  Summers Record  Among Democrats, Summers’ support of deregulation during
the Clinton administration is an issue along with remarks he
made while president of Harvard, suggesting women might be
inherently less capable than men in the sciences. That could
broaden into a discussion of gender issues and the insularity of
a male-dominated White House, which have prevented a substantive
discussion about monetary policy.  At the same time,  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  Chairman  Roger Altman , a former U.S. Treasury deputy secretary, said in an
interview on CNBC yesterday that Summers is the most battle-hardened choice to lead the Fed in a challenging era.  Yellen, as president of the San Francisco Fed, was one of
the only members of the Federal Open Market Committee to warn
about the fallout from a collapse in housing. At a 2007 Fed
meeting, she called housing the “600-pound gorilla in the
room.” Yet adversaries say her record suggests the committee
under her guidance wouldn’t be strong enough on containing
inflation.  First Woman  While Yellen would be the first woman to lead the Fed and
has strong backers outside the administration, Summers’s allies
in the West Wing include  Jason Furman , chairman of the Council
of Economic Advisers,  Gene Sperling , director of the National
Economic Council, U.S. Trade Representative Mike Froman and
 Brian Deese , deputy director of the Office of Management and
Budget, according to officials.  Obama is also consulting with his former Treasury
Secretary,  Timothy F. Geithner  on whom to nominate. While
Geithner might have been Obama’s first pick for Fed chairman,
he’s told current and former administration officials that
neither he nor his wife, Carol, will consider returning to
Washington service. Geithner has insisted on serving only as a
counselor for who should get the job, instead of becoming a
candidate for it, according to people familiar with the matter.  Obama and Geithner developed a personal friendship and
close working relationship, forged first during the initial
financial crisis and then as the Obama administration worked to
prevent the collapse of the euro.  Geithner’s History  While Geithner has a long history with Summers, it doesn’t
give his former colleague an edge in the selection process,
according to the people.  Obama told the senators this week that, “when it comes
down to their basic philosophy on the future of the Fed,” the
differences between the candidates were so small “you couldn’t
slide a paper between them,” Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois,
the chamber’s No. 2 Democrat, said after meeting with Obama.  Fed officials are debating whether to start scaling back a
measure used to try to spur the U.S. economy -- the last of
three bond-buying programs aimed at lowering long-term  interest
rates . The nation’s  unemployment rate  of 7.4 percent last month,
while down from a 26-year high of 10 percent reached in October
2009, is still higher than the 6 percent average level of the
past two decades.  Disruptive Debate  The public debate over competing candidates “has detracted
a bit from talking about the things that really matter in a
chairman,” said Broaddus.  El-Erian said the discussion is starting so early that “it
forces people not just to focus on what’s good, but it also
forces people to find differences and that is not a good thing.
What you really want is continuity of  monetary policy  to make
sure that you continue to allow the economy to heal.”  As White House officials have tried to tamp down
speculation, they’ve signaled that Obama won’t be announcing the
decision during his August vacation on Martha’s Vineyard, as he
did with Bernanke’s reappointment in 2009.  Pressure campaigns from Congress or allies of Summers and
Yellen, they’ve said, aren’t useful.  Obama “puts a lot more stock in private advice than public
advice,” senior adviser  Dan Pfeiffer  told reporters July 31 at
a Washington breakfast sponsored by the Christian Science
Monitor. “He’ll weigh all that advice and then he’ll make a
decision who he thinks is the best person for the job.”  For now, some Democrats who have publicly questioned
whether Summers should lead the Fed aren’t escalating efforts.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, wrote the letter
signed by 19 Democratic senators and one independent July 26
praising Yellen and urging the president to nominate her as Fed
chairman. Brown said he doesn’t plan to take it further.  After Obama’s July 31 meeting with Senate Democrats, Durbin
told reporters that he would still have “a number of
questions” if Summers were nominated: “I’m not saying I’ll
vote against him, but I’ll certainly ask a few questions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  