-- Lohan’s Smutty Turn; Teen Drunks; Heroic Tutors: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-08-02T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/lohan-s-smutty-turn-teen-drunks-heroic-tutors-movies.html
“I felt objectified,” whines a well-endowed sociopath, post-orgy, in Paul Schrader’s micro-budget
debacle “ The Canyons .”  This particular American psycho (the latest from writer Bret Easton Ellis) is played by porn actor James Deen, whose working
acquaintance with objectification is one of his two attributes.  With the ever-troubled  Lindsay Lohan  cast as a Hollywood
barnacle clinging to Deen’s wealthy, sadistic producer, “The
Canyons” initially tantalizes with hints of fact-fiction bleed-through.  But any hope of sneaky commentary or ironic appropriation of
porn’s tawdry incompetence disappears long before Deen’s pants.  Made notorious by a remarkably candid piece in The  New York 
Times Magazine last January, “The Canyons” is less entertaining
than the article, a flat, disaffected amorality tale throwing
stones at Hollywood’s artistic bankruptcy.  Devoid of the wit and outsider empathy of Shrader’s sex-creepy “ Auto Focus ,” the Shrader-Ellis collaboration is just
sour and disdainful.  The cuddly, handsome Deen, known for his unlikely niche as
porn’s nice Jewish boy-next-door, plays Christian, a sneering
trust-fund jerk about to produce his first movie, a low-budget
slasher film.  Crowd Sourcing  In the Malibu mansion he shares with his do-nothing
girlfriend Tara (Lohan), Christian organizes Internet hook-ups,
filming other men having sex with the go-along Tara.  She, meanwhile, is having an affair with the hunky young
actor (Nolan Funk) cast in Christian’s horror movie.  What any of these vapid characters sees in the others is a
mystery far greater than who’s going to kill whom. Without its
day-of-the-week subtitles, the film would have no momentum at
all.  Lohan has moments of authenticity -- she plays desperation
well -- while Deen’s battle with ineptitude is as close to
endearing as this strange time-suck gets.  “The Canyons,” from  IFC Films , is playing in New York and is
available on demand through iTunes, XBox and other digital
platforms. Rating: * (Evans)  ‘Spectacular Now’  “I want more than a moment,” Cassidy (Brie Larson) tells her
boyfriend, Sutter (Miles Teller), as she dumps him in “ The
Spectacular Now .” “I want a future. And you can’t do that.”  Sutter is Mr. Fun, a budding alcoholic well-liked by his
fellow high-school seniors, even if they consider him (as the
class achiever tells him, not unkindly, in a moment of honesty)
a joke.  Once he’s unmoored, his gaze happens to land on Aimee
(Shailene Woodley), a sweet, inexperienced girl who helps her
mother on her paper route. Soon she’s sipping eagerly from the
flask he carries.  The blossoming-love emotions this charming film calls up
aren’t all that different from the ones you might encounter in a
Nicholas Sparks movie, yet the intimacy between Sutter and Aimee
feels real.  Neither the humor nor the pain seems forced -- at least not
until the end, when the director, James Ponsoldt, feels called
on to provide a resolution. The only real melodrama in the movie
is the kind the kids supply themselves. At that age you can’t
live without it.  “The Spectacular Now,” from A24, is playing in New York and
 Los Angeles . Rating: ***1/2 (Seligman)  ‘2 Guns’  More is much less in “ 2 Guns ,” the Mark Wahlberg-Denzel  Washington  action comedy that shoots its best shots long before
the halfway mark.  An extended and clever preamble raises our hopes:
Unbeknownst to one another, bank-robbing drug smugglers Bobby
(Washington, nailing it) and Stig (a glib Wahlberg) are
undercover agents: Bobby with the DEA, Stig with Navy
Intelligence.  Too successful for their own good, the bickering duo pulls
off a $43 million heist, and “2 Guns” devolves into an ultra-violent mad, mad, mad world. Everyone’s after the loot, from the
DEA, the Navy and CIA to  Mexico ’s angriest drug kingpin (Edward
James Olmos).  Director Baltasar Kormakur (“ Contraband ”) and screenwriter
Blake Masters (adapting Steven Grant’s graphic novel) lose
control of the convolutions, and cleverness gives way to a
tiresome barrage of generic action-movie mayhem.  “2 Guns,” from  Universal Pictures , is playing across the
U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on books and New York
 Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com  and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 