-- London Luxury-Home Boom Defies Predictions of Stalling
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-08-02T12:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/london-luxury-home-gains-defy-predictions-of-stalling-this-year.html
Central London luxury-home values
will climb 4 percent next year,  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said,
doubling its previous estimate as concerns about new taxes on
wealthy buyers and foreign owners dissipated.  Prices in neighborhoods such as Mayfair, Knightsbridge and
Chelsea will increase 6 percent in 2013, the property broker
said, revising its November forecast of little or no growth.
Buyers weren’t deterred by the prospect of a proposed mansion
tax or new limitations on foreign buyers, Adam Challis, head of
residential research at Jones Lang, said by telephone.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has raised taxes
on luxury-home purchases to narrow Britain’s deficit, increasing
the levy known as stamp duty on homes sold for more than 2
million pounds ($3 million) to 7 percent from 5 percent in 2012.
The opposition Labour Party has proposed an additional tax on
homes worth that much to balance income-tax cuts.  “When the government started to make noises about
seriously targeting high-value properties, demand temporarily
dropped,” Challis said. “The government ended up creating a
fairly pragmatic solution with a number of opt-outs and ring
fences for legitimate investment activity in prime  London .”  Pound’s Weakness  Foreign investors are buying London homes to preserve
wealth as political and economic turmoil menace their home
markets. A weakened pound has also fueled demand, boosting
prices by more than brokers expected.  Luxury-home prices in central London climbed 7 percent in
the 12 months through July and are now almost 60 percent above
their low during the financial crisis in March 2009, Knight
Frank LLP said in a report this week. The average value of this
type of property surpassed 2 million pounds for the first time
in the second quarter as more purchasers competed for a smaller
number of properties on the market, broker Marsh & Parsons Ltd.
said last month.  Knight Frank and  Savills Plc (SVS)  also revised their predictions
to 6 percent growth this year after both estimated that values
would be little changed in 2013. Knight Frank changed its
predictions last month, saying the currency’s weakness “helped
to boost overseas interest and domestic demand has been aided by
London’s economic recovery.”  Mansion Tax  The pound fell about 6.8 percent against the euro in the
first half and lost 8.4 percent against the Chinese  yuan ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. London luxury-home
prices increased by 0.5 percent in July from the previous month,
bringing the gain for the past 12 months to 7 percent, Knight
Frank said.  A mansion tax probably will be introduced following the
2015 general election, but it will be viewed by investors as an
incremental addition to local-government tax, Challis said.  “Price is not the determinant of what you can and can’t
buy in this market because people have more than they need to
make the acquisitions,” he said. “If I’ve got 100 million
pounds in my account and I’m looking at a 4 or 5 million-pound
property and the buyer wants 6, if my wife says I have to buy
that property, I’ll pay what I need to pay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  