-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Gains as U.S. Manufacturing Strengthens
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-08-02T06:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/top-oil-market-news-wti-gains-as-u-s-manufacturing-strengthens.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Crude Gains a Second Day as U.S. Manufacturing Strengthens  West Texas Intermediate crude rose for a second day and is
poised for a weekly advance after manufacturing accelerated last
month in the U.S., signaling increased demand in the world’s
biggest oil consumer.  Crude Premium Rises to 2013 High in Asia on  Iraq : Energy Markets  Traders in Asia are paying the biggest premium for the
earliest deliveries of Middle East crude this year amid
speculation Iraq’s plan to curb exports of its flagship oil
grade will squeeze supplies.  Libya’s Head of Oil Security Resigns, Deputy Minister Says  Colonel Ali Ahrash, the head of security for oil and gas
infrastructure, has resigned, Deputy Oil Minister Omar Shakmak
said today in  Washington .  Ethanol’s Discount to Gasoline Widens on Cheaper Output Costs  Ethanol’s discount to gasoline widened as cheaper corn
reduced production costs.  Crude May Gain on Signs of Accelerating Economy, Survey Shows  West Texas Intermediate crude will probably advance next
week on signs that economic growth will accelerate, bolstering
fuel demand, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Gulf Coast Gasoline Rises to 3-Week High on Galveston Bay Upset  U.S. Gulf Coast gasoline strengthened to the narrowest
discount to futures in three weeks after Marathon Petroleum
Corp. reported a unit upset at its Galveston Bay refinery in
 Texas .  Asia’s Naphtha Crack Set to Widen Most in 11 Weeks: Oil Products  Asia naphtha’s discount to Brent crude is poised to widen
by the most in 11 weeks. Fuel oil’s viscosity spread is set to
increase for second week.  Shell Shuts Sections of Ho-Ho Pipeline to Finish Reversal  Shell said it shut Ho-Ho pipeline from segments for
complete Phase 2 of reversal project, according to a statement
from the co.  Plutonium Purged at the World’s Most Dangerous Workplace: Energy  Before entering the shuttered plutonium finishing plant at
the Hanford site, Jerry Long hangs his identification badge on a
board outside the entrance, so rescue crews can easily figure
out who’s inside, should it come to that.  U.S. Awards $22.5 Million to Groups Developing Algae Biofuels  The U.S. Energy Department awarded about $22.5 million in
grants to companies and researchers seeking to produce fuel from
algae and other types of biomass.  Natural Gas Drops to Five-Month Low as Outlook for Supply Gain  Natural gas futures fell for the third time this week
before government data that may show a larger-than-usual
increase in U.S. stockpiles.  Gasoil Stockpiles Fall in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says  Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage fell in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, according to PJK
International BV.  OPEC  OPEC to Cut Exports by Most in Seven Months, Oil Movements Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will curb
shipments by the most in seven months as refiners begin seasonal
maintenance while summer demand for driving fuel ebbs, tanker-tracker Oil Movements said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  TOP Oil Market: WTI Trades Near 2-Week High as Economy Improves  The following is a selection of the most important news
affecting the oil market.  Los Angeles Diesel Gains to Three-Week High After Supplies Slide  Spot diesel in Los Angeles advanced to the highest level
against futures in more than three weeks after stockpiles of the
fuel tumbled to the lowest level for this time of year since
2006.  Valero Says Vote on Benicia Rail Project May Affect Schedule  Project still “a good, important project, and it’s worth
taking the time to do it well,” Bill Day, Co. spokesman, said
by e-mail today.  Valero Benicia Rail Project Vote Delayed to at Least September  Planning commission for city of Benicia,  California ,
cancels Aug. 8 meeting, according to e- mailed notice from city.  Alaska Oil Production in July Averaged 497,342 Barrels a Day  July crude output in Alaska North Slope was down 239 b/d
from a month earlier, Alaska Department of Revenue website
shows.  Marathon Galveston Bay Refinery Reports No. 1 FCC Ammonia Leak  Refinery reported emissions at No. 1 fluid catalytic
cracker due to loss of ammonia, Co. says in notice to state
regulators.  Magellan Says on Earnings Call It Has No Exposure to 2013 RINs  Magellan purchased 2013 renewable identification numbers
(RINs) in 2012 and early 2013, Co. executives said during
earnings call with investors  Marathon Galveston Bay Refinery Reports FCC Upset  Marathon’s Galveston Bay refinery reported that fluid
catalytic cracker No. 3 experienced a unit upset due to a blower
trip, according to a filing with the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality.  CNPC to Take 30% Interest in Ecuador Refinery, PDVSA Says  Chinese co. to take minority interest in 300,000 barrel/day
refinery and pay at least 30% of total investments, PDVSA
President and Venezuelan Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said late
yday.  CVR ‘Significantly Impacted’ by RFS as Merchant Refiner  Co. expects to spend at least $200 million in 2013 on
Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs, used to meet federal
Renewable Fuel Standard, Jack Lipinski, Co.’s president, CEO,
says in conference call with analysts.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 36.2 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  fell 36.2 percent to 6.69 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Trafigura Buys Forties Crude; BP Bids Azeri at Three-Year High  Trafigura Beheer BV bought North Sea Forties crude at the
highest differential in almost seven months. No bids or offers
were made for Russian Urals. BP Plc sought without success to
buy Azeri Light blend at the biggest premium to Dated Brent in
at least three years.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates 34.07 Points  The cost of delivering Middle East crude to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, declined 0.3 percent to
34.07 Worldscale points, according to the Baltic Exchange in
 London .  Indonesia Raises Minas Crude Price to $104.44 a Barrel for July  Indonesia  raised the official selling price of its Minas
crude for July to $104.44 a barrel, according to a notice from
SKKMigas, the country’s oil and gas regulator, obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crude grades from the Middle East, Asia,
 Africa  and the Americas. Figures are in dollars a barrel, or
premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Stocks Beat Bonds by Most Since January as Crude Oil Climbs (3)  Global stocks rose in July, beating bonds and the dollar by
the most since at least January, while commodities had the best
returns in 11 months as corporate profits topped analysts’
estimates and investors reversed bets on when the Federal
Reserve will reduce stimulus.  Exxon Misses Estimates by Most Since 2002 as Refining Sinks (2)  Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s biggest energy company by
market value, trailed analysts’ profit estimates by the most in
more than a decade as returns from its fuel-making business
plunged.  Europe’s Hot Spell to Persist in August After July Heatwave (2)  Europe is facing warmer-than-usual weather for a second
month after temperatures soared in a July heatwave, boosting
power prices in the region’s biggest market.  TransCanada to Proceed With $12 Billion Pipe to East Coast (3)  TransCanada Corp., the country’s second-biggest pipeline
operator, plans to go ahead with a C$12 billion ($11.6 billion)
pipeline that will ship oil from Western Canada to the East
Coast.  Shell Profit Misses Estimates by Most Since ’08 on Nigeria, U.S.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc missed earnings estimates by the most
since 2008 after oil theft in Nigeria and writedowns in North
America led to a 20 percent slump in results. The shares fell
the most in two years.  Duke Energy Halts Plan for  Florida  Reactors in Settlement (1)  Duke Energy Corp. will halt plans to build a new nuclear
plant in Florida and seek to recover as much as $1.47 billion in
costs associated with a shuttered reactor in the state under a
settlement with regulatory staff.  Conoco Increases Output Forecast as Profit Beats Estimates (3)  ConocoPhillips, the largest independent U.S. oil and
natural gas producer, raised its full- year production forecast
as it reported second-quarter profit that surpassed analysts’
estimates.  Chesapeake Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates on Production (3)  Chesapeake Energy Corp., the U.S. natural gas producer that
hired a new chief executive officer in June, reported quarterly
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as production exceeded
expectations.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Advance With Oil on Global Outlook as Gold Sinks  Asian stocks rose, paring the first weekly loss since June,
and oil climbed to a two-week high on signs of improvement in
the global economy. Malaysia’s ringgit led regional currencies
lower, while gold fell for a sixth day.  Dollar Set for Weekly Gain on Fed Taper Prospects; Aussie Slides  The dollar headed for weekly gains against all its major
peers as improvements in the U.S. economy added to the case for
the Federal Reserve to slow the pace of bond purchases which
tend to debase the currency.  Yuan  Weakness Seen in Shunned All-or-Nothing Notes: Currencies  Investors turning bearish on  China  are fleeing structured
notes tied to the yuan, showing waning confidence that the
world’s second-largest economy will reverse a slowdown anytime
soon.  Asian Stocks Rise on Global Economic Outlook, Stimulus Pledges  Asian stocks rose, paring the regional benchmark index’s
first weekly drop since June, as global manufacturing reports
beat forecasts and central banks vowed to maintain stimulus.  Wall Street Firms Back Removing Exchanges’ Legal Protections (1)  The government should strip U.S. stock exchanges of the
legal status that protects them from most lawsuits, a trade
group for brokers said.  Baguette Hopes Fade for Some French Farmers on Low-Protein Wheat  Sylvain Bardin, steering his red harvester across a ripe
grain field in central  France , says the wheat he’s gathered
won’t make it into baguettes.  Gold Bears Dominant Again as U.S. Growth Quickens: Commodities  Gold traders are bearish for the first time in six weeks as
accelerating U.S. economic growth and weaker sales of physical
bullion curbed demand for the metal.  Snowden’s Asylum in Moscow Puts Obama-Putin Summit in Question  Edward Snowden received a year’s asylum in  Russia  that
ended his 39-day stay in a Moscow airport, prompting U.S.
President  Barack Obama  to weigh cancellation of a planned summit
next month with Russian President Vladimir Putin.  Kerry Sees an End to U.S. Drone Strikes During Visit to Pakistan  Secretary of State John Kerry said in Pakistan that
President Barack Obama intends to put an end soon to drone
strikes aimed at suspected terrorists, a covert program that has
fueled hostility toward the U.S.  SPORTS  Callaway Golf at Bargain Seen Driving Takeover Appeal: Real M&A  Callaway Golf Co. is offering suitors a bargain deal for
the designer of golf clubs that helped Phil Mickelson win this
year’s British Open.  Inbee Park Trails by Three in Women’s British Open Slam Bid (1)  Inbee Park is three shots behind co- leaders Morgan Pressel
of the U.S. and Camilla Lennarth of  Sweden  at the Women’s
British Open, where the South Korean is trying to become the
only golfer to win four major professional championships in the
same calendar year.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch  Contract  ----   ----  ----   ----  --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      108.29  +0.40  +0.4  Nymex     Sept.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    109.88  +0.34  +0.3    Ice September
Gasoil ($/Ton)         934.75  +6.00  +0.6    Ice     Sept.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       302.59  -0.25  -0.1  Nymex     Sept.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.37  -0.02  -0.6  Nymex     Sept.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    109.72  +0.39  +0.4    OTC   21 Days
Heating Oil            310.36  +0.70  +0.2  Nymex     Sept.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.36    --
Gold ($/Oz)          1,311.20  -0.1
MSCI World Index     1,527.60  +0.2  Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  