-- Morgan Stanley Says Liquidity Is Sacrosanct Over Leverage
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-08-02T15:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/morgan-stanley-says-liquidity-is-sacrosanct-over-leverage.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  won’t sacrifice its
$181 billion pool of cash, government debt and other liquid
assets to meet proposed U.S. rules on how much capital it holds
against total assets, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said.  Risk management tied to liquidity is “sacrosanct” and
won’t be compromised to boost the New York-based firm’s holding-company leverage ratio, which at 4.2 percent trails the proposed
5 percent minimum, Porat said today on a conference call with
fixed-income investors. Morgan Stanley has plans to meet the
leverage requirement by 2015, ahead of the proposed deadline of
2018, she said.  Morgan Stanley executives were questioned about balancing
liquidity and leverage after European banks including  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  said this week they will cut their pools of cash and other
highly liquid assets to meet regulatory requirements for
leverage ratios, which measure capital to total assets. Morgan
Stanley’s liquidity coverage ratio was more than 125 percent,
topping the minimum of 100 percent.  “We’re not to going to violate our core liquidity risk-management principles,” Porat, 55, said. “We’re running with a
strong liquidity reserve. We think that’s a prudent thing to
do.”  Porat’s comments echo those of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. CFO
Harvey Schwartz, who told analysts last month that the leverage
ratio wouldn’t change his firm’s thinking on liquidity.  “We’re never going to modulate our liquidity down because
of a given metric that’s in the marketplace, even if an
incentive exists for that,” Schwartz said on a conference call.  Derivative Trades  Morgan Stanley’s leverage ratio was the lowest among the
biggest U.S. banks that disclosed a figure. Treasurer David Russo said today that it can reach the 5 percent minimum by
reducing less-liquid assets in the firm’s fixed-income division,
moving derivative trades into clearinghouses and increasing
capital through earnings.  Russo said both of the firm’s U.S. bank subsidiaries exceed
the 6 percent proposed minimum for deposit-taking units. That
will allow Morgan Stanley to continue to move some derivatives
into bank units to benefit from lower funding costs, Porat said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s liquidity
coverage ratio, scheduled to be phased in starting in two years,
requires banks to hold enough “high-quality liquid assets” --
predominantly cash and government debt -- to survive 30 days of
stress. The Basel group earlier this year expanded the types of
assets that can be counted as liquid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  