-- Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Cooperate With DOJ’s CDS Probe
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-08-03T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/morgan-stanley-citigroup-cooperate-with-doj-s-cds-probe.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
said they’re cooperating with the U.S. Justice Department’s
four-year-old antitrust probe into the credit-default swaps
market.  The two firms were among more than a dozen financial
institutions accused by the European Union last month of
colluding to curb competition in credit derivatives.  “The company and others have also responded to an ongoing
investigation by the antitrust division of the United States
Department of Justice related to the CDS market,” Morgan
Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage, said yesterday
in a quarterly  filing .  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said in a
quarterly  filing  that it had responded to civil investigative
demands from the DOJ’s antitrust division “concerning potential
anticompetitive conduct in the CDS industry” in July 2009 and
in September 2011. Spokesmen for both New York-based companies
declined to comment.  The Justice Department sent civil investigative notices in
July 2009 to banks that own London-based Markit Group Ltd., a
provider of data on derivatives and bonds, to find out if they
had unfair access to price information, three people familiar
with the matter said at the time. Bloomberg LP, the owner of
Bloomberg News, competes with Markit in selling information to
the financial-services industry.  Markit’s shareholders included JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank
of America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., according to filings with the U.K.’s Companies
House at the time.  The investigation widened last year to include other
companies in the credit-default swap market, people familiar
with the matter said in May 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  