-- Morgan Stanley Traders Lost Money on 12 Days in Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-08-03T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/morgan-stanley-traders-lost-money-on-12-days-in-quarter.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , whose traders posted
the biggest second-quarter revenue jump among U.S. banks,
disclosed that it lost money in that business on 12 days in the
period, down from 15 a year earlier.  Traders generated more than $100 million on four days, up
from three in the second quarter of 2012, the New York-based
company said yesterday in a regulatory filing. None of the daily
losses exceeded the bank’s so-called value-at-risk, an estimate
of potential trading losses.  Morgan Stanley posted the highest equity trading revenue
among Wall Street banks for the first time in at least two
years. It also posted a 50 percent jump in fixed-income and
commodities trading, excluding accounting charges tied to the
firm’s own debt.  The performance reflected a rebound from the year-earlier
quarter, when the firm posted its lowest fixed-income revenue in
more than two years. The company has said the underperformance
was caused in part by clients halting some trading amid a
Moody’s Investors Service review of its credit rating that
quarter, which resulted in a downgrade.  In January, Chief Executive Officer James Gorman, 54,
announced plans to reduce the amount of capital used by the
fixed-income trading business as he seeks to double  return on
equity  even without any improvement in markets. Last month, the
firm said its risk-weighted assets in that unit were $239
billion, below the $255 billion it had previously sought to
reach by the end of this year.  Unrealized Losses  Rising interest  rates  led to $342 million of unrealized
losses on investments in the company’s available-for-sale
portfolio in the second quarter. While the losses don’t appear
in the firm’s income statement, accounting rules require them to
be included in accumulated other comprehensive income, or AOCI.
Swings in AOCI affect shareholder equity.  Morgan Stanley set aside $199 million for litigation
expenses in the second quarter, up from $4 million in the prior-year period. The firm didn’t give a reason for the increase. The
bank also had $32 million in severance costs in the quarter,
more than double the $15 million a year earlier.  The company disclosed a “reasonably possible” loss
related to a lawsuit from Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. over
mortgage-backed securities. The company said it could face a
loss of the difference between the fair value of the assets and
the $369 million in unpaid balances plus the $28.3 million of
incurred losses.  Physical Commodities  Morgan Stanley also said its holdings of physical
commodities fell to $4.93 billion, the lowest level in more than
three years. The bank has cut jobs and shut businesses including
agricultural products after commodities trading posted a return
on equity of less than 5 percent in 2012, the lowest among the
company’s fixed-income trading units.  U.S. lawmakers have questioned whether banks should be
allowed to own physical commodities businesses.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  said last week that it is considering exiting the business
of owning and trading physical commodities ranging from metals
to oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  