-- Emerging Stocks Rise on U.S. Jobs Data While Real Surges
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-08-02T21:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/most-emerging-stocks-rise-as-exporters-gain-thai-equities-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, trimming
the first weekly drop in about a month, after a worse-than-estimated U.S. jobs report damped speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will slow the pace of bond purchases at the world’s
largest economy.  Brazil ’s real rebounded from a four-year low.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.1 percent to
955.35, after falling as much as 0.3 percent earlier. The
measure pared its weekly decline to 0.6 percent. Benchmark
indexes in  Poland , the  Czech Republic  and  Turkey  rallied, while
Brazil’s Ibovespa dropped for the fourth time this week as OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA tumbled. Philippine stocks
retreated to a three-week low, led by  SM Investments Corp. (SM) 
Seventeen out of the 24 developing-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg rose as the real climbed 0.7 percent.  Stocks  erased losses  as data showed that U.S. employers
added fewer workers than anticipated in July and the U.S.
jobless rate dropped to 7.4 percent, bolstering speculation the
Federal Reserve will keep its economic stimulus pace. The
benchmark measure for  emerging markets  has slumped 8.9 percent
since May 22, when the Fed signaled its asset-buying program
could be cut if the economy showed sustained improvement.  “It was a significant miss,” said Bruce McCain, who helps
oversee more than $20 billion as chief investment strategist at
the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland . “To those who
have been banking on additional Fed money to justify their
investments, it will be an encouragement.”  Biggest Gains  Commodity and financial shares led gains among the 10
 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The broad gauge has
dropped 9.5 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent
increase in the MSCI World Index.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund was little changed at $39.71. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slumped 5.4 percent to 20.84.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  erased gains as oil producer OGX slumped
12 percent, the biggest drop on the emerging markets gauge.
The  real pared this week’s loss after the central bank
intervened to support the currency.  Mexico’s IPC index  rose, led by Industrias Penoles SAB,
while Desarrolladora Homex SAB tumbled after surging 63 percent
over the previous two days.  Russian stocks capped a second consecutive weekly loss as
oil, the nation’s chief export, slid. United Co. Rusal, the
world’s biggest aluminum company, dropped 3.4 percent.
Fertilizer company OAO Acron slipped 1.1 percent.  Poland, Turkey  Poland’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  jumped 2.2 percent, for the biggest
gain among emerging-market gauges. PKO Bank Polski SA, Poland’s
biggest lender, surged to a two-year high. Benchmark measures in
the Czech Republic and Turkey added at least 0.8 percent.  Most  Chinese stocks  advanced as property companies rose
amid growing speculation that the government may relax curbs on
the industry as economic growth slows. Xinhu Zhongbao Co.
rallied as it resumed trading for the first time in a month
after the company’s board said it plans to seek regulatory
approval for a private share placement.  India ’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  extended this week’s drop to 3
percent, the most since five days ended March 24.  Jindal Steel &
Power Ltd. (JSP)  plunged 7.6 percent, leading a gauge of 10 metal
companies to its lowest close in more than four years. ICICI
Bank Ltd. fell to an 11-month low, pacing losses among its
peers. The rupee slid 1.1 percent, capping its biggest weekly
drop in almost two years.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index declined 1.9 percent,
the lowest since July 11. SM Investments, the country’s biggest
company by market value, sank 8.6 percent after selling shares
at a discount, the sharpest loss since October 2008.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.09 percentage point to 327 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  