-- Tourre Liable, BofA, SIFMA on SROs, Citigroup: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/tourre-liable-bofa-sifma-on-sros-citigroup-compliance.html
Fabrice Tourre, the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  vice president on trial for his role in a
failed $1 billion investment, was found liable on six of seven
claims by a jury in Manhattan.  The verdict is a victory for the government in one of the
most high-profile trials to come out of the financial crisis of
2007-2008. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accused
Tourre, 34, of intentionally misleading participants in a 2007
deal known as Abacus about the role played by Paulson & Co., the
hedge fund of billionaire  John Paulson .  The jury’s finding of wrongdoing may help Goldman Sachs
customers in lawsuits against the bank over losses tied to the
transaction. Tourre faces unspecified money penalties and a
possible ban from the securities industry.  The SEC claimed Tourre hid the fact that Paulson helped
choose the portfolio of subprime mortgage-backed securities
underlying Abacus, then made a billion-dollar bet it would fail.  At trial, the SEC presented testimony from 11 witnesses
over two weeks. Tourre didn’t call any witnesses, relying
instead on his lawyers’ questioning of the witnesses called by
the SEC, including Tourre himself.  “We are obviously gratified by the jury’s verdict and
appreciate their hard work,” Matthew Martens, the lead SEC
lawyer, said.  “As a firm, we remain focused on being more transparent,
more accountable, and more responsive to the needs of our
clients,”  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, said in a
statement.  “We’re declining comment as the case is still ongoing,”
Chris Kittredge, a spokesman for Tourre at Sard Verbinnen & Co.
in New York, said in a statement.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  BofA Says DOJ, SEC May Seek Sanctions Over Jumbo-Loan Securities  Bank of America Corp . said the Department of Justice and
Securities and Exchange Commission have warned that they may
bring civil claims over the lender’s handling of securitizations
backed by jumbo mortgages.  SEC investigators also have said they are considering
recommending the agency file a complaint over Merrill Lynch’s
involvement in collateralized debt obligations, the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based lender said yesterday in a regulatory
filing. The New York Attorney General’s Office may bring claims
against Merrill Lynch over residential mortgage-backed
instruments, the firm said.  The bank “has been in active discussions with senior staff
of each government entity in connection with the respective
investigations and to explain why the threatened civil charges
are not appropriate,” Bank of America said.  The firm said it also expects a $1.1 billion charge to
income tax expense in the third quarter after changes in the
U.K. corporate income tax rate.  New York Resort Owners Charged With $96 Million Ponzi Fraud  A  money manager  and a real estate developer already facing
a regulator’s fraud lawsuit were charged with running a $96
million Ponzi scheme and diverting the proceeds to their New
York beachfront resort.  Brian R. Callahan, 43, and his brother-in-law Adam J.
Manson, 41, were charged in a 24-count indictment unsealed
yesterday in federal court in Central Islip, New York. They
pleaded not guilty and were released on bond.  The men are accused of telling investors that their money
was going into  hedge funds  and other investment vehicles while
actually much of it was going to the unprofitable 117-unit
Panoramic View Resort & Residences in Montauk.  “The defendants used one of Long Island’s landmarks, the
Panoramic View Resort, to perpetrate a wide-ranging fraud,”
U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said yesterday in a statement about
the scheme, which purportedly took place from 2006 to 2012 and
involved more than 40 investors. “To conceal their status as
business failures, the defendants employed all the tricks in the
typical con man’s bag.”  Callahan, of Old Westbury, and Manson, of New York, were
partners in Distinctive Ventures, a real estate investment firm
that purchased the resort in January 2007 for about $38 million,
according to the indictment. Callahan, a former securities
broker who was sanctioned by regulators in 2009, was also
managing a group of offshore investment funds, for which he was
soliciting money from investors, the U.S. said.  “It’s unfortunate that the government decided to escalate
it,” Robert Anello, a lawyer for Manson, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  A lawyer for Callahan, Robert Knuts, didn’t immediately
respond to a call and e-mails seeking comment on the charges.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Callahan; the civil case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Callahan, 12-cv-01065,
both in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Central Islip).  For more, click here.  Liechtenstein Bank to Pay $23.8 Million in U.S. Tax Deal  Liechtensteinische Landesbank AG (LLB) , the oldest bank in the
Alpine principality, won’t be prosecuted by the U.S. government
after agreeing to pay $23.8 million and admitting it helped
American clients evade taxes.  The bank, based in Vaduz, admitted using secret accounts
from 2001 to 2011 to help clients hide as much as $341 million
from the Internal Revenue Service. It gave the U.S.  Justice
Department  files on more than 200 secret accounts after
Liechtenstein amended its law last year to allow such transfers.  “LLB-Vaduz knew that certain U.S. taxpayers were
maintaining undeclared accounts at LLB-Vaduz in order to evade
their U.S. tax obligations,” the bank said in a non-prosecution
agreement released July 30 by the Justice Department. “LLB-Vaduz knew of the high probability that other U.S. taxpayers who
held undeclared accounts” did so “for the same unlawful
purpose.”  The U.S. chose not to prosecute, citing the bank’s
“extraordinary” cooperation. The admissions and handover of
account data make LLB-Vaduz the third bank, after Switzerland’s
UBS AG and Wegelin & Co., to acknowledge wrongdoing in a five-year U.S. crackdown on offshore tax evasion.  UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million in 2009, admitting it aided U.S. tax evasion
and handing over data on 4,500 accounts. Last year, the U.S.
indicted Wegelin, the oldest Swiss private bank. Wegelin pleaded
guilty in January, handing over $74 million.  “The bank is very pleased that the inquiry concerning LLB-Vaduz has now been resolved under the terms negotiated,” said
 Benjamin Brafman , a lawyer in New York who represents LLB-Vaduz.  The case is U.S. v. $15.9 Million in U.S. Currency, 13-CV-5296, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Wall Street Firms Back Removing Legal Protections for Exchanges  The government should strip U.S. stock exchanges of the
legal status that protects them from most lawsuits, a trade
group for brokers said.  In a  letter  to the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association said the
self-regulatory model of organizations such as the  New York
Stock Exchange (NYX)  and Nasdaq Stock Market is outdated. Though the
SEC fined Nasdaq for mishandling Facebook Inc.’s initial public
offering last year, the legal protections shielded the market
operator from liabilities.  The letter is the latest salvo in the fight between brokers
and exchanges, who in recent years have become competitors for
stock transaction volume. The proliferation of trading venues
such as dark pools at broker-dealers and the decline of the
public exchanges’ market share has created tensions on  Wall
Street .  Self-regulatory status for exchanges means that “one group
of businesses is empowered to oversee and regulate the business
and activities of its competitors,” Theodore R. Lazo, associate
general counsel at Sifma, wrote in the letter to the SEC.
“Conflicts of interest in this model abound and only worsen as
they are left unresolved.”  For more, click here.  In the Courts  Tenet, Health Management Accused of Paying Clinic Kickbacks  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the third-biggest publicly traded
U.S. hospital chain, and  Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA)  were
accused in a lawsuit of paying kickbacks to a Georgia clinic in
exchange for referrals.  The hospital chains were sued under the Federal False
Claims Act in a whistle-blower case brought by Ralph Williams, a
former chief financial officer of Health Management Associates,
on behalf of the U.S. and Georgia. The lawsuit, filed in federal
court in Athens, Georgia, was ordered unsealed July 31.  The clinic recruited pregnant, undocumented Hispanic women
who would be eligible for Medicaid benefits when they gave birth
and referred them to Health Management and Tenet hospitals in
exchange for kickbacks, according to the complaint.  The Tenet hospitals said in an e-mailed statement that the
agreements were appropriate and provided substantial benefit to
women in underserved Hispanic communities.  “The services provided under these agreements included
translation, determination of Medicaid eligibility, and other
services designed to improve the delivery of obstetric care and
increase the likelihood of a safe birth and a healthy baby,”
according to the statement.  “The company denies the allegations contained in the
complaint, which the federal government declined to intervene
in, and intends to vigorously defend itself,” Naples, Florida-based Health Management said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is U.S. v. Health Management Associates Inc.,
09-00130, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Georgia
(Athens.)  Citigroup Judge Approves $590 Million Settlement Over CDOs  Citigroup Inc. (C)  won court approval to pay $590 million to
resolve a lawsuit by shareholders alleging the third-largest
 U.S. bank  hid risks tied to toxic assets.  U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  in Manhattan yesterday
also awarded the plaintiffs’ lead lawyers fees of $70.8 million,
or 12 percent of the fund, as well as $2.8 million in expenses.  “This is a sizable award that rewards counsel for years of
excellent work,” Stein said in his ruling.  Stein last August gave preliminary approval to the
settlement of a 2007 suit filed by investors in collateralized
debt obligations, which are pools of assets such as mortgage
bonds packaged into new securities. The investors accused New
York-based Citigroup of repackaging unmarketable financial
instruments and selling them to itself to hide its exposure to
the securities.  The judge said that the bank’s public statements “painted
a misleading portrait of Citigroup as relatively safe from the
market’s concerns about potential losses resulting from falling
CDO values.”  The class-action, or group, suit was brought on behalf of
investors who bought Citigroup  common stock  from Feb. 26, 2007,
through April 18, 2008. The shares fell more than 50 percent in
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are pleased to put this matter behind us,”  Shannon
Bell , a Citigroup spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Ira Press, a lawyer for Kirby McInerney LLP, the firm
serving as lead counsel for the plaintiffs, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on Stein’s ruling.  The case is In re Citigroup Inc. Securities Litigation, 07-cv-9901, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Porsche Wins Ruling in Bid to Torpedo Pendragon U.K. Suit  Porsche SE won a ruling in its bid to block a U.K. court
from hearing a $195 million suit filed over the 2008 use of
options in the failed bid to take over  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   The Stuttgart Regional Court said it can continue to hear a
case Porsche filed against Cayman Islands investment fund
Pendragon (Master) Fund Ltd. because the suit was filed 10 days
before the fund filed its own action in London. The ruling can
be appealed, Bernhard Schabel, a spokesman for the tribunal,
said by telephone yesterday.  The decision is a win in Porsche’s battle against lawsuits
that are seeking more than 5.4 billion euros ($7.1 billion)
combined. A London court in March stayed Pendragon’s U.K.
action, saying it will wait until the German courts have
determined which case was filed first. A suit in the U.K. would
allow plaintiffs to ask for more disclosure than in Germany. The
information could subsequently be used against Porsche in the
German courts.  By filing a so-called torpedo suit in Stuttgart, Porsche,
the holding company that sold the Porsche car brand to VW last
year, invoked European Union rules saying the venue where a
party files an action first prevails, and bars another country’s
court from assuming jurisdiction over the same issue.  Lara Melrose, a lawyer representing Pendragon in the U.K.,
declined to immediately comment on yesterday’s ruling.  Porsche welcomes the ruling and believes the claims are
unfounded,  Albrecht Bamler , a spokesman for the company, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The case is LG Stuttgart, 18 O 220/12.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 