-- Pena Nieto Bill Opts for Mexico Oil Sharing Pacts, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-08-02T14:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/pena-nieto-opts-for-mexico-oil-sharing-pacts-lawmaker-says-1-.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
will probably seek to amend key articles of the constitution to
break the nation’s state monopoly on oil exploration and
production, ruling party lawmaker Javier Trevino said.  Trevino, a secretary on the lower house’s energy committee,
said in an interview the bill will likely change articles 27 and
28 of the charter to allow either production or profit sharing
contracts between private companies and  Mexico ’s state-owned oil
interest. The proposal probably won’t offer concessions to
companies, said Trevino, who has knowledge of the government’s
bill scheduled to be presented next week.  Pena Nieto is pledging to open the  energy industry  to
private investment to double growth that’s fallen behind the
regional average over the past decade. The government’s bill
will likely require oil sharing contracts be managed by
regulators and the government, instead of by the state-owned oil
company  Petroleos Mexicanos , Trevino said.  “We expect a reform to strengthen and transform Pemex,”
Trevino said. The bill will also likely “strengthen the role of
the regulatory body.”  The bill by Pena Nieto and his  Institutional Revolutionary
Party  will be presented next week and first be debated by the
Senate. The government’s proposal will follow a bill presented
July 31 by the opposition  National Action Party  that seeks
concessions for private companies to explore and produce oil.  Under a typical concession regime “hydrocarbons
underground will belong to the State, but when it reaches the
wellhead it automatically passes to” the international  oil
company , Michael Bunter said in his book “The Promotion and
Licensing Of Petroleum Prospective Acreage.” In profit sharing
accords, crude is the property of the state until the country
sells the petroleum, he said.  The Energy Ministry’s press office didn’t immediately
respond to phone calls and an e-mail requesting comment before
business hours in Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  