-- Philippine Peso Slides This Week on Fed Outlook; Bonds Advance
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-08-02T05:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/philippine-peso-slides-this-week-on-fed-outlook-bonds-advance.html
The Philippine peso headed for its
biggest weekly decline in more than a month as an improving U.S.
economy bolstered the case for a reduction in Federal Reserve
stimulus. Five-year bond yields fell to a two-month low.  The currency dropped 0.7 percent this week to 43.60 per
dollar as of the noon trading break in  Manila , according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. It declined as much as 0.4 percent today to
43.720, the weakest level since July 8. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, rose eight basis points to 6.09 percent.  The peso at 42 to 44 per dollar is a “good range,” Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said in a July 29
interview. The currency’s weakness has a minimal impact on
inflation, which the central bank expects to be within target
this year and next, giving Tetangco scope to hold  interest rates 
through 2014. U.S. Treasury yields climbed this week ahead of
jobless data later today, after claims for  unemployment benefits 
dropped to a five-year low.  “The possibility of U.S. tapering and rising U.S. yields
spurred a dollar rally,” said Alan Cayetano, head of foreign-currency trading at Manila-based Bank of the Philippine Islands,
the nation’s largest lender by market capital. “Tetangco’s
comments affirmed what the market already gauges from BSP action
showing where their comfort level is.”  Rating Review  The yield on the Philippines 2.125 percent notes due May
2018 fell 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, to 2.63
percent this week, the lowest level since June 7, according to
midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp. The
rate dropped 12 basis points today.  Ten-year U.S.  yields  advanced 15 basis points during the
five days to 2.71 percent, approaching a 23-month high of 2.75
percent reached on July 8. The Labor Department may report today
that employers created 185,000 jobs last month after boosting
positions by 195,000 in June, according the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will trim the central bank’s
monthly purchases of Treasury and mortgage debt to $65 billion
in September, from the current pace of $85 billion, according to
half of 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg from July 18-22.  Moody’s Investors Service placed the Philippines credit
rating on review for a possible upgrade to investment status on
July 25. Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said July 30 that such a move
from the rating company is imminent.  The Philippines long-term foreign and local-currency
denominated debt are rated Ba1 by Moody’s, the highest junk
rating. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings raised the Asian
nation to investment grade in the first half.  ‘Natural Tendency’  Philippine  government securities  handed investors a 3.2
percent return in July, after a record 7.3 percent loss in the
second quarter. They’ve delivered 9.2 percent so far in 2013 and
are the best performers for the year among 10 local-currency
bond markets in  Asia  tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc.  “The Philippines economic performance has exceeded
Moody’s expectations, supporting the view that the economy will
grow significantly faster than similarly rated peers over at
least the next two to three years,” Moody’s analysts Christian
de Guzman and Bart Oosterveld said in a statement last week.  The peso may climb to 37 per dollar in 2015, when
Philippine economic growth will probably surpass 8 percent,
 Marios Maratheftis , Standard Chartered Bank’s head of research,
said at a briefing in Manila yesterday.  “The peso has a natural tendency to appreciate on factors
including a possible rating upgrade from Moody’s,” Cayetano at
Bank of the Philippine Islands said. He expects the peso to end
the year at 42.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  