-- Pittsburgh Shows Detroit Can Benefit From Education: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-08-02T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/pittsburgh-shows-detroit-can-benefit-from-education-muni-credit.html
Pittsburgh, the former steel-industry
capital that was close to insolvency a decade ago, is thriving
again even as  Detroit , largely abandoned by carmakers, becomes
the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  As  steel mills  shut, the city at the confluence of the
Ohio, Allegheny and Monongahela rivers focused on universities
and hospitals to build its economy. Pittsburgh has also
benefited from a natural-gas boom as drillers tap the Marcellus
Shale formation in surrounding counties. About 1.2 million
people work in the municipality, more than “when steel was at
its ultimate peak,” Mayor Luke Ravenstahl, 33, said in a July
24 Bloomberg Television interview.  With Pittsburgh running a balanced budget for an eighth
straight year, Ravenstahl wants to exit Pennsylvania’s Act 47
program for distressed municipalities, which it entered in 2003.
 Standard & Poor’s  raised the city to A in June, its best grade
yet from the company. The extra interest rate buyers demand on
some debt has shrunk 17 percent since March.  “They’re really taking actions to address their long-term
liabilities that we’d like to see more municipalities doing,”
said Dennis Derby, a portfolio manager at Wells Capital
Management in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin . The company oversees
$34 billion of local debt, including Pittsburgh.  State Role  Pennsylvania is among 19 states with programs that
intervene in local finances, mostly in reaction to crises rather
than trying to prevent them, according to the Pew Charitable
Trusts, a research and public-policy group with offices in
Philadelphia and  Washington .  State overseers sometimes struggle to correct years of
mismanagement outside of  bankruptcy court . In Detroit, the
state-appointed emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, filed for
bankruptcy July 18.  Central Falls ,  Rhode Island , exited court
protection last year, after its receiver filed in 2011.  Pittsburgh’s coordinators under Act 47, Eckert Seamans
Cherin & Mellott LLC and Public Financial Management,
recommended that it leave the program while remaining under the
oversight of a separate entity, the Intergovernmental
Cooperation Authority.  In a sign of its diversifying economy, Pittsburgh’s biggest
employer is the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, with 14
percent of the workforce as of 2012, according to a city filing.  Exodus Halted  U.S. Steel Corp. (X) , which occupies the city’s tallest
building and has been based in Pittsburgh since 1937, no longer
ranks among the top 10 employers. It was 10th-biggest in 2000.
H.J. Heinz Co. and PNC Financial Services Group also have
headquarters in the city.  Unlike Detroit, the city is reversing an exodus of
residents. Pittsburgh’s population is 306,211, up 0.2 percent
from 2010, Census data show. That’s still down from 604,332 in
1960.  Detroit’s population shrank 1.7 percent from 2010 to 2012,
to about 700,000. In 1950, 1.85 million people lived in Detroit.
Manufacturing jobs in the city fell to fewer than 27,000 in
2011, from about 296,000 in 1950 as auto plants left.  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , based in neighboring Dearborn, hasn’t built cars in the
city in more than a century.  Safeguard Confidence  For investors, Pittsburgh’s fiscal gains help make the
decision on whether to graduate from Act 47 moot, Derby said.  “Even if they do exit Act 47, they still stay under a
degree of state oversight,” he said. “There’s plenty of
safeguards there.”  Pittsburgh bonds maturing in September 2026 and callable in
2022 traded last week at an average yield of 3.73 percent.
That’s about 1.02 percentage point more than benchmark bonds,
down from a gap of about 1.24 percentage points in March, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  In 2003, Pittsburgh cut about 13 percent of its workforce,
mostly in one month with the firings of 446 employees, including
almost 100 police officers. It was placed in Act 47 in December
2003. A few months later, the state legislature created the
Intergovernmental Cooperation Authority to ensure the city would
follow recommendations from consultants appointed under the
program.  Failure’s Cusp  Pittsburgh “was on the brink of bankruptcy,” Dana Yealy,
chairman of the authority, said in an interview.  The three-step increase from S&P matched the city’s score
from  Fitch Ratings . Moody’s Investors Service puts Pittsburgh at
A1, one step higher.  Act 47 is a “good thing” for bond-holders, said  Paul Brennan , a senior portfolio manager at Chicago-based Nuveen
Asset Management, which oversees about $90 billion in munis
including Pittsburgh securities. “You tend to see more
difficult decisions that are being made because they’re not
being made by elected officials.”  Pennsylvania hasn’t decided whether to release Pittsburgh,
said Steven Kratz, a spokesman for the department of community
and economic development, which administers the Act 47 program.
Since 1987, only six communities have left it and 21  remain , 14
of which have been in for at least a decade. Pittsburgh would be
the most-populous municipality to exit.  Peduto’s Plea  Bill Peduto, a councilman running to succeed Ravenstahl as
mayor next year, says the city still needs the oversight. He
said he’s lobbied Republican Governor Tom Corbett and his staff
to keep the city in the program.  “If we go back to the same habits that caused us to nearly
go into bankruptcy, then we’re not only going to fail but we’re
going to be back in the same situation in six or seven years,”
Peduto said by telephone. He is the Democratic nominee for the
November election in a city where 72 percent of registered
voters are Democrats.  Ravenstahl said in a statement that he is “hopeful that
Pittsburgh will be one of the few cities that has ever emerged
from the program. We have brought financial stability back to
city government.”  The Democrat, who took office in 2006, ended a re-election
campaign in March and said he would leave by year-end, citing
job pressures and a federal review that led to the indictment of
the police chief.  The investigation and the leadership change are just two of
the challenges facing Pittsburgh, Yealy said.  Pension Challenge  The cost of the city pension system, which has 62 cents in
assets for every dollar of liabilities, is “too high,” as is
debt service, Yealy said. The city directs 19 percent of its
budget toward bond payments. Andrew Teras, an analyst at S&P,
said 15 percent of general funds going toward debt service is
considered “elevated.”  Staying in Act 47 will help control spending because it
mandates that labor contracts must reflect the city’s means to
fund them, Peduto said. Police and fire agreements expire in
2015, he said.  “Our present ability of being in the black could turn to
the red if just two contracts, the police and fire, exceed the
city’s ability to pay,” he said.  In trading in the $3.7 trillion municipal market, benchmark
10-year yields are set to exceed  interest rates  on like-maturity
Treasuries for a fourth straight week.  At 2.89 percent, the muni yield compares with about 2.7
percent on federal debt. The ratio of the interest rates, at 107
percent, compares with an  average  of 93 percent since 2001. The
higher it is, the cheaper munis are relative to federal debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  