-- Rand Slumps to Three-Week Low as Yields Rise on U.S. Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-08-02T08:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/rand-slumps-to-three-week-low-as-yields-rise-on-u-s-growth.html
South Africa’s rand slumped to a
three-week low against the dollar and bond yields rose to the
highest in more than a month as signs of improvement in the U.S.
economy increased prospects of a reduction in monetary stimulus.  The dollar rebounded from the lowest in six weeks versus
the euro before the Labor Department releases employment data
for July, following U.S. reports showing claims for jobless
benefits fell to a five-year low and manufacturing expanded
faster than analysts estimated. The Federal Reserve has said it
may cut asset purchases if economic growth meets its targets.  “The past few trading days have shown the extent to which
strong U.S. economic releases and higher Treasury yields quickly
translate into weaker emerging-market currencies, the rand in
particular,” Societe Generale SA strategists led by  Benoit Anne , the London-based head of emerging-market strategy, said in
a note. “The rand is, after all, one of the very few emerging-market currencies where central bank officials have not
expressed unhappiness over the recent trajectory.”  South Africa’s currency depreciated as much as 0.4 percent
to 10.0160 per dollar, the weakest level on a closing basis
since July 9. It has retreated 2.5 percent in the last five
days, snapping three weeks of gains. Yields on benchmark 10.5
percent bonds due December 2026 climbed seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 8.25 percent, the highest on a closing
basis since June 24. The yield is up eight basis points this
week.  Jobless Rate  The rand’s decline is a risk to inflation, Reserve Bank
Governor Gill Marcus said when she left the central bank’s
benchmark repurchase rate at 5 percent on July 18. The bank
doesn’t target a level for the currency.  The U.S. jobless rate probably declined in July to match an
April reading that was the lowest since 2008, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Factory output from the U.S. to  China  and
Europe expanded in July, reports yesterday showed as European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi said interest rates will
remain low for an extended period.  Foreign investors bought a net 1.07 billion rand ($107
million) of South African  bonds  and 95 million rand of  equities 
yesterday, according to the JSE Ltd., which runs the nation’s
bond and stock exchanges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  