-- Transportation Bill’s Demise Points to 2014 Funding Woes
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-08-02T12:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/transportation-bill-s-demise-points-to-2014-funding-woes.html
The collapse of U.S. transportation
funding bills in both houses of Congress points to a broader
stalemate over fiscal 2014 spending and threatens to extend
across-the-board budget cuts into next year.  Senate Republicans yesterday blocked a $54 billion measure
funding highways, aviation, passenger rail and other
transportation projects because it exceeded spending limits
earlier agreed to by both parties. House Republican leaders
called off this week’s vote on a more-austere $44 billion
measure amid signs it lacked enough support to pass.  “This is the political equivalent of taking your ball and
going home,” Stan Collender, a former congressional budget aide
who is now managing partner of Qorvis Communications LLC, said
as lawmakers prepared to leave  Washington  today for a five-week
recess.  House Speaker John Boehner said yesterday that Congress
will need to extend current federal funding a “short period of
time” when the next fiscal year begins Oct. 1 because
appropriations bills won’t be finished by then.  “The prospects for passing this bill in September are
bleak at best, given the vote count on passage that was apparent
this afternoon,” House Appropriation Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, said in a statement.  Little progress has been made in the appropriations process
this year. Of the 12 annual spending bills that fund the
government, not one has passed.  Consensus Lacking  Analysts said the lack of funding consensus means that
agencies may be forced to continue operating under the forced
spending cuts that began in March. The cuts, known as
sequestration, were a default method of curbing federal spending
after talks for a bipartisan debt-reduction plan failed in 2011.
The cuts in fiscal 2014 reach $109 billion.  Transportation programs have been at the center of the
biggest fights so far over the across-the-board cuts. President
 Barack Obama ’s administration last spring began furloughing air-traffic controllers -- a move it said was one of the few ways
the Federal Aviation Administration could comply with the 2013
cuts.  Lawmakers in both parties fought the decision and pushed
through a measure giving the FAA temporary authority to shift
money within its budget to eliminate the furloughs.  Nothing in current law prevents the administration from
reimposing furloughs after September or again seeking to shut
some control towers at small and midsized airports, another move
it proposed earlier this year, said James Burnley, who was
secretary of transportation under President Ronald Reagan.  Support Wanes  The demise of the spending bills in both chambers this week
came at the hands of Republicans.  House leaders pulled the bill funding transportation,
community development grants and housing came amid signs support
was falling within the Republican ranks.  Party leaders risked losing votes of some members who
wanted more funds for the community project grants, and also
from those representing Northeast states where  Amtrak  -- the
taxpayer-supported national passenger railroad -- carries most
of its traffic and wants to increase train speeds.  The House measure would have reduced Amtrak funding to $950
million, $468 million less than was signed into law for this
year.  “For most of the Northeast, that was an issue,”
Pennsylvania Republican Charlie Dent said in an interview.  Breaking Limits  The Senate’s bill was blocked when it fell six votes short
of the 60 needed to end opponents’ delaying tactics. Republicans
said they opposed the measure because it breaks with budget
limits that Congress approved in legislation that raised the
federal debt limit in 2011.  “I’d remind my colleagues on the other side that we’ve got
a $16 trillion debt; that we’re spending hundreds of billions of
dollars a year we don’t have,” Minority Leader Mitch McConnell,
a Kentucky Republican, said on the Senate floor. “This is how
you get  Greece . This is how you get  Detroit . So we can’t do
this.”  Continuing sequestration will force cuts to all government
programs, including transportation.  FAA Administrator Michael Huerta testified to Congress this
month that sequestration is delaying work on its plan to switch
to satellite-based air-traffic control systems, a project known
as NextGen.  Amtrak Funds  Amtrak can keep running under the status quo while being
constrained in spending on maintenance, capital investment and
equipment, Burnley said. The railroad isn’t commenting on the
appropriations talks breakdown, Steve Kulm, a spokesman, said.  The Senate bill would have provided Amtrak $1.45 billion, a
$37 million increase from the amount enacted for fiscal 2013,
not counting $118 million to repair damage from last year’s
 Hurricane Sandy . Amtrak had asked for about $2.7 billion -- $2.1
billion of it for capital needs including new locomotives and
railcars.  While highway programs are generally exempt from
sequestration, there will be growing pressure on lawmakers to
change that, Burnley said.  A Congressional Budget Office official  testified  July 23
that the Highway Trust Fund, which pays for road and transit
projects, will go bankrupt in fiscal 2015 unless Congress deeply
cuts spending or raises the federal gasoline tax by 10 cents a
gallon.  ‘Free Pass?’  “People might say, ‘Why should they get a free pass?’”
Burnley said. Companies and state governments benefiting from
highway and transit funding “may have a debate on their
hands.”  Any effort to dislodge the debate on the transportation and
other appropriations bills later this year is complicated by the
2014 midterm elections, said Scott Lilly, a former Democratic
staff director of the House Appropriations Committee.  House Republican leaders may not want to keep advancing
austere spending bills that expose some in their rank-and-file
to casting votes that could be used against them, he said,
especially if the Senate won’t accept them.  Complicating matters, it won’t be easy for both parties to
agree in September to a stop gap measure to keep the government
operating under current policies, because they are so far apart
on how much to spend, he said.  “This has been the train wreck that they’ve been headed
toward for a long time,” Lilly said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  