-- RBA’s Tanna Says Aussie’s Drop to Boost Commodity Export Returns
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-08-02T00:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/rba-s-tanna-says-aussie-s-drop-to-boost-commodity-export-returns.html
A slump in the Australian dollar,
which is trading near a three-year low, will help the nation’s
economy by boosting commodity export revenue,  Reserve Bank  of
Australia board member Catherine Tanna said.  “It’s positive for Australia because commodities are
typically sold in U.S. dollars, and government receipts will
rise with a falling dollar,” Tanna, also chairman of  BG Group
Plc (BG/) ’s local unit, QGC Pty, said in a phone interview. The
company is building a $20.4 billion liquefied natural gas
project in Queensland, one of seven going ahead in Australia.  The Aussie is the worst performer among a group of 10
currencies in the past six months, falling 14 percent versus the
greenback. The declines offset a drop in the nation’s terms of
trade amid  China ’s weakening demand for commodities, which may
curb Australian economic growth and the government’s revenue.  “The extent to which it’s beneficial is going to depend on
the duration of the fall,” Tanna said yesterday. “LNG will be
 Australia ’s main source of export growth in the medium term.”  Barclays Plc sees the Australian currency dropping to 86
cents by the middle of next year amid a weaker outlook for
Australia and improving growth prospects for the U.S. That’s
more bearish than the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists for the currency to slide to 88 cents. It traded at
89.43 cents at 9:34 a.m. Sydney time.  The currency held above $1 from mid-June last year to May 9,
the longest stretch above parity with the  U.S. dollar  since it
was freely floated in 1983. The declines in the currency will
bolster manufacturing and improve export returns as global
prices for commodities such as  iron ore  and coal slump,
Treasurer  Chris Bowen  said last month.  Budget Surplus  The government in December abandoned a pledge to return the
budget to surplus last financial year and in May projected a
deficit of A$18 billion ($16 billion) in the 12 months ending
June 30, 2014. Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  will increase taxes on
tobacco to raise an extra A$5.3 billion as he seeks to offset
the revenue shortfall and boost the government’s economic
credibility before elections.  BG, the U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas producer, said
last year that the cost of its Australian LNG project jumped 36
percent, partly because of gains in the Aussie and rising labor
expenses.  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and a venture between  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and
 Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  are also building LNG plants in Queensland
state.  Australia’s LNG export earnings are forecast to surge
fivefold to A$61 billion by 2018 from A$12 billion last year,
the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said in a  March
report . That’s expected to make LNG the second-highest export
earner, behind iron ore, the bureau said.  LNG Sales  Australia’s LNG developments typically have 20-year
contracts to sell the commodity in U.S. dollars to Asian
customers at oil-linked prices, Tanna said.  “So this underpins a long revenue stream for federal and
state budgets,” she said.  The Aussie dropped as low as 89.08 cents yesterday, its
weakest since September 2010. The currency fell as bets the RBA
will cut  interest rates  next week outweighed better-than-expected manufacturing data out of China.  Should the Aussie depreciate from an average $1.03 in
fiscal 2013 to 94 cents in fiscal 2014, that would increase the
value of iron ore exports by about A$6 billion, according to a
June report from the government resources bureau. Further falls
“would be additional support for the value in Australian
dollars of export commodities denominated in U.S. dollars,” the
bureau said.  BG plans to boost exploration spending in Australia by as
much as 40 percent to about $350 million next year from $250
million this year, “which is a significant percentage of BG
Group’s global exploration budget,” Tanna said. BG expects
exploration spending globally to rise to $1.8 billion a year in
the next three years from $1.6 billion this year, it said in May.  “We are very committed to exploring for more hydrocarbons
here in Australia,” Tanna said. “This is exploration that will
underpin future supplies domestically and potentially for
expansion” of the LNG project in Australia, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  