-- Treasury Yield at Highest Against G-7 in 3 Years Before Payrolls
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-08-02T10:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/treasury-yield-at-highest-versus-g-7-in-three-years-before-jobs.html
Treasuries fell, pushing yields to
the highest level in three years relative to those of Group-of-Seven nations, before a government report that economists said
will show the jobless rate declined in July.  U.S. 10-year securities yielded 37 basis points more than
bonds in an index of their G-7 peers, the biggest difference
since May 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Treasury yields jumped yesterday on speculation the  U.S. economy 
is growing fast enough for the  Federal Reserve  to begin trimming
its bond purchases, known as quantitative easing, as soon as its
next meeting in September.  “Economic data out of the U.S. so far in the third quarter
has been on a firm footing,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “If
the jobs data today surprises on the upside, we are likely to
see a new high on 10-year yields for this year.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  climbed three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.73 percent at 6:43 a.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75
percent note maturing in May 2023 fell 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000
face amount, to 91 5/8.  The yield, which jumped 13 basis points yesterday, rose to
2.75 percent on July 8, the highest level since August 2011.  Treasuries lost 3.1 percent this year through yesterday,
while German bonds dropped 1.3 percent, based on the Bloomberg
World Bond Indexes. Stocks in the MSCI All-Country World Index
returned 13 percent, including reinvested dividends.  Yield Forecasts  U.S. 10-year yields will be at 2.64 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial firms with the most
recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of bonds each month to put
downward pressure on  interest rates , and policy makers are
discussing whether the economy has improved enough for them to
start reducing the purchases.  U.S. employers hired 185,000 workers last month, after
adding 195,000 in June, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
92 economists before the Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington . The jobless rate fell to 7.5 percent from 7.6
percent, matching the lowest since 2008, another survey showed.  Private employment, which excludes government agencies,
climbed 195,000 after a 202,000 increase in June, economists
predicted.  Separate figures today will show gains in incomes, spending
and factory orders, according to the surveys.  Reductions in the Fed’s debt-buying program won’t
automatically send yields higher, based on what happened in the
first two rounds of quantitative easing, according to Akira Takei, head of the international fixed-income department at
Mizuho Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo .  ‘Excess Liquidity’  Ten-year yields declined 1.26 percentage points between the
end of the first phase of Fed purchases in March 2010 and the
beginning of the second round in November of that year.  Yields slid 1.3 percentage points between the end of the
second buying program in June 2011 and the beginning of the
Fed’s so-called Operation Twist plan in September the same year.  “The Fed will taper QE not because the economy is booming
but because the program has been creating excess liquidity,
boosting risk assets too much,” said Takei, who helps oversee
the equivalent of $37 billion and whose company’s U.S. affiliate
is one of 21 primary dealers that underwrite the  U.S. debt .
“Ending QE is likely to trigger a correction in risk assets,
driving bond yields down.”  Data released since last week on new home sales, durable
goods orders, gross domestic product, jobless claims and
manufacturing have all pointed to improvement in the economy.  “There is slow and gradual healing in the U.S. economy,”
said  Tony Crescenzi , a strategist and portfolio manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund and is based in  Newport Beach ,  California . A
jobs gain of 175,000 or more “would make it highly probable
that a tapering decision would be announced in September,” he
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  