-- Treasuries Rally as Jobs Report Cools Fed Tapering Speculation
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-02T21:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/treasuries-erase-loss-as-jobs-below-forecasts-stall-taper-view.html
Treasuries gained, pushing 10-year
note yields down the most since May 2012, after employment
growth in July trailed forecasts, damping speculation the
Federal Reserve will slow the pace of bond purchases next month.  U.S. debt  erased losses  as the jobs report suggested the
economic recovery isn’t resilient enough to reduce stimulus,
according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian. Benchmark yields have retreated after almost matching the
two-year high reached a month ago, when the June employment
report showed stronger-than-forecast gains. Fed policy makers
reiterated in a statement this week that they could moderate the
$85 billion in purchases each month if growth meets forecasts.  “The Fed would like to reduce the pace of stimulus, but
they need an economic reason to do so,” said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “They could
make a move in September, but it could be smaller than initially
thought.”  The benchmark U.S. 10-year  yield  fell 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 2.60 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
Bloomberg Bond Trader data showed. The price of the 1.75 percent
note due in May 2023 gained 29/32, or $9.06 per $1,000 face
amount, to 92 23/32. The yield rose as much as four basis points
earlier, touching the highest level since July 8.  The 11 basis point drop in 10-year yields was the biggest
on a closing basis since May 30, 2012 as credit conditions in
Europe worsened, fueling demand for safe assets.  Thirty-year bond yields dropped seven basis points to 3.68
percent, after touching 3.78 percent, the highest since August
2011.  Market Reset  “We are reversing the increase in yields we had over the
last couple of days on an optimistic assessment of where the
labor market was likely to go,” said Christopher Sullivan, who
oversees $2.1 billion as chief investment officer at United
Nations Federal Credit Union in New York. “We remain in the
most recent range -- between 2.50 and 2.75 percent -- for the
foreseeable future until the trend in the economic data suggests
otherwise.”  The Fed’s purchases are intended to put downward pressure
on interest rates, and policy makers are discussing whether the
economy has improved enough for them to start reducing the
purchases.  “Economic activity expanded at a modest pace during the
first half of the year,” the Fed said following a two-day
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee July 31. “The
Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2
percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, but
it anticipates that inflation will move back toward its
objective over the medium term.”  Jobs Data  U.S. debt erased losses after the Labor Department reported
162,000 added jobs in July, compared with the median forecast of
185,000 in a Bloomberg News survey, while the unemployment rate
fell to 7.4 percent. Treasuries rallied after the Fed’s July 31
statement.  The economy has added an average of 192,000 jobs this year
through July, the fastest pace since 2005 when it created
207,000 positions per month, Labor Department data show. Average
hourly earnings declined by 0.1 percent in July after a 0.4
percent gain in June, which was the highest since November. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.2 percent
gain.  “If they’re going to taper, they have to taper not just
because the economy is improving, but because they’re worried
about the collateral damage,” Pimco’s El Erian, chief executive
and co-chief investment officer at the world’s biggest manager
of bond mutual funds, said on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with  Betty Liu .  Futures Data  Fed funds futures show a 43.7 percent probability that the
central bank will raise borrowing costs in January 2015 for the
first time after the 2008 financial crisis, down from 49.8
percent yesterday.  The personal consumption expenditure deflator, the Fed’s
preferred gauge of inflation, rose to 1.3 percent in June from a
year earlier, rising from a 1 percent rise in May and a 0.7
percent increase in April that was the smallest since 2009, the
Commerce Department reported today in  Washington .  The PCE deflator rose 0.4 percent on a monthly basis, the
most since February. The measure had declined in March and
April, the first consecutive decrease since 2008.  “As long as the inflation numbers do turn up that does
give the Fed the bandwidth to exit QE,” said Gemma Wright-Casparius, who manages the $32.1 billion Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities Fund at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based
Vanguard Group Inc.  The government will sell $72 billion of notes and bonds
next week, raising $2.4 billion of new cash as investors will
redeem $69.6 billion of securities maturing on Aug. 15.  Note Sale  The Treasury Department said July 31 it plans to sell the
first floating-rate notes in January and expects to gradually
decrease coupon-auction sizes during the coming quarter as the
nation’s fiscal health improves.  A measure of demand at the U.S. Treasury Department’s debt
auctions has fallen this year to the lowest level since 2009 as
a drop in bond prices generates the biggest losses on government
securities in four years.  Investors bid $2.91 for each $1 of the $1.257 billion of
notes and bonds sold by the Treasury this year, compared with a
record high $3.15 of bids last year. It’s the first decline in
demand at the auctions since 2008, when the U.S. government
increased note and bond offerings 59 percent to $922 billion as
the recession and the financial crisis deepened.  Ten-year notes yielded 37 basis points more than bonds in
an index of their G-7 peers yesterday, the biggest difference
since May 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. government securities fell for a third month in July,
declining 3.5 percent since April based on the  Bloomberg U.S.
Treasury Bond Index. (BUSY)  Investment-grade company debt declined 4.1
percent over the past three months even after gaining in July,
the  Bloomberg USD Corporate Bond Index (BUSC)  shows.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed to
a net-long position from a net-short position in 10-year note
futures in the week ending July 30, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data. Speculative long positions, or
bets prices will rise, outnumbered short positions by 11,903
contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Last week, traders
were net-short 32,312 contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  