-- Bulger Not Testifying Leaves Families With FBI Questions
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-08-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/reputed-crime-boss-bulger-won-t-testify-in-his-trial.html
Reputed crime boss James “Whitey” Bulger declined to testify at his  Boston  murder trial, depriving
some victims’ family members of the details they sought about
FBI corruption that let crimes go unprosecuted for decades.  The 83-year-old former fugitive, accused of killing 19
people while running a criminal gang in South Boston from the
1970s to the early 1990s, told U.S. District Judge Denise Casper
in Boston yesterday that he wouldn’t take the stand in his
defense because the trial hadn’t been fair.  Bulger should have used the opportunity to give his version
of the events and describe “all the lies and deceit of the
FBI,” said Tom Donahue, whose father, Michael Donahue, was a
bystander allegedly killed by Bulger during a 1981 mob hit.  “Boston’s notorious gangster is going to go down in
history as the biggest rat coward to ever walk the streets” of
the city, Donahue said outside the courthouse yesterday. “He
didn’t have an enough brass or heart to give his side of the
story.”  Bulger’s lawyer, J.W. Carney, said at the start of the
trial that his client would testify, raising hopes that he would
shed new light on an embarrassing period for the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation , which named Bulger as a longtime informant who
corrupted three of its agents and brought shame on the agency.  At the hearing, Bulger said his decision to not take the
stand was made “involuntarily” because he’d been “choked off
from having an opportunity to give an adequate defense.”  “As far as I’m concerned I didn’t get a fair trial and
this is a sham,” Bulger said. “Do what you want with me.”  Bulger has always denied he was a “rat.” Closing
arguments in the trial, which began almost two months ago, are
scheduled for Aug. 5.  ‘Coward’  During the hearing, Donahue’s mother, Patricia, yelled,
“You’re a coward,” at Bulger while he spoke about the trial
not being fair. Outside court, she told reporters she expected
Bulger’s testimony to reveal “all the government corruption.”  Jurors have heard from prosecution witnesses including John
Martorano, a gunman who admitted killing 20 people, sometimes on
Bulger’s orders. Bulger also exchanged profanities in court with
Kevin Weeks, a former ally who testified against him. Stephen
Flemmi, another ex-friend, testified that Bulger conspired with
him to have people killed if they discovered too much about
their illegal activities or got in the way.  Defense Harmed  Bulger told Casper his defense was harmed by her May 2
ruling barring him from telling the jury about an alleged
immunity deal he struck with former federal prosecutor Jeremiah
O’Sullivan, who investigated organized crime during Bulger’s
reign and died in 2009 at the age of 66.  Bulger said he agreed to protect O’Sullivan’s life in
exchange for the legal protection, and O’Sullivan dropped Bulger
from a 1978 probe into horse-race fixing. The U.S. said in court
filings that Bulger’s immunity deal is a fantasy, and that no
official can confer what amounts to “a license to kill.”  Massachusetts  prosecutors said yesterday that a witness who
had been scheduled to testify in Bulger’s trial was murdered
with poison slipped into an iced coffee from McDonald’s. Stephen Rakes’s body was found July 17 in a wooded area in Lincoln,
Massachusetts, a day after he was seen at Bulger’s trial about
20 minutes away in Boston.  William Camuti, 69, was arrested yesterday in Boston and
charged with attempted murder, misleading police and unlawful
disposition of human remains, Middlesex District Attorney Marian
Ryan said in a statement.  Rakes and Camuti, who were business associates and had
known each other for “many years,” met at a McDonald’s on July
16 to discuss a business deal, Ryan said. Camuti, who probably
owed money to Rakes, put potassium cyanide in Rakes’s coffee,
drove him around the area for several hours and then dumped his
body, according to the statement. The killing was unrelated to
Bulger’s trial, Ryan said.  California Capture  Bulger was captured in  Santa Monica ,  California , in 2011
after 16 years on the run. Before that, he worked as both the
head of a criminal organization and an informant for the FBI,
prosecutors said.  Families of victims have accused federal agents of
wrongfully protecting Bulger from local and state authorities
for years, letting him kill and steal in exchange for
information about a bigger FBI target that he was associated
with, the Patriarca Family organized crime group.  The relationship came to an end when Bulger vanished in
1994, tipped off about impending charges. The warning came from
his longtime FBI handler, Special Agent John Connolly, who’s now
serving 50 years in prison for crimes linked to Bulger,
including murder.  Speculation that Bulger would take the stand increased on
Aug. 1 when defense lawyers submitted 20 family photos of Bulger
as exhibits. The images, taken over several decades, included
photos of Bulger posing with his girlfriend’s poodles, holding a
parrot and cradling a baby goat.  The case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston  at 
 jlawrence62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  