-- Ringgit in Biggest Weekly Loss Since June as Fitch Cuts Outlook
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-08-02T02:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/ringgit-in-biggest-weekly-loss-since-june-as-fitch-cuts-outlook.html
The ringgit headed for its biggest
weekly loss in more than a month after  Fitch Ratings  lowered
Malaysia’s credit outlook to negative, adding to concerns global
funds will accelerate asset sales.  Fitch cited rising debt levels for the move and said the
nation’s public finances are its “key rating weakness,”
helping spur a 1.2 percent plunge in the benchmark  share  index
this week, the worst performance since March. Overseas investors
cut holdings of Malaysia’s fixed-income securities by 5 percent
to $66 billion in June, central bank figures show, on prospects
the  Federal Reserve  will pare monetary stimulus.  “The ringgit’s drop this week was accelerated by the Fitch
downgrade,” said Hamish Pepper, a currency strategist at
Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “People are pricing in a tapering
from the Fed. The reason the ringgit will be most vulnerable is
the possibility of further outflows from the  bond market .”  The ringgit declined 1.4 percent this week to 3.2535 per
dollar as of 10:13 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , the biggest drop since
the period ended June 21, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It fell 0.3 percent today and earlier reached a
three-year low of 3.2566.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 19 basis points,
or 0.19 percentage point, to 8.98 percent today and was 129
basis points higher than a week ago.  Export Slump  A report from the statistics department on Aug. 5 may show
Malaysia’s  exports  contracted 7.3 percent in June from a year
earlier, a fifth straight monthly decline, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The current
account, the broadest measure of trade, slipped 62 percent in
the first quarter to 8.7 billion ringgit ($2.7 billion).  Malaysia will announce steps in its October budget to
tackle risks to the fiscal position outlined by Fitch, Prime
Minister Najib Razak said yesterday, without elaborating.  Government bonds  retreated this week. The yield on the 3.48
percent notes due March 2023 climbed 23 basis points to 4.11
percent, the biggest increase since the five days ended May 31,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The dollar’s 14-day relative-strength index against the
ringgit climbed past 70 in the past three days, a level that
signals a reversal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 