-- Rio 2016 Olympic Games Will Tap $700 Million Contingency Fund
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-08-02T22:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/rio-2016-olympic-games-will-tap-700-million-contingency-fund.html
Organizers of the 2016  Olympic Games 
in Rio de Janeiro may need to tap a $700 million contingency
budget from  Brazil ’s government to cover a shortfall, a senior
official said today.  Leo Gryner, chief operating officer at the local organizing
committee, said a deterioration in Brazil’s economy will make it
difficult to pay for the games through private funding alone.
Officials are revising the organizing budget, which is likely to
be higher than the $2.8 billion they said the games required
when they won hosting rights in 2009.  “Right now as our budget stands we need this $700
million,” Gryner told reporters after a news conference to mark
the three-year countdown to the event, which begins Aug. 5,
2016. “We are doing our best not to use it. The variable is the
revenue. It depends on the economic situation, the
environment.”  Rio 2016  officials had said in the past they hoped to meet
hosting requirements without needing government resources.  Gryner’s comments come two months after protestors took to
the streets in Brazil’s biggest demonstrations in two decades to
complain about corruption, poor services and public spending on
sporting events. The country has pledged to spend about $15
billion on projects linked to next year’s soccer  World Cup  and a
further $11.6 billion in public and private spending has been
forecast for the Olympics.  Rio 2016 had planned to make up its budget for the 2 1/2-week event through sponsorships, ticket sales, merchandising and
a $1.1 billion grant from the  International Olympic Committee .  Two Sponsors  It surpassed the 1 billion real ($438 million) mark in 2011
with two sponsors: Bradesco and  America Movil (AMXL) , Rodrigo Frazao,
the group’s sponsorship sales director said last month.
Sponsorship sales since then have slowed down, along with the
country’s economy.  First-quarter growth slipped to 1.9 percent compared with
7.5 percent in 2010, when Bradesco signed on.  “You always have to look to the economic scenario,”
Gryner said. “You see our inflation was a little higher than
planned, the growth of the Brazil GDP was less than expected
before. How this will impact on our revenue we can’t tell right
now.”  Gryner said he plans to speak with government officials to
discuss ways of working together.  “What we are trying to achieve here with the government is
some exchange in services,” Gryner said, explaining that his
team may ask the government to purchase goods like beds for the
estimated 10,000 athletes who will take part in the games.  “They could lend to us, and use for army and social
projects later,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  