-- Ronaldo May Return to Manchester United: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-08-02T10:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/ronaldo-may-return-to-manchester-united-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Ronaldo Return?  Cristiano Ronaldo  may return to  Manchester United , which is
negotiating with Real Madrid to buy the forward,  the Daily Star
said.   Real may be willing to sell the player for 80 million
pounds ($121 million) should it be able to sign Tottenham’s
 Gareth Bale , the newspaper said. Ronaldo has expressed an
interest in returning to England, and hasn’t signed an extension
to his contract, which expires in two years, the Star said.  105 Million Pounds?  Real Madrid has agreed to buy Tottenham Hotspur player
Gareth Bale for a world-record 105 million pounds in an
agreement that will involve other players, the  Daily Mirror 
said.  Both clubs have yet to reach agreement over which players
will move from Real to London.  Real has turned down Tottenham’s request for Spain Under-21
striker Alvaro Morata, while the London club earlier rejected
Fabio Coentrao.  Rooney to Stay?  Wayne Rooney  wants to let Manchester United fans decide
whether his future lies at Old Trafford or elsewhere, the  Daily
Mail  reported.  Chelsea and Arsenal are both interested in signing the
England player, but have been dismissed by United.  Rooney, who isn’t interested in moving abroad, wants to
gauge public reaction in the first two games of the season next
week before making his mind up, the paper said.  West Ham Target  West Ham wants to sign Werder Bremen striker Marko
Arnautovic, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The 6-foot-3 Austrian, 24, has the ability to play on
either wing or as a central striker.  Although Werder has already received interest from Spain,
Arnautovic prefers a move to England.  Wenger Confidence  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said his club will be
stronger this season even if Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez 
doesn’t join the London side, the  Sun  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  