-- Ruble Weakens Against Basket for Second Week as Yields Increase
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-08-02T11:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/ruble-weakens-against-basket-for-second-week-as-yields-increase.html
The ruble declined, extending a
second weekly retreat, and Russian bonds fell as speculation
grew an improving U.S. economy will prompt the  Federal Reserve 
to cut stimulus that’s fueled flows to  emerging markets .  The ruble depreciated 0.1 percent to 37.8885 against the
dollar-euro basket by 2:30 p.m. in Moscow, bringing the weekly
drop to 0.6 percent. The Russian currency weakened for an eighth
day against the greenback.  The U.S. jobless rate probably declined last month,
economists said before a Labor Department report today. Data
yesterday showed American jobless claims fell to a five-year low
and manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in two years.
 India ’s rupee and the South African rand have led declines among
22 of 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg over
the past five days.  “It’s a stronger dollar rather than a weaker ruble,”
Vladimir Miklashevsky, a trading desk analyst from Danske Bank
S/A in Helsinki, said by e-mail. There’s been “a flow of
positive news from the States,” he said.  The yield on benchmark OFZ bonds due February 2027
increased eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.87
percent.  Jobs Report  U.S. Labor Department releases employment data for July at
4:30 p.m. Moscow time today. U.S. employers added 185,000 jobs
in July, following a 195,000 gain in June, according to the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
the Labor Department’s figures today.  The ruble depreciated 0.2 percent against the euro to
43.7395, taking the weekly decline to 0.4 percent. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the euro region is past
the worst of its longest recession and reiterated that  interest
rates  will stay low for the foreseeable future.  “The euro is also rising on the back of yesterday’s Draghi
comments,” Miklashevsky added.  The Russian central bank, which reports  foreign-exchange
interventions  with a lag, spent the equivalent of 8.12 billion
rubles ($245 million) in foreign currency on July 31 buying
rubles, compared with about $200 million daily since July 8.  Bank Rossii sells $200 million a day as long as the
 exchange rate  is within the range of 36.85-37.85 ruble per
basket and may increase the volume of daily interventions to
$300 million to $400 million, Alexander Kudrin, head of fixed-income research at Sberbank CIB, said in an e-mailed note.  Targeted Selling  According to the central bank data, about three fourths of
daily intervention volumes are targeted selling, and the rest is
the so-called non-target interventions, conducted in order to
smooth out excessive ruble volatility. As soon as the volume of
non-targeted interventions reaches $450 million, the central
bank moves the currency corridor by 5 kopeks. In July, it moved
it three times to current 31.85-38.85, according to a statement
on the Bank Rossii website.  In light of large dividend payments in August, partially
converted into foreign currency in order to be transferred to
overseas holders of depositary receipts, “demand for forex will
persist,” according to Sberbank’s Kudrin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  