-- Trucking Industry Loses Challenge to U.S. Drive-Time Rule
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-08-02T20:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/trucking-industry-loses-challenge-to-u-s-drive-time-rule.html
U.S. Transportation Department
regulations meant to ensure truck drivers get more rest were
mostly upheld by a federal appeals court, a defeat for companies
that said the rules would add cost without improving highway
safety.  A three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals in  Washington 
today  rejected  most arguments made by the American Trucking
Associations Inc. as “highly technical points best left to the
agency.” The court, giving one win to the industry, vacated a
30-minute rest requirement for short-haul truck drivers.  The ruling caps 14 years of wrangling among the trucking
industry, safety advocates and regulators over drive-time
restrictions that led to two previous challenges before the
appellate court. The court also ruled against groups including
 Public Citizen  and the Truck Safety Coalition that said the
rules didn’t go far enough.  “With one small exception, our decision today brings an
end to much of the permanent warfare,” U.S. Circuit Judge
 Janice Rogers Brown  said in the decision.  Longer rest breaks and the need to redesign routes may
reduce productivity by 3 percent, translating into $18 billion
in additional costs to the trucking industry annually, according
to freight data and forecasting firm FTR Associates.  Regulators said they weighed industry costs against
billions of dollars in health-care savings and reduced accidents
in a profession that has more on-the-job deaths than any other
in the U.S.  ‘Unlimited Deference’  The average life expectancy of a truck driver is 61, or 16
years less than the U.S. average, according to Centers for
Disease Control data. Trucking is the eighth-most dangerous job
in terms of deaths per worker, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  The final rule, which took effect July 1, maintained an 11-hour limit on truckers’ driving day from previous rules, while
altering a 34-hour rest period each week so drivers would be
required to be off two consecutive nights.  The Arlington, Virginia-based American Trucking
Associations is disappointed in the court’s “unlimited
deference” to the administration’s analysis in supporting the
regulation, Dave Osiecki, the group’s senior vice president of
policy and regulatory affairs, said in a statement.  Language the court used to highlight the shortcomings of
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s deliberations
should serve as a warning on issuing “similarly unsubstantiated
rulemakings in the future,” Osiecki said.  “One thing this rulemaking makes clear is that fatigue is
a small problem when viewed through a crash causation lens,”
Osiecki said.  14 Years  The court’s decision will allow the industry to improve
safety by reducing driver fatigue, a leading factor in truck
crashes, said Duane DeBruyne, a FMCSA spokesman, in a statement.  “The ruling recognizes the sensible, data-driven approach
that was taken,” DeBruyne said. It “also provides added
certainty for all affected, moving forward.”  Analysts expect trucking companies will lose 3 percent to 6
percent of their productivity, said  Lee Klaskow , analyst with
Bloomberg Industries. Bigger companies with more technology and
financial strength will adapt better, including  Swift
Transportation Co. (SWFT) ,  Knight Transportation Inc. (KNX) ,  Heartland
Express Inc. (HTLD)  and  Werner Enterprises Inc. (WERN) , Klaskow said.  “Now all the players know the rules and will adjust their
networks, equipment and drivers accordingly,” Klaskow said.  Driver Fatigue  The trucking industry has been fighting the Transportation
Department on the issue since Congress first mandated the
regulation in 1999.  A 2003 rule allowing longer driving shifts was successfully
challenged by consumer groups, which persuaded the court to send
it back to the FMCSA, the regulator for trucking and bus
companies, for reworking. A 2005 rule was also challenged in
court and sent back.  The agency began another rulemaking in 2008, only to hold
back and negotiate with safety groups when they threatened
litigation. That led to three years of deliberation before the
latest regulation was published in December 2011.  The Transportation Department estimated the regulation
would cost the industry about $470 million a year with net
benefits of around $630 million through fewer crashes, healthier
drivers and fewer highway fatalities.  The trucking industry has said costs will be much higher as
companies have to redesign their networks and drivers are forced
onto the road during urban rush hours. Companies also say
they’ll being forced to hire more drivers when there’s already a
shortage of qualified candidates.  ‘Rolling Sweatshops’  Truck-related fatalities rose 2 percent to 3,757 in 2011
and injuries increased 10 percent to 88,000, according to data
compiled by the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration .
Those levels were below the annual average 4,296 deaths and
74,800 injuries over the decade ended in 2011.  Fatigue was a factor in about 13 percent of serious crashes
involving large trucks, according to a July 2007 study by NHTSA
and FMCSA. The trucking trade group said the figure is more like
2 percent.  Safety groups also had sued over the final rule, saying the
regulator should have limited driving shifts to 10 hours. They
said drivers use loopholes in the rules to regularly work more
than 70 hours in a seven-day work week.  Retaining the longer work shifts will make the American
public less safe, said  Henry Jasny , vice president and general
counsel of Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety. The FMCSA has
put profits of the trucking industry ahead of the public’s
safety, Jasny said.  “Upholding this rule will continue to make our trucks
rolling sweatshops,” said  Joan Claybrook , chairman of the board
of Citizens for Reliable and Safe Highways. “Truck drivers will
continue to be pushed beyond their limits and will imperil not
just their own lives but the safety of all of us sharing the
roads.”  The case is American Trucking Associations Inc. v. FMCSA,
12-01092,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  