-- Rupee Leads Weekly Decline in Asian Currencies Amid Fed Concern
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-02T09:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/rupee-leads-weekly-decline-in-asian-currencies-amid-fed-concern.html
India ’s rupee led the worst weekly
loss for Asian currencies in more than a month as improving U.S.
data added to speculation the Federal Reserve will pare monetary
stimulus that’s fueled demand for emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.6
percent to 115.32 as of 5:37 p.m. in Singapore, the biggest
five-day decline since June 21. The rupee weakened 3.1 percent
to 60.9575 per dollar,  Malaysia ’s ringgit slid 1.5 percent to
3.2578 and South Korea’s won dropped 1.1 percent to 1,123.79.  Most currencies across Asia weakened ahead of a U.S. Labor
Department report today that may show companies hired 185,000
workers in June, compared with 2012’s average of 183,000. The
Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index rallied this week as data showed a
pickup in manufacturing and growth, while claims for jobless
benefit dropped to a five-year low. The Fed said July 31 it
would maintain its $85 billion a month debt-buying program.  “Investors are paying more attention to the U.S. economic
data than the Fed’s words,” said D.J. Park, a fixed-income
analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in  Seoul . “Because the data has
been better than expected, the tapering concerns are back.”  Indian Dilemma  The rupee halted a three-week advance after the Reserve
Bank of India held its  benchmark interest rate  at 7.25 percent
on July 30, and said measures to shore up the rupee by creating
a cash squeeze will be reversed once the exchange rate
stabilizes.  Earlier in July, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao boosted two
interest rates, curbed funding support for banks and raised
lenders’ daily reserve requirements to buoy the rupee, which
touched a record low of 61.2125 on July 8.  “The RBI statement suggested a policy dilemma,” said
 Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in Singapore.
“They are constrained because of low growth. They would rather
ease policy but needed to tighten liquidity because of the weak
rupee. That undermined a bit of confidence in the currency.”  The ringgit dropped to a three-year low of 3.2590 per
dollar today after Fitch Ratings cut the nation’s credit outlook
on July 30 to negative, adding to concerns global funds will
accelerate asset sales.  Outlook Downgrade  Fitch cited rising debt levels for the move and said the
nation’s public finances are its “key rating weakness,”
spurring a 1.4 percent drop in the benchmark stock index this
week, the worst performance since March. Overseas investors cut
holdings of Malaysia’s fixed-income securities by 5 percent to
$66 billion in June, central bank figures show, on prospects the
Fed will pare stimulus.  “The ringgit’s drop this week was accelerated by the Fitch
downgrade,” said Hamish Pepper, a currency strategist at
Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “People are pricing in a tapering
from the Fed. The reason the ringgit will be most vulnerable is
the possibility of further outflows from the bond market.”  The won fell for a fourth day, the longest losing streak
since March. South Korea’s growth momentum is “weak,” Finance
Minister Hyun Oh Seok said yesterday as data showed the
country’s trade surplus narrowed and industrial production fell.  Data Worrisome  South Korea’s trade surplus decreased to $2.7 billion in
July, compared with a revised $6 billion in June, according to
government figures released yesterday. Industrial production
contracted 2.6 percent in June from a year earlier, Statistics
Korea said July 30.  “South Korea’s economic data didn’t meet expectations,
which is worrisome,” said Kim Do Hee, a Seoul-based currency
trader at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “But
investors are more concerned about the Fed’s exit strategy.”  Elsewhere in Asia this week,  Thailand ’s baht weakened 0.8
percent to 31.40 per dollar,  Taiwan ’s currency slid 0.6 percent
to NT$30.129, the Philippine peso dropped 0.7 percent to 43.61
and  Indonesia ’s rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 10,285.  China ’s  yuan 
traded at 6.1294, compared with 6.1316 at the end of last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  