-- S&P Sees First Azeri Deficit in Decade as BBB- Rating Affirmed
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-08-02T11:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/s-p-sees-first-azeri-deficit-in-decade-as-bbb-rating-affirmed.html
Azerbaijan will run its first budget
deficit in a decade this year as the government raises public
spending before October elections, Standard & Poor’s said,
affirming the country’s sovereign-credit rating and outlook.  Azerbaijan, rated at the lowest investment grade of BBB-with a stable outlook, will probably post a fiscal gap of 3.8
percent of economic output, S&P said today in a statement. While
the Caspian Sea nation faces “some deterioration in the fiscal
profile,” the ratings company said its public finances would
retain a “large degree” of flexibility should oil prices fall.  “This has been driven by substantially increased
government expenditures, particularly in capital investment,
aimed at stimulating broader economic growth ahead of
presidential elections in October 2013,” S&P said.  The third-largest oil producer in the former Soviet Union
after Russia and Kazakhstan has enough mineral wealth to ensure
ample budget income and economic growth even as fiscal surpluses
narrow, according to S&P. President Ilham Aliyev, whose family
has run the nation for more than four decades, was nominated by
the ruling New Azerbaijan Party, or YAP, to run for a third term
in office in the Oct. 9 election.  Azerbaijan saw its non-oil economy expand 11 percent in the
first half of the year on increased output in construction and
tourism, the State Statistics Committee said last month. Crude
oil production fell to 21.8 million metric tons from 22.2
million tons a year earlier, it said.  “While oil production will likely plateau through 2017,
increased gas production is expected to offset any declines in
the immediate years thereafter,” S&P said.  Rating constraints for the country include its conflict
with  Armenia  over the disputed South Caucasus region of Nagorno-Karabakh, which “retains potential for armed confrontation,”
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  