-- Sabesp Declines in Sao Paulo as Rate Review Delayed
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-08-02T17:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/sabesp-declines-in-sao-paulo-as-rate-review-delayed-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of regulator’s name and date of
statement in third paragraph.)  Cia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de
Sao Paulo ,  Brazil ’s biggest water utility, dropped the most in
five weeks after regulators in  Sao Paulo  state further delayed a
review of the rates the company charges customers.  Sabesp, as the company is known, fell 6 percent to 22.02
reais at 1:30 p.m. in Sao Paulo. A close at that level would be
the steepest one-day retreat since June 24. It was the biggest
decline in the benchmark  Ibovespa (IBOV) , which slid 0.2 percent.  The Sao Paulo state water and energy regulator Arsesp
suspended the scheduled rate review last month because it didn’t
have enough board members to proceed, Sabesp said July 16. The
agency said in a  statement  on its website dated yesterday that
it is maintaining the suspension after finding
“inconsistencies” in documents the company submitted.  “This news is negative as the outcome will continue to be
uncertain for longer and the possibility of a negative result
cannot be ruled out,” Banco Bradesco SA analysts Vladimir Pinto
and Renata Cristovao wrote in a note to clients today.
“Especially in the current political climate that makes it
difficult to carry out unpopular decisions.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s poll approval ratings have
plummeted to the lowest of her term after more than 1 million
Brazilians took to the streets in protest as the cost of living
soars and economic growth forecasts drop. Demonstrations
escalated from anger over bus fare increases to discontent over
corruption, the quality of public services and government
spending priorities.  Sabesp’s press office didn’t immediately reply to a request
for comment on the regulator’s decision. The company’s shares
have lost 24 percent this year, while the Ibovespa has fallen 19
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  