-- Saks Investor Sues to Halt $2.4 Billion Hudson’s Bay Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-08-02T22:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/saks-investor-sues-to-halt-2-4-billion-hudson-s-bay-deal.html
Saks Inc. investors sued the company
and its directors seeking to block the retailer’s $2.4 billion
acquisition by Canadian department-store chain  Hudson’s Bay (HBC)  Co.  Hudson’s Bay, founded in the 17th century as a fur-trading
company, agreed last month to pay $16 a share in cash, a
30 percent premium to New York-based Saks’s closing price on May
20, the day before reports emerged that Saks was exploring
alternatives.  Shareholders Thomas Jennings and Samuel Cohen filed
separate suits against Saks, its directors and Hudson’s Bay in
New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  today, seeking to stop
the acquisition, which Jennings said undervalues the company,
given its “recent strong performance as well as future growth
prospects.”  The transaction, which brings together the Hudson’s Bay,
Lord & Taylor and Saks Fifth Avenue brands, creates a company
that will operate 320 stores and have revenue of about
$7 billion.  “Defendants have exacerbated their breaches of fiduciary
duty by agreeing to lock up the acquisition with unreasonable
deal protection devices that serve to prevent other bidders from
making a successful competing offer for the company,” Jennings
said in a court filing. “These provisions unreasonably inhibit
the board’s ability to act with respect to investigating and
pursuing superior proposals and alternatives, including a sale
of all or part of Saks.”  Julia Bentley, a spokeswoman for Saks, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the suits.
Tiffany Bourre, a spokeswoman for Hudson’s Bay, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Baker Coup  The deal is a coup for Hudson’s Bay Chief Executive Officer
Richard Baker, 48, who over the past seven years has acquired
and refreshed retail chains while leveraging their real estate.
Saks will continue to be based in New York and retain its
existing management, Baker said. While the newly merged entity
will combine back-office operations to save costs, the three
chains will retain separate buying operations so the merchandise
will reflect each brand’s identity.  Hudson’s Bay is  Canada ’s largest department-store chain,
with 90 stores selling goods including shoes, perfume,
appliances and linen. Last year it generated about C$4 billion
($3.9 billion) in sales.  Saks  rose  0.4 percent to $16.14 at the close in New York
and has advanced 54 percent this year. Hudson’s Bay increased
1.3 percent to C$17.59 in Toronto for a 5.2 percent advance in
2013.  Founded 1670  Hudson’s Bay, founded in 1670 and based in Toronto, expects
the deal to produce C$100 million in cost savings within three
years. Saks hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in May to explore
strategic alternatives, including a sale.  Hudson’s Bay is paying about nine times Saks’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization on an
equity basis, compared with a median multiple of eight for
similar deals compiled by Bloomberg.  The combined company will have 179 full-line department
stores, 72 outlet stores and 69 home stores throughout the U.S.
and Canada, along with three e-commerce sites, according to the
statement. Saks has locations on Fifth Avenue in New York and
Wilshire Boulevard in Beverly Hills,  California , while Hudson’s
Bay has properties in downtown Toronto, Vancouver and  Montreal .  Saks had 40 days to seek bids from other suitors.  The cases are Jennings v. Arredondo, 652725/2013, and Cohen
v.  Saks Inc. (SKS) , 652724/2013, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  