-- HSBC First-Half Profit Seen Rising as U.S. Loan Losses Shrink
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-08-02T16:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/hsbc-first-half-profit-seen-rising-as-u-s-loan-losses-shrink.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  may say first-half
profit rose 13 percent as bad loans in the U.S. shrank after
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  sold assets to focus on
more profitable markets.  Pretax profit rose to $14.4 billion from $12.7 billion in
the year-earlier period, according to Jason Napier, an analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG in London with a buy rating on the stock.
Europe’s largest bank is scheduled to publish earnings on Aug. 5
at 9:15 a.m. London time.  Gulliver, 54, is reaping the reward of reversing the
lender’s expansion in U.S. consumer banking and has closed or
sold more than 50 businesses worldwide since he took the top job
in 2011. HSBC is cutting back in the U.S. after its 2003
purchase of subprime lender Household International Inc.
required it to set aside more than $65 billion for souring loans
in the country. That may help reduce provisions for bad debts by
37 percent to $3 billion, said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at
Shore Capital in Liverpool,  England .  “The drivers for HSBC are provisions and cost
efficiency,” said Greenwood, who recommends buying the shares.
“We are coming out of all the disposals they have made and
people will have their eyes on top-line growth.”  The lender, which last year agreed to pay $1.92 billion to
settle U.S. probes of  money laundering , said in May it will
eliminate as many as 14,000 jobs as part of plans to remove $3
billion of costs.  Total Costs  Total expenses may fall 14 percent to $18.2 billion,
Greenwood said. Revenue, excluding swings in the value of the
lender’s debt, may fall 11 percent to $34.7 billion from $39.1
billion after the asset sales, he estimated.  HSBC has a target for return on equity, a measure of
profitability, at 12 percent to 15 percent. It was 8.4 percent
in 2012, though the core units the bank wants to keep meet the
goal, Gulliver said in May.  The stock  has gained  17 percent this year to a market value
of 141 billion pounds, the second-best performer out of
Britain’s five largest banks after  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   HSBC sold its U.S. credit card unit for a premium of $2.5
billion in May 2012, and $3.2 billion of U.S. consumer loans in
March this year. In addition, the bank sold its upstate  New York 
branch network to  First Niagara Financial Group Inc. (FNFG)  in the
first half of last year.  Impairments in  North America  will drop more than 58 percent
in the first half, and will fall 30 percent from 2013 to 2015,
Citigroup Inc. analyst Andrew Coombs, who has a buy rating on
the stock, estimated in a July 17 note to clients.  Investment Bank  HSBC’s investment banking business, led by Samir Assaf, may
post an 8.5 percent gain in pretax profit to $5.48 billion on
reduced costs and impairments, according to Coombs.  Bad debts will fall in  Asia  in the first half, and then
increase in the rest of the year through 2015, Coombs said.
Losses from soured loans in  Hong Kong  will more than double in
the period to $491 million, and rise 49 percent in the rest of
Asia to $536 million, according to Coombs.  Investors will want to know more about the bank’s plans in
those growth markets and their outlook, said Colin McLean, who
helps oversee 600 million pounds, including HSBC stock, at SVM
Asset Management Ltd. in Edinburgh.  “They’re making much more of a bet on  China  stabilising in
terms of its growth rate, so we’ll be looking to that. The U.S.
and where they’re focusing on growth and China,” McLean said by
telephone.  Asia Focus  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , which like HSBC gains most of its
profit in Asia, experienced an increase in bad consumer loans in
 Korea  in the first half, the bank said in June.  Pretax profit rose 3 percent to $4.07 billion in the first
half from $3.95 billion a year earlier, according to Napier at
Deutsche Bank. London-based  Standard Chartered  reports second-half earnings on Aug. 6 at 9:15 a.m.  Korea was a “major” source of impairments as the
government helped consumers reduce their debts, the lender said
in June. South Korean President Park Geun Hye, who took office
in February, set up a fund aimed at easing households’ debts by
buying and rescheduling overdue loans.  Consumer banking in  South Korea  has been constrained by
rising household debt that’s burdening the economy. Borrowing
and credit purchases by Koreans swelled to a record 963.8
trillion won ($858 billion) at the end of 2012, central bank
data show.  Revenue Growth  The lender may say loan impairments rose 15 percent to $756
million, Deutsche Bank’s Napier, who has a hold recommendation,
said in a July 10 note to clients.  Standard Chartered may say revenue growth will come from
its wholesale business, or corporate banking unit, which last
year contributed about three quarters of profit. Weaker revenue
growth in Korea and Singapore will be offset by Hong Kong,
 Africa  and  India , the bank said in June.  The bank’s shares have declined about 2 percent this year,
giving a market value of 37.4 billion pounds. The  Bloomberg
European Banks and Financial Services Index  has risen 11 percent
in the period.  Officials at both banks declined to comment.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Edward Evans,  Keith Campbell   To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  