-- Seadrill Advances on Petrobras Rig Extension Report: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-08-02T09:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/seadrill-advances-on-petrobras-rig-extension-report-oslo-mover.html
Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) , the second-largest
owner of ultra-deepwater drilling rigs, gained the most in three
months in Oslo after a report that  Brazil ’s Petroleo Brasileiro
SA will resume talks with contractors about extending charters.  Shares in Bermuda-based Seadrill gained as much  2.8 percent 
to a record 261.80 kroner, the biggest intraday jump since May
6, and traded 1.4 percent higher as of 10:10 a.m. in the
Norwegian capital. That makes Seadrill the biggest gainer on the
 Bloomberg EMEA Oil and Gas Index  today.  Citigroup Inc. raised its price estimate to 300 kroner and
maintained its key buy rating on Seadrill in a research note.  Petrobras will restart negotiations on the extension of
contracts for six ultra-deepwater rigs, including two belonging
to Seadrill, two months after unexpectedly breaking off talks,
 Upstream  said, citing unidentified people. The talks have
stalled on rates, with operators seeking more than $600,000 a
day and Petrobras trying to keep them lower, the oil industry
website reported.  If Petrobras is to meet its targets for drilling
production, development and exploration wells, it will need to
extend the agreements for all six rigs, Pareto Securities AS
said in an e-mail. “We believe Petrobras will require all the
units regardless of whether domestic-built units should actually
be delivered on time,” the broker said.  Seadrill, the largest owner of ultra-deepwater drilling
rigs after  Switzerland ’s  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , is expanding its fleet
in anticipation of rising demand from energy companies that are
extending the search for oil and gas reserves into deeper and
harder-to-access regions.  Fleet Expansion  The company on July 31 said it had ordered two jack-up
drilling rigs from Dalian Shipbuilding Industry Co. in  China  at
a combined cost of about $460 million. It’s also seeking to  buy 
Arendal, Norway-based  Sevan Drilling ASA (SEVDR)  to take control of its
two operational deepwater rigs and two more that are under
construction.  Seadrill, controlled by billionaire  John Fredriksen , has
gained 27 percent in Oslo trading this year, giving it a market
value of 121.2 billion kroner ($20 billion).  The company currently owns 62 units including drill-ships,
jack-ups, semi-submersible rigs and tender rigs, with another 24
being built or having been ordered. An ultra-deepwater rig can
drill for oil and gas deposits in water depths of 7,500 feet
(2,300 meters) to 12,000 feet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  