-- Serb Coffers `Amply Filled’ on Stable Budget, Dinkic Says
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-08-02T13:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/serb-coffers-amply-filled-on-stable-budget-dinkic-says.html
Serbia’s Treasury is “amply
filled,” outgoing Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said, after a
former coalition partner warned the Balkan state had enough cash
to last only until the end of next month.  Dinkic, whose United Regions of Serbia party agreed to quit
the ruling coalition this week after he was dismissed by Prime
Minister  Ivica Dacic , may stay on until parliament approves a
new government in a vote that may come on Aug. 25, the finance
minister said in a news conference in Belgrade.  The coalition’s breakup has cut the government’s majority
to one vote in the 250-seat parliament and may increase pressure
on it to clinch a deal with the  International Monetary Fund  to
backstop public finances. Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic
on July 31 that the government had enough cash to pay wages,
pensions and other obligations through the end of September.
Dacic said  cash flow  would depend on his replacement.  “It all depends on the dynamics in the coming months,
whether whoever succeeds me maintains this rhythm of revenue and
this rhythm of expenses,” he said. “The reserve I’m leaving
may last longer. It all depends on how they handle it.”  The budget “stabilized” in June and the 2013 full-year
deficit would shrink to about two-thirds of the country’s
financing shortfall from last year, he said.  Narrower Deficit  The unconsolidated  budget deficit  narrowed to 2.8 billion
dinars ($33 million) for the month of July, compared with 4.3
billion dinars the previous month, according to data from the
 Finance Ministry  issued in a statement today. The seven-month
deficit was 100.7 billion dinars, compared with a full-year
target of 178.3 billion dinars.  Tax collection rose 19 percent last month to 73.6 billion
dinars. The June and July results were much lower than the
average 18.7 billion-dinar deficits for the first five months of
the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government had 784 million euros ($1 billion) in its
accounts on July 31, Dinkic said. Serbia has 102.42 billion
dinars in debt coming due by the end of the year.  Serbia needs $3 billion to repay expensive loans to reduce
debt servicing costs, seen at 90 billion dinars this year,
Dinkic said. Without refinancing, costs will swell to 110
billion dinars in 2014, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Winfrey at 
 mwinfrey@bloomberg.net  