-- Shanghai Heat Wave Affects Production at Baosteel to Ford
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-02T06:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/shanghai-s-heat-wave-affects-baosteel-to-ford-as-locals-wither.html
A record  heat  wave in  Shanghai  is
hurting traffic at some auto dealerships, cutting client visits
at brokerages and forcing utilities to delay increases in water
prices as the government takes steps to help residents endure
the hottest temperatures in 140 years.  At least 11 people have died from heatstroke since the
mercury started to soar last month, the Shanghai Daily reported
yesterday, citing local authorities. On July 26, the thermometer
reading jumped to 40.6 degrees Celsius (105 degrees Fahrenheit),
the highest since record-keeping began in 1873, the city’s
weather bureau said.  “The hot weather has affected the number of customers
visiting our dealership,” said Chen Yan’er, general manager of
a Ford dealership. “It’s worse during the weekdays, with a
noticeable 15-20 percent drop in people coming in.”  A slump in consumption would come at a bad time for
Shanghai, which has become increasingly reliant on services for
growth. The city’s economy expanded 7.7 percent in the first
half of the year as growth in its  service industries  enabled
China’s commercial hub to outpace the national average.  Wei Wei, a Shanghai-based analyst at West China Securities
Co., said the heat wave has forced her and her colleagues to
halve the number of client visits.  “We’d like to avoid visiting clients as much as we can
because it’s too hot,” Wei said. “The contacts with clients
are mainly done through phones, QQ, text messages or  WeChat. (700) 
Through those means, we still can serve clients well. The hot
weather hasn’t affected stock transactions here as lots of
trading is done through the Internet.”  Keeping Cool  Shanghai has decided to postpone a residential water tariff
increase by a month to Sept. 1 as high temperatures are expected
to continue, the government said in a  statement  on its website.
Some residents of the city have called for the government to
lower electricity prices on microblogs.  Local residents are taking to air-conditioned venues like
shopping malls and fast-food restaurants to seek refuge from the
heat. A crowded waiting area at a  China  Minsheng Banking Corp.
branch was mostly people with no banking business, a security
guard said. The elderly are using free passes to ride air-conditioned buses just to keep cool, the Youth Daily  reported .  Shanghai’s factories are adopting flexible working
arrangements to help workers cope with the heat or paying them
extra to keep production lines operating as usual.  “We are offering so-called high-temperature subsidies to
workers as other SOEs do,” said Alex He, a spokesman for
Baosteel Group Corp., the parent company of the nation’s
largest-listed steelmaker. “We are adjusting our working plans
as we usually do in summers in accordance with arrangements by
the Shanghai government. Steel production is non-stoppable.”  No Blackouts  Ironically, a national government directive to reduce
production overcapacity is helping to ease demand on the  power
grid  from increased use of air conditioners. The government last
week ordered more than 1,400 companies in 19 industries to cut
capacity this year as part of efforts to shift toward slower,
more-sustainable economic growth.  “We haven’t heard any power supply gap or any major
blackout so far this year simply because there’s subdued demand
from manufacturing sector amid a weakening economy,” said Tian
Miao, an energy policy analyst at North Square Blue Oak, a
London-based researcher. “With the government pledging to cut
excess capacity, demand for power is very sluggish.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Gregory Turk in Shanghai at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  