-- Siemens’s Debt Is Downgraded by Fitch as Margin Falls Faster
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-08-02T13:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/siemens-s-debt-is-downgraded-by-fitch-as-margin-drop-accelerates.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s credit rating was
downgraded by  Fitch Ratings , which cited an accelerating decline
in the company’s margins in the most recent quarter and
“insufficient progress” on restructuring measures.  The long-term debt of  Europe ’s largest engineering company
was cut to A from A+ with a stable outlook, Fitch said today in
a statement. That’s the sixth-highest investment grade. Munich-based Siemens’s appointment of Joe Kaeser as Chief Executive
Officer is a “positive development,” it said.  Shortly after announcing the appointment of former finance
chief Kaeser on July 31, Siemens reported profit for the three
months through June 30 fell 31 percent, led by declines at the
energy unit. The company ousted CEO  Peter Loescher  after the
Austrian executive said Siemens wouldn’t meet a goal for profit
representing 12 percent of sales in 2014, his fifth forecast cut
in his six-year tenure.  Fitch has “greater scepticism about the speed and ultimate
success with which targeted change can be made in an
organisation of Siemens’ size and complexity,” it said in the
statement. Siemens is midway through a program to cut costs by
6.3 billion euros by the 2014 fiscal year, which starts in
October.  “Of course this has some impact, but ‘A’ is still a solid
rating,” Frankfurt-based Commerzbank analyst Ingo-Martin Schachel, who has an add recommendation on the shares, said by
telephone. “With a big financial services business the rating
is important, so it’s not positive. But the ranking is still
much better than most of Siemens’s peers.”  Financing Infrastructure  Siemens’s financial services arm is moving away from the
leasing business, which was its mainstay, and towards financing
infrastructure and energy projects as the parent company grows
in that sphere, unit head Roland Chalons-Browne told Bloomberg
on May 29. The division aims to provide enough funding to “make
a project go,” he said.  Siemens has 20 billion euros of outstanding debt, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The 166-year-old company sold
$3.3 billion of bonds in pounds and euros in August 2012 to fund
a buyback of the same amount of stock.  The stock fell as much as 1.1 percent and was trading 0.9
percent lower at 83.72 euros as of 3:52 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The
stock had climbed 6 percent this year before today, valuing the
company at 74.3 billion euros.  The 2014 forecast was cut after a majority of units said in
their internal predictions that they will probably miss their
goals, two people familiar with the matter said. The gap in so-called sector profit between the forecast and the actual numbers
is currently 1.5 billion euros, one person said.  Siemens had a profit margin of 9.5 percent in 2012 when
competitors  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  had margins of
10.3 percent and 15 percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net  