-- Simpson Leads Bridgestone Golf by One; Woods Trails by Two Shots
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-08-02T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/simpson-leads-bridgestone-golf-by-one-woods-trails-by-two-shots.html
Webb Simpson  takes a one-shot lead
into the second day of the Bridgestone Invitational, his first
visit to the World Golf Championships event. Tiger Woods,
chasing an eighth win at the tournament, is two shots back.  Simpson had eight birdies, the most of the first day, in a
6-under-par 64 at Firestone Country Club in Akron,  Ohio ,. Henrik Stenson of  Sweden , who was second at last month’s British Open,
is a shot back. Woods played his first nine holes in even par
before carding four birdies.  “I’ve played terrible coming in here and I’ve played
really well coming in,” Woods, who last won the tournament in
2009, told reporters yesterday. “For some reason this golf
course, I just see it.”  World No. 1 Woods has won seven times in eight tries when
shooting 66 or lower at a World Golf Championships event,
including four times in five at the Bridgestone. He has 17 WGC
titles -- the next most successful player in the series is Geoff Ogilvy with three -- and is chasing his fifth win on the U.S.
PGA Tour this season.  Keegan Bradley, who won the Bridgestone last year, is tied
with Woods, Ryan Moore and Chris Wood at 4 under par, a shot
ahead of a group of six players that includes Jim Furyk, Luke Donald and Bubba Watson. Phil Mickelson, who won the British
Open 12 days ago, is 2 over par.  “I had a hard time focusing,” Mickelson told reporters.
“Mentally I wasn’t sharp. I could tell I was a little bit tired
or I just wasn’t able to see the shot clearly.”  The Bridgestone Invitational is the final event before the
U.S. PGA Championship. The last of golf’s four annual major
tournaments is scheduled for Aug. 8-11 at Oak Hill Country Club
in Rochester, New York. Woods hasn’t added to his haul of 14
major titles since the 2008 U.S. Open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 