-- South African State Lender Seeks Energy Supplies for Steel Mill
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-08-02T09:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/south-african-state-lender-seeks-energy-supplies-for-steel-mill.html
South Africa ’s state-owned Industrial
Development Corp. is pressing ahead with proposals to build a
new steel mill once it can secure sufficient energy supplies.  The planned steel plant moved a step closer to fruition
after the IDC, as the lender is known, obtained access to a key
steelmaking feedstock last month.  “There are certain constraints around some inputs,” Abel Malinga, the IDC’s head of mining, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. The lender has yet to work out how it will gain
access to required electricity and gas supplies. “We need to
make sure the planning is synchronized so that there are no
bottlenecks,” Malinga said.  The IDC is part of a group including  Hebei Iron & Steel Co
Ltd. (000709) ,  China ’s biggest steel producer, that acquired a 74.5
percent stake in  Palabora Mining Co. (PAM)  for about 4 billion rand
($400 million) from  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)  The
IDC holds a 20 percent interest in the group.  Palabora’s main asset is a  copper mine  in South Africa’s
northern Limpopo province where it has amassed a 240 million-ton dump of magnetite. Access to the magnetite, a steelmaking
ingredient, will support the IDC’s plans to build a steel plant
to compete with  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  and  Evraz
Highveld Steel and Vanadium Ltd.  as the government seeks to
introduce cheap sources of steel to the local market.  South  Africa  has capacity to produce about 7 million tons
of steel a year, compared with demand of about 5.4 million tons,
Malinga said. The proposed steel plant would be capable of
producing 2.5 million metric tons of steel a year, the IDC said
in December.  Flat Demand  ArcelorMittal South Africa, the continent’s biggest steel
producer, yesterday reported a first-half loss and said it
expects earnings to be even lower in the third quarter due to
flat demand and higher costs.  “Domestic sales are expected to remain flat and any
increase in steel prices will be more than offset by increasing
costs,” the unit of ArcelorMittal said in a statement.  The IDC is preparing to meet an anticipated increase in
demand over the next two to three decades in South Africa and
the rest of the continent, Malinga said.  “Steel is an important input for any developing economy,”
Malinga said. “Any further growth we may have to import, but if
we plan properly we will have the additional capacity
required.”  South Africa and  Egypt  account for about 80 percent of the
continent’s steel production, Malinga said.  ArcelorMittal South Africa is best positioned to benefit
from the anticipated growth in steel consumption in Africa
because it owns a steel mill at the Saldanha port in the Western
Cape, Stephen Meintjes, head of research at Johannesburg-based
Imara SP Reid Ltd., said by phone.  “Steel consumption in Africa will undoubtedly grow very
steadily but there can be competition from other exporters,”
Meintjes said.  The IDC is part of a group that last year bought a
controlling stake in Scaw Metals Group, a South African steel
product manufacturer, from Anglo American for $1.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  