-- Stand Your Ground Laws Approved Amid Racial Divide: Poll
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-08-02T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/stand-your-ground-laws-approved-amid-racial-divide-poll.html
A majority of white U.S. voters
support stand-your-ground laws permitting deadly force in
self-defense, while most black voters oppose them, according to
a national survey released today by  Quinnipiac University .  Racial divisions are also evident in a question about the
federal government providing a bailout for  Detroit , with black
voters backing such a move by 57 percent to 36 percent and white
voters opposing it 63 percent to 26 percent. Of all voters
surveyed, 57 percent oppose a Detroit bailout compared with 33
percent who support it.  U.S. lawmakers have dismissed the possibility of federal
aid to Detroit, which on July 18 became the largest American
city to declare bankruptcy.  Stand-your-ground laws in  Florida  and other states allow
the use of deadly force instead of retreat when a person fears
for his or her life. These laws gained notoriety after the
February 2012 death of Trayvon Martin, a black 17-year-old in
Sanford, Florida. The shooter, George Zimmerman, didn’t use
stand your ground as a defense in his trial on a charge of
second-degree murder. He was acquitted last month.  White voters support stand-your-ground laws by a margin of
57 percent to 37 percent, and black voters oppose them by the
same margin. Republicans support the laws 75 percent to 19
percent, while Democrats oppose them 62 percent to 32 percent.  Voters overall backed the laws 53 percent to 40 percent.  Sharp Split  “‘Stand your ground’ splits the country sharply along
political, general and racial lines,” said  Peter Brown ,
assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute, in a statement.  The poll also found a 46 percent job-approval rating for
President  Barack Obama . Forty-eight percent of those surveyed
said they disapprove of the job he’s doing.  Congress fared worse, with a 19 percent job-approval rating
for Republican lawmakers and 31 percent approving of how the
Democrats are doing.  The telephone survey of 1,468 registered voters was
conducted July 28-31 and has a margin of error of plus or minus
2.6 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  