-- Stop ‘Branding’ and Improve English’s Reputation
-- B y   A l e x   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-08-02T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/stop-branding-and-improve-english-s-reputation.html
In 16th-century  England , Thomas
Gresham formulated what is now known as  Gresham’s law , which
stipulates that bad money drives out good. Paper money tends to
circulate more freely than silver, and silver more freely than
gold, because people hoard whatever type of money is seen as
best. It’s why we spend those torn dollar bills first.  I have no problem with this. It might even be a good thing,
because it expands the money supply and credit. But I do have a
problem when a similar dynamic takes over language, as bad,
bureaucratic, bulky and bothersome words drive out simple,
short, clear and good ones.  Examples would fill a dictionary. There is corporate speak
such as actualize, differentiate, facilitate, repurpose and
synthesize. But this is mere detritus, easily swept away. What
bothers me more is when a fluffy, pretentious and bureaucratic
word replaces a simpler one, often with a history.  With the advent of the personal computer, “word
processing” began to replace “typing” as the preferred term.
This was an unnecessary change: Fingers were still placed on
letters on a keyboard, and sentences still transmitted to a page
or screen.  Similarly, I noticed a few years ago that a public
elementary school had renamed its library “the media center,”
as if an old and distinguished word such as “library” was
unable to encompass information-delivery devices such as
microfilm or the Internet. Simply updating or expanding a
technology doesn’t require a new word.  Continuity Helps  There is value in what came before.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Steve Jobs
won converts to his Macintosh computers by having users
“paste” and “cut,” rather than “insert” and “delete,” as
in the Microsoft world. He wasn’t dumbing down. That continuity
of language helped this new tool, the computer, establish
itself.  The allure of most bad words is that we think they make us
sound smarter. Because we associate complexity with smartness,
complicated words tend to replace simpler ones. Once
“shipping” was the term to move any sort of package or cargo,
whether by boat, train or air. This is still true in some
sectors. The U.S. Postal Service, bless its heart, still has a
department of “shipping.” But many people and companies prefer
the term “logistics,” which essentially means just moving
things around on a schedule. I’m sure this justifies several
dollars more per hour or pound.  Another offender is “infrastructure.” Once unknown in
public discourse and used only by the military, it now pops up
in headlines. It has replaced simpler, more descriptive terms,
particularly “public works” and the even older “internal
improvements.”  Another fancy term in management circles is “metrics.” We
now ask about the metrics of a project, rather than its
measurements, statistics or, simply, numbers.  Fellow lovers of simple language probably have their own
candidates for worst words. My own is “brand.” I’d like to
blast it out of the air whenever it floats across a conference
room table.  It once had a specific and legitimate use: the name of a
company or a product. It was McDonald’s hamburgers, Campbell’s
soup, Clorox bleach and Kleenex tissues. But about two decades
ago it oozed into other fields. It became a verb -- always a bad
sign -- and eventually even an occupation.  Branding as a concept is bad because it advances a notion
both seductive and appalling, which is that we can change our
image or public face as easily as letters on a movie marquee. It
suggests falsity, a con, sleight of hand.  Context Matters  The better, simpler and more sober term is “reputation.”
It doesn’t mean exactly the same thing, but it’s better for what
it is lacking. Our parents taught us that reputations are made
slowly, and can be lost quickly. A reputation is not a
projection. In 1982, when  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  famously recalled
all its Tylenol products after several deaths from intentionally
tainted products, the company wasn’t building its brand. It was
building its reputation.  I may sound like a linguistic Luddite. I will concede that
most disciplines have and need their own specialized language.
Architects, for example, talk about “the program” of a
building -- meaning what it will be used for. It confuses
everyone else, but it helps determine the design of the
building.  But let us leave specialized language to those specialized
places. We may actually understand one another better, which is
usually a good thing. Although  Gresham’s law  may still rule in
money matters, we can seek to repeal it in matters of words.  (Alex Marshall is the  author  of “ The Surprising Design of
Market Economies ,” and a senior fellow at Regional Plan
Association in  New York  City.)  To contact the writer of this post:
Alex Marshall at  alex@rpa.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 