-- Summers After Government Saw Wealth Surge to $17 Million
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-08-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/summers-after-government-saw-wealth-surge-to-17-million.html
Lawrence Summers ’s  personal website 
includes two biographies and traces his career from Harvard
University president to director of President Barack Obama’s
National Economic Council. The site says he’s now teaching at
Harvard and serving on corporate and nonprofit boards.  What’s not mentioned: Summers’s current and previous work
as a paid consultant to financial firms including  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. and hedge fund D.E. Shaw & Co.  Consulting work helped make Summers a  wealthy man  between
the time he left government service in 2001 and when he returned
in 2009. When President  Bill Clinton  nominated him to be
Treasury Secretary, he listed assets of about $900,000 and
debts, including a mortgage, of $500,000. When he returned to
serve in the Obama administration, he reported a net worth
between $17 million and $39 million.  Summers’s finance industry ties are gaining new scrutiny
now that he is among the leading candidates to succeed Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . He could find himself
overseeing his former colleagues while the Fed is at the center
of efforts to rein in bank risk-taking.  “Summers is going to have a very sympathetic approach to
 Wall Street ,” said  Dean Baker , an economist with the Center for
Economic and Policy Research in Washington, a nonpartisan
organization that describes itself as politically progressive.
“These are people he has a background with. I think it’s
certainly a negative.”  Desirable ‘Training’  At the same time, Summers’s Wall Street ties are typical
for potential appointees to financial regulatory posts, said
Richard W. Painter, who served as an ethics counsel in the White
House during the George W. Bush presidency and vetted Bernanke
when he was first up for the job in 2006. A background working
in financial institutions is “the type of training that you
want,” he said in a telephone interview.  Summers’ spokeswoman Kelly Friendly declined to comment.  He wouldn’t be the only Fed official who made a private
fortune first. Governor Jerome Powell, a former private-equity
executive, had financial assets in 2011 of at least $20 million,
according to financial disclosures during the confirmation
process. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , a former hedge
fund manager, last year disclosed assets of more than $20
million.  The Fed has supervisory authority over bank holding
companies. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act gave the Fed authority over
large non-bank financial institutions declared systemically
risky by a council of regulators, giving the next Fed chairman
sway over decisions on capital, liquidity and risk management
that directly affects banks and shareholders.  Obama Defense  Summers already was being criticized by some Democratic
senators for his role in advocating deregulation during the
Clinton administration. Obama on  Capitol Hill  this week defended
Summers in response to a question from a lawmaker during a
closed meeting, saying the criticism has been unfair.  Obama won’t make a choice for the Fed post until at least
September, officials say. Speculation has centered on Summers,
58, and Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , 66, who, if appointed,
would be the first female Fed chairman. Obama also mentioned
former Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn , 70, as a potential nominee
in his meeting with House Democrats.  Bernanke, whose second term ends Jan. 31, hasn’t indicated
whether he would seek or accept a third.  Much of Summers’s gain in wealth can be attributed to his
work for Wall Street after he left the Clinton administration in
2001 and served as Harvard president until resigning in 2006. As
a managing director at D.E. Shaw, he reported earning $5.2
million in the 16 months before his 2009 filing.  D.E. Shaw  The job entailed coming into the office periodically and
working on investment ideas based on mathematical models,
according to Cathy O’Neil, a data scientist and former Shaw
employee who worked on a couple of Summers’s projects.  “They gave him a cushy position and didn’t ask him to come
in very often,” O’Neil said in a telephone interview.  O’Neil, who has been critical of Summers on her blog at
mathbabe.org, said the work in her division often focused on
finding market participants with transparent trading strategies
and figuring out how to profit off of this so-called dumb money.  D.E. Shaw, through spokeswoman Amy Rosenberg, declined to
comment on Summers’s tasks or O’Neil’s description.  Summers also collected more than $2.7 million in speaking
fees, including from companies such as Citigroup and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  that later received taxpayer funds in the
economic bailout, according to his disclosure forms.  Andrew Williams , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, said the
firm has no relationship with Summers.  Rejoined Government  Summers rejoined the government in 2009 to serve as NEC
director. He left at the end of 2010, returned to the speaking
circuit, and began working for Citigroup, Nasdaq, D.E. Shaw, and
the Andreessen Horowitz LLC venture capital firm. Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of  Bloomberg News , is an investor in
Andreessen Horowitz.  “It just shows this is an ongoing thing with him,” Baker
said. “These are people he looks to on an ongoing basis.”  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, said in a statement that Summers speaks at internal
meetings and meets with clients to provide “insight on a broad
range of topics including the global and domestic economy.”  At Nasdaq, Summers has provided insight on macroeconomic
conditions to customers for a number of years, said a person
with direct knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified. Nasdaq spokesman Joseph Christinat said he couldn’t
comment.  U.S. Profit  Summers cited Citigroup, which took $45 billion in taxpayer
funds in the midst of the financial crisis, as an example of the
U.S. making a profit on the bailout, in footnotes to a 2011
speech titled “Prophecies of American decline will prove to be
self-denying once again.”  “Taxpayers have now received essentially all the emergency
funds extended to financial institutions backed, and in many
cases have earned a substantial profit,” he told an audience at
the Herzliya Conference in Israel.  Some Democratic senators, whose votes may be needed to
confirm the next Fed chairman, have begun raising concerns about
Summers’s efforts to block regulation of financial firms when he
served during the Clinton administration. Oregon Democrat  Jeff Merkley  called Summers a “life-committed deregulator” in an
interview this week.  More recently, as Obama’s adviser, Summers supported steps
to correct the excesses that triggered the last crisis.  ‘Fundamental Change’  He told a White House meeting in October 2009 that it was
time for a “fundamental change” in the way financial markets
and firms were regulated because it was “important for the
economy, for the sense of economic justice in our society and
for millions of Americans.”  Painter said Summers would, if confirmed, have to cut
corporate ties, divest any stock in financial firms, and recuse
himself for a period of time from making decisions on the firms
that paid him.  “I don’t see any serious problem here,” Painter said.
“We’ve considered people for that job and quite a few governors
of the Fed who’ve come directly out of financial institutions.”  Summers’s background contrasts with that of Yellen, also a
millionaire. Yellen, an emeritus professor at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, joined the Fed board of governors in
1994. She left the Fed for the Council of Economic Advisers from
1997 to 1999 before returning in 2004 to serve as president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.  Yellen’s Worth  Yellen and her husband, fellow Berkeley professor and Nobel
economics laureate  George Akerlof , held assets between $3.4
million and $7.4 million, her 2012 public financial disclosure
filing shows. The couple, who said they hold the bulk of their
assets in a trust, listed stocks including Pfizer Inc.,
ConocoPhillips, OfficeMax Inc. and Raytheon Co.  Their largest reported individual holdings were invested in
the  Vanguard Tax-Managed Growth and Income Fund , valued between
$1 million and $5 million.  Yellen and Akerlof also reported owning a stamp collection
valued from $15,001 to $50,000.  Kohn retired from the Fed in 2010 after serving as a
central bank employee since 1970. In a financial disclosure for
2010, he said he and his wife held assets of between $887,000
and $1.96 million. Their largest individual holding was invested
in the  T. Rowe Price Balanced Fund (RPBAX) , valued between $500,000 and
$1 million.  Kohn Affiliations  Kohn is currently a senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution, an external member of the financial policy
committee at the  Bank of England  and a consultant at Potomac
Research Group, a Washington-based investment advisory firm.  Kohn is also on the paid speaking circuit, charging more
than $40,000 for an appearance, according to the website of the
Washington Speakers Bureau, which represents him. Harry Rhoads,
chief executive officer of the Bureau, didn’t respond to a
telephone call seeking comment.  Vetting federal appointees who come from universities is
easier than vetting those who must sever complex financial ties,
Painter said. Bernanke, a former Princeton University professor,
reported assets valued between $1.07 million and $2.28 million
in his 2012 disclosure.  “ Ben Bernanke  was not an issue at all because he was an
academic,” Painter said. “Having him divest was not an
issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  