-- Swissport Gains Bigger Slice of Ground Handling With Servisair
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-02T14:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/swissport-gains-bigger-slice-of-ground-handling-with-servisair.html
Swissport International AG, which
agreed to buy aviation ground-handling company Servisair
yesterday, said airlines should concentrate on their cabin
activities in order to lower costs and support consolidation.  “Many airlines are still operating a lot of non-core
activities rather than focusing on flying aircraft with the
right fleet and the right number of passengers and the right
yield,” Chief Executive Officer Per Utnegaard said today.  Airlines still control about half the ground-handling
market worldwide, while fast-growing low-cost carriers often
rely on partners for the service. Swissport, owned by private
equity firm PAI Partners SAS, yesterday agreed to acquire
Servisair from  Derichebourg SA (DBG)  for an enterprise value of 450
million euros ($597 million), in its biggest purchase to date.  The agreement, which adds 15,000 employees, comes five
months after the company announced plans to buy the majority of
the ground-handling operations of SAS Group. Those activities
have about 500 million euros in sales, Utnegaard said, while
Servisair had sales of 688 million euros last year.  While the Servisair deal may close in the fourth quarter,
the SAS transaction will likely take until next year, Utnegaard
said. The acquisitions will lift Swissport’s headcount by about
50 percent to 60,000.  Swissport’s largest rivals are the aviation unit of  John
Menzies Plc (MNZS)  and Dnata, the ground-handling unit of Emirates,
Utnegaard said. Swissport, which will have a market share of
about 7 percent after acquiring Servisair, will continue to seek
takeover targets, with Africa as a preferred region, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  