-- Swiss Stocks Gain Most in Four Weeks as Novartis Climbs
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-08-02T16:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/swiss-stocks-gain-most-in-four-weeks-as-novartis-climbs.html
Swiss stocks  climbed the most in four
weeks as markets reopened after a public holiday during which
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  reiterated  interest
rates  will remain low for an extended period.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s two
biggest lenders, each rose more than 2 percent. Nestle SA, the
world’s largest food company, added 2.9 percent to its highest
price in two months.  Novartis (NOVN)  AG climbed 1.4 percent after the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said that children as young as
two months old can use the company’s Menveo drug as a vaccine
against one of the main causes of bacterial meningitis.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  advanced 1.8 percent to 7,963.93 at
the close of trading in Zurich, extending its gain this week to
2.1 percent. The Swiss market was closed yesterday for a
holiday. The gauge climbed 1.8 percent in July as the  Federal
Reserve  said it remains flexible on the future of its bond-buying program. The broader Swiss Performance Index also added
1.8 percent today.  “The Swiss market is playing strong catchup,” said Benno Galliker, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne,
Switzerland. “The main reason for the rally is yesterday’s
positive day for global markets with the encouraging results
from banks and ECB comments. Investors are in a good mood and
there’s really no real alternative to equities at the moment. It
looks like we may see more gains in the short term.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the SMI was 36 percent greater than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ECB left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
following a policy meeting yesterday. Draghi said that rates
will remain low for an extended period of time.  U.S. Payrolls  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that payrolls
increased by 162,000 in July, their smallest gain in four
months. That was less than the 185,000 median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The  jobless rate  dropped to
7.4 percent last month, its lowest level since December 2008.  Data from the ADP Research Institute on Aug. 1 showed that
American companies enrolled more workers in July than estimated.
A release from the Labor Department yesterday showed first-time
claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly fell.  UBS and Credit Suisse rose 3.5 percent to 18.86 Swiss
francs and 2.3 percent to 27.82 francs, respectively. A gauge of
European lenders rallied the most in four weeks yesterday as
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and Lloyds Banking Group Plc reported profit
that exceeded  analysts’ estimates .  Nestle added 2.9 percent to 64.50 francs, contributing the
most to the SMI’s gain.  Novartis increased 1.4 percent to 67.55 francs after saying
the FDA has extended the age range for its meningococcal vaccine
in the U.S. Babies younger than seven months are the most
vulnerable to the disease, according to Novartis.  Swatch Group AG, the biggest maker of Swiss watches, added
3.1 percent to 567 francs, its largest gain in more than three
months. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner of the Cartier
brand, rose 2.6 percent to 92.95 francs, its highest price since
at least April 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  