-- U.K. Construction Growth Accelerates as House Prices Rise
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-08-02T10:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/u-k-construction-growth-accelerates-as-homebuilding-improves.html
U.K. construction growth  accelerated
to the fastest in three years and house prices increased to the
highest since 2008 as government measures boosted property
demand.  An index of construction activity rose to 57 in July from
51 in June, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said today in London. That marked the
third month above the 50 mark that divides expansion from
contraction. Separately,  Nationwide Building Society  said  home
values  increased 0.8 percent in July to an average 170,825
pounds ($259,000), the most since June 2008.  Britain’s economy is showing signs of strengthening after
 gross domestic product  increased 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, and the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research raised its growth forecasts today, citing a pickup in
 consumer spending . At the same time, the housing market is
getting a boost from government measures aimed at supporting
property demand.  “Homes are the beating heart of this rapid recovery in the
construction sector, backed by a solid expansion in civil
engineering and commercial activity,” said  David Noble , CIPS
chief executive officer. “Firms are starting to believe this is
the real deal for the recovery.”  The construction index reading exceeded the 51.5 median
forecast of 13 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The pound
extended its advance against the dollar after the report was
published. It traded at $1.5158 as of 10:41 a.m. London time, up
0.3 percent from yesterday.  House Prices  Markit said residential construction output increased the
fastest since June 2010 last month. Civil engineering returned
to growth, while commercial construction output rose the most
since May 2012. Builders added jobs at the fastest pace since
December 2011, according to the report.  Nationwide said that  house prices  have risen 3.9 percent in
the past year as the government’s Help-to-Buy program and the
 Bank of England ’s Funding for Lending Scheme eased access to
mortgages.  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , the U.K.’s second-largest
homebuilder by volume, said July 31 first-half profit increased
5.3 percent.  “An improvement in the availability and a reduction in the
cost of credit, partly as a result of policy measures” are
boosting demand, said  Robert Gardner , chief economist at
Nationwide.  Economic Outlook  A report yesterday from Markit showed manufacturing
expanded the fastest in 28 months in July. A gauge of service
companies to be published Aug. 5 will also probably show an
increase, according to a survey of economists.  The Bank of England kept its  bond-purchase target  at 375
billion pounds ($569 billion) and its benchmark  interest rate  at
0.5 percent yesterday as officials focus on providing guidance
on policy to investors. Governor  Mark Carney  will publish a
report on the implementation of forward guidance on Aug. 7.  Niesr forecast today that the U.K. economy will expand 1.2
percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2014. That compares with
May predictions of 0.9 percent and 1.5 percent respectively. It
cited a “robust expansion of consumer spending” for the
upgrade, while noting that growth remains subdued.  “Such revisions do not change the general outlook for U.K.
economic growth,” Niesr economist  Simon Kirby  said. “One of a
gradual gain in economic momentum, but not to the degree that is
consistent with economic recovery.”  Niesr sees consumer spending rising 1.4 percent this year
and 1.7 percent next year.  “This is the most confident we have felt in our four-year
history,” David Lockhart, chief executive of real-estate
investor  NewRiver Retail Ltd. (NRR) , said after the company invested
in a 24th U.K. shopping mall in July.  U.S. Payrolls  U.S. employers probably added about as many workers in July
as the prior month, helping trim the  unemployment rate ,
economists said before a report today.  Payrolls rose by 185,000 workers after a 195,000 gain in
June, according to the median forecast of 92 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate fell to 7.5 percent, matching
a four-year low, from 7.6 percent. Other data may show personal
spending climbed in June by the most in four months.  The Labor Department is scheduled to publish the payrolls
report at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington . Bloomberg survey estimates
ranged from increases of 23,000 to 225,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  