-- U.K. Politician Loses Wind Farm Job on Siemens Family Conflict
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-08-02T09:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/u-k-politician-loses-wind-farm-job-on-siemens-family-conflict.html
A U.K. junior government minister has
lost his remit for wind-farm planning because his brother holds
a senior position at  Siemens AG (SIE) , the world’s third-biggest maker
of  wind turbines .  The Department for Communities and Local Government in
April took away the responsibility from Nick Boles, who has been
the minister for planning and development since September, the
ministry said in an e-mailed statement. His brother Jonathan is
the financial head for Munich-based Siemens’s wind power
operations in  Europe , according to the latter’s LinkedIn
profile.  “This was in the light of his brother’s employment with
Siemens and his planned return to the U.K. from Germany,” the
DCLG said in the statement, adding it wanted “to avoid the
perception of any potential conflict of interest.”  The U.K., which is the world’s largest offshore-wind
market, said yesterday it will commit 66 million pounds ($100
million) to expand the offshore-wind supply chain and finance
research to cut costs. The industry growth could add 7 billion
pounds a year to the economy by 2020.  Siemens, which manufactured 83 percent of the offshore wind
turbines installed in Europe in the first half, trailed only
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Vestas Wind Systems AS (VWS)  in terms of
installed megawatts globally in 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Siemens replaced Felix Ferlemann, the head of its wind
unit, with Marcus Tacke in July after faulty blades prompted the
stopping or slowing of rotation speeds at 707 wind turbines,
largely in  North America . The unit’s profit declined about 68
percent to 21 million euros ($28 million) in the third quarter,
or 1.2 percent of the company’s total, burdened by a 91 million-euro charge for the turbine repairs.  A Siemens spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a
request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  