-- U.K. Home Values Rise to Five-Year High on Credit Availability
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-08-02T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/u-k-home-values-rise-to-five-year-high-on-credit-availability.html
U.K. house prices  rose to the highest
level in five years last month as a strengthening economy and
looser credit boosted demand for property, according to
Nationwide Building Society.  Values increased 0.8 percent in July to an average 170,825
pounds ($258,600), the most since June 2008, the Swindon,
England-based customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed
statement today. From a year earlier, prices rose 3.9 percent,
the fastest annual growth since August 2010.  The increase is “further evidence of an upturn in the
 housing market ,”said  Robert Gardner, chief economist at
Nationwide. “An improvement in the availability and a reduction
in the cost of credit, partly as a result of policy measures
such as the Funding for Lending and Help to Buy schemes, are
also boosting the demand for homes.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has sought to
boost Britain’s housing market by making it easier to get a
mortgage. Credit availability has also been boosted by the Bank
of  England , which kept its stimulus plan on hold yesterday as
policy makers switch their focus to forward guidance and let
policies such as the FLS take effect.  Britain’s recovery has been gaining momentum, with reports
this week showing  manufacturing grew  faster than forecast in
July and  consumer confidence  rose to a three-year high.  Osborne’s plan to guarantee riskier mortgages to boost
growth, details of which were released last week, has drawn a
warning from the International Monetary Fund for its potential
to stoke home prices. It has also been criticized by Business
Secretary Vince Cable as having the potential to create a
housing bubble.  Nationwide said that there is a shortage of properties on
the market, citing the fact that rental growth is outpacing wage
increases.  “The supply side of the market remains fairly
constrained,” Gardner said. “Building activity is still
subdued.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  