-- U.S. Corporate Credit-Default Swaps Fall After July Jobs Report
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-02T16:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/u-s-corporate-credit-default-swaps-fall-after-july-jobs-report.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
declined after a report showed employers added fewer workers
than forecast in July, reducing concern the Federal Reserve will
slow the pace of its stimulus measures.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.1 basis points to a mid-price of 73.3 basis points at 11:41
a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. It
rose to 75.1 before the Labor Department reported payrolls
increased by 162,000 in July, compared with the median estimate
of 185,000 in a Bloomberg survey.  Investors are looking to economic data for signs of when
the Fed will begin paring the $85 billion monthly bond-buying
program that has bolstered credit markets. Even as the U.S.
jobless rate fell to 7.4 percent, the data suggest the central
bank will continue its monetary policy measures, according to
Scott MacDonald, head of research at MC Asset Management
Holdings LLC.  “We didn’t see as much employment generation as
expected,” MacDonald said in a telephone interview from
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The jobs market is still well away
from” the Fed’s jobless target, he said.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Dell Swaps  The cost to protect bonds of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  from default jumped
as founder  Michael Dell  agreed to sweeten his proposal to buy
the company to as much as $24.9 billion with a special dividend,
according to a statement today from the board committee.  Five-year swaps tied to the debt of the PC-maker widened
54.5 basis points to 405 basis points as of 11:43 a.m. in New
York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw
Hill Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted on the privately
negotiated market.  Dell and partner Silver Lake Management LLC are offering a
dividend of 13 cents a share on top of an already-increased
$13.75-a-share bid for the computer maker.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt widened
2.9 basis points to 129.1 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Sales  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 8.2 basis points to 364.6 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Corporate bond sales in the U.S. dropped 42 percent this
week to about $22 billion, with issuance falling below this
year’s average.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest provider of hydraulic-fracturing services, raised $3 billion to fund share buybacks
and Houston-based  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  issued $1.75
billion of debt, leading the slowest week since the period ended
July 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales compare
with $37.9 billion last week and a 2013 weekly average of $29.7
billion.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 9.6 basis points to 559.7 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  