-- U.S. Treasury Extends Measure to Avoid Exceeding Debt Limit
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-08-02T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/u-s-treasury-extends-measure-to-avoid-exceeding-debt-limit.html
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told
Congress today he’s extending a measure that enables the U.S. to
stay under the $16.7 trillion  debt ceiling,  as the Obama
administration and Republican lawmakers remain in a stalemate on
raising the limit.  Lew told congressional leaders in a letter that he is
extending until Oct. 11 a “debt-issuance suspension period”
that was to expire today under the statute governing the Civil
Service Retirement and Disability Fund. The step, one of the so-called extraordinary measures the Treasury takes allowing it to
maintain its borrowing ability, doesn’t necessarily mean the
debt limit will be reached Oct. 11, the last day Congress is in
session before a Columbus Day recess.  “I respectfully urge Congress to protect America’s good
credit and avoid the potentially catastrophic consequences of
failing to act by increasing the debt limit in a timely
fashion,” Lew said in the letter, which was released by the
Treasury Department.  The Treasury has said it probably will be able to finance
government operations until after Labor Day on Sept. 2, while
the Bipartisan Policy Center in  Washington  said in July the
limit will be reached between mid-October and mid-November
unless Congress raises it before then.  Lew told NBC’s “Meet the Press” on July 28 that
“Congress needs to do its job” and raise the limit “in a way
that doesn’t create a crisis.” House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, said July 23 that Republicans won’t agree to
raise the ceiling without spending cuts, threatening a showdown
with President  Barack Obama .  Republican Lawmakers  Two years ago, Republican lawmakers and the White House
battled for months before Obama signed an increase into law on
Aug. 2, 2011, the day the Treasury Department warned that U.S.
borrowing authority would expire.  Standard & Poor’s , which days later downgraded the U.S. one
step to AA+, changed its outlook in June of this year to
“stable” from “negative.”  The downgrade by S&P, the world’s largest credit rater,
contributed to a global stock-market rout.  U.S. government debt 
lost none of its attraction for investors, though. Yields on
 Treasury securities  dropped to record lows rather than going
higher after the downgrade. Yields on 10-year Treasuries dropped
0.74 percentage point in the seven weeks following the downgrade
to a then-record 1.67 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  