-- U.S. to Keep Health Premium Subsidy for Lawmakers, Staff
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-08-02T04:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/u-s-to-keep-health-premium-subsidy-for-lawmakers-staff.html
The U.S. government will keep paying
the medical-insurance premium subsidy for members of Congress
and thousands of legislative branch employees who starting next
year will be forced off the federal civilian benefits plan by
the 2010 health-care law.  The  Office of Personnel Management  has told Congress that
premium subsidy payments would continue, according to two Senate
aides who asked not to be identified discussing the matter. U.S.
lawmakers and other congressional workers will be required to
purchase coverage starting Oct. 1 from health-care exchanges set
up under the law, House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
California said in a statement last night.  While President  Barack Obama  has pledged that Americans
could keep their health plan under the Affordable Care Act, that
promise didn’t extend to Congress. The OPM move would ease the
potential pay cut from obligating legislative-branch workers to
buy insurance outside the federal civilian  plan , which pays 75
percent of the premiums’ cost.  Oklahoma Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  has been holding up
the nomination of Katherine Archuleta to be the next director of
OPM, the government’s personnel agency, until he gets an answer
to that question.  If he gets an answer he doesn’t like, Coburn said he’ll
propose legislation to make sure that congressional aides -- not
lawmakers -- are kept in the government’s health-care plan.
The measure would state that congressional aides and employees
would remain in the federal employee health-care program.  ‘Second Class’  “I am not going to punish federal employees because they
happen to work for Congress,” Coburn said in an interview. They
shouldn’t be part of a “second class because they work here
rather than somewhere else” in the government, he said. Without
such a change in the law, if needed, “we are going to lose too
many employees and they are too good and they work too hard.”  The personnel agency will announce its decision today, the
Washington Post reported, citing an unnamed administration
official. Pelosi said in her statement that the law would reduce
health-care costs, hold insurance companies accountable and
strengthen patients’ rights.  “We will continue our efforts this August to educate
consumers on the law’s provisions and tout the critical benefits
already in place for millions of Americans,” Pelosi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  