-- U.S. Retailers Add Most Jobs in Eight Months
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-08-02T21:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/u-s-retailers-add-most-jobs-in-eight-months.html
U.S. retailers added 46,800 workers
in July, the most in eight months, as consumers become more
comfortable spending money, marking a bright spot in a jobs
report that indicated uneven progress in the labor market.  Companies that have been  hiring  range from luxury retailers
such as  Nordstrom (JWN)  Inc. and Saks Inc., which are expanding their
outlet chains, to Dollar General Corp. and  Tractor Supply Co. (TSCO) ,
which supply items their customers have to buy. General
merchandise stores added 9,100 jobs last month, and building-material and garden-supply stores added 5,700, Labor Department
data showed today in  Washington .  “You’ve got sectors of the retail universe that are doing
relatively well, and it’s the retailers that are selling”
necessary items, Bryan Gildenberg, Boston-based chief knowledge
officer at Kantar Retail, said in a phone interview. “There’s
some pent-up demand among shoppers.”  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose 0.5 percent in June, in line with economists’
forecasts. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index has risen in six
of the past seven weeks and last week reached the highest level
in more than five years.  That confidence is being reflected among retailers that
sell discretionary merchandise as well. Clothing and accessories
retailers added 4,300 jobs, a 0.3 percent increase from June.  The boost likely comes from retailers who have developed
strong specialty brands that are resonating more with their
consumers, such as  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  and  Lululemon Athletica
Inc. (LULU) , Gildenberg said.  ‘National Brands’  “They’ve been expanding their physical footprint because
they’ve been able to create national brands,” Gildenberg said
in a phone interview. “They’ve done a nice job of building
really strong brands and layering retail on top of it.”  Lululemon, based in  Vancouver , opened 38 stores in North
America,  Australia  and New Zealand in the quarter ended May 5.  Nordstrom has accelerated its expansion of Rack outlet
stores, and Saks has been opening more outlets, called OFF 5TH.
Neiman Marcus Group Inc. also has been adding its Last Call
outlets.  Store openings by Dollar General, the largest U.S. dollar-store chain, created 650 jobs in July, according to Dan
MacDonald, a spokesman for the Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based
company.  Tractor Supply, the Brentwood, Tennessee-based farm-gear
chain, plans to add about 400 jobs in the third quarter as it
opens locations, said Randy Guiler, a spokesman. He declined to
disclose the company’s hiring in July.  Trailing Estimates  The retail industry’s strength was a positive in a jobs
report that trailed economists’ estimates. The 162,000 total
increase in payrolls last month was the smallest in four months
and followed a revised 188,000 rise in June that was less than
initially estimated.  The median forecast of 93 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 185,000 worker gain last month. Workers also spent
fewer hours on the job and hourly earnings fell for the first
time since October.  Even many of the new retail jobs may be low-wage and part-time positions. Occupations paying below-average wages accounted
for more than half of last month’s U.S. payroll increase, a
dynamic that may restrain consumer spending and the economic
recovery.  “The pattern of growth for retail has been positive, and
it reflects that the consumer has a positive view of the
world,” Jack Kleinhenz, chief economist for the National Retail
Federation, said in a phone interview. “But we’re not going to
see the consumer lift the economy on their own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  