-- Apple Calls U.S. Proposal for E-Books Order Draconian
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-08-02T21:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/u-s-proposes-termination-of-apple-publisher-agreements.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  called the U.S. Justice
Department’s proposal for a court order regulating the company’s
sale of electronic books “draconian and punitive.”  The federal government and 33 states submitted the proposal
today in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. They asked the judge
who ruled that Apple conspired to fix prices of e-books to order
the company to cancel existing agreements with five publishers.
The proposal also called for the court to appoint someone to
monitor antitrust compliance at Apple for 10 years.  “Plaintiffs’ proposed injunction is a draconian and
punitive intrusion into Apple’s business,” the company
responded in a court filing. “Plaintiffs propose a sweeping and
unprecedented injunction as a tool to empower the government to
regulate Apple’s businesses.”  The government’s proposal would require Apple to find a new
way to do business with publishers, and might affect its sale of
music and other media as well. Sales of e-books, music, movies
and software and services were $12.9 billion in 2012, 8.2
percent of Apple’s total revenue. Apple introduced e-books in
2010 to boost the appeal of the newly unveiled iPad tablet as a
reading device.  “From a financial standpoint, this means nothing for
Apple,” John Bright, an analyst at Avondale Partners LLC, said
in an interview. “Strategically speaking, it is a setback. I
think Apple would now have to find different work-around
solutions for pricing. They would use the same publishers but
they would have to negotiate different solutions.”  Damages Trial  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, after a nonjury trial in
 Manhattan , ruled July 10 against Apple. The company, based in
Cupertino,  California , now faces another trial on damages.  The proposal submitted today needs court approval to become
effective. A hearing is scheduled for Aug. 9.  “Under the department’s proposed order, Apple’s illegal
conduct will cease and Apple and its senior executives will be
prevented from conspiring to thwart competition in the future,”
Bill Baer, the assistant attorney general in charge of the
antitrust division, said in a statement.  “The idea behind this proposal would certainly make the e-book industry more competitive,” Bright said. “By definition,
increased competitiveness in an industry leads to lower
prices.”  Bright has a market outperform rating on Apple’s shares,
the equivalent of a buy, and a $600 target price. Apple rose
1.3 percent to $462.54 at the close in  New York .  U.S. Suit  The U.S. sued Apple and five of the biggest publishers in
April 2012, claiming that the technology company pushed them to
allow it to sell digital copies of their books under a model
that raised prices and harmed consumers.  Under that so-called agency model, publishers, not
retailers, set book prices, with Apple getting 30 percent.
Amazon.com Inc., the largest seller of e-books, uses a wholesale
pricing model, in which the retailer sets the price. The U.S.
claimed that the conspiracy between publishers and Apple was
designed to stop Amazon from selling best-selling e-books for as
little as $9.99.  The publishers -- Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck
GmbH’s  Macmillan  unit,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster ,  Lagardere
SCA (MMB) ’s  Hachette Book Group ,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and News
Corp.’s  HarperCollins  -- settled with the government.  ‘Already Remedied’  Apple said in its filing that the government’s proposal to
regulate the company’s business with publishers is unnecessary
because antitrust concerns were “already remedied” by consent
decrees the publishers agreed to as part of their settlements.  The company also objects to the government’s attempt to
regulate its sale and use of electronic applications on devices
such as the iPad. The plan includes a requirement that Apple
allow competitors such as Amazon to provide links from their e-book applications to their own electronic bookstores.  Such a move would “entrench Amazon’s dominant position”
as a seller of e-books, Apple said in the court filing.  In its proposal for the appointment of an external
compliance monitor, the  Justice Department  said Apple should pay
the salary and expenses. The person would work with an internal
antitrust compliance officer who would be hired by and report to
the outside directors on Apple’s audit committee, according to
the plan.  The government’s proposal extends to media other than
electronic books. It would prohibit Apple from entering
agreements with suppliers of music, movies, television shows and
other content if those deals are likely to increase the prices
at which their competitors sell them.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  