-- Lufthansa Reiterates Outlook as Restructuring Gains Speed
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-02T06:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/lufthansa-reiterates-outlook-as-restructuring-plan-gains-speed.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest airline, said restructuring efforts are starting
to pay off as an efficiency push helps improve earnings.  Second-quarter operating profit rose to 438 million euros
($579 million) from 269 million euros a year earlier, when
adjusted for restructuring costs and one-off items, Lufthansa
said today. Reported operating profit fell 27 percent to 431
million euros. Sales were little changed at 7.89 billion euros.  “Score and Lufthansa are gaining speed” Chief Financial
Officer Simone Menne said on a call with journalists, referring
to the name of the company’s efficiency program.
“Implementation of the steps adopted in various projects is
going according to plan.  Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz is seeking to wring
savings from the company with a plan that includes shedding
3,500 jobs and transferring all continental traffic outside its
main hubs to its Germanwings low-cost brand.  The airline plans to lift operating profit to a record 2.3
billion euros by 2015. The company reiterated a  forecast  for
higher sales and operating profit this year, without being more
specific. The Cologne, Germany-based company restated 2012
numbers to reflect a change in accounting standards.  Savings Program  Lufthansa on June 5 said its combined 2,500 projects under
the ‘‘Score’’ program have the potential to contribute 2.71
billion euros to operating profit over three years, up from 2.41
billion a month earlier. The plan targets 740 million euros in
gross earnings contribution this year, while Lufthansa at the
end of April had identified projects that may be able to provide
954 million euros.  ‘‘Germanwings is being extremely well received by the
market and can already point to some gratifying results,’’ CFO
Menne said. Tickets for the enlarged low-cost brand have been
available online since July 1.  The proportion of revenue generated with first and business
class tickets on long-haul flights fell to 50.6 percent in the
first half, down 2.8 percentage points from last year, as
Lufthansa expanded economy-class seating by 1.4 percent and
offered 8 percent fewer seats in premium classes.  Total yield fell 1 percent in the period, while forward
booking trends indicate overall yields will remain stable, the
company said. Lufthansa said capacity this year will rise 0.7
percent as the company uses planes with more seats, trimming an
earlier target of 1 percent. For the upcoming winter schedule,
capacity offered will grow 1.1 percent.  Lufthansa continues to expect a 7-billion-euro fuel bill
for this year, after fuel expenses fell 2.5 percent in the first
half. The company on July 31 said it will raise fuel surcharges
for business and first class tickets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  