-- Mugabe Set for Zimbabwe Vote Win as Tsvangirai Cries Foul
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d ,   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-08-03T10:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/mugabe-set-for-zimbabwe-vote-win-as-tsvangirai-cries-foul.html
President Robert Mugabeappeared set
to win a mandate to rule Zimbabwe until he’s 94 as his party
secured a majority in parliament in elections that African
nations endorsed and his main rival called a “farce.”  Results from the electoral commission late yesterday gave
Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front 136 of
the 210 elected seats in parliament, four shy of a two-thirds
majority, compared with 46 for Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai ’s Movement for Democratic Change, and one for an
independent. The tally for the presidential race wasn’t
released. Tsvangirai said widespread rigging meant the July 31
elections were “null and void.”  Both the African Union and the  Southern African Development
Community , which sent the biggest international observer teams,
endorsed the elections as largely free and fair. The main local
monitoring team, the Zimbabwe Election Support Network, said
balloting was “seriously compromised.”  “It’s a coup by ballot,” Tsvangirai said in a pre-recorded interview with Johannesburg-based broadcaster eNCA
screened today. “It’s a travesty of justice. I am not going to
concede defeat over this. I can only concede defeat in an honest
contest.”  Zimbabwe  Electoral Commission member Mkhululi Nyathi quit
over the manner in which the elections were conducted, the
Harare-based Newsday newspaper reported today, citing his
resignation letter. Commission spokesman Shupikai Mashereni
declined to comment.  Little Backing  Tsvangirai, 61, made a series of complaints against the
election, in which he was bidding to end the 33-year rule of
Mugabe, 89. He said thousands of people were turned away from
polling stations because they weren’t on the electoral roll,
voters were bused to cast ballots outside their home areas and
the election process was controlled by the security forces.  He received little backing for his complaints from African
countries. The AU and SADC should insist on doing an audit of
the election, Tsvangirai said during the interview.  “It’s a classic case of electoral authoritarianism, where
elections are used but only to legitimize the regime,” Judy
Smith-Hohn, foreign policy analyst at the South African
 Institute of International Affairs , said yesterday by phone from
 Pretoria .  The head of the African Union observer mission, former
Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo, said incidents during the
election didn’t invalidate the vote. “The election is free”
and “fairly credible,” he told reporters.  Endorsing Elections  Speaking for SADC, Tanzanian Foreign Minister Bernard Membe
said that while the vote was “free and peaceful” the regional
body hadn’t determined if it was fair. In a separate interview,
Membe said, “we are endorsing the elections.”  “The focus was on whether the vote was peaceful, not
whether it was a proper election,” said Smith-Hohn. “The
credibility of SADC and the AU as neutral observers is seriously
called into question” if they back the outcome without
grievances of the MDC and others being investigated.  The local monitoring group, which had almost 10 times as
many observers as the  African Union  and SADC, said as many as 1
million voters in the MDC’s urban strongholds were left off the
voters roll.  “Before election day the voter registration process was
systematically biased against urban voters,” the Zimbabwean
monitoring group said in an e-mailed statement on Aug. 1. “A
total of 99.97 percent of rural voters were registered versus
only 67.94 percent of urban voters.”  ‘Highly Compromised’  The “credibility, legitimacy, free and fair conduct” of
the elections and “their reliability as the true expression of
the will of the people of Zimbabwe have been highly
compromised”, a body of non-governmental groups from around
SADC, which deployed 150 observers to mainly rural areas said in
an Aug. 2 statement.  The MDC’s National Executive Council started a two-day
meeting yesterday to review the elections, party spokesman
Douglas Mwonzora said.  The MDC “has to look at its shortcomings,” Gwinyayi
Dzinesa, a senior researcher with the Pretoria-based  Institute
for Security Studies , said yesterday in phone interview from
Harare. “Regardless of the election irregularities, Zanu-PF did
its homework.”  The rejection of the vote by Tsvangirai followed a campaign
largely free of the violence that marred the last Mugabe-Tsvangirai contest in 2008.  Power Sharing  That year, Tsvangirai led the first round of the election
before he pulled out of a run-off, saying that about 200 of his
supporters had been killed. The MDC beat Zanu-PF in the
parliamentary ballot. The 15-nation SADC negotiated a power-sharing agreement in 2009, leaving Mugabe as president and
Tsvangirai as prime minister.  The MDC is not willing to again join a government of
national unity should the opportunity be presented to the party
and won’t lead a revolution, Tsvangirai told eNCA.  Saviour Kasukuwere, a member of Zanu-PF’s politburo and
minister for indigenization, as Mugabe’s program to increase the
holdings of black Zimbabweans in the economy is known, called
the election “a resounding stamp of approval for our policies”
during a telephone interview Aug. 1.  Mugabe and Zanu-PF have forced mining companies such as
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) 
to cede a majority share of their local assets to black
Zimbabweans or the government. The southern African nation has
the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome reserves as well
as deposits of diamonds, gold and coal. Tsvangirai has promised
to repeal the measure.  “We are very happy, smiling, victory is on our side,”
Zanu-PF spokesman  Rugare Gumbo  told reporters yesterday in
Harare.  Those who lost should “pursue legally established channels
to resolve any disputes that may arise relating to the outcome”
of the elections, Bethuel Kiplagat, head of the election
observer mission from the  Common Market  for Eastern and Southern
Africa, told reporters in Harare today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Harare at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare  at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  