-- Mugabe Win Prospect in Disputed Vote Threatens Economy
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-08-02T15:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/mugabe-win-prospect-in-disputed-vote-threatens-economy.html
The prospect of a victory for
Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe  in an election rejected by
his main challenger as a sham threatens to derail an economy
that was emerging from a decade-long recession.  Mugabe, 89, has led the southern African nation for 33
years, the past four of them in a fractious coalition with the
Movement for Democratic Change, led by  Morgan Tsvangirai . As
president, he has passed laws that compel foreign-owned
companies, including miners such as  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP) , to cede majority stakes to black Zimbabweans or the
government.  Under the coalition government, imposed on Mugabe by the
15-nation  Southern African Development Community  in 2009 after
disputed elections, MDC-appointed ministers abolished the
national currency in favor of the use of currencies including
the dollar, cut the inflation rate to 1.9 percent from the 500
billion percent estimated by the  International Monetary Fund  and
oversaw four consecutive years of economic growth. The economy
shrank 39 percent in the eight years prior to the power-sharing
government after Mugabe authorized the seizing of white-owned
farms for redistribution to black subsistence farmers.  “The country is back to square one,” Nhlahla Mpofu, an
economist at investment group 4Cast Research, said in a phone
interview yesterday from Bulawayo, Zimbabwe’s second-biggest
city. “The country is not going to have foreign direct
investment.”  The country’s benchmark  stock index  fell for the first day
in six, declining 0.8 percent to 231.21 points.  Voter Fraud  Mugabe’s campaign pledges included plans to enforce a
program, known as indigenization, to compel foreign-owned
companies to cede 51 percent stakes. That would give Zimbabweans
control of the local units of banks such as  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)  He also plans to reintroduce the local
currency, which fueled hyper-inflation after the central bank
printed the currency to meet expenses.  Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa, a senior member of
Zanu-PF, told reporters today in the capital, Harare, that the
multi-currency system will continue as it’s been beneficial for
the country.  Tsvangirai, who is prime minister in the coalition
government, said yesterday his party views the July 31 election
as “null and void” because of alleged widespread voter fraud
and warned the results may threaten stability. Results released
gave Zanu-PF 137 of the 210 elected seats in parliament and the
MDC 48 seats. No results for the presidential vote have been
released yet.  Compromised Election  Thousands of Zimbabweans were turned away from voting sites
because they weren’t on the electoral roll, voters were bussed
to cast ballots outside their home areas and the election
process was controlled by the security forces, Tsvangirai told
reporters in Harare.  The  Zimbabwe  Election Support Network, one of the nation’s
biggest domestic observer missions with 7,000 monitors, said in
a statement yesterday that the credibility of the vote was
“seriously compromised,” with as many as 1 million urban
voters unable to cast ballots.  Observer missions from the African Union and SADC today
described the polls as peaceful and free.  “The prospects of a clean and credible and legitimate
election smoothing the way for a sustained economic rebound is
evaporating rapidly,” Iraj Abedian, chief executive officer at
Johannesburg-based Pan-African Investment and Research Services,
said in a phone interview. “Zimbabwe faces the prospect of
falling into another period of volatile economic and financial
markets.”  Crumbling Infrastructure  Tsvangirai and the MDC challenged Mugabe and his party in
four elections between 2000 and 2008, all of which were marred
by violence and irregularities, according to most observers,
including the European Union and the U.S., which imposed travel
bans and asset freezes on Mugabe and his closest allies. Some of
the sanctions were lifted in March after the nation had a
peaceful referendum on a new constitution.  Zimbabwe faces power shortages, crumbling infrastructure
and rampant poverty, with the IMF estimating annual per-capita
income, adjusted for currency variations, in a nation of 13.1
million at $589, the lowest in sub-Saharan  Africa  after the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo.  Economic growth is set to slow to 3.4 percent this year,
from 5 percent in 2012 after commodity prices fell, according to
Finance Minister  Tendai Biti , who is also secretary-general of
the MDC. Zimbabwe has the world’s second-biggest platinum and
chrome reserves after  South Africa  as well as deposits of
diamonds, iron-ore, gold and coal.  Indigenization Law  “Mugabe cheated,” Paradzai Malaya, a 30-year-old father
of one who sells mobile-phone credit on the side of a road in
the Harare suburb of Marlborough, said in an interview today.
“Things will fall down. I don’t think that man can lead this
country. The economy will suffer.”  Investor sentiment may be further undermined if Mugabe
follows through with plans to more rigorously implement his
indigenization law, which has affected companies including  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) 
Earlier this year he said that the government should not pay for
its stakes, contradicting agreements already in place.  Impala, Aquarius and Anglo American Platinum declined to
comment on the outcome of the elections.  “It’s going to be very difficult to fund further
expansion” in Zimbabwe, Mark Bryson, a platinum analyst at
Avior Research said by phone from Johannesburg yesterday.
“There is a very slippery slope these guys are traveling on. It
doesn’t look positive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  