-- Tunisia Hits Islamist Mountain Hideouts After Killings
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-02T11:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/tunisia-hits-islamist-mountain-hideouts-after-killings.html
Tunisian aircraft struck the mountain
hideouts of al-Qaeda-linked militants accused of killing eight
soldiers last week, amid accusations that authorities have
failed to confront radical Islamists.  Bir Ouled Nasrallah and Ras Ethour near Mount Chaambi, in
the western Kasserine province on the border with  Algeria , were
bombed at around 5:30 a.m., Mosaique FM radio reported today.
Tunisian ground troops also battled militants in the area,
 Agence France-Presse  said.  The fighting marks an intensification of a campaign that
began after the fatal shooting of a National Guardsman in
December, and follows the deaths of eight soldiers found in the
area on July 30. Five of the corpses were mutilated.  Tunisia’s moderate Islamist government is facing calls for
its resignation in rallies sparked by the July 25 assassination
of opposition leader Mohamed Brahmi, the second killing of a
secular politician this year.  The Tunisian General Labor Union, the nation’s largest with
at least 500,000 members, said it would be “forced to
consider” options if authorities fail to agree a new government
of technocrats within a week, according to a statement on its
website. It didn’t give further details.  Prime Minister Ali Larayedh has rejected calls for the
ruling coalition to step down and has vowed that it will fulfill
its mandate and present a new constitution this month. He has
also proposed general elections in December.  Brahmi and Chukri Beleid, another secular opposition leader
assassinated in February, were killed with the same weapon by a
radical Islamist named as Boubaker Hakim, according to the
government. Beleid’s death led to the downfall of Prime Minister
Hamadi Jebali, undermining the transition to democracy in the
birthplace of the 2011 Arab Spring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  