-- Vesuvius Soars After Earnings Show Success of Focus on Steel
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-02T14:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/vesuvius-soars-after-earnings-show-success-of-focus-on-steel.html
Vesuvius Plc (VSVS) , a U.K. supplier of
molten metal flow engineering to steelmakers, rose the most in
four years after first-half earnings beat analysts’ estimates,
signaling its successful demerger from Cookson Group.  “Vesuvius has thumped our expectation out of the park with
71 million pounds of operating profit,” said Harry Philips, an
 analyst  at Oriel Securities Ltd. who had predicted earnings of
58 million pounds ($88 million). He reiterated a buy
recommendation.  The stock  jumped  as much as 20 percent to 530 pence, the
biggest intraday gain since May 2009. Vesuvius was created
from Cookson in December 2012. The shares were up 12 percent at
3 p.m. in London. Trading volume was more than three times the
three-month daily average.  Vesuvius has disposed of its precious metals processing and
solar crucibles businesses and said today it sold a low-margin
refractory installation business in  Canada . First-half sales
declined 5.6 percent from a year earlier to 773 million pounds.
The London-based company is affected by the level of global
steel production, which it said fell outside  China  in the first
half.  “We have delivered a strong performance, more than held
our own, and outside of China outperformed a steel production
decline,” Chief Executive Officer Francois Wanecq said today in
a phone interview. “I am happy with what the business has
achieved in the first half of the year of its new life.”  The outlook for second-half trading will become more clear
after customers’ normal summer shutdowns in Europe, the company
said. Vesuvius will expand to target technical services in the
thermal-casting industry as it restructures, and has invested in
new technology in South Korea for robotic casting, Wanecq said.  “It is hard to fault” Vesuvius’s results, Michael Blogg,
an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd., said in a note.
“However, the market background is not improving as we had
expected.” Blogg placed his buy recommendation under review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in  London  at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  