-- Viacom Surges After Buyback Program Boosted to $20 Billion
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-08-02T20:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/viacom-falls-short-of-profit-estimates-as-expenses-increase.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA) , owner of cable networks
MTV and Nickelodeon, surged in trading after the company doubled
its stock buyback program to $20 billion -- more than half its
market value -- and posted higher-than-estimated sales.  The shares gained 6.5 percent to $79.17 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day gain in almost two years. The bonds
fell, meanwhile, as ratings companies downgraded its debt.  In addition to the repurchases, a 6 percent gain in fiscal
third-quarter ad sales was “a positive surprise,” according to
Todd Juenger, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Licensing
fees paid by cable and satellite systems also rose, increasing
28 percent in the period. Viacom expects the fees to rise in the
high “single-digit” percentages in the September quarter, with
advertising revenue climbing 6 percent or higher.  The New York-based company, which relies on its television
business for more than 90 percent of annual operating income, is
benefiting from steady gains in affiliate fees from pay-TV
systems that carry Viacom’s networks. And while younger viewers
are watching MTV and Nickelodeon less, advertisers have few
alternatives to reach those age groups, according to Juenger.  “We expect the market will be happy,” Juenger said in a
research note today. The New York-based analyst has the
equivalent of a hold rating on the shares.  The shares have climbed 50 percent this year, reaching a
record high.  Buyback Pace  Viacom,  controlled  by billionaire  Sumner Redstone , said it
will continue its current pace of share repurchases -- except
for the next few months, when it will acquire an additional $2
billion in shares. The company’s market value as of today’s
close is $38.4 billion.  The company had an average of 491.9 million diluted shares
outstanding in the third quarter, down 7.3 percent from a year
earlier. Reducing the number of shares in circulation helps
increase the value of the stock investors own.  Still, the move led Moody’s Investors Service to downgrade
the company’s long-term debt rating to Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade, from Baa1. The ratings service expressed
concern that the buyback would increase debt.  “The company’s decision to accelerate share repurchases is
a result of slowing revenue growth in recent years, and appears
to be a one-time effort to smooth over the anemic growth by
returning more capital to win the favor of shareholders,” the
ratings service said today in a statement.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Viacom, which typically rise as
investor confidence deteriorates and fall as it improves,
climbed 11.4 basis points to 66.6 basis points at 4:04 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg prices. The contracts pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The company’s $1.45 billion of 4.375 percent bonds due 2043
dropped 4 cents to 82.5 cents on the dollar to yield 5.58
percent at 3:42 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry  Excluding some items, earnings were $1.29 a share, missing
the $1.30 analysts predicted on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income increased 20 percent to $643 million, or $1.31 a
share, from $534 million, or $1.01, a year earlier. Sales rose
14 percent to $3.69 billion. Analysts had estimated $3.57
billion on average.  The company’s cable networks had “very good growth” in
prime-time ratings, Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Dauman  said
on a conference call following the earnings report. “It really
helps us drive advertising sales as the value of ratings in
those time periods is critical for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  