-- Wal-Mart Calif. Workers Can’t Sue for Sex-Bias as Group
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-08-03T01:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/wal-mart-calif-workers-can-t-sue-for-sex-bias-as-group.html
Women  Wal-Mart Stores  Inc. workers in
 California  suing for gender discrimination can’t pursue their
claims against the retailer as a group because the evidence
didn’t show they had enough in common, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in San Francisco said
the women’s request for class certification suffered from the
same deficiencies as an earlier version of the case brought on
behalf of a national group of more than 1 million women. That
case was thrown out by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2011.  “To show a common question underlying their disparate
treatment claims, plaintiffs must provide ‘significant proof
that Wal-Mart operated under a general policy of
discrimination,’” Breyer said in his ruling. “They have not
amassed sufficient anecdotal evidence of bias and stereotyped
thinking among management to establish significant proof of a
general policy of discrimination within any management group.”  The sex-bias case was originally filed in  San Francisco  in
2001 by women at a handful of Wal-Mart stores claiming they were
denied pay and promotions. It was certified as a class action
covering more than 1 million employees after lawyers for the
workers convinced a judge that Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart’s employment policies meant women at hundreds of stores
across the U.S. were subject to similar treatment.  Texas Dismissal  After the Supreme Court rejected the nationwide group,
lawyers re-filed cases representing groups of women in different
states. In October, Wal-Mart won dismissal of a lawsuit seeking
to represent female workers in  Texas .  While the women compiled substantial evidence of
discrimination at Wal-Mart stores, that wasn’t enough to
overcome the  Supreme Court ’s instruction when it rejected the
nationwide class, Breyer said.  “Rather than identify an employment practice and define a
class around it, plaintiffs continue to challenge the
discretionary decisions of hundreds of decision makers, while
arbitrarily confining their proposed class to corporate regions
that include stores in California, among other states,” he
said.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, said in an e-mailed
statement that the plaintiffs’ claims are “unsuitable” to be
treated as a class action because of the differing situations of
each individual.  ‘Great Place’  The ruling “rejects the attempt of a few associates to
turn their individual complaints into a sweeping and unwarranted
class action,” according to the statement. Wal-Mart is a
“great place for women to work and advance” and the
allegations of the five plaintiffs in this case “are not
representative of the positive experiences that hundreds of
thousands of women have had working at Wal-Mart,” the company
said.  Jocelyn Larkin, an attorney for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  The California case is Dukes v.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , 01-cv-02252, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco). The Supreme Court case is Wal-Mart v. Dukes,
10-00277, U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  