-- Wheat Costs in Japan to Gain for 3rd Time as Abenomics Bites
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-08-02T08:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/wheat-costs-in-japan-to-climb-for-third-time-as-abenomics-bites.html
Wheat prices in  Japan , which imports
60 percent of its food, are poised to increase for the third
time in a year, adding to inflation as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic stimulus weakens the yen and boosts costs.  Foreign wheat sold by the government to flour millers
including  Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. (2002)  will probably rise about 5
percent in October from 54,990 yen ($553) a metric ton on
average, according to the U.S. Wheat Associates. The Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries will decide on prices this
month, based on purchasing costs in the six months through
August, said grain-trade director Sunao Orihara.  The increase will add to expenses for producers from noodle
maker  Nissin Foods Holdings Co. (2897)  to  Yamazaki Baking Co. (2212) , which
raised bread prices as much as 6 percent last month. Higher food
costs are helping Abe’s campaign to achieve a goal of 2 percent
inflation for sustained growth. Consumer prices gained the most
since 2008 in June, signaling the world’s third-biggest economy
may be starting to shake off 15 years of deflation. Wheat costs
rose 10 percent in April and 3 percent in October.  “We expect another increase in yen-based wheat prices,
despite a retreat in the international market, as Japan’s
currency remains weak against the dollar,” Charlie Utsunomiya,
director at the  Tokyo  office of U.S. Wheat Associates, said in
an interview, based on sales through July.  Price Goal  The yen has declined 15 percent against the dollar this
year and slid to 103.74 on May 22, the weakest level in more
than four years. Abe pushed the  Bank of Japan  to expand stimulus
and double its inflation target to 2 percent to jolt the economy
onto a growth path. In Japan, a weaker yen spurred a 39 percent
advance in  Japanese stocks  this year and boosted earnings for
exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp. and Sony Corp.  Masaaki Kadota,  executive director  at Japan’s Flour Millers
Association, expects a 5 percent increase in wheat prices to add
about 14 billion yen a year in industry costs.  Japan,  Asia ’s second-largest wheat buyer after  Indonesia 
last year, depends on imports for almost 90 percent of the grain.
The U.S. was the biggest shipper to Japan last fiscal year,
representing 58 percent of the total, ministry data show. Canada
was the second supplier with 1.2 million tons or 23 percent,
followed by  Australia  with 925,000 tons.  The Agriculture Ministry controls overseas purchases and
domestic sales of wheat to stabilize supply, and reviews prices
to local millers every six months.  Wheat in  Chicago  slid 15 percent this year on prospects for
abundant global supplies and traded at $6.615 a bushel at 5:45
p.m. in Tokyo. Futures surged 19 percent in 2012, the biggest
gain among the 24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index.  Food Companies  Japanese food makers have started to pass the increases
onto consumers. Meiji Holdings Co. will raise milk prices by as
much as 4 percent from October, citing higher feed costs and the
yen’s decline. Mayonnaise maker  Kewpie Corp.  and bread producer
 First Baking Co. (2215)  raised prices in July by as much as 9 percent
and 7 percent.  Consumer prices  in Japan excluding fresh food increased 0.4
percent in June from a year earlier as the Bank of Japan’s
unprecedented monetary stimulus weakened the yen and made
imports more costly. A growing number of Japanese anticipate
inflation to gain traction, with a BOJ report on July 5 showing
that 80.2 percent of people surveyed expect prices to rise in
the next 12 months, the highest since September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  