-- Which A-Rod Contract Worst in Baseball Yankees or Rangers Decide
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-08-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/which-a-rod-contract-worst-in-baseball-yankees-or-rangers-decide.html
Alex Rodriguez holds the most-burdensome contract to any team in U.S. sports history. Sports
economists just aren’t sure which Rodriguez deal is the worst.  Rodriguez, a 14-time Major League Baseball All-Star, is the
focus of a performance-enhancing drug investigation that may
keep him out of the sport through next season or even end his
career.  The 38-year-old third baseman is almost halfway through a
10-year, $275 million contract with the New York Yankees. Signed
in December 2007, it replaced a 10-year, $252 million deal with
the  Texas  Rangers. The first package produced three straight
last-place finishes, a 2004 trade to New York and a 2010
bankruptcy that left Rodriguez as the Rangers’ biggest creditor.
The Yankees deal preceded his admission of past doping --
spoiling a plan to celebrate his possible climb to the top of
the all-time home run leaders -- and declining play marked by
two hip operations.  “Ten, 20 years from now, if we’re sitting around talking
about the worst contracts, those are the two that will
immediately come to mind,” said Wayne McDonnell, an assistant
professor of sports management at New York University. “Just in
terms of dollars and cents, I think the two Alex Rodriguez deals
will probably go down in history as being the worst.”  Drug Probe  Including 2013, Rodriguez has $114 million remaining on the
contract through 2017. How much he gets depends on baseball
Commissioner Bud Selig, who is weighing the results of an
investigation into Biogenesis of America LLC, a shuttered
Florida anti-aging clinic linked to performance-enhancing drugs
for ballplayers. The Yankees’ third baseman was among them, and
Selig is considering a without-pay ban ranging from the 2013-14
seasons to lifetime, according to the Associated Press. The
shorter of those would still leave Rodriguez with three years
and $61 million.  Rodriguez has denied allegations that he received
performance-enhancing drugs from Biogenesis. Ron Berkowitz, a
spokesman for Rodriguez, didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  The Rangers agreed to pay $67 million of $179 million still
owed to Rodriguez when they traded him to New York in February
2004 for Alfonso Soriano and Joaquin Arias. Having won an
American League Most Valuable Player award with the last-place
Rangers in 2003, he added MVPs with the Yankees in 2005 and 2007.  Rodriguez then chose to opt out of the contract rather than
negotiate an extension with New York. The decision voided the
initial Rangers’ deal, eliminating a $21 million subsidy the
Yankees were receiving from Texas to pay Rodriguez.  Goodbye, Hank  Led by then-managing partner Hank Steinbrenner, the Yankees
worked to re-sign Rodriguez anyway, eventually reaching the
record $275 million deal, which included a $10 million signing
bonus.  “I think Hank Steinbrenner had a little bit of his dad in
him and realized the significance of star power,” McDonnell
said in a telephone interview, comparing the son to his late
father, George Steinbrenner. “I think Hank drove that engine
too much and in the years that followed, he’s become nonexistent
in the Yankee hierarchy.”  Alice McGillion, a spokeswoman for the Yankees through
Rubenstein Public Relations Inc., declined to comment on
Rodriguez’s contracts in an e-mail. Jason Zillo, a spokesman for
the team, didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment on the
packages.  With 518 home runs when he was re-signed, Rodriguez also
received $30 million in milestone incentives -- $6 million each
for matching career home-run totals of Willie Mays (660), Babe Ruth (714), Hank Aaron (755) and Barry Bonds (762), and when he
set a new mark. Rodriguez is stuck on 647 home runs, No. 5 all
time, and hasn’t played in the major leagues this season
following January hip surgery.  Changed Economics  “When the contract was signed, there was a lot of concern
among not just Major League Baseball, but all sports for the
dollars that were involved,” said Harvey Schiller, who was the
chief executive officer of YankeeNets LLC, the team’s broadcast
arm, when Rodriguez was acquired. “In terms of what was going
on in the economy and everything else five or six years ago, it
really changed the economics across all of sport in a pretty
dramatic way. What’s the real value of a player?”  True Value  Schiller, chairman of New York-Based  GlobalOptions Group
Inc. (GLOI) , said in a telephone interview that Rodriguez boosted
television ratings when he joined the Yankees, and that ratings
would rise if and when he returns. The team with a record 27
World Series championships is mired in next-to-last place in the
AL East, and ratings on YES are down 39 percent through last
week.  “Whether he’s given the true value in terms of marketing,
I would say no, especially when you compare him to Derek Jeter
or even the value you get out of guys like (Curtis) Granderson
or (Mark) Teixeira,” Schiller said. “For the Yankees, you’d
have to say that dollar for dollar, there was a better
investment in the rest of them.”  Determining the worst sports contract depends on whose
perspective you are taking and at what point you are taking it,
according to Andrew Zimbalist, an economist at Smith College in
Northampton,  Massachusetts , who has written a dozen books on the
business of sports.  In looking at the most problematic U.S. sports deals from
the vantage point of the day they were signed, “I’d say A-Rod’s
was on top,” Zimbalist said of the Yankees’ contract.  From the perspective of how the signing helped build a
franchise, the Rangers’ contract was worse, according to Andy Dolich, who has held operations-management positions in all four
major U.S. sports leagues.  Correcting Error  “You’re always going to look for a player to build the
team around and increase net value,” Dolich, a sports business
consultant for the London-based executive search firm Odgers
Berndtson, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think you
could say he necessarily did that with the Rangers, and whatever
the ultimate payout is going to be here at the end of these
negotiations, it will really be a correcting error in the
Yankees’ overall financial structure.”  The issue with both Rodriguez deals is their length,
Zimbalist said. The maximum length of National Basketball
Association contracts is five years and the National Hockey
League is eight years. Since much of the money in National
Football League contracts is not guaranteed, there is no limit.  “It’s really problematic whenever you sign a player for 10
years,” Zimbalist said. “If A-Rod didn’t prove that, Albert Pujols is proving it now.”  Pujols’s Pay  Pujols, who won three National League MVP awards with the
St. Louis Cardinals, signed a 10-year, $240 million contract in
December 2011 with the Los Angeles Angels, a deal that also pays
him $3 million if he gets 3,000 hits and $7 million if he passes
Bonds in home runs.  In the first season of the contract, Pujols batted .285
with 30 homers in 154 games, both lows for his 13-year career.
The 33-year-old first baseman and designated hitter hit .258
with 17 homers and 64 runs batted in over 99 games this year
before a season-ending foot injury.  “I thought the Albert Pujols contract was a really good
one at the time,” said J.C. Bradbury, a professor in the
department of exercise science and sport management at Kennesaw
State University in Kennesaw,  Georgia . “This guy has fallen
unexpectedly. It’s bizarre.”  Bradbury, who’s analyzed contract values and written books
including “Hot Stove Economics: Understanding Baseball’s Second
Season,” said statistically Rodriguez’s deal in 2009, when the
Yankees won their most recent World Series, was the worst in
baseball.  Fans’ Vote  In a Los Angeles Times online poll this week asking readers
which team was stuck with the worse contract between Rodriguez
and Pujols, 56 percent of the 2,338 respondents said the Yankees
and 44 percent said the Angels.  Others often cited as bad baseball contracts include Ryan Howard’s with the Philadelphia Phillies -- $125 million for five
years from 2012 to 2016. The 33-year-old first baseman, the NL
home-run leader in 2006 and 2008, played 71 games in 2012,
batting .219 with 14 homers. After knee surgery last month, he
probably will miss six to eight weeks and is batting .266 with
11 home runs in 2013.  DiPietro’s Millions  Mike Hampton’s eight-year, $121 million contract with the
Colorado Rockies was among the worst deals, said Bradbury. In
its first year, 2001, he went 14-13 with a 5.41 earned run
average. He went 7-15 the next season before being traded.  The New York Mets paid Bobby Bonilla $1.2 million on July 1
and will owe him that sum every year through 2035 because they
deferred a $5.9 million payment before buying him out before the
2000 season,  according to CBS Sports . Having retired in 2001,
he’ll be 72 when the payments end. Mets spokesman Jay Horwitz
declined to comment.  Before the NHL limited contract lengths, the New York
Islanders gave goalie Rick DiPietro a 15-year, $67.5 million
contract. DiPietro ended his Islanders’ career with a 130-136
record after being limited to 50 games over the past five
seasons due to injuries. The team bought out his contract last
month and will pay him $1.5 million each year through 2029.  Houston’s Problem  Bad NBA contracts often cited include the one Rashard Lewis
signed for six years and $118 million to join the Orlando Magic
in 2007. He was averaging 13.5 points per game when the team
traded him in 2010.  Allan Houston burdened the New York Knicks with a six-year,
$100 million contract in 2001. He was still getting paid in 2007,
two years after knee problems ended his playing days.  The NFL’s Albert Haynesworth signed a seven-year deal with
the Washington Redskins in 2009 worth $100 million, including
$41 million guaranteed. He was suspended for the final games of
the 2010 season for conduct detrimental to the team and traded
during the offseason.  None of those deals are as onerous to the team as A-Rod’s
is to the Yankees, said McDonnell, who created the “Business of
Baseball” course at NYU.  “There were certain numbers in this contract that made
your knees buckle,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  