-- TXU Loans Indicate Debt Restructure Before November Interest Due
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-08-02T20:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/txu-loans-indicate-debt-restructure-before-november-interest-due.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp.’s two
largest loans are trading at the closest level on record,
indicating the former TXU will reorganize before it has to make
a November interest payment, according to CreditSights Inc.  The energy producer’s $3.81 billion  term loan  that expires
in October 2014 traded at 70.8 cents today, 0.4 cent more than
its $15.4 billion term loan due in October 2017, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the narrowest price margin
between the two borrowings since the larger loan was arranged in
April 2011.  Energy Future is seeking to restructure at least $32
billion of obligations as it struggles under debt acquired since
it was taken private by KKR & Co. and TPG Capital six years ago
in the largest leveraged buyout in history. Secured creditors of
its unregulated unit will recover 74 to 78 cents on the dollar
in the event of a bankruptcy, CreditSights analysts led by  Andy DeVries  wrote in a report today.  “The lack of a hot July in  Texas  has eliminated any hope
of delaying a restructuring in 2013 and we view it as
increasingly likely TXU will restructure before the November
interest payment is made to Texas Competitive Electric Holdings
unsecured bondholders,” DeVries wrote in the report. “The
market agrees with this view as well” since the two loans are
trading closely together.  Voluntary Filing  Energy Future said in a quarterly earnings filing today it
has “engaged in additional discussions” with a broader group
of creditors and continues to evaluate changes in  capital
structure  that include voluntarily filing for Chapter 11
bankruptcy for some or all of the company, excluding power-line
unit Oncor Electric Delivery.  Talks include creditors of Energy Future Intermediate
Holdings, Oncor’s holding company, according to regulatory
filing today. Junior bondholders of that unit hired
restructuring advisers, people with knowledge of the matter said
last month.  Interest payments on $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent
unsecured bonds are due Nov. 1, according to a December 2008
prospectus for those securities. Those notes traded at 6.88
cents on the dollar today, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Energy Future reported a $71 million second-quarter loss,
down from $696 million a year earlier, the Dallas-based company
said today in a statement. First-lien debt is repaid first in a
default or bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 