-- Yahoo Said to Buy Rockmelt for More Than $50 Million
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-08-02T20:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-02/yahoo-said-to-buy-rockmelt-for-more-than-50-million.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  paid more than $50
million for Rockmelt Inc., a person with knowledge of the matter
said, as Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  seeks to revive
the Web portal by adding staff and technology from startups.  The deal values Rockmelt, a developer of Web-browsing
software, at as much as $70 million, said the person, who asked
not to be named because terms of the acquisition weren’t
announced. Rockmelt said it’s shutting down its website and
applications on Aug. 31.  Mayer has spent more than $1.2 billion to buy at least 20
startups in a shopping spree focused on bringing top engineering
talent back to Yahoo. Rockmelt’s team and underlying technology
will help Yahoo build tools for browsing content on the Internet
and mobile devices, the startup said on its blog.  “Yahoo and Rockmelt share a common goal: To help people
discover the best content from around the Web,” Rockmelt said
in the posting. “We plan to put everything we’ve learned to
work at Yahoo.”  Lauren Armstrong, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, declined to
comment on terms of the deal. The technology blog AllThingsD
earlier reported that Yahoo paid $60 million to $70 million for
Rockmelt.  Founded in 2008, Rockmelt had raised $40 million from top
venture capitalists including  Marc Andreessen  and  Vinod Khosla ,
who both served on its board. The startup began as a Web browser
that incorporated social-networking features from  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
and more recently developed mobile apps for reading popular
articles and sites on the go.  Recent Buys  Yahoo earlier this week disclosed that it has acquired
Palaran Inc., the operator of e-commerce service Lexity. That
followed recent deals for contact-management company Xobni Corp.
and mobile-video tool Qwiki Inc.  Mayer, who joined Yahoo a year ago, has made improvements
to messaging products in her bid to win users and advertisers
from Facebook and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Yahoo fell 1.1 percent to $27.65 at the close in New York,
leaving the shares up 39 percent this year, compared with a 20
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  