-- ‘Pain & Gain’ Leads Weekend Movies With $20.2 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-04-29T21:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/-pain-gain-opens-as-weekend-s-top-movie-with-20-million.html
The action film “Pain & Gain”
opened as the top film at theaters in the U.S. and Canada,
taking in $20.2 million for  Paramount Pictures (VIAB)  as studios looked
ahead to the start of the summer movie season.  “Oblivion,” the Tom Cruise science-fiction tale from
 Universal Pictures , dropped to second from first with $17.8
million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s “The Big
Wedding” was fourth with sales of $7.6 million in its debut.  Sales fell 15 percent from the year-earlier period as fans
awaited this week’s official kickoff of the summer blockbuster
season. May releases include  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Iron Man 3,”
Paramount’s “Star Trek Into Darkness” and Warner Bros.’ “The
Hangover Part III.” “Iron Man 3” opened internationally this
past weekend with $195.3 million in sales, said Hollywood.com.  “Some of the buzz on ‘Iron Man 3’ is particularly
strong,”  Paul Sweeney , director of North American research for
Bloomberg Industries, said in a telephone interview.  Summer typically accounts for about 40 percent of annual
box-office revenue, according to  Hollywood.com .  Disney cleared a major obstacle last week by reaching
revenue-sharing agreements with the three largest U.S. cinema
chains,  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , AMC Entertainment Holdings
Inc. and  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK)  to show “Iron Man 3.” The
chains had balked at Disney’s proposal to increase its share of
ticket sales. Terms of the agreements weren’t disclosed.  True Story  “Pain & Gain,” based on a true story, follows three
steroid-addled fitness buffs who try to boost their meager
incomes by kidnapping a wealthy client.  Mark Wahlberg  plays the
gang’s leader and  Dwayne Johnson  is one of his followers. “Pain
& Gain” was directed by “Transformers” filmmaker Michael Bay.
The film, made for about $26 million, was forecast to have sales
of $21.9 million, the  estimate  of  Box Office Mojo . Paramount is
a unit of Viacom Inc.  “That’s actually fairly typical of what we’ve seen this
year, movies opening a little light,” Sweeney said. Noting that
most films post a significant drop in sales after the first week
of release, he said, “We’ve seen with movies with a strong A-
list actor like Mark Wahlberg that the movie can play fairly
well over a couple of weeks.”  ‘Big Wedding’  In “The Big Wedding,” a long-divorced couple pretend to
be happily married at the wedding of their adopted son to fool
the biological mother, a devout Roman Catholic who believes
divorce is a sin.  Robert De Niro  and  Diane Keaton  play the
reluctantly re-united couple.  “Oblivion,” about human survival after the Earth has been
devastated by war, stars Cruise as a man who roams the planet
guarding energy plants needed to maintain a gigantic satellite
where most of humanity resides. Gradually, he learns that he
hasn’t been told the truth about the planet’s near-destruction.
 Morgan Freeman , Olga Kurylenko and Andrea Riseborough are
featured in the movie. Universal Pictures is a unit of
Philadelphia-based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   The Jackie Robinson biography “42” was third with $10.7
million. Chadwick Boseman stars as Robinson, the first black to
play  Major League Baseball .  Harrison Ford  plays Branch Rickey,
the Brooklyn Dodgers general manager who recruited Robinson and
helped him deal with the racism of fans and players.  “The Croods,”  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s 3-D film
about a prehistoric family of cave dwellers, was fifth with $6.7
million in receipts. The movie, featuring the voices of Nicolas Cage,  Emma Stone  and  Ryan Reynolds , has taken in $163.2 million
after six weeks in theaters.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell to $82.3 million
from $97.1 million a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Sales
this year are down 12 percent to $2.89 billion. Attendance has
also declined 12 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 26 to April 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  