-- A Way Forward on Gun Safety
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-28T22:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/a-way-forward-on-gun-safety.html
Washington  is still capable of
surprise. After two conservative, gun-owning senators from
states with a strong gun culture couldn’t move modest gun-safety
legislation through the Senate, something unusual happened:
Their proposal didn’t die.  The defeat earlier this month of a sensible, incremental
and overwhelmingly popular bill to expand background checks on
gun purchases was a clear victory for the gun lobby. Yet instead
of running for political cover, Senators  Joe Manchin  of  West
Virginia  and  Pat Toomey  of  Pennsylvania  are back, seeking to
revive bipartisan negotiations to enhance gun safety. The
politics of guns is changing.  The  National Rifle Association  is a  lobbying  and marketing
organization with more than $200 million in annual  revenue .
Common sense lacks a similarly well-endowed lobby. However, by
strengthening law enforcement, research and political resources,
supporters of gun safety can begin to alter what has long been a
losing dynamic. Eventually, even Congress will come around.  The  Barack Obama  administration should start by following
the advice of NRA leader Wayne LaPierre, who continually exhorts
the federal government to “enforce the law.” LaPierre has a
point, even if his energies are spent subverting the very laws
he claims to want enforced.  Compliance’s Role  In 2012, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives conducted more than 13,000  compliance checks  at the
nation’s 69,000 federally licensed gun dealers, and found about
half of them were “in full compliance with the law.” That means
half were not.  Are the violations minor? The ATF says that “commonly
disclosed” compliance failures include not verifying a buyer’s
eligibility, not accounting for gun stock, not properly
recording receipts or documenting gun transfers, and not
reporting multiple sales. In other words, not following the
basic tenets of U.S. firearms law.  To put that in perspective, between 2004 and 2011, there
were 174,679 documented thefts and losses from gun dealer
inventories. Yet the ATF seeks to revoke dealer licenses in only
0.5 percent of inspections. A  Department of Justice  inspector
general  report  released last week said the majority of licensed
dealers hadn’t been inspected at all between 2007 and 2012.  The  history  of one of the nation’s most notorious gun
shops, Valley Gun of Baltimore, is perhaps instructive. From
1996 to 2000, the store accounted for almost 500 guns traced to
crimes, including 11 homicides. An ATF inspection found one
quarter of Valley Gun’s inventory was unaccounted for. Despite
hundreds of documented violations, the store remained open until
2006.  Most gun dealers are responsible. In fact, a 2000 report by
the ATF found that only 2 percent of licensed dealers accounted
for more than half of the guns used in crimes in 1998 that were
traced to dealers. A focused ATF could target bad actors without
burdening law-abiding gun shops. But it will need help from
Congress to overcome what the inspector general report termed
“insufficient investigator resources.”  The gun lobby has long worked to defund the ATF and thwart
its operations. But the Obama administration has recently taken
executive actions to bolster policing -- requiring, for example,
that all federal  law enforcement  agencies submit confiscated
guns to the ATF for tracing. It is also working to improve the
quality of information flowing into the National Instant
Criminal Background Check System. In addition, the White House
has directed the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to
resume studying the causes and effects of gun violence. Funding
for this research had been halted by members of Congress under
the gun lobby’s influence.  Research’s Power  The gun lobby  fears research , and has gone to great lengths
to squelch it, for the same reason the tobacco lobby once did:
It undermines their cause. Researchers including Garen Wintemute
of the  University of California  at Davis and Mayors Against
Illegal Guns (co-founded by Bloomberg LP founder  Michael Bloomberg ) have revealed  how easy  it is for criminals to obtain
guns at unregulated  gun shows .  To make sure the public learns about these findings and
others to come, supporters of gun regulation will need to build
a more robust political and communications network. Mayors
Against Illegal Guns and Americans for Responsible Solutions,
the group founded by former Representative  Gabrielle Giffords 
and her husband,  Mark Kelly , are committed to improving public
awareness of gun violence, and to raising the political stakes
for lawmakers.  Two weeks ago, to protect residents of the Boston area from
an armed suspect, authorities brought the city to a standstill
-- a compelling expression of American values. Supporters of gun
safety must work to instill the gun debate with a similar
reverence for humanity.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 