-- Abe Uses First Russian Visit in Decade to Revive Peace Talks
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-04-29T16:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/abe-makes-first-russian-visit-in-decade-as-china-tensions-build.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin
and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe agreed to revive stalled
talks on a peace treaty to formally end World War II hostilities
between the two countries.  The two leaders instructed their foreign ministries to
accelerate discussions of “mutually acceptable options” and
voiced “determination” to use bilateral talks to bridge
differences and sign a peace accord, according to a joint
statement issued to reporters in Moscow today.  Abe is using the first trip to  Russia  by a Japanese premier
in a decade to break an almost seven-decade-long territorial
dispute and win more access to energy resources. Putin said the
two sides are “sincere” in seeking a diplomatic breakthrough
and want to harness stronger economic ties to advance the talks.  “I’ll personally deal with this issue, which is the
biggest unsolved question in relations between our countries,
and will apply all my efforts to solve it,” Abe said in the
Kremlin in remarks translated into Russian.  Abe met Putin in the Kremlin midway through a three-day
visit to discuss energy, trade and investment. The countries’
relationship has been hamstrung by a dispute over islands known
as the Northern Territories in Japan and Southern Kurils in
Russia that were seized by the Soviet Union in the final days of
the war.  China Tensions  The first official visit by a Japanese premier since
Junichiro Koizumi’s trip in 2003 follows rising tensions with
 China  over East China Sea islands as Abe vowed last week to
protect the territories by force if necessary. Visits by
lawmakers to a Tokyo shrine viewed as a symbol of wartime
aggression have further strained ties that are near their lowest
level since bilateral relations were established in 1972.  “Relations between Japan and Russia are dominated by the
China factor,”  Fyodor Lukyanov , the editor of Russia in Global
Affairs, a foreign policy magazine, said by phone April 26.
“Both countries are trying to balance China’s growth as the
most important country in the region and this is leading to a
thaw.”  Russian exports to Japan are dominated by energy products,
with natural resources accounting for more than 80 percent of
all shipments. Japan is Russia’s second-biggest trading partner
in Asia after China, with turnover rising 5.3 percent last year
to $32 billion, ranking it behind Italy and  Turkey , Russian
government data show.  Rosneft, Novatek  Russian energy companies  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  and  OAO Novatek (NVTK)  signed
memorandums today to cooperate with Japanese companies,
including  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  Japan Bank for International Cooperation
and the Kremlin-backed Russian Direct Investment Fund pledged
$500 million each to create a joint investment platform.  Japan, the world’s third-biggest economy and the largest
buyer of natural gas, is jostling with China for access to
Russian energy riches. With China becoming more assertive in the
Asia-Pacific region, more than doubling its military spending
since 2006, Japan and Russia are seeking a counterweight to
Asia’s biggest economy as they review their ties, according to
Lukyanov.  China National Petroleum Corp. signed a deal to import at
least 743,000 barrels of crude oil a day from state-run Rosneft
by 2018.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s gas export monopoly, plans to
build a 38 billion cubic meter gas pipeline to China by 2018 if
the two sides can agree on pricing this year.  Gazprom is ready to invest in a gas terminal and
distribution network in Japan, Putin said after the talks today.  Medvedev’s Trip  The relationship with Japan had taken a turn for the worse
last year after Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev visited the
disputed islands, prompting Japan’s Foreign Ministry to summon
Ambassador Evgeny Afanasiev in June to protest. Japan is now
planning to “work vigorously toward the settlement of the issue
of the Northern Territories,” and conclude a peace treaty, the
ministry said in the document.  Putin, who met  Japan ’s former Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori
two months ago, said in December he’d received “signals”
suggesting Japan may be ready to sign a peace treaty, previously
hindered by a disagreement over the archipelago.  The chain, seized by the Soviet Union at the end of World
War II, is located about 7,000 kilometers (4,350 miles) east of
Moscow and 15 kilometers away from Japan’s northern island of
Hokkaido.  ‘Political Will’  Speaking in an interview broadcast yesterday on Russian
state channel Rossiya 24, Abe said the nations must show the
“political will” to break the deadlock, adding there’s no
“magic wand” to resolve the disagreement.  Abe, who has highlighted ties with Russia among those
“holding the greatest potential” for Japan, said that he’s
bringing a delegation that includes more than 120 business
leaders, representing the biggest ever economic mission to
Russia. Abe plans to speak at an event promoting Japanese food
during his stay in Moscow.  Putin met the Japanese leader in 2006-2007 during Abe’s
previous stint as prime minister at Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summits and a Group of Eight forum in Heiligendamm,
 Germany .  Japan is seeking new energy supplies after shutting most of
its nuclear reactors because of safety concerns after the 2011
tsunami and earthquake caused a meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant. Russia, the world’s biggest gas exporter, needs
billions of dollars in investment to fund projects in its
underdeveloped and resource-rich Far East.  LNG Projects  Rosneft, the world’s largest publicly traded oil company by
output, signed a memorandum this month with Japan’s  Marubeni
Corp. (8002)  to consider cooperation on exploration and liquefied
natural gas projects in Russia’s Far East. The company, which is
seeking to double gas output by 2020, may spend as much as $25
billion on a Sakhalin liquefied natural gas plant, according to
Alexander Khoroshavin, the island’s governor.  Gazprom invited Japan to invest in an LNG plant in the
Pacific coast city of Vladivostok, NHK reported April 18. The
facility is scheduled to start output in 2018 and will
eventually produce 15 million tons a year. The plant will cost
about 220 billion rubles ($7 billion), Chief Executive Officer
Alexey Miller said in October.  “Russia is endowed with rich resources and Japan has high
technologies, making relations between our countries mutually
complementary and mutually beneficial,” Abe said in the
interview on Rossiya 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  