-- Lawmakers Fault U.S. Agencies for Lapses in Boston
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   S t e v e   G e i m a n n
-- 2013-04-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/agencies-faulted-by-lawmakers-for-failing-to-track-bomb-suspect.html
A trip to  Russia  by Tamerlan Tsarnaev, one of two brothers accused in the  Boston Marathon
bombings , escaped notice because U.S. agencies failed to share
information, members of Congress said yesterday  Representative Mike McCaul, a Texas Republican and head of
the House  Homeland Security  Committee, said he wanted to know
why agencies including the Department of Homeland Security that
got information from Russian intelligence in 2011 didn’t
coordinate when Tsarnaev traveled to Russia last year.  “CIA gets this information, the CIA’s got it, FBI’s got
it, then DHS has it. The FBI puts up a flag so does DHS, the FBI
flag does not go up when he travels to Russia, so they don’t
know that he went to Russia,” McCaul said on the “Fox News
Sunday” broadcast. “When he comes back from Russia he is
clearly radicalized.”  In the aftermath of the April 15 bombings that killed three
people and wounded more than 260, U.S. lawmakers said
investigators have told them Tamerlan, 26, and his brother,
Dzhokhar, 19, were schooled in radical Islam and terrorist bomb-
making online.  Lawmakers such as McCaul are examining whether the FBI and
CIA did all they could to prevent the attack, and he said
congressional hearings are being planned.  ‘Up Our Game’  “We’re going to have to up our game,” Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” broadcast. “How could you miss the fact the the guy
you were -- you were informed by a foreign intelligence service
you have a radical in your midst.”  The younger Tsarnaev, now being held at a federal facility
west of  Boston , is charged with using and conspiring to use a
weapon of mass destruction in the double bombing. Tamerlan
Tsarnaev died in a shootout with police.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation , at the request of
Russia’s domestic intelligence service, conducted a three-month
review of Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s activities in 2011. The FBI
checked the tip thoroughly “and did not find terrorist
activity, domestic or foreign,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said April 22.  Russia declined to cooperate when the FBI sought more
specific information, according to Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican and chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee.  Recorded Conversation  Since the bombing, Russia has turned over information to
U.S. authorities, including details of a secretly recorded
telephone conversation with Tsarnaev’s mother and her son, the
 Associated Press  reported. In the 2011 conversation, one of the
bombing suspects “vaguely” discussed jihad with the mother, AP
reported, citing officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Russian authorities probably know more than they’ve told
the U.S., Representative Adam Schiff, a California Democrat on
the House Intelligence Committee, said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union ” program.  “If they were up on this -- on the mother or someone
related to the mother and listening, there’s got to be a basis
for why they went up on her electronically or why they went up
on one of her affiliates or associates,” he said. “We haven’t
received that information from the Russians. I think they do
know more than they’re telling us.”  ‘Absolute Failure’  Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican on NBC’s
“Meet the Press,” criticized the FBI for not having visited
Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s mosque or interviewed the imam after being
alerted by the Russians. He said it was an “absolute failure”
that the FBI didn’t notify New York sooner that the bombers had
considered an attack in  New York City  after Boston.  King repeatedly called for authorities to more closely
track the Muslim community. “The element is from within the
Muslim community,” he said.  Meanwhile, McCaul and Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia
Democrat, said the use of a type of bomb common in Pakistan and
 Afghanistan  and detonating the device with a toy-car remote may
signal the brothers had help.  “The way they handled these devices and the trade craft
leads me to believe that there was a trainer,” McCaul said.
“Where is that trainer or trainers?”  Manchin, speaking on “Fox News Sunday,” said he has seen
the online magazine Inspire, which is affiliated with al-Qaeda,
showing how to build a device and the Boston bomb was more
sophisticated.  Pulled Trigger  “I think they were a little bit more advanced than what
the website would have allowed a person to be,” he said.  Manchin also said the agencies questioning Dzhokhar
“pulled the trigger too soon” on letting him invoke his right
to an attorney.  “I think there’s more to be had there,” Manchin said.
“But I would have liked that process of him of being
interrogated to go further than reading Miranda rights as quick
as they did.”  Former CIA Director  Michael Hayden  said on CNN’s “Fareed
Zakaria GPS” broadcast that he was surprised Dzhokhar Tsarnaev
was read his rights “so quickly,” and “the people doing the
interrogation were surprised as well.”  Yet Schiff said that “it looks like” the FBI got the
information they needed to ensure public safety prior to the
Miranda rights reading.  “Already, I think the statements that the suspect made are
going to be challenged by the defense team,” he said. “And
while the priority has to be on making use of any information
that could protect the public, it’s also valuable to be able to
admit those into evidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Geimann in Washington at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  