-- Australia Looks to Toughen Worker Visa Laws Ahead of Election
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-04-28T02:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/australia-looks-to-toughen-worker-visa-laws-ahead-of-election.html
Australia plans to toughen laws
that allow overseas workers to plug short-term labor needs and
skills shortages as some employers are exploiting the system,
Immigration Minister Brendan O’Connor said.  “There is no reason why we wouldn’t be looking to properly
protect the efficacy and integrity of this scheme by way of
legislation,” O’Connor said in a Sky Television interview today.
“What we’ve got to do is really remove the loopholes.”  Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s ruling Labor party is
seeking to gain momentum with voters before the Sept. 14
election after trailing in opinion polls for more than 18 months.
The so-called 457 visa program has been backed by mining magnate
 Gina Rinehart  as necessary to fill labor shortfalls that may
threaten the nation’s investment pipeline that reached $280
billion as of Oct. 31, according to a government research
department.  The number of the lowest-paid 457 visa holders, working in
the lodging and food services industries, has almost doubled in
the past year, O’Connor said in a separate statement today.
Australia had 105,600 457 visa holders as of March 31, up 19
percent from the year before, Department of Immigration and
Citizenship figures  released today  show.  “My focus is ensuring we have a 457 scheme that is
legitimate, to ensure that the employers who use it properly are
not disadvantaged against those employers that use it
improperly,” O’Connor said. It’s important “Australian
citizens and permanent residents get the first options for
employment before we look overseas,” he said.  Australia’s Richest  Rinehart,  Australia ’s richest person, sparked union
criticism after getting government approval last May to hire
more than 1,700 overseas workers on her Roy Hill iron ore
project in Western Australia.  Gillard is attempting to boost her minority government’s
economic credentials, which were damaged when a slump in tax
revenue forced her in December to abandon a pledge to return the
May 14 budget to surplus.  The nation’s first female leader faces the challenge of
rebalancing a two-speed economy where mining regions in the
north and west thrive off Chinese demand, while manufacturing
and tourism in the south and east struggle. Employers cut
payrolls more than forecast in March, with the  jobless rate 
unexpectedly increasing to 5.6 percent, the highest level since
November 2009, government data showed April 11.  Labor’s support remained at 45 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, while Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition
held at 55 percent, according to a Newspoll published in the
Australian newspaper on April 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  