-- S&P 500 Rises to Record While Euro Gains With Italy Bonds
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-04-29T20:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/australian-stock-futures-fall-as-u-s-growth-slows-euro-gains.html
Stocks climbed, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a record closing level, after
U.S. home sales increased and investors speculated central banks
will continue to stimulate the economy. The euro rose with
Italian bonds as the country formed a government  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rose 0.7 percent to 1,593.61 as of 4 p.m. New
York time, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.5 percent.
The euro strengthened 0.5 percent against the dollar and yields
on Italian 10-year bonds fell 15 basis points to 3.91 percent.
The Markit iTraxx Europe index of investment-grade company
credit risk fell for a seventh straight day, the longest streak
since 2009. Corn, natural gas and wheat jumped more than 3
percent to lead commodity gains.  European Central Bank policy makers may cut  interest rates 
this week, according to the majority of economists in a
Bloomberg survey, while the Federal Reserve will consider
renewing its commitment to bond-buying at a two-day meeting
starting tomorrow. More Americans than forecast signed contracts
in March to buy previously owned homes, another indication of
progress in the housing market.  “There’s just a positive tone to the market in part
because recent lackluster economic trends have reinforced
investors’ belief that the  Federal Reserve  will continue to
press on the gas pedal,” Chad Morganlander, a Florham Park, New
Jersey-based fund manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees about $130 billion, said by telephone. “It’s just
further evidence that this rally has been a highly caffeinated
rally courtesy of global central banks, and their quantitative
easing plans will continue.”  Approaching Record  The S&P 500 climbed 1.7 percent last week and is poised for
a sixth straight monthly gain, its longest rally since 2009.
Gauges of technology, commodity and  utility companies  rose at
least 0.8 percent to lead gains in all 10 of the main industries
in the S&P 500 today. Hewlett-Packard Co., Microsoft Corp. and
International Business Machines Corp. added at least 2.5 percent
for the biggest gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Tenet Healthcare Corp. rallied 6.5 percent as hospitals
will get a pay raise from the U.S. government for treating
patients in the nation’s Medicare program. Moody’s Corp. jumped
8.3 percent and McGraw-Hill Cos. advanced 2.8 percent after a
group of investors agreed to drop their claims against the
companies. Actavis Inc. and Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. rose at least 3.8 percent as people familiar
with the situation said the companies are in merger talks that
have stalled.  Technology Stocks  U.S. technology stocks, the second-best performing industry
of the past decade, have fallen to the cheapest levels in at
least seven years and are vulnerable to more losses as analysts
reduce second-quarter profit estimates.  Earnings at computer companies will fall 5.5 percent in the
three months through June as consumers and government agencies
cut spending, according to more than 2,000 analyst estimates
tracked by Bloomberg. The group, led by Apple Inc. and
International Business Machines Corp., trades at 13 times
projected profit, the lowest level compared with the  S&P 500 
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2006.  An S&P gauge of homebuilders erased an early rally of as
much as 1.7 percent, ending the session down 0.9 percent. The
index of pending home sales increased 1.5 percent after a
revised 1 percent decline the prior month that was larger than
initially reported, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed. Economists forecast a 1 percent increase,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Economic Data  U.S. consumer spending rose more than projected in March,
reflecting a jump in outlays for services that is unlikely to be
repeated. Household purchases, which account for about 70
percent of the economy, climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent
gain the prior month, a Commerce Department report showed. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 74 economists called
for spending to be little changed. Incomes increased less than
forecast and inflation cooled to the lowest level in more than
three years.  The Stoxx 600 pared its gain after a report showed economic
 confidence  in the euro area decreased more than economists
forecast in April. The regional benchmark index rose 3.7 percent
last week and is up 1.2 percent in April That would be its 11th
straight monthly increase, the longest since 1997. The MSCI All-
Country World Index rose 0.8 percent today. Japanese and Chinese
equity markets closed for holidays.  European Movers  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  jumped 8 percent after
increasing its dividend. Swedish Match AB gained 6.7 percent
after posting first-quarter profit that beat estimates.  Balfour
Beatty Plc (BBY)  tumbled 9.5 percent as the U.K.’s largest
construction company said 2013 operating profit will be less
than it had projected earlier.  The euro strengthened 0.5 percent to $1.3099 as it rose
against nine of 16 major peers.  The Frankfurt-based ECB will lower its benchmark rate to a
record 0.5 percent when central bankers meet in Bratislava May
2, according to the median of 69 economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield fell 12 basis points to 4.16
percent, the lowest since October 2010.  Germany ’s 10-year bund
yield was little changed at 1.20 percent and the rate on 10-year
U.S. Treasury notes was little changed at 1.67 percent.  Italian Government  Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta may finish installing a
government today nine weeks after voters rejected the country’s
budget-cutting course. Italy sold 6 billion euros ($7.9 billion)
of five- and 10-year bonds at the lowest yield since 2010. Italy
sold the 2018 notes at an average yield of 2.84 percent, and 3
billion euros of 2023 bonds to yield 3.94 percent.  “We’ve seen the impact of Italy on the bond yields and
it’s having a relief effect on the euro too,” said Jane Foley,
senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in  London .
“Given the huge amount of obstacles this government has got to
get over I think that the relief that we are seeing has been
amplified because the market is very short euros.”  The new Italian government pledges to dismantle parts of
the budget-cutting project undertaken by ousted premier  Mario Monti . German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  will travel to
Spain today to unveil a plan aimed at spurring investment in
Spanish companies.  $20 Trillion  At a time when politicians are squeezing budgets to cut
borrowing, the  bond market  is clamoring for more debt, pushing
yields on almost $20 trillion of  government securities  to less
than 1 percent.  The average yield to maturity for the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Sovereign Plus Index fell to a
record low 1.34 percent last week from 3.28 percent five years
ago. Even though the amount of bonds in the index has more than
doubled to $23 trillion -- bigger than the gross domestic
product of the U.S. and China combined -- countries from Germany
to Rwanda sold debt in the past month at their lowest yields.  The S&P GSCI Index rallied 1.1 percent as 17 of its 24
commodities advanced. Gold for June delivery climbed 0.9 percent
to $1,467.40 an ounce, paring its monthly decline to 7.9
percent, amid speculation the Fed will maintain bond purchases
and growing demand for coins and jewelry. West Texas
Intermediate crude oil added 1.6 percent to $94.50 a barrel, the
highest level in more than two weeks.  The yen weakened against 13 of 16 major peers and traded
little changed versus the  U.S. dollar  after climbing 0.7 percent
earlier. The dollar weakened against all 16 major counterparts
except the Mexican peso and Brazilian real. New Zealand’s dollar
strengthened against all but one of its 16 major peers, climbing
1.1 percent to 85.70 U.S. cents.  Most emerging-market stocks rose. The MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index added 0.5 percent as Brazil’s Ibovespa rallied 1.1 percent
and India’s Sensex climbed 0.5 percent.  The  Hang Seng China (HSCEI)  Enterprises Index in Hong Kong fell 0.5
percent, declining for the first time in four days, as slower
growth in Chinese industrial companies’ profits added to signs
the world’s No. 2 economy is losing steam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  