-- Baidu Valuation Cut in Half as Ad Sales Slide Dims Profit
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-04-29T12:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/baidu-valuation-sinks-as-ad-sales-slow-china-overnight.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  is trading more than 50
percent below its average valuation over the past five years as
the Chinese  Internet company  struggles to diversify while
maintaining profit growth amid a slowdown in advertising.  American depositary receipts of Baidu, owner of China’s
most-used search engine, sank 7.9 percent April 26 to trade at
15 times  estimated earnings . That compares with an average
multiple of 36 since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
slump drove a 1.4 percent drop in the Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S.  Baidu tumbled the most since February in New York after
reporting net income rose 8.5 percent in the first three months
of 2013.  Profit growth  has slowed from an average 64 percent in
the previous five quarters as revenue from advertising dwindled.
The Beijing-based company, which most recently acquired online
video firm iQiyi.com, wants to buy up mobile applications as
consumers shift to smartphones from personal computers, Chief
Executive Officer Robin Li said April 25.  “Baidu is spending a lot of money to maintain its market
position and search for new growth engines,” Echo He, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York who rates the stock sell,
said in a phone interview April 26. “The investment doesn’t
necessarily translate into revenue growth. The profit margin
will continue to be under pressure.”  Baidu’s first-quarter gross margin, a measure of
profitability, was 65 percent, down from 71 percent a year
earlier. The company’s net income of 2.04 billion  yuan  ($331
million) in the first three months was 6.8 percent below the
median of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue per online advertising customer fell 6.5 percent from
the fourth quarter, according to the earnings statement.  Competition Intensifying  The ADRs, which slid to an almost three-week-low of $85.02
April 26, have retreated 36 percent over the past 12 months as
Baidu grapples with rising competition from companies such as
 Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , a  software developer  that debuted a
search engine in August. Qihoo, also based in Beijing, said last
month that its operating margin will “see the bottom” in the
first quarter due to costs associated with expanding into mobile
Internet.  Baidu -- which accounted for 82.3 percent of Chinese
search-engine queries in the fourth quarter, according to
Bloomberg Industries -- wants to extend its dominance of  China ’s
search market to mobile devices and favors acquisitions over
building the company, CEO Li said on an April 26 conference
call. The iQiyi.com purchase was still “burning money,” he
said.  “Nobody can prove they can make money from online videos,
and to keep up with the growth rate of the past they need to
invest in new businesses which are just not as profitable as the
search business,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages $700 million in assets including
Chinese equities, said by phone from Lisle, Illinois April 26.
“The company is undergoing a transformation and it’s hard to
get visibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  