-- Biggest Carmaker Shifts Focus to Shield Margins: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2013-04-28T18:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/biggest-carmaker-shifts-focus-to-shield-margins-corporate-india.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker by volume, is tapping the country’s
rural market to boost sales and shield its best profit margin
since 2011.  Maruti, which almost doubled net income in the quarter
ended March 31, plans to increase sales in rural areas of the
world’s second-most populous nation after deliveries in small
towns and villages exceeded those in large cities, said Mayank Pareek the company’s sales head. The New Delhi-based company,
which has customers in 50,000 of the nation’s 650,000 villages,
will raise marketing expenditure to attract clients in the
countryside, he said.  The unit of  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  is betting better rural road
connections will convince first time buyers to purchase its
Alto, WagonR and DZire models as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
prepares to spend $146 billion on transport infrastructure.
Sales in  India ’s countryside will depend on harvests following
the annual monsoon rains that help irrigate 55 percent of the
country’s farm land, according to Deepesh Rathore, managing
director at IHS Automotive in India.  “In villages, customers come with bags of cash and select
a car and want it there and then,” Pareek said in an interview.
“‘What we’ve done so far is just the tip of the iceberg, and we
can really penetrate more and do wonderful work.”  Ertiga, DZire  Deliveries in rural areas accounted for 28 percent of
Maruti’s  sales  in the year ended March 31, from 4 percent three
years ago, Pareek said. Selling in small towns jumped 15 percent
in the period even as the total business rose 4.4 percent, he
said.  Net income  in the three months ended March 31 rose to 12.4
billion rupees ($228 million) from 6.4 billion rupees as a
weaker yen reduced the cost of components and sales of its
Ertiga minivan and revamped Swift DZire increased even as
nationwide car sales fell 6.7 percent, the most in 12 years.  Maruti’s  shares  have risen 12 percent this year, making it
the best performing on the S&P BSE Auto Index. The stock surged
5.2 percent to 1,673.15 rupees on April 26.  The company’s marketshare increased by 1 percentage point
to 39 percent in the year ended March 31. It had 87 percent of
the market in 1998. Earnings  margin  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization widened to 9.82 percent, the
highest since 2011.  Maruti, named after the son of the wind god in Hindu
mythology, has 1,100 dealerships in India, more than three times
those of second-placed Hyundai Motor Co. Half of Maruti’s
showrooms are in rural areas.  ‘Good Strategy’  “It’s a good strategy for Maruti to focus on rural markets
as incomes in rural areas are still growing,” said  Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based fund manager at Raiffeisen Capital
Management, which oversees about $1.1 billion in emerging-market
assets. “Maruti has the volumes to justify having dealerships
in small towns, something that Toyota or even Hyundai wouldn’t
be able to do.”  Automakers from  Isuzu Motors Ltd. (7202)  to  Mahindra & Mahindra
Ltd. (MM)  are seeking to benefit on growth in India’s villages after
per-capita spending by the nation’s villagers grew faster than
that of urban dwellers for the first time in two and a half
decades in the two years to March 31, 2012, according to
Standard & Poor’s Indian unit Crisil Ltd.  Monsoon Rains  Rural spending was 12.9 trillion rupees in the period,
compared with 10.4 trillion rupees in urban areas, Crisil said.
PricewaterhouseCoopers  forecasts  India will have 570 million
middle class consumers by 2021, that’s more than the combined
population of the U.S. and  Indonesia .  Still, farm incomes will depend on the monsoon. More than
235 million farmers count on rains for irrigating crops such as
rice and cotton. India’s economic growth was 5 percent in the
fiscal year ended March 2013, the slowest pace since 2003,
partly because of a decline in farm output caused by a below-
average monsoon last year and a moderation in investment, the
statistics agency estimates.  “Rural incomes depend on the monsoon and farmers income,
and if in a particular year the monsoon is not good or farm
output drips, then sales too will fall,” said Umesh Karne, an
analyst at Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Those factors
aren’t in anybody’s hands and are hard to predict.”  India may get above-average rainfall for a third time in
four years in 2013, Earth Sciences Minister S. Jaipal Reddy told
reporters in New Delhi on April 26. More grains will help ease
inflation and lift sales of everything from gold to tractors.  Harvest Wait  “Monsoon plays an important psychological factor for rural
buyers,” said IHS’ Rathore.  Sales at Jagmohan Motors in Bhiwani, a small town in the
northern state of Haryana, are down this month as customers wait
to harvest, said manager Sanjeev Kumar. The most popular is the
Alto, he said. The model, which starts at 244,000 rupees in New
Delhi, is the company’s least expensive hatchback after the
Maruti 800. Maruti has been producing the 800 since 1983.  Government programs such as the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak
Yojna developed to build and upgrade village roads coupled with
rising incomes has helped Maruti, said Pareek.  Under the state program 212,085 kilometers of new village
roads have been built and 137,543 kilometers have been upgraded
in the past 12 years, according to  government data .  “With better road connectivity, people are buying small
cars for their personal use,” said Pareek. “Rise in rural
prosperity is helping, as people have similar aspirations to
those in the cities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  