-- Birmingham City’s Yeung Seeks to Halt Laundering Trial
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-04-29T09:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/birmingham-city-owner-money-laundering-case-back-in-court.html
Carson Yeung, owner of English
soccer club Birmingham City, asked a  Hong Kong  court to halt his
trial for laundering HK$721.3 million ($93 million) because
records of his wealth from  stock trading  can’t be obtained.  “No fair trial was possible,” because documents crucial
to the defense aren’t available, Yeung’s lawyer Graham Harris
told District Court Judge Douglas Yau today. Stock brokers are
only required to keep records for seven years, Harris said.  Yeung, who pleaded not guilty today to five charges of
handling the proceeds of crime over a seven-year period before
buying control of Birmingham City in 2009, had earlier won a
delay of the trial from November. His lawyers then said the
former hairdresser was already wealthy at the time the alleged
offenses began in 2001.  “What this case is concerned with is where did the money
come from in the first place,” John Reading, a lawyer for the
 Department of Justice , told the court. “Very little money has
passed through the securities accounts,” he said.  Judge Yau adjourned the hearing until Friday, he said he
would rule on the application for a permanent stay.  Yeung, 53, last month lost a bid to transfer the case to a
higher court, with Judge Alan Wright ruling it an attempt to
disrupt today’s trial.  Share Offering  Yeung bought Birmingham City in October 2009 for 81.5
million pounds ($126.5 million) from David and Ralph Gold and
 David Sullivan . He paid for the club using funds from a share
offering underwritten by Kingston Securities Ltd., controlled by
billionaire Chu Yuet-wah, which has interests including casino
operations in  Macau  and investment services.  Birmingham International Holdings Ltd. (2309) , parent company of
the West Midlands, U.K.-based soccer team, has been suspended
from trading in Hong Kong since June 2011, after police charged
Yeung. It had a 37 percent drop in sales for the year ended June
30, 2012 after the club’s relegation from the top-tier Premier
League in 2011, according to its 2012 annual report.  The case comes to trial as the number of suspicious
transaction reports filed to Hong Kong authorities by banks and
others required to do so doubled to 23,282 last year from a
decade ago.  “It seems that larger and larger sums are being converted
in  money laundering ,” Judge Esther Toh said in January in a
separate case when she sentenced a Chinese high-school dropout
to 10 and a half years in prison for laundering HK$13 billion
through a Hong Kong bank over eight months.  Financial Reputation  Toh said policy makers may want to consider if the maximum
sentence for the crime was adequate given the importance of
preserving Hong Kong’s reputation as a financial center of
integrity.  The number of people convicted of money laundering in Hong
Kong last year fell to 166 from 246 in 2011 and 360 in 2010,
according to the city’s  Joint Financial Intelligence Unit .  Hong Kong’s sophisticated banking system, so-called shell
company formation agents and absence of currency controls make
it vulnerable to money laundering,  according  to the U.S. State
Department.  This year’s convictions of the school dropout and of a 61-
year-old woman who lives in public housing and who the judge
said wasn’t the mastermind of the offense have led some
lawmakers to ask if banks are doing enough to fight the problem.  Banks Warned  Authorities in Hong Kong now have more powers under a new
anti-money laundering law introduced last year that makes it a
criminal offense for financial institutions to fail to carry out
due diligence checks and monitor business relationships. The
maximum penalty for such breaches is seven years in jail and a
HK$1 million fine.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority last week told chief
executives of banks in the city to strengthen their controls and
systems and said it was doubling the size of its anti-money
laundering team.  “The regulators will be looking to demonstrate that they
are being effective and making an impact” with ramped-up
enforcement, Abdulali Jiwaji, a partner at  Simmons & Simmons  in
Hong Kong,  commented in an e-mail.  Singapore , another Asian financial center, is also
tightening its money-laundering laws. From July, laundering the
benefits of tax offenses will be a crime there. Convictions for
money laundering in the Southeast Asian city rose to 25 in 2011
from 18 a year earlier, according to figures from the Singapore
police.  The case is Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and
Yeung Ka-sing Carson, DCCC860/2011 in the Hong Kong District
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  