-- Brown-Vitter Rearranges Financial-Reform Battlefield
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-04-28T22:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/brown-vitter-rearranges-financial-reform-battlefield.html
A year ago, the big U.S. banks were
focused on repealing, or at least eliminating large parts of,
the Dodd-Frank financial-reform law.  They poured money into the campaign of the Republican
presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney , and gave generously to
opponents of the pro-reform Senate candidates Sherrod Brown and
 Elizabeth Warren . At the same time, lobbyists devised creative
tactics to delay implementation of Dodd-Frank -- filing
lawsuits, mobilizing international pressure, hiring former
regulators, writing opinion articles and comment letters, and
commissioning faux research pieces. It was a tour de force by
one of the great lobbies at the top of its game.  And it failed.  On April 23, I attended a forum organized by  American
Banker , a trade publication, to discuss the legislative proposal
crafted by Brown, an Ohio Democrat, and Senator  David Vitter , a
Louisiana Republican. In attendance was a Who’s Who of the
industry lobby, with all the major groups represented at a
senior level, including the Financial Services Forum, the
Clearing House and the  American Bankers Association .  They let it be known that the line from big banks and their
allies had shifted and that their new refrain is “let’s
implement Dodd-Frank.”  Megabank Subsidies  This sounds like a significant change in rhetoric, but
don’t fall for it. The reality remains the same -- a very
powerful lobby is working flat out to ensure that the industry
keeps its dangerous, nontransparent and unfair subsidies. Yet
the winds are shifting against the megabanks for three main
reasons.  First, the Brown-Vitter legislation, which was introduced
April 24, changes everything. The news isn’t that Brown wants to
make the financial system safer. That has been a top priority of
his since the spring of 2010, when he co-wrote the Brown-Kaufman
amendment, which would have imposed a binding size cap on the
largest banks. (It failed on the Senate floor.)  Now, however, he has a Republican co-sponsor, and they have
converged on a strong message. Vitter, who is on the right of
the political spectrum,  articulate s well the case for ending the
implicit subsidies that exist because creditors understand that
the government and the  Federal Reserve  won’t allow a megabank to
fail. This broad and sensible message resonates across the
political spectrum.  Second, small banks are increasingly focused on the ways
megabanks have achieved an unfair competitive advantage --
primarily through implicit government subsidies.  The most compelling voice at the forum last week was Terry Jorde, a senior executive vice president of the Independent
Community Bankers of America. She made clear that small banks
are being undermined by the reckless behavior of megabanks that
are seen as “too big to fail.” There is no market at work here,
just a hugely unfair and inefficient government-subsidy scheme.
The  U.S. economy  wasn’t built on megabanks and there is no good
reason to continue to accept the risks they pose.  The megabanks have more money to spend on politics than the
community banks. And as the  biggest banks  become even larger,
they acquire more clout, spreading branches and other largesse
across congressional districts. But for the moment, in all 50
states, community bankers are strong enough -- both directly and
as leaders in their communities -- to effectively stand up to
the six largest banks that are at the heart of the problem.  Community Banks  Camden Fine, the chief executive officer of the  Independent
Community Bankers of America , has made clear that he strongly
endorses Brown-Vitter. Expect to see a lot more community
bankers in senators’ offices.  Third, what Brown, Vitter and Fine express isn’t populist
anger, but rather a thought-out plan for making the financial
system safer. Read the bill and the section-by-section guidance
( available here ). Brown-Vitter blends some powerful thinking.
For example, it reflects the ideas of  Richard Fisher  and Harvey Rosenblum of the Dallas Federal Reserve on how to remove
government guarantees; the critique of  Basel III  from Tom Hoenig of the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ; and the
lessons of Sheila Bair, a former chairman of the FDIC, on the
failures of supposedly smart regulation (her book “Bull by the
Horns,” is a must-read; see, for example, the material in
Chapter 3 on who pushed for the Basel II capital standards and
why this almost proved disastrous).  Bair, Fisher, Hoenig, Rosenblum and the people who work
with them aren’t populists. They are thoughtful and experienced
technocrats who have worked long and hard in the sphere of
practical policy.  Intellectually, the tide has turned. The dangers of
reckless behavior by global megabanks are now understood much
more broadly. And Brown-Vitter provides an appropriate road map
for addressing some of the core problems and making the
financial system significantly safer.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  and a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House Burning:
The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to
You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  