-- California’s Scary New Way to Raise Public Money
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2013-04-28T22:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/california-pushes-social-impact-bond-gimmicks.html
In a rare act of fiscal
responsibility, the  California  Assembly  voted  73-0 earlier this
month to place stricter limits on a high-yield, long-term bond
that was used primarily by desperate local school districts.  This being California, however, even as lawmakers were
reining in the use of “capital-appreciation bonds” -- which
became notorious when one San Diego-area district  revealed  that
it was making a $1 billion interest payment on a $105 million
debt -- the state Senate advanced an ill-defined new “bond” plan
to provide schools with a fresh source of cash.  The Dropout Reduction and Workforce Development Bond Act of
2013 is  based  on social-impact bonds, a creative financing
mechanism popularized first in the U.K. as part of the
 Conservative Party ’s “Big Society” effort to use market
discipline to improve public services.  Typically, financing for social-intervention projects is
obtained from investors, not taxpayers, and government contracts
with nonprofit institutions to do the work. Government gets to
borrow money for social programs and shift the risks to
investors, who get paid back only if the programs reach certain
performance and cost-saving goals.  But leave it to California’s  dominant  Democrats to turn a
concept designed to apply some measurable standards to hard-to-measure social programs into a shameless effort to grab more
money for existing government agencies.  Education Financing  The legislation promises to “revolutionize public
education” by offering three tools. First, businesses can buy
bonds “and earn a rate of return tied to performance measures.”
Second, those businesses receive tax credits for their
investment. Third, the bill creates trust funds in every school
district to collect those business investments and other funds
to finance expanded career programs.  Government agencies normally finance tightly prescribed
activities,  says  the Center for American Progress, the
Washington-based liberal research group, which promotes the
social-impact-bond concept.  “In a Social Impact Bond, however, a government agency
defines an outcome,” according to a center fact sheet. “The
agency contracts with an external organization that promises to
achieve that outcome and pays the organization only if it is
successful.”  In the U.K., the Justice Ministry contracted with a
nonprofit to help reduce prison recidivism. In return for their
financing, private investors receive an agreed-upon return as
long as recidivism rates declined by a set amount.  Yet even the best-designed  social-impact bonds  have
problems. An earlier U.K. program, which involved the London
subway, failed and left the British taxpayer to pay the tab.  While the aim of social-impact bonds is to save the
government money by providing services more efficiently -- for
example, fewer recidivists should mean lower prison costs --
such savings are illusory in the world of government.  “Given the costs of attorneys, consultants, program
evaluators, the potential for a return on investment to third-parties, and a second tier of program managers, using an SIB
relative to direct financing will therefore increase pressure on
the budget,”  said  Kyle McKay, a Maryland policy analyst, in an
April article in the Stanford Social Innovation Review.  And then there are those darned details. Instead of a tight
standard to measure success, the skeptic in me expects a more
Sacramento-like result: a complex system that is a product of
bureaucratic demands, political wrangling and lobbying. It’s
also easy to imagine endless litigation over goals and payments.  There are no specific performance metrics in the bill’s
language. And there’s no doubt the measure would put return-on-investment decisions in the hands of a committee, which is a far
cry from a profit-or-loss standard. These clearly aren’t bonds
in the traditional sense of the term.  Murky Measure  Even in the unlikely event that the government saves money
on a particular program, there is little chance legislators will
spend less or return money to taxpayers.  Mark Hedlund, the spokesman for Senate President pro
tempore Darrell Steinberg, told me “this is an over-and-above
investment,” reinforcing the idea that this is about spending
more, not saving anything. Steinberg needs to find the money to
pay for this from some budget item.  The bill will redirect funds from other public-private
partnership programs -- for example, job credits that the state
currently offers businesses -- and from the widely abused
enterprise-zone project.  The financing proposal is so murky that even the business
leaders who back it confess they are confused.  “I’m not sure I completely understand it,” California
Chamber of Commerce President Allan Zaremberg  told  Los Angeles
Times columnist George Skelton.  Unlike traditional social-impact bonds that give nonprofits
the power to provide services, the California plan funds
existing school and community-college districts and their union
employees -- a predictable outcome, given the closeness of
Democratic leaders to the unions.  Critics, such as Kevin Dayton, the president of Labor
Issues Solutions LLC in Roseville, California,  wonder  why state
leaders aren’t simply diverting more general-fund dollars to the
program, given that they have to find state-funding sources to
pay for this anyway.  Hedlund answered that they “did not want to create just
another government program” and preferred one that would give
businesses incentives “to put some skin in the game.”  That’s fair enough, but the real goal seems more
transparent: to allow the state to borrow large sums of money
without having to seek voter approval.  Even supporters of these types of  bonds  wonder about an
approach that finances government rather than nonprofits.  “For governments, social impact bonds offer a way to
transfer some of the financial risks involved in implementing or
scaling preventive programs until they are proven successful,”
said Kristina Costa, an economic-policy researcher at the Center
for American Progress. “That benefit may be lost if different
agencies or different levels of government are, in effect,
working on both sides of a social impact bond.”  Who will buy into this convoluted deal if it becomes law?
The same people who once championed capital-appreciation bonds.  ( Steven Greenhut , a contributor to Bloomberg View, is vice
president of journalism at the Franklin Center for Government
and Public Integrity. He is based in  Sacramento , California. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  