-- Charlotte Mayor Foxx Said to Be Next U.S. Transport Chief
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-04-28T21:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/charlotte-mayor-foxx-said-to-be-next-u-s-transport-chief.html
President  Barack Obama  will
nominate Charlotte, North Carolina, Mayor Anthony Foxx, a
Democrat, to lead the Transportation Department, according to a
White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity.  The nomination will be made tomorrow, said the official.
Foxx, two-term mayor, has led efforts to improve his rapidly
growing city’s transit infrastructure.  Obama is rounding out his Cabinet for the second term. He
also was close to choosing Mike Froman, currently the deputy
national security adviser for international economics, as U.S.
Trade Representative, two people familiar with the matter said
April 26.  Froman’s nomination along with that of Chicago
businesswoman and Obama fundraiser Penny Pritzker as Commerce
secretary may be announced this week, another person familiar
with the matter confirmed. The person asked not to be
identified, citing the private nature of the deliberations.  Foxx, 41, was elected to a second term as mayor in 2011. He
served as a member of  Charlotte ’s city council from 2005 to
2009. He also practived law law with the firm of Hunton &
Williams LLP.  Charlotte broke ground on the Charlotte Streetcar Project,
to bring modern electric tram service to the city, as well as
the Charlotte Regional Intermodal Facility, connecting freight
from Charlotte to global ports, according to background provided
by the White House. The city opened a third parallel runway at
Charlotte-Douglas International Airport, and moved to extend the
LYNX light-rail system to the  University of North Carolina at
Charlotte .  Al Killefer, a spokesman for Foxx, didn’t immediately
respond to a voicemail seeking comment on the possible
nomination.  Final Vetting  Froman, a Harvard Law School classmate of Obama’s and
former executive at Citigroup Inc., is in final vetting for the
position, according to people who asked not to be identified in
discussing personnel matters. He would succeed Ron Kirk, who
left in March, as the president seeks free-trade accords with
Pacific nations and the European Union.  The trade representative position carries the rank of
ambassador and is a member of the cabinet. The nominee is
subject to Senate confirmation.  Pritzker, whose family built the Chicago-based  Hyatt Hotels
Corp. (H)  chain, has been a longtime Obama ally and served as
finance chairman for his 2008 campaign. Her name was circulated
for the Commerce job shortly after Obama was elected and she
issued a statement saying she wasn’t interested in the position.  Pritzker’s finances -- she has a net worth estimated at
$1.8 billion, according to Forbes magazine’s list of the 400
richest Americans -- have complicated the screening process.  Obama has yet to fill the post of the head of the Small
Business Administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  