-- Chemical Weapon Proof Not Needed for Syrian No-Fly: McCain
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-04-28T18:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/chemical-weapons-proof-not-needed-for-syrian-no-fly-zone-mccain.html
The Obama administration doesn’t
need to be sure that  Syria ’s leader has used chemical weapons
against his own people before establishing a no-fly zone and
arming rebel forces, U.S. Senator  John McCain  said.  The atrocities already committed by Syrian leader Bashar
al-Assad are justification enough for such action, which is
needed to contain a conflict that is spilling over into other
Mideast countries, McCain, an  Arizona  Republican, said today on
NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Assad’s use of chemical weapons “should not be the
gauge,” said McCain, a member of the Armed Services Committee.
“Unless we change the balance of power, there is a danger that
this stalemate could go on for months and months.”  Debate over Syria was given new impetus by the
administration’s disclosure on April 25 that intelligence
agencies assess with “varying degrees of confidence” that
Assad’s regime has used chemical munitions on a small scale in
two instances. President  Barack Obama  has never said what action
he would take if Syria crossed what he’s called a “red line”
against the use of toxic agents.  If Assad decides to retreat to an Alawite enclave, an even
longer period of conflict could ensue, McCain said on NBC.  Assad belongs to the Alawite sect, whose religion is an
offshoot of Shiite Islam, while Syria’s insurgents are
predominantly Sunni.  Syria’s Sophistication  A no-fly zone might not be easy to implement over “very
sophisticated” Syria, Representative Dutch Ruppersberger of
 Maryland , top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said
on ABC’s “This Week.”  On the same program, Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan
Republican and the committee’s chairman, said that some action
needs to be taken because Obama’s so-called red line cannot be
“a dotted line.”  Classified information strengthens the case that a small
amount of chemical weapons have been in use, Rogers said. “If
you have a larger use, the refugee and humanitarian crisis that
comes from that is huge.”  Israeli Reaction  Michael Oren , the Israeli ambassador to the U.S., said
today on “Fox News Sunday” that his nation isn’t pressing the
U.S. to take any action against Syria.  Oren said  Israel  had it its own “red line” for taking
action, and said his nation “will react” if the Syrian regime
seeks to transfer chemical weapons to terrorists, such as
Hezbollah in Lebanon.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  held a classified briefing
with senators on April 25 on developments in Syria. At a similar
briefing for House members the next day, Kerry gave no
indication about when, or if, the U.S. will act on the chemical
weapons finding, according to Representative  John Mica , a
Florida Republican.  Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, said the
Obama administration is working harder than Americans realize
“trying to figure out what we can do surgically without making
the problems worse.”  “ Russia  is very important here,” McCaskill said on CBS’s
“Face the Nation,” “We’ve got to bring them around. Assad is
leaning on Russia.”  ‘Game Changer’  Obama said on April 26 that the U.S. will seek confirmation
along with the  United Nations  that Assad’s regime used chemical
weapons. He said that confirmation would be a “game-changer”
for the U.S.  “There are a range of questions around how, when, where
these weapons may have been used,” Obama said before meeting
with Jordan’s King Abdullah II at the White House. “All of us -
- not just in the  United States , but around the world --
recognize how we cannot stand by and permit the systematic use
of weapons like chemical weapons on civilian populations.”  In the Syrian government’s first response to the U.S.
findings, Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said “the
fabricated and false” allegations “do not have any
credibility,” according to the official Sana news agency. The
regime has said that chemical weapons have been used by
terrorists, its blanket description for the opposition.  Until now, the administration has provided non-lethal aid,
such as communications equipment, and humanitarian supplies to
the rebels. Kerry announced that the U.S. is providing an
additional $123 million to the Syrian opposition, a doubling of
aid, while some Persian Gulf nations send arms as well as money.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  