-- China’s Military Says No Plates for Porsches in Crackdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-28T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/china-s-military-says-no-plates-for-porsches-in-crackdown.html
China will ban the use of military
number plates on luxury cars, including Porsche and Bentley, in
a crackdown on abuse of vehicle management within the armed
forces amid President  Xi Jinping ’s campaign against corruption.  The change was ordered by the Central Military Commission,
headed by Xi, and is part of the military’s effort to reinforce
discipline and protect its image, the  PLA Daily , the armed
forces’ official newspaper, said in a report yesterday.  A new license system will go into force on May 1 to clamp
down on the sale and use of legal and counterfeit military
plates in order to “maintain social harmony, stability and the
reputation of the military,” the paper said. Existing plates
for all military vehicles will be canceled, it said.  The use of military license plates on luxury cars “is at
odds with our army’s glorious tradition and not conducive to
building the military’s morals,” according to a commentary in
the newspaper. Vehicle management is “a political task to
maintain forever the nature, principle and true color of the
armed forces,” it said.  In the  Internet era , military vehicles have been put in the
public spotlight and drivers must “mind their behavior,” the
commentary said.  “In recent years, irregularities in the use of military
cars have drawn public attention,” the official Xinhua News
Agency said in a report yesterday. “Some  internet users  have
posted snapshots on popular Twitter-like microblogs featuring
limos with military license plates.”  Detailed List  In a full-page special report in the paper, the People’s
Liberation Army logistics department gave a list of luxury autos
that will no longer be allowed to use military plates. Banned
cars include Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Lincoln, Cadillac, Volkswagen
Phaeton, Bentley, Jaguar, Porsche and all-terrain vehicles
include  Land Rover , Porsche Cayenne and Audi Q7.  Other cars priced at more than 450,000  yuan  ($73,000) and
with engine capacity of 3.0 liters and above will also be barred
from using military license plates, the paper said.  The registration, production and issue of all military
license plates will be processed through a computer database so
that luxury cars or vehicles exceeding quotas will be
automatically rejected, according to the report.  The military has also adopted technology that will match
license plates with electronic toll collection cards to detect
counterfeit license plates as they pass through toll gates, the
newspaper said.  --Fan Wenxin. Editors: Nerys Avery, Peter Torday  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  