-- Dollar Drops Versus Peers Amid Fed Bond-Buying Bets; Rand Climbs
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-29T21:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/dollar-index-falls-before-u-s-spending-data-fed-policy-meeting.html
The dollar fell against 14 of its
16 most-traded peers before the  Federal Reserve  opens a two-day
meeting tomorrow amid bets it will maintain bond purchases under
quantitative easing for the foreseeable future.  The euro gained for a second day versus the dollar amid
speculation the  European Central Bank  will cut its record-low
benchmark rate further this week.  South Africa ’s rand climbed as
precious metals rose, boosting the country’s export prospects.
The dollar stayed weaker as data showed growth in U.S. personal
spending slowed in March. Stocks rose.  “You get the sense the market is trying to return toward
what it knows how to do, which is sell the dollar and buy
risk,”  Sebastien Galy , a foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York, said in a telephone interview. “They
are hoping for rate cuts and the like. They view negative data
as being positive.”  The greenback dropped 0.5 percent to $1.3099 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time, extending this month’s decline to 2.1
percent. The U.S. currency declined 0.3 percent to 97.76 yen and
reached 97.35, the lowest level since April 17. The euro gained
0.3 percent to 128.05 yen.  The South African rand surged the most in six months,
rising against all of its 16 most-traded counterparts, as spot
gold touched $1,478 an ounce, almost a two-week high. Yields on
the government’s 10-year bonds slid to a record 6.27 percent.
The rand rallied 1.2 percent to 8.9947 per dollar after jumping
as much as 1.7 percent, the most since October.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $18 billion, compared with turnover of $26 billion on
April 26, according to data reported by U.S. banks to the
Depository Trust Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume
in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $5
billion, the largest share of trades at 27 percent. Euro-dollar
options were the second most actively traded, at $2.3 billion,
or 13 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 57 percent below the average
for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day, and
euro-dollar options trading was 37 percent below, according to
Bloomberg analysis.  Brazil ’s real fell versus most major peers as an inflation
gauge was lower than forecast, spurring bets the central bank
will limit increases in borrowing costs. The real slid 0.4
percent to 2.0073 per dollar.  Kiwi Climbs  New Zealand ’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, climbed against
the U.S. currency before a report tomorrow forecast to show
housing approvals rose 2 percent in March to the  highest  level
since April 2008.The  Reserve Bank  said last week a housing boom
may force it to raise  interest rates .  The kiwi strengthened 1 percent to 85.67 U.S. cents and
touched 85.76 cents, the highest since April 15.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent.  The Fed, which meets April 30-May 1, is buying $85 billion
of bonds each month in its third round of QE to put downward
pressure on borrowing costs. While Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
after the previous meeting on March 20 that further labor-market
gains were needed to consider reducing monetary easing, minutes
showed officials discussed slowing the pace of buying.  “The market is just paring back a touch the whole
tapering-of-QE3 idea,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of global-
markets research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London ,
said today. “Potentially the Fed statement could have some form
of acknowledgment that there does seem to be some softening in
the economic data. All of that makes for the potential for the
dollar to be a little bit softer.”  U.S. Data  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the  U.S. economy , rose 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent gain the
prior month, Commerce Department data showed today. A Bloomberg
survey of called for little change. Inflation cooled to the
lowest level in more than three years, the report showed.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 2.5 percent annual
rate last quarter, less than the 3 percent estimated by
economists, the Commerce Department said April 26.  “The dollar is having kind of a weak day across the
board,” Sireen Harajli, a currency strategist in New York at
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said today in a telephone interview. “We
expected a soft spot in U.S. growth in the second quarter, and
that’s pretty much what’s happening. What it really means is
that the Fed is not going to change its QE policy.”  The euro advanced for the first time in three days against
the yen after Italy ended two months of political stalemate
yesterday, swearing in a new prime minister, Enrico Letta.
Italian  10-year bonds  gained for the first time in four days,
pushing yields down to 3.91 percent.  The euro rose even as economists in a Bloomberg survey
predicted the ECB will cut its  main refinancing rate  to 0.5
percent, from 0.75 percent, at a meeting on May 2.  The euro gained 1.6 percent in the past month against nine
developed-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The dollar fell 0.8 percent, and the yen
tumbled 4.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  