-- Dollar Holds Declines After U.S. Growth Falls Short of Forecasts
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-28T22:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/dollar-holds-declines-after-u-s-growth-falls-short-of-forecasts.html
The dollar held declines against
most of its major peers after U.S. gross domestic product
increased less than forecast in the first quarter, adding to
concern the world’s biggest economy is struggling to grow.  The yen climbed against the greenback, extending the 
dollar's first weekly decline since March, as the Bank of  Japan  
failed to outline additional stimulus efforts. The euro rose 
after Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta was sworn in. The 
report at the end of last week that U.S. first-quarter GDP grew
2.5 percent, compared with analysts’ forecasts for 3 percent, 
damped bets the Federal Reserve will slow the pace of bond 
buying under quantitative easing.  “The downside miss added to the miserable tone of recent
U.S. data, and took a noticeable toll on U.S. bond yields and
the dollar,” analysts at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. led by
Auckland-based Mike Jones wrote in a note.  The greenback slid to 97.68 yen as of 8:13 a.m. in Sydney
from 98.05 yen in New York on April 26, when it touched 97.56,
the lowest level since April 17. It fell 1.5 percent last week
against the Japanese currency, the most since June. The dollar
declined 0.2 percent against the euro to $1.3055.  Japanese markets are closed today for a holiday.  Yen Shorts  Futures traders decreased bets the yen will decline against
the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of
wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on a decline
in the yen compared with those on an increase -- so-called  net
shorts  -- was 79,730 on April 23, compared with net shorts of
93,411 a week earlier.  U.S. growth will slow to a 1.6 percent pace this quarter, a
Bloomberg survey forecast. The lagged effect of a jump in the
payroll tax at the start of 2013, and $85 billion in automatic
budget cuts that began March 1, may take more of a toll.  “Investors have been concentrating a lot on headline
numbers, which are confirming that the government sector is
being a drag on the economy,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-
exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said of
the GDP data in a telephone interview. “But we haven’t reached
that threshold where it’s extremely weak, which would cause a
flight to safer assets.”  Letta, 46, was sworn in yesterday after forging an alliance
with Silvio Berlusconi to end a two-month stalemate, becoming
 Italy ’s third-youngest premier since World War II. His Cabinet
includes former European Union commissioner Emma Bonino as
foreign minister. He also appointed Bank of Italy veteran
Fabrizio Saccomanni as finance minister.  Bond Buying  The Fed, which opens a two-day meeting April 30, is buying
$85 billion of bonds a month to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs. Minutes of the central bank’s March meeting
showed policy makers discussed slowing purchases this year.  The dollar increased 2.8 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes, the second-best performance.
Japan’s currency fell 5.4 percent.  The yen strengthened on April 26 after the Bank of Japan
maintained its pledge to double its monetary base in two years
and didn’t offer additional measures. BOJ Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda said no policy maker judged additional easing was needed
now, and that adjustments would be made if necessary.  Kuroda announced the program of increased purchases mainly
of government bonds after the BOJ’s  previous meeting  on April 4.  “They haven’t done anything new here,” Dan Dorrow, the
head of research at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said in a phone interview. “The BOJ just reaffirmed the big
bang in terms of the quantity of the monetary base. It seems
like there’s a little bit less intensity around reaching the 2
percent inflation target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  