-- Draghi to Clear Path for Belka as PineBridge Buys: Poland Credit
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-04-29T12:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/draghi-to-clear-path-for-belka-as-pinebridge-buys-poland-credit.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ’s expected interest-rate cut this week will clear
the way for Poland to follow suit, prolonging the best rally in
zloty bonds in five years, PineBridge Investments said.  “I am a buyer of Polish bonds,” Anders Faergemann, global
emerging-markets fund manager at PineBridge, which runs $72
billion of assets, said from  London  on April 26. An ECB rate
reduction is “becoming more likely” and “would provide more
room for the  National Bank of Poland  to cut borrowing costs.”  The ECB will cut its main refinancing rate 25 basis points
to a record 0.5 percent on May 2, the median estimate from a
Bloomberg survey of 66 economists shows, after gauges of
business activity for April underscored weakness in the euro
region. Polish central bankers left the key  interest rate  at a
record low of 3.25 percent at their last meeting in April, after
lowering it by 150 basis points between November and March.  Zloty  forward-rate agreements , derivatives used to bet on
interest rates, are 64 basis points below the Warsaw Interbank
Offered Rate, showing scope for almost three quarter-point cuts
in Poland over nine months. The extra yield on Poland’s 10-year
zloty bonds over German bunds fell to a four-year low last week.  Consumer Austerity  The yield on Polish 10-year notes tumbled 59 basis points
in April, the biggest monthly decline since November 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate on the
securities fell to a record 3.35 percent at 2 p.m. in Warsaw.  Weighed down by sagging consumer demand, high debt and
austerity, the economy of the 16-nation euro area will shrink
0.4 percent in 2013 after a 0.6 percent reduction last year, the
median estimate from a Bloomberg survey of 56 analysts shows.  The region’s purchasing managers’  index  of manufacturing
fell to 46.5 in April, Markit Economics said last week, staying
below the 50 mark that divides contraction from expansion for
the 21st straight month. Loans to the private sector in the euro
area fell 0.8 percent from a year earlier in March, contracting
for an 11th month, the ECB said on April 26.  Following a series of cuts, Poland’s official interest
rates are 250 basis points above those of the ECB, the smallest
premium since 2010. Central bank Governor Marek Belka said on
April 10 that policy makers are open to further easing should
the outlook for the country’s $515 billion annual economy have
worsened. The  Finance Ministry  last week cut its 2013 growth
target to 1.5 percent from 2.2 percent.  ‘Psychological’  The  inflation  rate in March dropped to 1 percent, the
lowest since June 2006 and compared with the central bank’s 1.5
percent to 3.5 percent “tolerance range” around its 2.5
percent goal. March industrial production dropped 2.9 percent
from a year earlier, after decreasing 2.1 percent in February.  “I was quite surprised by how soft the Polish economy is
and I’m not sure that the central bank is done cutting interest
rates at this stage,” Faergemann said.  While the ECB’s expected cut may be “a psychological
signal” for Polish policy makers to follow suit, its impact on
decisions will be “limited,” Miroslaw Budzicki, a fixed-income
analyst at PKO Bank Polski SA, said by phone on April 26.  “The fact that such a decision is made will prove that
concerns over economic growth in  Europe  are rising,” he said.
“Still, there is a risk that the market is discounting rate
cuts in Poland too aggressively.”  No Improvement  Draghi said on April 19 he hasn’t seen any improvement in
economic reports, after hinting he might lower borrowing costs
if the recovery falters. Executive board member Vitor Constancio
said on April 24 the ECB is “ready to act.” The Frankfurt-
based bank for the bloc’s $13 trillion annual economy has kept
rates at 0.75 percent since July.  The additional yield investors demand to hold Polish
 dollar-denominated bonds  rather than U.S. Treasuries was
unchanged at 128 basis points today, according to indexes
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The spread of 10-year zloty
yields over German bunds narrowed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 213, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The zloty strengthened 0.7 percent to 4.1308 against the
euro, paring its decline in 2013 to 1.2 percent.  The cost of Polish  credit-default swaps  rose one basis
point to 81, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a borrower renege.  The extra yield on  Poland ’s 10-year bonds over the
country’s two-year notes, which stood at 69 basis today, will
decrease as the shorter-dated debt is “probably not too far
away from where the market is pricing in the rates outlook,”
Faergemann at PineBridge said.  “We could see the whole curve shifting lower, but in the
current environment you want to go with the long end and then
see how the central bank reacts,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  