-- Dutch Prepare to Celebrate Inauguration of Their New King
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-04-28T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/dutch-prepare-to-celebrate-inauguration-of-their-new-king.html
The Netherlands is getting ready to
celebrate tomorrow’s inauguration of King Willem-Alexander, with
security stepped up for an event forecast to attract at least
800,000 people to Amsterdam and millions of television viewers.  Queen Beatrix  announced on Jan. 28, three days before her
75th birthday, that she will cede the Dutch throne to Willem-
Alexander, her eldest son, tomorrow after exactly 33 years. The
new king, who turned 46 two days ago, will be the Netherlands’
first male monarch since Willem III died in 1890.  Dutch television will be broadcasting 14 hours of live
coverage of  tomorrow’s events , which start when the queen signs
the instrument of abdication between 10 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. in
the  Royal Palace  in Amsterdam. At that moment, Willem-Alexander,
known until now as the Prince of Orange, officially becomes
king. The old and new monarch then appear together on the palace
balcony overlooking the Dam Square.  The inauguration is costing the government 5 million euros
($7.5 million), excluding security measures, Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said last month. The city of Amsterdam is spending another
7 million euros on the event, Mayor Eberhard van der Laan
announced two weeks ago. Police will deploy 6,000 officers,
3,500 brought in from other parts of the country. The mayor has
declined to comment on specific security measures following the
 Boston Marathon bombings  earlier this month.  Nieuwe Kerk  After the abdication ceremony, the royals will cross the
street in the afternoon to the  Nieuwe Kerk , the 600-year-old
gothic church where Dutch monarchs are traditionally sworn in. A
total of 2,045 guests are invited to attend, including the
entire Rutte Cabinet and all members of parliament. Also
attending will be Britain’s Prince Charles and members of the
royal families of  Spain ,  Japan  and  Norway , among others.  In contrast to a British coronation ceremony, the Dutch
monarch is never actually crowned, so the state regalia are
simply displayed on a table during the ceremony in the Nieuwe
Kerk.  The celebrations also include a reception, a river boat
tour and a state dinner in the Muziekgebouw concert hall. A tour
along the city’s scenic canals won’t happen for security
reasons.  Beatrix succeeded her mother, Queen Juliana, when she
abdicated in 1980. Juliana’s mother, Wilhelmina, also gave up
the throne in 1948. Willem-Alexander is married to Princess Maxima, a 41-year-old Argentine. The couple have three
daughters.  Willem-Alexander becomes king at a time when the role of
the Dutch monarch in politics has been reduced. The sovereign
previously played a key part in the formation of governments.
Parliament decided early last year, though, that it should
oversee the process of agreeing on new coalitions without the
involvement of the monarch, and the Liberal and Labor parties
formed a government under the new rules after elections in
September.  Queen’s Day, a national holiday traditionally held on April
30, will in future move to April 27 and be renamed King’s Day,
to celebrate Willem-Alexander’s birthday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  