-- The Fed Broadens Its Reach
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-28T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/the-fed-broadens-its-reach.html
The crash of 2008 spread almost
instantly from country to country, highlighting the
interconnectedness of the financial world and making it brutally
clear that governments need to cooperate more closely on bank
regulation. That effort is faltering, though, which is why the
Federal Reserve’s proposal to change its approach to regulating
the U.S. operations of foreign banks is justified.  The Fed wants to treat these operations as though they were
U.S. banks -- by requiring them to be organized as holding
companies and making them pass a U.S. test of capital adequacy.
Up to now, the U.S. units of foreign banks were seen as
adequately capitalized as long as the foreign parent met the
capital standard imposed by the foreign regulator.  The Fed is saying that’s no longer good enough. In
response, the European Union calls the Fed’s plan a dangerous
and radical departure from the current approach. It says the
plan will fragment, rather than unify, global regulation, pile
up excess capital and add to banks’ costs.  And that’s not all. Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial-
services chief, said in  a letter  to Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
that the U.S. rule “could spark a protectionist reaction from
other jurisdictions, which could ultimately have a substantial
negative impact on the global economic recovery.”  Let’s first note that if Barnier is concerned about
 Europe ’s protectionist response to the Fed’s proposal, as a top
EU policy maker he would be in a good position to prevent it.
The implication that the Fed is seeking to give U.S. banks an
advantage is, moreover, quite wrong. The proposal puts domestic
and foreign banks on the same footing in the U.S. market. That’s
a change, admittedly, and a step away from the goal of a single
global system of financial regulation. But it isn’t
protectionist, and under the circumstances is fully warranted.  In a  speech  in November, Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo
underlined the central problem: For the foreseeable future, he
said, “our regulatory system must recognize that while
internationally active banks live globally, they may well die
locally.” During the financial crisis, the Fed provided more
than $500 billion of emergency loans to the U.S. units of
European banks. Since then, the concentration and complexity of
those firms’ assets, and the risk they pose to the financial
system, haven’t diminished. And, as Tarullo added pointedly,
“The likelihood that some home-country governments of
significant international firms will backstop their banks’
foreign operations in a crisis appears to have diminished.”  All of this justifies stronger oversight by U.S. regulators
of foreign banks’ U.S. operations, some separation of their
activities and application of the more demanding U.S. capital
adequacy test. The U.K. has already adopted similar measures.  To be sure, it’s a pragmatic second-best solution, rather
than the ideal. Uniform global regulation is the right answer in
principle, so long as it’s sufficiently strict. But as Tarullo
says, it’s unlikely anytime soon.  The change would also be unnecessary if EU bank regulation
was all it should be. It isn’t. European banks are not as well
capitalized as American banks, and EU regulators have been
dragging their feet.  The Fed’s proposal will indeed require European banks to
raise more capital for their U.S. operations -- and that’s the
point. The last thing anybody needs to worry about right now is
that banks anywhere, let alone European banks, have too much
capital.  A shortage of capital poses serious risks to the U.S.
financial system and taxpayers. When EU regulators have greatly
improved their performance on bank safety, they will be in a
better position to argue that they can be trusted to take care
of their banks’ foreign operations, and to call the Fed’s
regulatory fragmentation a bad idea. Until then, the Fed’s
proposal makes excellent sense.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 