-- Ebbing Inflation Means More Easy Money
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-04-29T12:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/ebbing-inflation-means-more-easy-money-in-name-of-stable-prices.html
Slowing inflation is giving central
bankers scope to provide the world economy with more liquidity
and lower interest rates for longer, all in the name of price
stability.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi may cut his
benchmark rate to a record low as soon as this week as ebbing
price pressures let him deliver more stimulus to the euro area’s
recession-riddled economy. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke at a policy meeting that starts tomorrow might have
more room to press on with asset purchases as the argument
against that strategy is undercut by waning inflation risks.
Their counterparts from New Zealand to  Canada  also have more
reason to keep policy loose.  The odds of disinflation are mounting as the world economy
slows anew and commodity prices slide, defying forecasts that
easy money would trigger an acceleration of prices. More than
half of the world economy, including the U.S. and the euro area,
instead confronts inflation below the central banks’ desired
levels, according to  Ethan Harris , co-head of global economics
research at Bank of America Corp. in New York.  “There is a developing inflation problem: undesirably low
inflation,” said Harris, a former Federal Reserve Bank of New
York economist. “For central banks, this increases the pressure
to maintain super-easy monetary policy.”  Deflation Danger  Declining prices for everything from  gasoline  to coffee are
good news for consumers. The danger comes when disinflation
turns into deflation, which leads households to hold off
purchases in anticipation of even lower prices, and companies to
postpone investment and hiring as demand for their products
dries up and profits drop.  In  Japan , which has suffered  falling prices  in 11 of the
last 14 years, the new Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
this month announced a doubling of monthly bond purchases in a
bid to reach 2 percent inflation in two years and revive the
world’s third-largest economy.  The central bank largesse is buoying world stock markets,
led by Japan’s, where the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  average is up 12 percent
this month. Even with signs of tepid expansion, the MSCI World
Index has risen 8.9 percent in 2013.  “We’re not seeing the end of the road at all” to central
bank efforts to boost growth, said Elizabeth Corley, chief
executive officer of Allianz Global Investors, which manages
more than 300 billion euros ($390 billion).  Riskier Assets  That means “there is this element of having some policy
support for going into riskier assets,” she added, in an April
24 interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.” She
mentioned “high-quality equities,” particularly in  Europe , as
an attractive place to invest.  “The intensity of central bank reflation” argues that
investors should overweight equities and underweight bonds in
their portfolios, Bank of America chief investment strategist
Michael Hartnett and his colleagues wrote in an April 25 report.  Government bond yields worldwide are at record lows of
about 1.3 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Sovereign Plus Index.  Behind the receding inflation pressures: continued slack
that led the International Monetary Fund to cut its forecast for
global economic growth this year to 3.3 percent from 3.5
percent. Tighter fiscal policy is starting to squeeze the U.S.,
while the euro area is feeling the economic fallout of its debt
crisis amid 12 percent  unemployment . China may be shifting to a
lower-growth gear after having expanded  7.8 percent  in 2012, the
weakest in 13 years.  Commodity Prices  Inflationary forces are further abating in the wake of this
month’s collapse in the price of commodities from oil to copper.
Julian Callow, chief international economist at Barclays Plc in
 London , estimates that what he calls the commodity price “tax”
will be about zero this year, after having been responsible for
1.3 percentage points of the Group of Seven’s average inflation
rate in 2011.  “Given the outlook for the global economy it’s hard to see
how this commodity super-cycle” of rising prices “can
continue,” John Lipsky, former first deputy managing director
at the IMF and now a professor at John Hopkins University, told
Bloomberg Television’s Sara Eisen on April 19.  The result is that worldwide inflation may fall to 2
percent in the second half of 2013, the lowest level since 2009
and down from more than 3 percent at the start of 2012,
according to calculations by David Hensley, director of global
economic coordination at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  McDonald’s Prices  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  is among companies feeling a profit pinch
because they’re unable to raise prices. The world’s largest
restaurant chain by sales posted first-quarter  earnings  that
were little changed from a year ago.  “Consumers are very sensitive to price,” Don Thompson,
chief executive officer of the Oak Brook, Illinois-based
company, said on an April 19 conference call. “We don’t have
the inflationary environment or consumer sentiment environment
to go out and take the same kind of price increases that
historically we did.”  In another sign that businesses lack power to raise prices,
automobile discounts in  Germany  climbed to their highest level
in seven years in April, according to a monthly index by the
Center for Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-
Essen.  “At the moment, nothing points to an easing of the
discount situation,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , the center’s
director.  Draghi Ready  Draghi’s ECB enters the spotlight May 2, a month after he
declared the central bank stood ready to act if the economy
deteriorated.  He acknowledged April 19 that the data haven’t improved.
Reports today showed Germany’s inflation  rate  slumped to the
lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in April and executive and
consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro-area decreased more
than economists forecast.  Such faltering suggests the recession that began in the
last quarter of 2011 may now extend into the second half of this
year, when the ECB was previously looking for a recovery. A
probable result is lower  inflation , which at 1.7 percent in
March is already undershooting the ECB’s target of just below 2
percent. The inflation rate fell to 1.6 percent in April, the
lowest since August 2010, according to the median of economists
surveyed before a report tomorrow, and the ECB projects it will
sink to about 1.3 percent next year.  Weaker Euro  The decay last week led Barclays, JPMorgan and UBS AG among
others to switch stance and predict the ECB will cut its key
rate this week by 25 basis points from 0.75 percent. That would
be enough to weaken the  euro  to as low as $1.28 from $1.30 at
the end of last week, according to UBS.  Policy makers are sounding an alert. “Inflation is going
down in a significant way,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio 
said on April 24.  Lower rates would make it cheaper for banks to borrow from
the ECB, ensuring ample liquidity remains in the financial
system, and help curb the cost of mortgages and other loans tied
to the benchmark, said Richard Barwell, senior European
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  Potency Limited  Still, their potency is limited, according to Societe
Generale SA economist Anatoli Annenkov in London. Banks in
crisis economies such as Spain are already reluctant to lend to
businesses and another interest-rate cut may squeeze their
profit margins further.  Unblocking lending may eventually require the ECB to lend
more or lower collateral requirements for banks and unite with
governments to establish loan programs for small and medium-
sized companies, said Reinhard Cluse, an economist at UBS in
London.  In the U.S., two regional Fed presidents -- Narayana Kocherlakota of  Minneapolis  and James Bullard of St. Louis --
voiced concern this month that inflation may be skidding far
below the central bank’s 2 percent goal.  “We should defend the inflation target from the low
side,” Bullard told reporters on April 17 in New York.  Consumer prices rose 1 percent in March from a year
earlier, according to the Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation
which was released today. That’s the smallest gain since October
2009.  Fed’s Intolerance  Bernanke and other Fed officials have shown intolerance for
very low inflation in the past. Not only does it raise borrowing
costs in inflation-adjusted terms, it also could cause firms to
fire workers because wages typically don’t fall as fast as
prices for goods and services.  To provide the economy with support, the Fed is buying $85
billion of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities per month --a
strategy known as quantitative easing. The central bank has
pledged to keep interest rates near zero as long as unemployment
is above 6.5 percent and inflation isn’t forecast to exceed 2.5
percent. Joblessness in March was 7.6 percent.  At their last meeting in March, Fed policy makers discussed
scaling back the amount of monthly asset purchases and possibly
ending the program by the close of the year, according to the
minutes of that gathering.  The Fed probably will “postpone” consideration of such
steps at its two-day meeting starting tomorrow, given recent
signs of a slowdown in the economy and the still-low inflation
rate, said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse Group AG
in New York and a former Fed official.  Payrolls, Factories  Payroll growth,  retail sales  and factory output all
declined last month as federal tax increases and spending cuts
began to take a bite out of the economy.  While policy makers don’t seem ready to sound the alarm
about deflation, the “fresh disinflationary impulses” rippling
through the economy give them the “green light” to keep
easing, JPMorgan’s Hensley said. He sees the Fed continuing to
buy debt at a clip of $85 billion per month through end-year.  The same impulses are being felt elsewhere. The Bank of
Canada this month predicted inflation will stay below its 2
percent target until the second quarter of 2015, longer than the
previous estimate for the third quarter of next year.  New Zealand Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said on
April 24 that weak price pressures probably will allow him to
keep borrowing costs at record lows for the rest of this year.
Slowing core  consumer price  growth is raising bets the Reserve
Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens will pare rates to a
record next month.  Emerging Markets  Ebbing price pressures are more welcome in  emerging
markets , where central banks have been struggling to contain
higher-than-desired inflation.  In  India , annual  gains  in the wholesale-price index slowed
to 5.96 percent in March, the least since November 2009. That’s
boosted odds of easier monetary policy to help revive Asia’s
third-largest economy, Raghuram Rajan, the top adviser in
India’s Finance Ministry, said in an April 16 interview.  Turkey ’s central bank cut its key rate by a more-than-
expected 50 basis points on April 16, to 5 percent, saying weak
global demand and commodity prices should “contain the upward
pressures on inflation.”  Hungary ’s central bank last week
lowered its rate to a record with inflation near a 39-year low
and  Mexico ’s held borrowing costs at a record low as policy
makers said they expect inflation to slow.  The central banks’ stance vindicates those who insisted
inflation isn’t the pre-eminent threat to the world economy,
said David Blanchflower, a former Bank of England policy maker.  “All those loonies saying the big fear is inflation are
out of their minds,” said Blanchflower, who now teaches at
Dartmouth College in New Hampshire. “The downside risks to
inflation are marked.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  