-- Helen Mirren’s Queen Triumphs in U.K. Olivier Awards
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-04-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/helen-mirren-s-queen-triumphs-in-u-k-olivier-awards.html
Six years after bagging an Oscar
for her role as Elizabeth II in “The Queen,”  Helen Mirren  won
the U.K.’s highest stage honor -- a Laurence Olivier Award --
for her stage portrayal of the monarch in “The Audience.”  Written by Peter Morgan, “The Audience” recreates the
Queen’s weekly meetings with prime ministers from  Winston Churchill  to  David Cameron . Richard McCabe (who plays the late
premier Harold Wilson) won the prize for best supporting actor.
The Oliviers were given out in a televised gala at the Royal
Opera House last night.  Collecting her prize, Mirren said  Queen Elizabeth  herself
deserved an Olivier “for the most consistent and committed
performance of the 20th century and probably the 21st century.”  The actress also saluted the pair of dogs joining her on
stage for the show, Rocky and Coco, “who run on and off every
night, wagging their tails.”  The evening’s biggest winner was “The Curious Incident of
the Dog in the Night-Time,” a National Theatre production
adapted from the Mark Haddon bestseller. It took seven trophies,
including the best-actor award for Luke Treadaway. He defeated
four rivals including Rupert Everett, who had been shortlisted
for his performance as  Oscar Wilde  in “The Judas Kiss.”  The Olivier Awards originated in 1976. They are organized
by the Society of London Theatre, which represents the
producers, theater owners and managers of 52 major subsidized
and commercial theaters in central London.  Olivier Record  “The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time” also
won the prizes for best new play, best director (Marianne
Elliott), and best supporting actress (Nicola Walker). With a
total of seven Oliviers, it matched the record set last year by
“Matilda: The Musical.”  “Sweeney Todd” was voted best musical revival, and its
stars Michael Ball and Imelda Staunton walked away with the
awards for best actor and best actress in a musical. Ball
defeated three competitors including pop star Will Young, a
nominee for “Cabaret.”  “Top Hat” took three awards including best new musical.  “Einstein on the Beach,” a Barbican Theatre staging of the
five-hour work by  Robert Wilson  and  Philip Glass , won best new
opera production. U.S. tenor Brian Bryan Hymel won outstanding
achievement in opera for his Royal Opera House performances.  The Royal Ballet’s Argentinian-born principal dancer
Marianela Nunez clinched the outstanding achievement in dance
award for three performances including “Aeternum.” Choreographed
by  Christopher Wheeldon  for the Royal Ballet, “Aeternum” took
the prize for best new dance production.  The Oliviers are sponsored by  Mastercard Inc. (MA)   Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  John Mariani 
on drink and  Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 