-- Letta Government Installation Marred by Attack on Police
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-04-29T09:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/letta-government-installation-marred-by-attack-on-police.html
Enrico Letta’s government is poised
to be installed starting today, as the end of two months of
political turmoil in Italy was marred by the shooting of two
policemen outside the prime minister’s office in  Rome .  Italy’s new leader will address Parliament at 3 p.m. local
time, followed by a confidence vote in the Chamber of Deputies
needed to install the government. The Senate will hold its vote
tomorrow. Letta managed to assemble a coalition by forging an
alliance with former premier Silvio Berlusconi, whose support
virtually guarantees the success of the confidence votes in the
euro-zone’s third-biggest economy.  A gunman in a business suit shot the policemen yesterday,
one in the neck and the other in the leg, before being wrestled
to the ground while Letta and his Cabinet were being sworn in at
the nearby presidential palace. The 49-year-old assailant told
investigators he wanted to shoot politicians after losing his
job during  Italy ’s worst recession in more than 20 years.  The attack “doesn’t bode well because it’s a reflection of
the discontent in the country, which is suffering from the
recession and the austerity wanted by Monti,” said Giuseppe Di
Taranto, professor of financial history at Rome’s Luiss
University. “The tax pressure has gone too far and many people
are desperate.”  Outgoing Prime Minister Mario Monti raised taxes and cut
spending to rein in Italy’s finances and bring the budget
deficit within the European Union limit. The austerity deepened
the downturn, and Letta, 46, inherits an economy in its eighth
quarter of contraction. The jobless rate of almost 12 percent is
the highest in more than two decades.  Inconclusive Vote  Italy held elections in February after Berlusconi withdrew
his support from Monti in December, and the vote produced a hung
Parliament, with Letta’s Democratic Party winning a majority in
the Chamber of Deputies and falling short in the Senate.
Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani resigned on April 20
after failing to form a government, paving the way for Letta.  Monti’s efforts to shore up Italy’s finances have helped
keep bond yields in check, with Letta beginning his tenure with
two-year yields near a record low. The yield on the benchmark
10-year bond fell 11-basis points today to 3.95 percent, near
last week’s 2 1/2-year low. The Treasury was rewarded by
investors today who bought 3 billion euros ($3.93 billion) of
new 10-year debt at 3.94 percent, the lowest at auction since
October 2010.  ‘Positive Reaction’  “I expect a moderately positive reaction to the new
Italian Cabinet as finally the stalemate is over and Italy can
start to work on reforms and plans to boost the economy,” said
Giuseppe Belfiori, head of research at FT Support, an advisory
firm in Milan. “Investors will now focus on the first moves by
the government in a very tough environment.”  Letta, the third-youngest Italian premier since World War
II, tapped rival political parties and non-politicians to build
his 21-member Cabinet. He named a record seven women, including
former EU Commissioner Emma Bonino as foreign minister. There
are two nationalized Italians, including Cecile Kyenge, a 48-
year-old doctor from the Democratic Republic of Congo, as
minister for integration. Letta also appointed Bank of Italy
veteran Fabrizio Saccomanni as finance minister. Saccomanni was
Mario Draghi’s deputy before Draghi left the Bank of Italy to
become president of the European Central Bank.  “Fabrizio Saccomanni at the Italian Ministry of Economy
and Finance should be regarded as a market-friendly outcome,”
said Francesco Galietti, former adviser to Finance Minister
Giulio Tremonti. “Saccomanni is good news.”  Cabinet Posts  Letta tapped Angelino Alfano, general secretary of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, as deputy prime minister
and interior minister. Anna Maria Cancellieri, interior minister
under Monti, will serve as justice minister. European Affairs
Minister Enzo Moavero Milanesi remains in the same role and the
Defense Ministry went to Mario Mauro, an ex-Berlusconi ally and
member of Monti’s Civic Choice party.  The new prime minister through his alliance with Berlusconi
managed to recast the coalition that stood behind Monti. While
the deal gives Letta a majority in parliament, he must manage
the competing agendas of his Democratic Party and forces loyal
to Berlusconi to find common ground on policy.  “While the latest news is positive for markets, the task
of the new prime minister won’t be an easy one,” Loredana Federico, a Milan-based economist for  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in a
note to investors today. “A fragmented parliament and a
government coalition backed by rival parties until yesterday
leaves some uncertainty on how the urgent economic and
institutional reforms Italy needs will be tackled.”  Tax Policy  Letta’s party favors progressive taxation and counted on
the support of labor unions at the polls. The party identifies
itself as center-left and brings together ex-Christian Democrats
including Letta and former communists like Bersani. People of
Liberty is calling for cuts to public spending and appeals to
entrepreneurs and professionals.  Letta will be pushed to tackle a new election law -- to
reduce the probability of future stalemates -- justice reform
and changes to the labor-market that economists say is needed to
boost productivity. He will also have to address Berlusconi’s
demands to revoke a property tax on primary residences passed by
Monti.  Berlusconi, a three-time premier, told Canale 5 television
today that eliminating the property tax on first homes should be
a top priority for the government. The pledge was central to
Berlusconi’s campaign for the February elections and helped him
narrow the Democratic Party’s lead before the vote and deny it a
majority of seats in the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  