-- Merkel’s Party Shuns ‘Stone Age’ Greens Amid Tax-Rise Pledge
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-04-29T07:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/german-greens-shun-merkel-s-coalition-with-pledge-to-raise-taxes.html
Germany ’s Greens party backed a
campaign platform of tax increases that members of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc said rules out a
coalition after national elections in September.  Delegates at a Greens party convention in Berlin yesterday
voted through plans to raise the top rate of income tax to 49
percent for those earning 80,000 euros ($104,000) a year or
more, and to 45 percent from 42 percent above 60,000 euros. They
also backed a “wealth levy” on the richest to pay down 100
billion euros of Germany’s state debt over 10 years.  The platform “is a fiscal policy from the Stone Age,”
Ralph Brinkhaus, a parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , said by phone. It would harm
Germany’s economy, and “whoever espouses this doesn’t belong in
government,” he said.  Less than five months before federal elections that will
determine whether Merkel wins a third term, the Greens manifesto
distances the party from Merkel’s bloc and aligns with the
policies of the main opposition  Social Democrats . Germany’s
best-selling Bild newspaper, which frequently channels the
government, floated a potential coalition between Merkel and the
Greens last week, saying in an op-ed that it would be “new,
exciting and, if it came to it, worth a serious go.”  Poll Credence  Polls add credence to the potential for an alliance. While
support for Merkel’s CDU-led bloc gained one percentage point to
40 percent in a weekly Emnid poll published yesterday, her Free
Democratic Party coalition partner dropped to 4 percent, below
the 5 percent threshold to win seats in parliament.  With the SPD gaining a point to 27 percent and its
traditional Green ally unchanged at 14 percent, neither camp has
a governing majority in the poll of 2,440 voters conducted April
18-24. That raises the likelihood of a “grand coalition” after
the Sept. 22 vote comprising Merkel’s bloc and the SPD of  Peer Steinbrueck , her first-term finance minister. However, an
alliance between Merkel and the Greens would also be possible.  That option faded with the positions adopted at the Greens
convention. Not only did the party recommit to a coalition with
the Social Democrats, its partner in government from 1998 to
2005, it attacked Merkel’s leadership during the crisis in the
euro area that spread from  Greece . Merkel has “shaken the
foundations of European unity and solidarity” through her
“savings diktat” and her focus on defending German interests,
according to the final resolution agreed on by Green delegates.  Tearing Apart  “I don’t think the CDU-Greens are an option at the federal
level,”  Jan Techau , director of the Brussels center of the
Carnegie Endowment, said in a phone interview on April 26. “It
would tear both parties apart.”  The Greens tax platform was disputed even among party
members. Winfried Kretschmann, the prime minister of Baden-Wuerttemberg, home to world-leading companies such as  Daimler AG (DAI) 
and SAP AG, warned in an open letter to his party’s leadership
on the eve of the convention against harming businesses through
tax increases.  “We’ll do nothing that hurts our small and medium-sized
companies,” Kretschmann, whose state boasts  Germany’s lowest
unemployment  at 4.3 percent, said in an interview with
Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper published April 26. These
businesses, known in Germany as the Mittelstand, “compete in
global markets and need to invest massively in research and
development.”  “We’ve already made clear in our program that we won’t
hurt the Mittelstand’s ability to invest,” Priska Hinz said in
an e-mailed response to questions. All the same, it’s “right to
reassess all measures before implementing them when entering a
coalition,” she said.  ‘Debt Brake’  Germany’s  federal budget  situation makes tax increases
unnecessary, Merkel’s Christian Democrat budget spokesman in
parliament,  Norbert Barthle , said in an e-mailed comment. The
structural deficit will be in balance as the government reins in
spending in compliance with a “debt brake” and  tax revenue 
grows, said Barthle.  “It’s the wrong time to increase taxes,” said Barthle.
“It would harm economic growth.”  Bjoern Saenger, a Free Democratic Party lawmaker, said in a
text message that any plan to raise the top  tax rate  would hit
the Mittelstand and skilled workers, “taking the ax to the
positive economic development in the country.”  Merkel, whose CDU is the last of the main parties to
formulate policy for the election, said last week that she
wouldn’t raise taxes if re-elected for a third term. Neither is
there much leeway for tax cuts, she said.  The Green party is in the midst of a “civil war” between
those who founded the party as a radical alternative and “a new
urban bloc of money-making Greens who drive BMWs and are
emotionally attached to the party rather than ideologically”
said Techau. “This will be a battle that we will see going on
for years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  