-- German Inflation Probably Slowed to the Weakest Level Since 2010
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/german-inflation-probably-slowed-to-the-weakest-level-since-2010.html
German inflation probably slowed in
April to the lowest level in more than two years.  The inflation rate in  Europe ’s largest economy, calculated
using a  harmonized  European Union method, fell to 1.7 percent
from 1.8 percent in March, according to the median forecast of
19 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . That’s the lowest
since November 2010. German states are due to report inflation
data through the course of today before the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden publishes national data at 2 p.m.  “We are observing pretty low inflation rates at the
moment, not just in Germany but in the entire euro area,” said
Stefan Muetze, an economist at Helaba in  Frankfurt . “That gives
the European Central Bank a good option to explain a possible
interest-rate cut.”  ECB policy makers, who are due to convene on May 2 for
their monthly meeting, have signaled they’re looking at a range
of measures to boost economic growth, including cutting interest
rates. President Mario Draghi said on April 19 that economic
risks are still on the downside and that the situation hasn’t
improved this month.  In the 17-nation euro area, inflation probably slowed to
1.6 percent from 1.7 percent, according to a separate  survey  of
economists. The EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg will
publish that report at 11 a.m. tomorrow.  Risks to the outlook for inflation “continue to be broadly
balanced,” Draghi said after the last rate decision on April 4.
The ECB in March cut its inflation projection for 2014 to 1.3
percent from 1.4 percent and predicted annual consumer-price
gains will average 1.6 percent this year. It aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent.  For  Germany , the Bundesbank forecasts inflation will
average 1.5 percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  