-- Nairobi County Governor Kidero Seeks Funds to Exit Debt Hole
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-04-29T06:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/governor-of-kenya-s-nairobi-county-seeks-funds-to-exit-debt-hole.html
Kenya ’s Nairobi county will tap
commercial lenders and the World Bank for loans and may sell
municipal bonds to finance plans for urban renewal and repay
“monster” debt, Governor Evans Kidero said.  The county, formed on March 4 under Kenya’s new devolved
system of government, needs funds to build low-cost houses and
schools, upgrade hospitals and provide more clean water, he
said. It also plans to repay about a fifth of its $405 million
debt, some of it owed to domestic lenders including Equity Bank
Ltd., in the fiscal year that starts July 1, he said.  “We are in a huge hole,” Kidero said at his office in
Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, on April 23. “The first thing is
to strive to provide services but also get out of that hole.”  Nairobi, which accounts for almost two-thirds of economic
output in East Africa’s biggest economy, serves as a regional
base for companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)  The city mushroomed from its start in
1899 as a rail-supply depot connecting the port of  Mombasa  to
Uganda, with little consideration for city planning.  About half of Nairobi’s 3.1 million residents live in slums
and 70 percent of people are unemployed, according to Kidero,
while poorly maintained roads and drainage cause regular traffic
jams and flooding.  Former CEO  Kidero, the 55-year-old former chief executive officer at
Mumias Sugar Co., Kenya’s biggest producer of the sweetener,
became governor after last month’s election. The vote was the
first since the enactment of a revised constitution in 2010 that
devolved power to 47 newly created county governments.  The administrations, which replace local government
structures of mayors and town councils, are being allocated
funds by the central government. In addition, they can gather
taxes, including property and entertainment levies, and borrow
money as long as the national government guarantees it.  Nairobi’s municipality previously announced plans in 2010
to sell as much as 100 billion shillings ($1.2 billion) of bonds
to finance upgrades to infrastructure.  “Nairobi is now in a better position to raise money from
the markets because debt will be guaranteed by the government,”
Fred Moturi, a fixed-income dealer at Sterling Capital Ltd.,
said in a phone interview. “Their capacity for raising debt is
significantly high.”  In sub-Saharan  Africa , Lusaka, the Zambian capital, said in
January it was seeking legal and financial advisers for its
maiden municipal bond sale. Nigeria’s Lagos state sold a bond
worth 80 billion naira ($504 million) in November, while South
African municipalities also have issued securities.  Infrastructure Pledge  Kidero estimates he needs $1.5 billion in his first year in
charge to make good on his pledge to improve infrastructure.  “I want Nairobi to be known as the easiest place to set up
business,” Kidero said. “We will decide on a single business
window for payment of all licenses to stimulate the interest of
investors.”  As Kenya’s largest county by population, Nairobi will
receive a central-government transfer of 16.9 billion shillings,
or about half its 31.5 billion-shilling budget in 2013-14,
Kidero said.  The remainder will come from collecting business taxes,
permit fees and car-park charges as the county takes steps to
automate payments and enforce tax compliance, he said.  There will be a “revision of rates, fees and charges to
reflect the present socio-economic realities,” with levies
currently below market rates, Kidero said.  Pursuing Debtors  The county will also pursue the 51.3 billion shillings it’s
owed by debtors including the central government, land owners
and Kenya Power Ltd., the country’s monopoly electricity
provider, he said. The proposals must be approved by the county
assembly.  The goal is to pay off 5.7 billion shillings of debt next
year, Kidero said. Payments are owed to creditors including
Equity and  Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd. , he said.  Kidero’s government needs to pick investment priorities,
Vimal Parmar, head of sub-Saharan Africa research at Nairobi-
based Burbridge Capital Ltd., said by phone.  “He will not be able to do all these things at once,”
Parmar said. “He will need to ration capital and prioritize the
things that add more value to Nairobi county first.”  The county plans to cut wage costs to 550 million shillings
a month from 800 million by cutting jobs. More than a-third of
11,000 employees on Nairobi City Hall’s payroll are unaccounted
for, Kidero said, citing an independent study. “We don’t know
where they are or what they do,” he said.  Zero Tolerance  “My administration is going to be participatory and have
zero tolerance of corruption,” Kidero said, adding that he’s
already fired 11 people for submitting fraudulent invoices.  Kidero characterized his no-nonsense approach by calling
himself the “New Sheriff in Town” after winning his
gubernatorial bid. A print of him in a cowboy outfit with the
tag line “Kidero Unchained,” a play on Quentin Tarantino’s
Oscar-winning film “Django Unchained,” is on display in his
office.  A pharmacist by profession who has an MBA from the United
States International University in Nairobi, Kidero’s previous
jobs include managing director of Nairobi-based Nation Media
Group’s newspaper division and regional director for SmithKline
Beecham Plc before it was acquired by Glaxo Wellcome Plc in 2000
and became known as GlaxoSmithKline Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  