-- Iceland Party Ousted During Bank Crisis Starts Coalition Talks
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-04-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/icelanders-reject-government-imf-praised-amid-austerity-fatigue.html
The party ousted from government in
2009 after presiding over Iceland’s financial meltdown emerged
as the biggest winner in the weekend’s parliamentary elections
as talks start to form a ruling coalition.  The Independence Party, whose former leader and Prime
Minister Geir H. Haarde was tried in court last year for
economic mismanagement, won 26.7 percent of votes in the April
27 parliamentary elections. The Progressive Party -- a coalition
partner of the Independents before Iceland’s banking collapse --
won 24.4 percent. The Social Democrats of Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottirsaw backing plunge by 16.9 percentage points to 
12.9 percent. Together with their coalition partner, the Left 
Green Party, they garnered just 23.8 percent support.  Though Sigurdardottir’s government had won praise from the
International Monetary Fund for its crisis management policies,
which included capital controls and burden sharing for
creditors, voters responded to opposition pledges to raise their
standard of living.  Unemployment (ICUNEMRT) , though well below a crisis
peak of 9.3 percent, is still more than five times 2007 levels.
The winning parties said they will now start talks to form a
government as soon as possible.  “Now things will develop quickly,”Bjarni Benediktsson,
chairman of the Independence Party, told state broadcaster RUV.
“I think it’s right to attempt to form a two-party government”
with the Progressive Party, he said.  Household Debt  Benediktsson’s pledges to voters include tax cuts and debt
writedowns. He has sought to distance himself from the bank-
friendly policies his party backed in the 2000s, while
continuing to target a smaller role for government. Benediktsson,
who wants Iceland to abandon European Union accession talks,
argues his program will create a stronger middle class.  Most of Iceland’s consumers are struggling to repay home
loans linked to the consumer price index. Their obligations have
swelled as  inflation  hovers close to 4 percent.  The outgoing government could have done more to ease
households’ burdens, according to Valdimar Armann, an economist
with Reykjavik-based asset manager GAMMA.  “In many ways the last four years have been a period of
lost opportunities,” Armann said by phone. “Despite some good
efforts, the economy has been lagging and will continue to do so
unless the new government facilitates investments.”  That’s prompted some voters to ignore the two main
political blocs and vote for a new group, A Bright Future. The
party, which targets EU Membership, won 8.2 percent. Another
group, The Pirates, won 5.1 percent, just passing the 5 percent
minimum needed to get into parliament.  Bank Deregulation  Iceland’s $14.4 billion economy collapsed in 2008 after the
country’s three-largest banks failed under a mountain of debt.
The lenders had grown to about 10 times the size of the economy
after a period of financial deregulation spearheaded by the
former coalition of Independents and Progressives.  Sigurdardottir has had to balance efforts to protect
households without alienating foreign investors after the island
returned to capital markets. After exiting a 33-month IMF
program in 2011, Iceland successfully completed two dollar-bond
auctions, even as capital controls remain in place.  Sigurdardottir said she was “deeply saddened” by the 
larger-than-expected loss. “We knew that we wouldn’t gain
popularity in our mission to save Iceland from bankruptcy,” she 
told RUV.  The government has grappled with hurdles surrounding its
efforts to lift capital controls in place since 2008. The
restrictions are blocking as much as $8 billion in offshore
kronur holdings from being offloaded. The turmoil in 2008 sent
the krona plunging as much as 80 percent against the euro in the
offshore market. Even the official onshore rate dropped close to
50 percent.  Krona Losses  Inflation spurred by krona losses has crippled households.
With more than 80 percent of private debt linked to consumer
prices, Icelanders are vulnerable to currency swings as they try
to repay domestic banks about 1.43 trillion kronur in loans
indexed to inflation.  The Progressives have pledged to reduce consumer mortgage
debt by using the proceeds from writedowns on 450 billion kronur
of domestic-currency assets held by the creditors in the banks
that failed in 2008.  The Progressives will put their “influence to good use for
households,” said Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson, the party’s
chairman, in a televised speech. “We don’t make proposals unless 
they can be carried out and when we put forward proposals we are 
going see them through.”  May Backfire  The proposed writedowns have spurred criticism abroad. The
plan to force losses on creditors may backfire on Iceland’s
resurrection, according to Lars Christensen,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
chief  emerging markets  economist and one of the first to predict
the island’s 2008 collapse.  While there’s a need to ease household debt, “paying for
that by seizing the assets of foreign investors such as the
creditors of the failed banks isn’t the way,” Christensen said
in an interview this month. “If their assets are seized, the
international investor community won’t soon forget that.”  Iceland has passed numerous milestones on its path to
recovery. In January, it won a court battle against the U.K. and
the Netherlands, freeing it from as much as $2.6 billion in
damages for not honoring depositor claims stemming from failed
Landsbanki Islands hf.  The island, which is ranked just above junk at the three
main ratings companies, is unlikely to be upgraded as long as
currency restrictions remain in place, according to Moody's
Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  “The capital controls are one of the malignancies of the
economy,” said Benediktsson in a televised interview. “I think
it’s possible to remove the capital controls fast in a secure
manner” and removing them “is one of the priorities” of the
next government, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  