-- Iraq Said to Halt Al Jazeera’s License, Closes Jordanian Border
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2013-04-28T21:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/iraq-reported-to-halt-al-jazeera-s-license-close-jordan-border.html
Iraq  has suspended the licenses of
Al Jazeera and nine other television channels for allegedly
promoting violence and sectarianism, Al Jazeera  reported , citing
a senior official at the country’s media watchdog.  “We took a decision to suspend the license of some
satellite channels that adopted language encouraging violence
and sectarianism,” Mujahid Abu al-Hail of the Communications
and Media Commission said yesterday, according to Al Jazeera.  In another sign that unrest is gripping the nation, the
Iraqi embassy in Amman informed the Jordanian interior ministry
that Iraq will close borders with Jordan tomorrow for 48 hours,
citing domestic issues, Jordan’s state-run news service Petra
said. The report cited a statement issued by the interior
ministry.  Protests against Iraq’s Shiite Muslim government and
clashes in Sunni-dominated provinces continued for a fifth day,
pushing the death toll past 200, Al Jazeera reported April 27.
Tensions have been rising since Sunnis began anti-government
protests in December and worsened April 23, when troops backed
by helicopters stormed a plaza in Hawija, killing at least 20
protesters.  Iraq has been “affected by a region seething with
sectarianism and we are starting to see those problems come to
us,” Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said after the violence.  Five soldiers were killed in fighting with gunmen west of
 Baghdad , Al Sharqiya television reported on April 27, citing
police officials. Anbar province’s security chief, General
Mardhi al-Mahlawi, said a curfew has been imposed on the
province from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., Al Mada press said.  ‘Provocative, Misleading’  The Iraqi communications commission said “the rhetoric and
substance coverage” on channels Al Sharqiyah, Al Sharqiyah
News, Babylonian, Baghdad, Salah al-Din, Anwar 2, al Tagheer,
Fallujah, Al Jazeera and Al Gharbiyah have been “provocative,
misleading and exaggerated with the objective of disturbing the
civil and democratic process” Al Jazeera reported, citing the
commission.  “This action undermines confidence in the Iraqi
government’s ability to govern democratically and guarantee
freedom of expression,” a State Department official said,
speaking on condition of anonymity.  Al Jazeera said on its English language website that it was
“astonished” by the development.  ‘Indiscriminate Decision’  “We cover all sides of the stories in Iraq, and have done
for many years,” the agency said. “The fact that so many
channels have been hit all at once though suggests this is an
indiscriminate decision.”  Protesters in Sunni Muslim-dominated Anbar province
released a statement calling on the Iraqi government to
reconsider its suspensions, the Iraqi news organization Al Mada
said. They also called on the United Nations to send
peacekeeping troops to Anbar province, Al Mada said, citing the
statement.  Violence has escalated since the U.S. withdrew its combat
troops from Iraq at the end of 2011, with 4,568 civilians killed
in 2012 compared with 4,144 in the previous year, according to
the Iraq Body Count website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  