-- Hiring Probably Rose, Manufacturing Cooled: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-04-28T04:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/hiring-probably-rose-manufacturing-cooled-u-s-economy-preview.html
Employers probably hired more
workers in April than in the prior month and the jobless rate
 held  at a four-year low, showing the early stages of government
budget cuts failed to destabilize the U.S. labor market,
economists said before reports this week.  Payrolls increased by 150,000 workers after an 88,000 gain
in March, according to the median forecast from 70 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before a May 3 Labor Department report.
The  unemployment rate  may have  stayed  at 7.6 percent, matching
March’s reading as the lowest since December 2008. Other figures
may show manufacturing  cooled  as companies reined in stockpiling
on concern demand will deteriorate.  Employers took on staff even amid signs that cuts in
planned federal spending are restraining business investment in
new equipment. The expansion may slow this quarter, which means
hiring won’t keep accelerating, preventing the jobless rate from
retreating to a level  Federal Reserve  officials deem optimal.  “The labor market had a very strong February, a
disappointing March and now things are looking better,” said
 Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in  New
York . “If businesses were more concerned about a more-lasting
downturn, they would have started laying off more people.”  While better than in March, the recent pace of hiring is
still weaker than the 197,000 average increase in payrolls from
September to February.  Fed Trigger  Job creation  needs to proceed at a faster pace to pull
unemployment closer to the 6.5 percent rate Fed policy makers
have said should be reached before they consider raising the
benchmark lending rate. In March, the central bankers agreed to
keep buying bonds at a monthly pace of $85 billion to spur
economic growth and reduce joblessness.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will gather again this
week, and at the conclusion of their two-day meeting in
Washington on May 1, the group will release a new statement
regarding the outlook for monetary policy.  Any slowdown in growth this quarter brought on by federal
spending cuts would discourage FOMC members. Some $85 billion in
automatic budget reductions, known as sequestration, began March
1. The  Congressional Budget Office  has estimated the decreases
will reduce gross domestic product this year by 0.6 percentage
point.  A Commerce Department report last week showed the  U.S.
economy  grew at a 2.5 percent annualized rate from January to
March, restrained by declining defense outlays that highlight
the potential hit from government reductions. Economic growth
will cool to a 1.5 percent pace in the second quarter, according
to a Bloomberg survey of economists from April 5 to April 9.  Shares Fall  Stocks slumped following the weaker-than-projected first-
quarter GDP report, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  ending 
April 26 down 0.2 percent for the day at 1,582.24.  Slowing  consumer spending  at the end of the first quarter
also hints at what’s in store in coming months. Economists
project a Commerce Department report tomorrow will show
household purchases were little changed in March following a 0.7
percent gain in February. The same release will probably show
Americans’ earnings growth also cooled, with incomes rising by
0.4 percent after increasing 1.1 percent in February.  Besides hurting employment prospects, the weaker demand
projected for the second quarter will damp activity at
factories, which have begun to slow inventory building in
response. The Institute for Supply Management manufacturing
 index , out May 1, slipped to 51 in April from March’s 51.3, a
second consecutive decrease, according to economists’ estimates.
Index readings greater than 50 signal expansion.  Trade Gap  Help for manufacturers could come in the form of stronger
demand from overseas economies. The trade deficit probably
 shrank  to $42.2 billion in March from $43 billion, Commerce
Department figures are projected to show on May 2.  Looking past the second quarter, businesses and economists
foresee activity picking up as government budget cuts are worked
out and the economy regains its footing.  “We are certainly thinking, along with our entire
industry, that there should be a pickup in the second half,”
Mark Pigot, chairman and chief executive officer of truck-maker
 Paccar Inc. (PCAR) , said during an April 23 earnings call. “We’re
seeing people saying, ‘Hey, seems like a good time, I’m getting
more of a positive feeling for the general economy. It’s not
booming, but getting a better feeling.’”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  