-- Iris Scans Seen Shrinking $7 Billion Medical Data Breach
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-04-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/iris-scans-seen-shrinking-7-billion-medical-data-breach.html
Iris scanners aren’t just for
airport border-control agents and spy movies anymore.  Clinics and hospitals around the world are acquiring
technology that identifies people based on physical traits to
improve  patient safety  and stamp out fraud.  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) 
hospitals in London, as well as health-care providers across the
U.S., are buying so-called biometric technologies.  Biometrics makers, such as  Safran SA (SAF) ,  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  and
closely held  AOptix Technologies Inc.  and  M2Sys Technology , say
demand from health-care providers is growing. While ensuring the
right person gets the right treatment is the main reason for
buying biometrics, hospitals and patients see another benefit:
reducing the risk of data breaches that can lead to identity
theft.  “It’s a form of health-care fraud,” said Pam Dixon,
executive director of the  World Privacy Forum , a San Diego-based
nonprofit research organization. “You can make a lot of money
very quickly as a criminal with a low probability of getting
caught. It’s a far easier crime to commit than robbing a bank.”  Identify theft is leaving hospitals with unpaid bills and
consumers on the hook for costly treatment they didn’t receive.
Data breaches, which include lost and stolen information, may
cost the health-care industry in the U.S. as much as $7 billion
a year, according to a survey conducted by the  Ponemon
Institute , a Traverse City, Michigan-based organization that
studies privacy, data protection and security.  ID Cards  That explains why the health-care industry represents a
growth area for the biometrics market, which Louisville,
Colorado-based Acuity Market Intelligence  forecast  will increase
about 20 percent a year to almost $11 billion by 2017.  The shares of Paris-based Safran, whose Morpho unit is the
world’s biggest biometrics company, have gained 35 percent in
the past year, while Tokyo-based Fujitsu has risen 2.5 percent.  HCA, the largest for-profit U.S. hospital chain, is using
iris scanners at its private facilities in  London  after
considering patient ID cards with magnetic strips.  “We needed something that people can’t not bring with
them,” said Mike Gogola, chief information officer for HCA
International, the Nashville, Tennessee-based company’s overseas
arm. Fingerprinting wasn’t popular because of its association
with identifying criminals, so the company chose iris technology
from closely held  Eye Controls LLC  of Rockville,  Maryland .  Missed Diagnoses  Electronic medical records and computerized drug-ordering
systems have made it easier for caregivers to exchange
information needed to treat patients. Such systems can still be
prone to errors: A patient’s allergies or test results may end
up in the wrong place if another patient has a similar name, or
duplicate medical records exist for the same person. That can
lead to repeated orders for lab work, missed diagnoses, adverse
drug reactions and even death.  More than half of the 80 health-care organizations that
participated in the Ponemon Institute’s survey reported one or
more incidents of medical  identity theft . Ninety-four percent
had at least one data breach in the past two years, and 45
percent reported that they had more than five such breaches. The
survey was sponsored by ID Experts Corp., a  Portland , Oregon-
based company that sells products and services to prevent data
breaches.  “This is a technology whose time has arrived both in a
cost sense and in terms of its potential utilization,” said Ted
Dunstone, chief executive officer of Sydney-based biometrics
consulting firm  Biometix . “It has the potential to radically
alter the way hospitals deliver their service. I think we will
see a lot more adoption both of iris technology and of
biometrics generally in the health-care sector.”  Not Foolproof  The technology isn’t foolproof. Medical identity theft is
often an inside job, with employees of health-care providers
stealing and selling the information, the World Privacy Forum’s
Dixon said. Electronic record-keeping has made it easier to
steal many identities at once, and using biometrics may only
create more information to steal, she said.  “You can scam this just as you scam an ID card,” Dixon
said. “Palm vein scans or iris scans can be associated with
other records, but you have to be inside the system to do it.”  In 2007, a woman who worked at the  Cleveland Clinic  in
 Florida   pleaded guilty  to improperly obtaining information about
more than 1,000 patients and selling it to her cousin. The data
was used to submit $7 million in bills to the Medicare program.  Shame-Based Theft  Medical identity theft also occurs in the U.K., where all
residents have access to the taxpayer-funded  National Health
Service . Some people steal patient data to bill for private
health-care services, a market valued at about 9 billion pounds
($13.9 billion) in 2009, according to a 2011  study  by the  Office
of Fair Trading . There is also “shame-based” theft, in which a
patient who doesn’t want his illness to be known seeks care
using someone else’s identity, Dixon said.  Such incidents are spurring hospitals to look into
biometric technologies, said Mizan Rahman, chief executive
officer of Atlanta-based M2Sys.  Using biometric technologies such as iris scans, facial
recognition and fingerprint and  palm vein scans  provides a level
of assurance about a person’s identity that can’t be provided by
a password or key card, which can be given to someone else,
Dunstone said in an interview. Biometrics are also convenient,
since a person always has their identifying features with them,
he said.  More Affordable  Technologies that don’t require the user to touch a device,
such as iris scanners, are particularly important in hospitals,
where physical contact can spread diseases, Dunstone said. The
technology is also becoming more affordable, with an iris
scanning unit costing about $200 to $300, he said. Prices may
decline further, he said.  Among biometrics, the iris is considered the most unique
identifier, according to AOptix, a closely held company in
Campbell,  California , whose technology is used at Gatwick
Airport in London.  The iris has so many features that it’s 100,000 times more
resistant to false identification than face recognition, said
Joey Pritikin, AOptix’s director of product marketing for
Identity Solutions. Not even identical twins have the same iris,
and a person’s right and left eyes have different irises.  “We are simply starting to understand the health-care
market,” Pritikin said in an interview. “This is a new
application.”  Light-Emitting Diode  Scanners are used when patients check in as well as in
radiology and at the cashier, HCA’s Gogola said. When a patient
is first enrolled, a camera will take a digital picture of the
iris using low-power light-emitting diodes, known as LED
lighting, from as close as 1 inch or 2 inches to as far as a few
yards away.  Most patients approve, though using the system isn’t
mandatory, Gogola said.  “Patients equate high-tech with high quality,” Gogola
said. “This streamlines the patient journey.”  Eye Controls technology has been used at  Urban Health Plan
Inc. , which operates medical centers in  New York  City. M2Sys
said it’s signed up dozens of hospitals, including Hugh Chatham
Memorial Hospital in Elkin,  North Carolina , and Phoebe Dorminy
Medical Center in Fitzgerald,  Georgia .  “We tried to penetrate the health-care market almost six
years ago,” Rahman said. “At the time, we had only a
fingerprint system. We saw tons of resistance because no one
wanted to touch the scanner.”  About a year ago, iris scanning became more affordable and
more common, and M2Sys changed its approach. The company’s
product is an extension of the hospital’s electronic medical
records system, and involves a “painless training process,”
Rahman said.  Low-tech approaches to security, such as asking patients
for photo ID and training employees on how to handle sensitive
information, remain important ways to stop identity theft as
well, both Ponemon and Dixon said.  “There is no magic, silver bullet that will prevent
this,” Dixon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  