-- Mitsubishi UFJ Said to Seek Morgan Stanley’s Trust Business
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-04-29T02:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/mitsubishi-ufj-said-in-talks-to-buy-morgan-stanley-trust-assets.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s biggest bank by market value, is in talks to buy
Morgan Stanley’s trust business, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter.  The unit provides trust services for $4 billion of client
assets within Morgan Stanley’s wealth-management division, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified while talks
continue. UnionBanCal Corp., the Japanese bank’s San Francisco-
based unit that already offers trust services, plans to acquire
the business, the people said. Nikkei newspaper reported the
negotiations yesterday, and said the transaction is subject to
U.S. regulatory approval.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 54,
visited  Tokyo  this month to meet with Mitsubishi UFJ, the New
York-based firm’s biggest shareholder and partner in two
investment-banking joint ventures. Gorman has sold smaller units
of the brokerage division, which has $1.79 trillion in client
assets, as he seeks to cut costs and boost returns.  The people familiar with the discussions declined to say
how much Mitsubishi UFJ may pay for the unit.  The business offers fiduciary and administrative services
for wealthy clients who want to set up personal trusts. It’s
part of Morgan Stanley Private Bank N.A., led by Shelley O’Connor. The assets will continue to be managed by Morgan
Stanley advisers, one of the people said.  Morgan Stanley currently offers its trust clients services
from its own unit or from Comerica Inc., Royal Bank of Canada,
or Advisory Trust Co. of  Delaware , one of the people said.  Mika Watanabe, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman in Tokyo, and
Yuji Okumura, a spokesman for Mitsubishi UFJ, declined to
comment. The Japanese bank owns a 22 percent stake in Morgan
Stanley, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brokerage Venture  Morgan Stanley owns 65 percent of its brokerage venture
with Citigroup Inc. and plans to buy the rest this year. The
brokerage is the bulk of Morgan Stanley’s wealth-management
division, which last quarter posted its highest pretax margin
since the venture was formed in 2009.  The firm agreed last month to sell its wealth-management
operations in the U.K.,  Italy  and Dubai to Credit Suisse Group
AG, divesting a unit with $13 billion in client assets.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  agreed in February to sell its European stock plan
services business to Abbotsford, Australia-based Computershare
Ltd. for $48.5 million.  Share Rally  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ , led by President Nobuyuki Hirano,
61, have gained about 85 percent since mid-November, when an
election campaign began that ushered Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
into office on a pledge to stoke  inflation . The benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average has advanced 57 percent in that period.
Japan’s exchanges are closed today.  Mitsubishi UFJ has stepped up acquisitions in the U.S.,
buying UnionBanCal in 2008 and  Santa Barbara , California-based
Pacific Capital Bancorp last year as persistent deflation
inhibits loan demand at home.  Other recent deals include its December purchase of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s stake in their private banking venture in Japan.
Mitsubishi UFJ’s trust banking unit also agreed to buy a 15
percent stake in AMP Ltd.’s Australian asset-management business
in December 2011, after acquiring project financing assets from
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  a month earlier.  The Japanese bank has been deepening its ties with Morgan
Stanley since investing $9 billion in the firm in October 2008
as the U.S. company’s stock price collapsed in the wake of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy.  The companies in 2010 set up two Japan investment banking
ventures. In April 2011, they reached a deal to convert most of
Mitsubishi UFJ’s preferred stock in Morgan Stanley, paving the
way to eliminate annual dividend payments of $784 million and
making the Japanese lender the biggest common shareholder in the
U.S. investment bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in 東京 at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  