-- NFL Draft Ends With Teams Turning Attention to Quarterbacks
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-28T04:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/nfl-draft-ends-with-teams-turning-attention-to-quarterbacks.html
The  New York Giants  selected Ryan
Nassib of Syracuse University, one of eight quarterbacks taken
on the final day of the National Football League draft.  In all, 11 quarterbacks were chosen with Nassib, Southern
California’s Matt Barkley,  Arkansas ’ Tyler Wilson and  Oklahoma ’s
Landry Jones among those sitting through two full days wondering
if they would have a pro team.  “We came in this morning and he was sticking out there and
we talked about it, went over it and just said if this guy is
still around or close to our range, we should really consider
something happening with him,” Marc Ross, the Giants’ director
of college scouting, said of Nassib.  Nassib, who set school records as a senior last season by
throwing for 26 touchdowns and 3,749 yards, was taken in the
fourth round as the 110th overall pick.  The Syracuse quarterback said he was “a little bit
surprised at how long I lasted. Everyone was just hyping me up.
But I was even more surprised by the Giants.”  Nassib will be playing backup to Eli Manning who hasn’t
missed a game since 2005.  Eli’s Understudy  “I understand that he is a durable quarterback,” Nassib
told reporters. “I always compared myself to Eli and it is
crazy that I’m going to be playing with him.”  Besides Nassib, the Giants chose Richmond defensive back
Cooper Taylor, Ohio guard Eric Herman and  Massachusetts  running
back Michael Cox in the final rounds. Syracuse tackle Justin Pugh was their first-round choice, followed by Ohio State
defensive tackle Johnathan Hankins and Texas A&M defensive end
Damontre Moore.  Barkley went to the  Philadelphia Eagles  as 98th overall,
Wilson was picked by the  Oakland Raiders  two selections later
and Jones got the nod from the Pittsburgh Steelers as the 115th
pick.  Barkley, 22, was projected to be a first-round pick in last
year’s draft, but opted to return to school for his senior
season. He threw for 36 touchdowns, but missed time with a
shoulder injury as USC struggled to a 7-6 record after opening
the season ranked No. 1 in the Associated Press media poll.  After waiting through three rounds and two days, Barkley
said he had “a lot of emotions going through my head.”  Just Barkley  “No matter what has happened in the past two days, I have
a home now in Philadelphia,” he told ESPN yesterday. “I can’t
wait to hit the field. It doesn’t say Barkley, fourth round on
my jersey, it just says Barkley.”  The  New York  Jets selected Virginia tackle Oday Aboushi,
Michigan guard William Campbell and Wake Forest running back
Tommy Bohanon during the final day. They join Alabama defensive
back Dee Milliner, Missouri defensive tackle Sheldon Richardson,
West Virginia quarterback Geno Smith and Kent State tackle Brian
Winters.  Three players from the  Ivy League  were drafted: Cornell
tackle J.C. Tretter to the  Green Bay Packers , Harvard running
back Kyle Juszczyk to the Baltimore Ravens and Princeton
linebacker Mike Catapano to the  Kansas City Chiefs .  The NFL teams drafted 254 players, including 52 defensive
backs, 33 linebackers and one nose tackle.  South Carolina tight end Justice Cunningham was taken by
the  Indianapolis Colts  as the final draft selection , a role
that’s become known as “Mr. Irrelevant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  