-- Omega Joins Patek Philippe Seeking Growth to Offset Slower China
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-04-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/omega-joins-patek-philippe-seeking-growth-to-offset-slower-china.html
Patek Philippe  Chairman Thierry Stern had advice for Swiss watchmakers several years ago that
most rivals didn’t heed: don’t overinvest in China. Amid the
recent slowdown in China, the executive’s call has proved
prescient.  Stern said everyone laughed at him when he decided to limit
sales in that market to 130 pieces a year as brands including
Omega and Cartier opened shops across the mainland. Patek is now
selling about 3 percent of the 53,000 watches it makes annually
to shops there, reserving the bulk of its production for
traditional U.S. and European markets and making Chinese
customers who want its watches travel to buy them. Stern warned
two years ago that market would slow down.  “I said, I’m not willing to jeopardize the relationships
that we have in the world with all the retailers and just to
tell them, thank you for your help, but after a hundred years,
now I go to  China ,” Stern said in an interview at the
Baselworld trade fair. “So I decided, and it was courageous at
the time, to say, well, China is the last one, so they will have
what is left.”  The 14 percent decline in Swiss watch exports to China and
 Hong Kong  has led some rivals to report declines in overall
sales and has led others like Omega to expand outside of the
market. This month,  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA reported a decline
in watch sales due to China, while  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury goods , said
Chinese retailers have been purchasing fewer watches than
expected.  Greater China  imported more than a quarter of Swiss
watches last year, according to trade group  statistics .  ’Too Optimistic’  “Maybe they were too optimistic,” Stern said, referring
to the competition in general.  Swiss watchmakers are bracing for a slowdown this year as
Kepler  Capital Markets  forecasts the industry’s exports may
increase 5 percent, which would be the worst performance since
the 22 percent decline in 2009. The Chinese market has been
shrinking as the administration cracks down on extravagant
spending by government officials.  LVMH  dropped  3.8 percent April 16 after saying weaker Asian
demand contributed to the slowest growth in sales of fashion and
leather products in more than three years. Revenue from watches
and jewelry rose 2 percent in the first quarter excluding
currency shifts and acquisitions. Patek Philippe, being closely
held, doesn’t report sales or earnings.  Stern said he figured that Chinese clients who can afford
30,000 Swiss-franc ($32,000) products would buy them abroad
instead. Chinese purchases make up as much as 20 percent of the
watchmaker’s sales in  Europe , according to the executive.  Omega is counting on markets such as the U.S., where it has
30 stores in cities including  New York , Nashville and
Pittsburgh. The brand, which is the official timekeeper of the
Olympics, is also preparing for future growth in  Russia  and
 Brazil  ahead of the games in those countries, President Stephen Urquhart said in an interview.  “The Chinese consumer is still there,” Urquhart said,
adding Omega has continued adding shops in that market. “One
thing  certain, more and more Chinese are travelling” and
buying watches abroad.  Swatch China  Swatch is diversifying within China by expanding its
selection of low and mid-priced watches there. CEO Nick Hayek on
April 25 unveiled a new model of mechanical watches called
Sistem51 that the plastic watch brand will start selling
worldwide in October for 100 Swiss francs to 200 francs.  “The Chinese market for the Swatch Group brands is very
healthy,” he said. “There are billions of people in the world
with no watches on their wrist.”  Hermes’s watch sales will rise this year as the company
benefits from growth in Europe, the U.S., and  Japan , said Luc
Perramond, CEO of Hermes’s watch unit.  ’Delicate Spot’  “China is in a delicate spot, but that can be compensated
with other areas,” Perramond said. “We’ve got lots of markets
that are becoming growth drivers, such as  Middle East , Russia,
Central Asia,  India . In  Southeast Asia ,  Indonesia  will become an
enormous motor for growth. Japan is also transforming itself”
and has expanded at a double-digit pace.  Hermes has 20 stores in China and about that many “shops
in shops” in other retailers. Over “the long-term I have no
worries as the market has enormous potential. There’s a huge
amount of wealth creation and purchasing power in the country
each year.”  Indeed, there are still plenty of optimists betting that
the slowdown doesn’t mean the end of the country’s potential.  “China has not even started,” said Jean-Claude Biver,
chairman of Hublot, a brand owned by LVMH. “How many people in
China can afford a Swiss watch? Nearly nobody. So we are in the
beginning in the growth of China, of course, we have now a
little slowdown, but believe me, the market will just go up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  