-- London Homes Sell at Fastest Pace Since 2007 as Prices Rise
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-29T09:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/london-homes-sell-at-fastest-pace-since-2007-as-u-k-prices-rise.html
London  homes changed hands at the
fastest pace since 2007 in April as the capital’s property
market drove a third month of U.K. house-price increases,
according to Hometrack Ltd.  Average values in  England  and Wales increased 0.3 percent,
the same as in March, which was the largest gain in three years,
the London-based property researcher said in an e-mailed
statement today. In the U.K. capital, prices jumped 0.7 percent
and homes stayed on the market for an average of 4.6 weeks, the
least since October 2007.  “The real driver of price rises in April has been the
London market where demand has grown three times faster than
supply over the last quarter,” said  Richard Donnell , director
of research at Hometrack. In the city, “key market indicators,
such as the time on the market, are now back to levels last
seen” during the peak in 2007, he said.  Better sentiment and a shortage of properties for sale are
“key features” of the housing market that are supporting
values, Hometrack said. Plans announced by the government last
month to assist prospective homebuyers and the fact that the
economy returned to growth in the first quarter will bolster
confidence further over the coming months, it said.  Five out of 10 regions assessed by Hometrack showed price
increases in April compared with the previous month. Four showed
no change and one, northeast England, recorded a 0.1 percent
drop. After London, the area with the next-largest increase was
 Wales  with a 0.2 percent gain.  Housing Demand  Demand for housing nationally rose at a slower pace in
April, with new buyer registrations growing 3.1 percent,
compared with 4.6 percent in March. Still, the supply of housing
for sale failed to keep pace, with agents reporting a 2.8
percent increase in homes coming to the market this month.  “In each of the last three months, the growth in supply
has failed to keep pace with demand and this is providing strong
upward pressure on pricing particularly in those markets with
the shortest selling periods,” Donnell said.  The time taken to sell a U.K. property fell to 9.1 weeks in
April, compared with 9.5 weeks in March, Hometrack said.  Investors from regions such as the  Middle East  and the euro
area are fueling purchases of real estate in prime London
districts such as Belgravia, Knightsbridge and Mayfair as a
haven from economic and political unrest at home. Former Bank of
England policy maker Sushil Wadhwani said in an interview last
week that “money seems to regard London and a few other places
as the appropriate place for it to be parked” during a crisis.  Government Program  The number of U.K. property transactions will rise by 7.4
percent this year and 7.8 percent in 2014 as the government’s
“Help to Buy” program and increasing  consumer confidence  boost
the market,  Ernst & Young LLP ’s Item Club said in a separate
report today.  An April 27 report from Lloyds TSB showed the number of
homes sold valued at more than 1 million pounds ($1.55 million)
rose 2 percent to 7,397 last year, the highest level in five
years. Still, the  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  unit said sales of
homes worth at least 2 million pounds fell 2 percent to 1,584.  In a separate report today, Lloyds Bank said a survey of
U.K. businesses showed their confidence in the economy compared
with three months earlier rose to 27 in April from 20 in March.
A gauge of their outlook on activity over the next year gained 2
points to 43.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 