-- Horschel Gets Breakthrough U.S. PGA Tour Victory in New Orleans
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-04-29T04:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/horschel-wins-zurich-classic-of-new-orleans-on-u-s-pga-tour.html
Billy Horschel became the sixth
first-time winner on golf’s U.S.  PGA Tour  this year with a one-
shot victory at the Zurich Classic of  New Orleans , breaking
through after two top-three finishes earlier this season.  Horschel clinched the win by rolling in a putt of almost 27
feet (8.2 meters) on the final green at the TPC Louisiana in
Avondale, where he shouted and pumped his fists in celebration
as the birdie attempt dropped.  “I was like, ‘You know, if it’s my time, this putt needs
to go in,’” Horschel told reporters. “It was just pure joy to
finally win out here, but also the same time I committed to what
I wanted to do and I pulled it off, which was awesome.”  Horschel shot an 8-under-par 64 during yesterday’s final
round for a four-round total of 20-under-par 268, one stroke
better than D.A. Points, who closed with a 65. It was a reversal
of last month’s Houston Open, where Points made a 13-foot par
putt at the 18th hole to beat Horschel by one shot.  “He’s played great golf all year, so he deserves it,”
Points said of Horschel.  Horschel, 26, received $1.15 million for the win, which was
his fourth straight top-10 finish on the PGA Tour. He also tied
for third in the Valero Texas Open earlier this month and tied
for ninth in last week’s RBC Heritage.  Horschel, whose 220 birdies are the most on the PGA Tour
this season, joins Russell Henley, John Merrick,  Michael
Thompson ,  Scott Brown  and Kevin Streelman as first-time winners
on the world’s richest golf circuit in 2013.  The PGA Tour now moves to Quail Hollow Club in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , for the Wells Fargo Championship from May 2-5.
Rickie Fowler beat Rory McIlroy and Points in a playoff at the
tournament last year for his first victory on the tour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  