-- How the Web Radicalizes and Liberates Muslims
-- B y   A m i r   A h m a d   N a s r
-- 2013-04-28T22:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/how-the-web-radicalizes-and-liberates-muslims.html
When I woke in  Malaysia  to the news
of the  Boston Marathon bombings  halfway around the world, I
instantly worried about two things.  The first thought was, “I hope Nasser and Sam are safe,”
(they are friends of mine) and that the number of casualties, if
any, was low.  The second was “Please don’t let the perpetrator be
Muslim.”  Fortunately, Nasser was safe, and Sam, who was at the race,
escaped injury. Three people died -- which was heartbreaking,
but it could have been far worse.  Unfortunately, my second wish didn’t come true. I wasn’t
surprised.  Nor was I surprised that the older of the two brothers
implicated in the attack, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was radicalized
partly through militant jihadist content on the Internet.  After all, I was a fundamentalist once, influenced by a
Salafi teacher during my childhood in my neighborhood mosque in
Qatar in the mid-1990s. I am familiar with the power of divisive
religious dogmatism to steal one’s mind and plant hatred in
one’s heart toward “the Other.” As a veteran blogger and
digital activist, I’m also familiar with the power of the
Internet.  Although social media give voice to many thoughtful crowds,
it also provides a venue for a hateful few who are bent on
stirring up violence and trouble.  The Internet connects us with all kinds of like-minded
individuals. For someone discontented, disgruntled and alienated
from the surrounding community, the Web becomes a refuge,
providing a powerful sense of belonging.  Online Disaffection  That’s more or less what happened to Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the 23-year-old Nigerian “underwear bomber”
whose explosives luckily failed to detonate on board a U.S.
plane in 2009. This doesn’t just happen to Muslims. Anders Behring Breivik, who killed 77 people in  Norway  in a bomb and
shooting attack, was partly inspired, as his manifesto
indicated, by the anti-Muslim blogs he frequented.  At one time, I might have been susceptible too. But by the
time I ventured online in 2006 and accidentally discovered the
secular Egyptian blogosphere, I had already begun questioning my
traditionalist upbringing as I wrestled with the fundamentalist
beliefs my former  Salafi  teacher had taught me. I also wasn’t as
discontented; my personal grievances were shifting and became
directed at the rigid traditionalists and bearded authoritarians
around me who wanted to confine me within narrow mental
boundaries.  In my case, the Web liberated me. It helped free my mind
from the dark, stinking and suffocating dungeons of religious
dogmatism and intolerance.  Lucky for me, online and far away from those I resented, I
found a growing tribe that was driven by the ideals of liberty:
liberal Arab and Muslim bloggers, some of whom helped instigate,
report via Twitter and facilitate the youth-led Arab Spring
uprisings in Tunisia and in  Egypt , demanding freedom and
dignity.  Through my new online tribe, I discovered interpretations
of Islam that were more rational, spiritual and humanistic. I
later traveled around the world and met many of my online
comrades. The result, after a lengthy and messy process of
critical thinking, has been profound.  Had my original personal grievances and temperament been
different when I arrived online, however, I might have directed
my attention to harmful, destructive content.  And here is where we need to look closer at what could have
driven the Tsarnaev brothers toward their heinous act.  The role of religious belief can’t be pinpointed as the
sole motivating cause. We need to go deeper and explore the
issue of the interpretation of religious texts, something that
too many pundits ignore.  Quran’s Verses  Yes, the Koran contains verses calling for violence against
the unbelievers, though these ought to be placed within the
appropriate historical context. Nevertheless, it also includes
passages that encourage peace and compassion toward fellow human
beings.  One of those passages was read by my friend Nasser Weddady
at an interfaith memorial in  Boston  after the bombings. It
reads, in part: “Whoever kills a soul, it is as if he killed
mankind entirely. And whoever saves a life, it is as if he has
saved all of mankind.”  One could ask, why didn’t Tamerlan Tsarnaev abide by an
interpretation of Islam that places value on these verses rather
than those related to war?  The answer is that interpretation is ultimately a choice.
And when Tsarnaev ventured online, it looks as if he did so with
established personal grievances.  I suspect that what psychologists call “ confirmation
bias ” led him to consume militant interpretations of Islam that
validated his feelings and confirmed his views, without seeking
differing Muslim perspectives.  The Tsarnaev brothers bear responsibility for their
criminal act. But let’s not forget the sick demagogues who lure
them in and poison their minds.  (Amir Ahmad Nasr, author of the forthcoming book “My
Isl@m: How Fundamentalism Stole My Mind and Doubt Freed My
Soul,” is a digital activist and entrepreneur. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amir Ahmad Nasr at  amir.ahmadnasr@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  