-- Philippines Mulls Adjusting Deposit Facility as Peso Climbs
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-29T06:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/philippines-mulls-adjusting-deposit-facility-as-currency-rises.html
The Philippine central bank is
considering adjustments to its so-called special deposit
accounts, signaling it may limit access to the facility to cut
costs and enhance its scope to cool currency gains.  “We would like to consider ways to make the SDA function
more as a monetary instrument rather than an investment
vehicle,” Governor  Amando Tetangco  said on April 27 in an e-
mail response to questions. “The exact form of these
refinements will be made known in time, but as in our practice,
any adjustments we will make will be gradual and phased in.”  The possible change in the SDA, which hold  about $46
billion , comes after Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on April 25 cut
the rate it pays on the deposit facility for a third time this
year. The monetary authority has lowered borrowing costs, banned
foreign funds from the special accounts and revised rules to
spur outflows, joining South Korea and  Thailand  in stepping up
efforts to temper currency appreciation.  “The central bank is trying to manage its costs so it will
have greater flexibility to intervene in the currency market,”
said Ricky Cebrero, executive vice president and head of
treasury at Manila-based  Philippine National Bank. (PNB)  “If the BSP
limits SDA access through trust accounts in the near future,
some funds may shift to bank deposits subject to an 18 percent
reserve requirement. That will further reduce BSP’s costs.”  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 41.173 per dollar at the noon
trading break in  Manila . It has gained 2.8 percent in the past
12 months, the best performance after the Thai baht among 11
regional currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index (PCOMP)  climbed for a third day.  Expanded Access  The monetary authority allowed banks’ trust units to place
deposits in SDAs in May 2007, after  money-supply growth  rose to
28 percent the previous month. As of  end-2012 , 1.27 trillion
pesos ($31 billion) of the 3.05 trillion-peso assets of banks’
trust business was due from BSP, according to central bank data.  The BSP kept its benchmark overnight borrowing rate at a
record-low 3.5 percent on April 25 after four 25-basis-point
cuts in 2012. Lowering the SDA rate is part of the central
bank’s shift to an “interest-rate corridor” policy approach,
Tetangco said in a Jan. 30 interview after the first reduction.  Funds in SDAs climbed to 1.93 trillion pesos as of April 5
from about 1.7 trillion pesos in January even after the rate on
deposits of one week to one month was trimmed to 2 percent last
week from more than 3.5 percent at the start of the year.  “The challenge is finding suitable products for investors
as they move out of the SDA,” said Paul Joseph Garcia, who
helps manage the equivalent of $18.4 billion at Manila-based BPI
Asset Management Inc. Some trust accounts will pull out of SDAs
by year-end, he said, and investors may consider equities.  ‘Mobilize Funds’  The  Philippines , which won its first investment-grade
ranking from Fitch Ratings last month, is seeking to slow a
surge in capital inflows that has boosted property prices and
lifted stocks to a record last week. The 91-day Treasury bill
yield fell to a record-low 0.04 percent on April 1.  Asian policy makers must be ready to respond “early and
decisively” to overheating risks in their economies stemming
from rapid credit growth and rising asset prices, the
International Monetary Fund said today. Funds in the SDA must be
used to support economic activity as the government bolsters
infrastructure and stimulates growth, Tetangco said.  “Weaning investors out of the SDA should encourage banks
to develop new products that would mobilize funds,” he said in
his e-mail. Banks must follow best practices as they introduce
new products and ensure “appropriate underwriting standards.”  President Benigno Aquino is increasing spending to a record
this year and seeking more than $17 billion of investments in
highways and ports to spur growth to as much as 7 percent.  San
Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the biggest Philippine company by sales, this
month won a contract to upgrade a road from the Manila airport
and will partner Incheon International Airport Corp. to bid to
modernize the Cebu airport.  “We need to create an operating environment where users
and sources of funds have the ‘long term’ in mind,” Tetangco
said. “We need to convert this liquidity to projects that will
strengthen the base for sustained growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  