-- Piaget Sees China Sales Slowing as Stronger Yuan Boosts Travel
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-28T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/piaget-sees-china-sales-slowing-as-stronger-yuan-boosts-travel.html
Swiss luxury watchmaker Piaget said
its sales in  China  may grow less than 10 percent this year, the
slowest in eight years, as Chinese consumers take advantage of
the stronger yuan and travel overseas to buy premium goods.  Piaget, which makes the $53,000  Altiplano Skeleton 1200S ,
is also tempering the pace of store openings in China, Dimitri
Gouten, its Asia Pacific president, said in an April 27
interview from Shanghai. Sales may lag the “double-digit”
growth rates since around 2005, he said. The watchmaker, which
is owned by  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , has 20 boutiques in
China and 50 points of sale in total.  “In the past eight years, we’ve been opening new stores in
China,” Gouten said. “When you go from 20 point of sales to
30, 40, 50, very quickly, then the growth is very quick. Now you
are in a more mature market, with less cities to open, of course
growth won’t be as fast.”  The Chinese are increasingly going abroad to make luxury
purchases instead of buying at home, where prices of items
ranging from Prada bags to Louis Vuitton wallets are subject to
higher taxes. China overtook the U.S. and  Germany  to become the
world’s largest source of tourists last year, spending $102
billion in 83.2 million outbound trips, according to the China
Tourism Academy.  Exchange rates are more favorable for Chinese venturing
abroad, Gouten said. The  yuan  traded at a 19-year high against
the dollar this month, supported by economic growth and a
government seeking to boost domestic consumption.  Crackdown Effect  A government crackdown on extravagant spending is having a
limited effect on sales, as rising wealth supports demand,
Gouten said. Sales growth of more expensive watches -- between
HK$400,000 and HK$800,000 ($52,000-$103,000) -- was better than
demand for watches costing about HK$100,000 this year, he said.  Total purchases by the Chinese, regardless of location,
will still grow more than 10 percent in 2013, Gouten said.  Piaget plans to open boutiques in the southwestern cities
of Chengdu and Nanning this year, along with three more points
of sale in China, Gouten said.  The watchmaker plans to focus more on boosting jewelery
sales and improving its after-sales service to customers in
China, Piaget Chief Executive Officer Philippe Leopold-Metzger
told reporters yesterday.  “When I look at the profitability of the China operation
itself, it doesn’t really matter,” Leopold-Metzger said. “You
need to invest a lot in China in advertising, brand building and
stores, because you will get the benefit of it in China, and
everywhere else outside with the Chinese.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  