-- Putin Purse Tightening Hobbles Medvedev in Race to Deadline
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   I r i n a   R e z n i k
-- 2013-04-29T16:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/putin-purse-tightening-hobbles-medvedev-in-race-to-meet-deadline.html
President Vladimir Putin rejected
calls for fiscal stimulus, limiting Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev’s options as he races to meet a deadline for submitting
a plan to revitalize Russia’s economy.  First Deputy Premier Igor Shuvalov said Putin dismissed
proposals to aid flagging growth by boosting federal spending at
a meeting with officials last week. That means any measures the
government takes are unlikely to have a “significant impact”
on growth this year, Shuvalov said in an interview in Moscow.  Putin is facing the weakest economy of his nine years in
the Kremlin as he scales back pre-election outlays and  Europe ’s
debt crisis curbs exports. Putin, 60, told Medvedev’s government
last week to settle differences among officials and submit a
revival plan by May 15, pointing to “alarming signals” that
Economy Ministry Andrei Belousov warned may presage a recession
later this year.  Russia’s $2 trillion economy doubled in Putin’s first eight
years as president, when annual expansion averaged about 7
percent. Putin, Medvedev’s premier for four years, swapped jobs
with his protege last May, after parliamentary elections sparked
the biggest protests of his political career. Growth slowed to
2.1 percent in the fourth quarter, the weakest pace since a
contraction in 2009, when Medvedev was president.  ‘Strict Limits’  “Everyone agreed that growth of about 3 percent is not
something to be satisfied with,” Shuvalov said in the
interview. Even so, “the government will continue to work
within the very strict limits on federal spending.”  The government is crafting a stimulus program “within the
limits we can afford,” Medvedev said today at the annual
Economy Ministry meeting, attended by central bank and Audit
Chamber officials.  Russia  needs to curtail the state’s presence
in the economy and develop its non-commodity industries, he
said.  “We need to transition to a new model of economic
growth,” Medvedev said. “Today it’s clear that without
changes, our economy has no serious prospects for growth.”  Gross domestic product will expand 2.4 percent this year,
according to the Economy Ministry, which has cut an earlier
forecast for 3.6 percent growth. Measures to implement
“structural modernization” of the economy can bring expansion
to 6 percent a year in 2014-2016, Belousov said today. The
government should consider channeling 200 billion rubles ($6.5
billion) to 400 billion rubles from the National Wellbeing Fund
to infrastructure projects, he said.  Few Options  With spending capped and incoming central bank chief Elvira Nabiullina pledging to keep the focus of monetary policy on
subduing inflation, Medvedev has few options left to lift the
economy, said  Igor Yurgens , a Kremlin economic adviser during
Medvedev’s presidency.  “Medvedev is in a very difficult position,” Yurgens, who
heads the Insor policy research group in Moscow, said by phone
April 27. “Many of the measures he could take, like improving
the investment climate, depend on Putin. In this situation, the
only thing he can do by May 15 is produce an honest and critical
report on the current situation.”  Putin’s impatience with the government’s failure to meet
its goal of 5 percent annual growth is not being felt by
Medvedev alone. Putin threatened to dismiss all underperforming
officials earlier this month, according to a video clip of an
April 17 meeting he had with ministers and regional governors,
which was leaked hours before Medvedev addressed parliament.  ‘Second Option’  “If we don’t do this, we have to concede that either I am
working badly or you all are working badly and you should go,”
Putin said in the video. “I should inform you that as of today
I am leaning toward the second option.”  With Europe struggling to rein in budget deficits, Russia
introduced a so-called budget rule this year that caps public
spending at a level linked to long-term oil prices.  The world’s biggest energy exporter gathers surplus revenue
from oil and natural gas sales in its $84 billion  Reserve Fund (RURFUSD) 
until it reaches 7 percent of gross domestic product, a level
the Economy Ministry wants to cut to 5 percent to allow for the
creation of a development fund for infrastructure spending.  Putin’s insistence on fiscal discipline has helped push the
cost of insuring Russia’s debt against default to the lowest
relative to emerging-market peers in more than six months.  The discount of Russia’s five-year credit-default swaps
compared with a gauge of 15 developing countries widened to 55
basis points April 25, the biggest gap since October, and was at
53 basis points, or 0.53 percentage point, today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Budget Discipline  Fiscal restraint hasn’t yet had the effect on inflation
that the central bank would like after the government raised
costs for items including alcohol and transport. Consumer-price
growth reached 7 percent from a year earlier in March compared
with a 6.6 percent advance in 2012. Bank Rossii’s target range
is 5 percent to 6 percent.  Both Putin and Nabiullina, currently the president’s top
economic aide, have said squeezing tariff increases for
regulated industries such as electricity, natural gas and
railway cargo may help curb price growth while promoting the
kind of efficiency gains that benefit the economy as a whole.  Putin is right to target inflation first, said Evgeny Gavrilenkov, chief economist at state-run OAO Sberbank CIB, the
investment banking unit of Russia’s largest lender.  Slower Inflation  “If Russia wants to be one of the world’s five biggest
economies, inflation should be lower than growth,” Gavrilenkov
said by phone in Moscow April 27.  Russians, who suffered bouts of hyperinflation before Putin
came to power at the end of 1999, rank inflation as their
second-biggest concern behind housing and access to utilities,
according to a March 15 poll by the state-run All-Russian Center
for the Study of Public Opinion.  Putin indicated during a live call-in television show last
week that his stance on inflation is as much a political
calculation as it is a purely economic stance.  While some government officials are critical of the central
bank’s “overly tight” monetary policy, Putin said he supports
it because “it’s aimed at subduing inflation,” which is in the
interests of “citizens and the economy.”  While Putin’s policies may succeed in taming inflation,
they will probably come at the expense of overall economic
growth, according to Alfa Bank analysts led by Natalia Orlova.  Even if Putin replaces Medvedev with former Finance
Minister Alexei Kudrin, “as the market expects,” Putin made it
clear in his call-in show that economic policy will continue to
have a “strong social focus,” Moscow-based Alfa Bank said in a
note to clients April 26.  “Such an approach will not allow an investment-focused or
business-oriented policy to be implemented effectively, which
supports our view that Russia will continue to see slow growth
in the coming years,” Alfa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Reznik in Moscow at 
 ireznik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  