-- India’s Rate Cuts Blunted Adds Reserve-Ratio Pressure: Economy
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-04-29T04:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/rate-cuts-blunted-by-india-banks-adds-reserve-ratio-pressure.html
The Reserve Bank of  India  faces
pressure to cut lenders’ reserve requirements as banks struggle
to woo deposits and resist passing on interest-rate reductions.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will lower the repurchase rate
for a third time this year to 7.25 percent from 7.5 percent on
May 3, according to 22 of 26 analysts in a Bloomberg News  survey .
One predicts 7 percent and the rest no change. Five of 24 in
another survey expect a cash-reserve-ratio cut to 3.75 percent
from 4 percent, with the rest forecasting no change.  Lenders from State Bank of India to ICICI Bank Ltd., facing
close to the weakest deposit growth in a decade, have lowered
borrowing costs as little as 0.25 percentage point since April
last year. The central bank cut the policy benchmark a full
point from 8.5 percent in the same period, and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said wider steps may be needed to spur cheaper credit.  “If the Reserve Bank of India is serious about more broad-
based monetary transmission, it will need to cut lenders’
reserve requirements or pick up the pace of bond purchases to
inject liquidity,” said Sajjid Chinoy, an economist at JPMorgan
Chase in Mumbai. “Barring this, rate cuts will continue to be
symbolic.”  The yield on the government note maturing June 2022 has
slid to 7.73 percent from 7.90 percent since the last rate cut
on March 19, on bets another reduction is probable to fight the
weakest economic growth since 2003. The rupee has strengthened
1.1 percent versus the dollar this year, while the BSE India
Sensitive Index has dropped 0.4 percent.  Deposit Growth  Asian stocks rose with gold today on optimism central banks
will maintain loose monetary policies to boost economic growth,
with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index Excluding  Japan  extending the
biggest weekly gain in three months.  The region’s recovery may require further support from some
policy makers. Growth in Chinese industrial companies’ profits
slowed in March, a report showed on April 27. Still, the
mainland’s imports and exports are expected to grow at a faster
pace this year, barring any big changes in the external
environment, the Ministry of Commerce said in a trade report
posted yesterday.  India’s deposit growth averaged 13.8 percent this year,
Reserve Bank figures show, near December’s 11 percent that was
the least since 2003, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Consumer Prices  Consumer-price inflation  exceeding 10 percent is driving
savers to gold and real estate instead, said Rupe Rege Nitsure,
chief economist at Bank of Baroda. Another measure of inflation,
based on  wholesale prices , eased to a 40-month low of 5.96
percent in March.  Food inflation remains high, driving a wedge between the
two gauges and adding to the challenge of monetary management,
the central bank said in March’s policy statement.  The scope for further easing is “quite limited,” the
Reserve Bank said, citing risks including a record  current-
account deficit  of 6.7 percent of gross domestic product in the
quarter ended Dec. 31.  A drop in gold prices this month and a rebound in exports
since February have stoked optimism the gap will narrow. Imports
of the precious metal account for more than two-thirds of the
current-account deficit, according to the central bank.  India’s minority government has changed policies since
September to tackle inflation, revive investment and spur
economic expansion. The steps included paring the budget deficit
and opening the retail and aviation industries to more
investment from abroad.  Jet Deal  Etihad Airways PJSC agreed last week to buy a 24 percent
stake in Mumbai-based Jet Airways (India) Ltd. for 20.6 billion
rupees ($379 million), taking advantage of the liberalization.  India has also eased caps on foreign investment in the bond
market to lure capital inflows.  Other proposed reforms, such as allowing greater overseas
involvement in the insurance and pensions industries, need
parliamentary approval.  The legislature has been disrupted repeatedly by opposition
protests over graft scandals, hurting Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh’s policy agenda.  Subbarao cut the  repurchase rate  a quarter point in both
January and March. He lowered the cash reserve ratio to 4
percent in January from 4.25 percent.  GDP (INGDPY)  rose 5 percent in the year ended March 2013, according
to an estimate from the statistics agency. That’s less than the
average of about 8 percent in the past decade. Growth will
accelerate to 6.1 percent to 6.7 percent this fiscal year,
Finance Ministry advisers said in February.  ‘Real Solution’  “In a situation when inflation is largely driven by food
prices and monetary transmission remains weak, monetary policy
will not have a sustainable impact,” said Nitsure. “The real
solution lies in addressing structural problems -- easing food
supplies, resolving infrastructure bottlenecks and expediting
reforms.”  India’s plight contrasts with economies elsewhere in Asia,
where a recovery in growth has lured capital inflows as the
world’s most developed nations ease monetary policy.  Asian policy makers must be ready to respond “early and
decisively” to overheating risks stemming from rapid credit
growth and rising asset prices, the International Monetary Fund
said today.  Elsewhere in Asia, South Korea reported a current-account
surplus of $4.98 billion in March. In  Europe , inflation reports
are due for Germany and Spain. A U.S. report may show household
purchases were little changed in March following a 0.7 percent
gain in February, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  