-- Rue21 Seen Targeted in $6 Billion LBO Spree: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-04-29T22:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/rue21-seen-targeted-in-6-billion-spree-for-lbo-firms-real-m-a.html
Rue21 Inc. (RUE) , which sells tank tops
and graphic tees to teenagers at affordable prices, is shaping
up to be the next target after private-equity investments in
retail reached the highest amount since before the U.S.
recession.  As Rue21 plans to open its 1,000th store by the end of
January and ultimately boost its U.S. presence to more than
1,700 locations, the chain is projected to more than triple its
free cash flow this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. With Rue21’s lack of  debt  leaving room to finance a
leveraged buyout, Piper Jaffray Cos. said private-equity firms
could be tempted to offer as much as a 50 percent premium for
the retailer.  “For private equity, it’s attractive,” Amy Hu Sunderland,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Grandeur Peak Global Advisors LLC,
which owns shares of Rue21, said in a telephone interview.
“They have very strong economics when it comes to their
business and their financial model. It generates very strong
free cash flows, which private equity tend to like.”  Rue21, based in Warrendale,  Pennsylvania , would follow 38
private-equity deals last year for apparel and shoe retailers
that reached $5.7 billion, the highest volume since the onset of
the U.S. recession in December 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The $739 million company, whose stores in regional malls
and strip centers compete with low-priced clothing at Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and Target Corp., would be the industry’s latest
target after the $600 million buyout of retailer  Hot Topic Inc. (HOTT) 
last month.  Retail Buyouts  Joseph Teklits, a spokesman for Rue21, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation.  Buyout firms’ appetite for retail deals increased in 2012
as the economy expanded 2.2 percent and consumer  confidence  also
improved, said David Fann, chief executive officer of TorreyCove
Capital Partners LLC, a San Diego-based firm that advises
private-equity managers and investors.  That corresponded with the biggest influx of private-equity
retail transactions since at least 2000 and the highest dollar
amount of investment since 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Last year, Leonard Green & Partners LP acquired a 25
percent stake in the Topshop and Topman fashion chains and
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC bought wedding gown retailer David’s
Bridal Inc. for about $1.1 billion.  Buyouts of retailers may accelerate even more in 2013,
according to Joshua Schachter, a  money manager  at Sewickley,
Pennsylvania-based Snow Capital Management LP.  Cheap Borrowing  “ Interest rates  are very attractive for borrowing,”
Schachter, whose firm oversees about $3 billion, said in a phone
interview. “There’s a lot of cash on the sidelines from private
equity that needs to be deployed.”  Retailers such as  True Religion Apparel Inc. (TRLG) , the maker of
designer jeans that’s exploring options including a sale, and
Rue21 may “ultimately fit the bill for the profile these
companies are looking for,” he said.  Rue21’s  912 stores  target girls and boys who want “to look
and feel 21” with  $10  t-shirts and $18  rompers . After emerging
from  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in 2003, the company held
an initial public offering six years later. The shares are up 64
percent since that November 2009 IPO.  Apax Partners LLP, a London-based private-equity firm, is
Rue21’s biggest  shareholder  with control of almost 30 percent of
the stock. Apax has been  invested  in Rue21 since 1998, making it
the firm’s  oldest  current investment, according to its website.
Todd Fogarty, a spokesman for Apax, declined to comment on
Rue21.  Buyout Targets  Rue21 is one of the three most attractive LBO targets among
U.S. specialty retailers, Randal Konik, a New York-based analyst
at Jefferies Group LLC, wrote in an April 25 research note,
sending the stock up  4.6 percent . Based on assumptions including
about a 30 percent premium and a minimum equity contribution of
25 percent, Rue21 would generate an internal rate of return for
a private-equity buyer of 29 percent to 31 percent, he wrote.
 Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  and  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  were also
highlighted.  Clothing chains appeal to private-equity suitors because
they tend to have very little debt, generate free cash flow and
often offer opportunities for margin improvement, said Jaime Katz, a Chicago-based retail analyst at Morningstar Inc.  “The economics of it make sense,” Katz said in a phone
interview. “It’s very easy for them to just raise part of the
deal in debt and then squeeze the business out and flip it and
pay the debt down.”  No Debt  Rue21 is poised to generate  free cash flow  of $49 million
this year, the highest since its IPO, according to data by
Bloomberg. Stephanie Wissink, a Minneapolis-based analyst at
Piper Jaffray, said there’s also room for a buyer to improve the
retailer’s  margins . At 4.9 percent in the last 12 months,
Rue21’s  profit margin  trails the 7.3 percent average among U.S.
specialty apparel stores with market values of more than $500
million, the data show.  “I think private equity can take them out,” said
Sunderland of Grandeur Peak, which oversees $750 million. “Most
important is they have very good free cash flow.”  Bidders may offer $42 to $47 a share for the company, or as
much as $1.1 billion, based on the multiples Sycamore Partners
paid for Hot Topic, Wissink estimated. That’s as much as 51
percent more than the stock’s closing price of $31.11 last week.  Today, Rue21 gained 0.6 percent to $31.30 after earlier
reaching its highest intraday level in more than six months.  Expansion Opportunities  One possible deterrent for a buyout firm could be questions
about the value of Rue21’s brand, which is less popular than
those of  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  or  Nike Inc. (NKE) , for
example, she said.  Still, Rue21 offers expansion opportunities at a time when
other retailers, such as Abercrombie, are shutting down
locations, according to Wissink. Rue21 -- located in towns such
as Moscow,  Idaho , and Paris,  Texas  -- added more than 500 stores
in the past five years and plans to open 125 more this year.  In small towns, “people are either shopping for their
clothes at Wal-Mart or they’re shopping at Rue21,” she said.
“Growth is scarce in the industry and so private-equity firms
are looking for growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  