-- Samaras Gets Backing for Greek Job Cuts Ahead of Loan Approval
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-04-28T21:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/samaras-gets-backing-for-greek-job-cuts-ahead-of-loan-approval.html
Greek lawmakers passed a bill
including plans to fire 15,000 workers by the end of next year
as the government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras cleared the
latest hurdle to receiving international aid payments.  A total of 168 lawmakers voted in favor of the law, 123
against and one cast a “present” vote, Parliament Speaker
Yannis Tragakis said in remarks carried live on state-run Vouli
TV after a roll-call vote.  Greece ’s government and international creditors reached an
agreement on conditions to receive more aid, including firing
state workers and extending a property tax paid through
electricity bills for another year, on April 15, paving the way
for the disbursement of the 2.8 billion euros ($3.7 billion)
remaining from a previous review. Final approval for the payment
of the tranche by the euro area is due today, according to
Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras.  A group of about 1,000 protesters rallied outside
Parliament in  Athens  while the vote was held to protest against
the bill. It’s the first time the Greek government has agreed to
dismiss workers employed by the state.  Identifying redundant positions and adopting a system that
will lead to mandatory exits for about 150,000 civil servants by
2015 is a requirement of the euro area and IMF, which have
pledged a total of 240 billion euros to Greece over the past
three years. Stournaras said April 16 the public sector
workforce will decline by 160,000 people by 2015, meeting the
minimum required.  Samaras told his Cabinet last week that outstanding issues
to receive the next tranche of 6 billion euros in three weeks’
time are being completed. Greece is expecting approval for that
payment on May 13, Stournaras said on April 27, to be able to
pay a bond held by the  European Central Bank  which matures on
May 20.  More than three years after revealing that Greece had
misled its euro partners on the state of its finances, the
nation remains reliant on loans from the euro area and the IMF
to pay pensions and wages. To qualify for payments, Greece has
to continue meeting economic targets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  