-- Serbs Selling on Black Market Spurn EU Entry Sales Pitch
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z
-- 2013-04-29T07:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/serbs-selling-on-black-market-spurn-dacic-eu-entry-sales-pitch.html
Marija Vasic’s degree from Belgrade
University does her no good in her current occupation: hawking
rolling papers on a cobblestoned Belgrade street alongside
sellers offering bootleg handbags and watches.  The 33-year-old sports administration graduate doesn’t
think Serbia’s drive to join the European Union will do her any
good either. Vasic still struggles to eke out a living and
subsidize her parents’ $139 monthly income, 13 years after
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic ’s ouster promised Serbs they would
enjoy better lives.  “If the EU was so good, why isn’t  Switzerland  a member,
too?” she quipped as customers sauntered by looking for deals
among the products spread on blankets and car hoods in the
capital. “Why don’t they just go ahead and leave us alone?”  Serbs are increasingly skeptical that the price the largest
ex-Yugoslav republic is forced to pay to join the EU -- ceding
Serbia’s claim on  Kosovo , opening the economy to cost-conscious
western companies and slashing state social spending -- is too
high. Support for the EU is at a record-low 41 percent, polls
show, after Premier Ivica Dacic agreed on April 19 to the EU’s
terms of giving the breakaway province of Kosovo more autonomy.  The country is mired in its second recession in three years
while one in four are jobless. Per-capita gross domestic product
was $4,943 at the end of last year, compared with $41,512 in
 Germany  and $22,192 in Slovenia, Serbia’s former Yugoslav
partner, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  In response, citizens are flocking to the $12 billion black
market. It accounts for about a third of the $37 billion
economy, said Milojko Arsic, chief macroeconomist at the
Belgrade-based Foundation for the Advancement of Economics and
the author of a report on Serbia’s shadow economy.  ‘Overwhelming’ Dissatisfaction  “Dissatisfaction is overwhelming and people are
dissatisfied with low  living standards ,” said Svetlana Logar, a
sociologist and researcher at the Belgrade-based pollster  Ipsos
Strategic Marketing , in an interview. “Such sentiment can be
dangerous for this government.”  Serbian support for EU membership, which confers such
benefits as tariff-free trade and the right to work in any
member nation, fell to the lowest level since sentiment began
being measured in 2002, according to  TNS Medium Gallup Serbia .
That was two years after the late Milosevic’s ouster and
compares with a record 72 percent in December 2003.  In addition, favor for EU entry dropped 8 percentage points
over the last six months of 2012 and 36 percent of respondents
were “negative or very negative” about the EU, 5 percentage
points more than in June, according to the Dec. 14-21 survey,
the latest to ask the question. It polled 1,006 adult Serbian
citizens and had a margin of error of 3.55 percentage points.  Government Defense  The government has deflected Serbian distrust and anger
over EU demands defending the decision in interviews following
the agreement. Dacic says he will press on with integration,
which promises to open up billions of euros of financing and
raise investor confidence in the country’s stability. Still,
other governments in the past year, including neighboring
 Bulgaria ’s, have fallen after popular pressure against policies
that have prompted street protests.  The dinar is trading at its strongest in 13 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency was at
110.4184 against the euro at 9:42 a.m. in Belgrade, up 0.45
percent from the previous close. Yields on the 10-year benchmark
Eurobond fell to the lowest since Jan. 31 on April 24, Bloomberg
data show.  If Serbia hadn’t signed the Kosovo accord, “people would
say that we destroyed Serbia’s European path,” Dacic said on
RTS national television on April 24. “This agreement is not
about Kosovo, it’s about the biological survival of the Serbian
people because we have become small, weak and powerless.”  Serb Protests  Under the agreement between Dacic and Kosovar Prime
Minister Hashim Thaci, the mostly Muslim former province will
allow the local Serb community to choose its own police
commander and judges. Kosovo will have an unhindered path to
pursue its own EU aspirations, while Serbia continues to
disapprove of Kosovo’s membership in the  United Nations .  Over the April 20-21 weekend, hundreds of Serb opposition
voters protested in Belgrade with anti-government banners that
said “You betrayed Kosovo.” Demonstrations continued into the
week as EU enlargement chief Stefan Fule said the European
Commission may decide on June 25 on a start date for accession
talks.  “Asking a Serbian if he chooses the EU over Kosovo is the
same as asking him to choose whether he wants his left or right
leg amputated,” said Marko Blagojevic, program director at the
Belgrade-based Center for Free Elections and Democracy,
explaining the popular anger to the EU-sponsored agreement.  Kosovo Recognition  The Serb government and main political parties have refused
to acknowledge Kosovo’s 2008 declaration of independence, even
though it has been recognized by more than 90 nations, including
the U.S. and 22 of the EU’s 27 countries. The EU says Serbia’s
chances are linked directly to a political settlement with
Kosovo, which it considers to be the cradle of Serbian culture.  “It is crucial now that the political leadership and
general public in both Serbia and Kosovo support the agreement
and actively help to implement it,” the EU’s Fule said April 19
in Brussels.  Nationalist Serb politicians and church leaders joined to
condemn the government’s conciliation moves.  “The government has entirely betrayed the Serbian people
and will eventually abolish the Serbian state in Kosovo,” said
Vojislav Kostunica, the head of the  Democratic Party  of Serbia
and a former prime minister. The Serbian Orthodox Church called
the accord a “surrender” of Serbia’s “most important
territory.”  ‘Nothing Good’  Danijela Jokic, 39, who lost her corporate job last
September and now hawks discount cosmetics in a Quonset hut set
up at the Belgrade makeshift market in downtown Belgrade, says
she’s angry as well.  The government is more willing to accommodate the EU than
to help citizens who are suffering from cost-cutting measures
designed to bring Serbia’s fiscal policy in line with EU
requirements, she says.  “The EU won’t bring us anything good,” said Jokic. “The
government certainly shouldn’t be accepting this deal with
Kosovo. They are supposed to give up something and get
nothing?”  Deficit Cuts  Dacic’s Cabinet has pledged to cut the  budget deficit  to
3.6 percent of economic output this year from 6.7 percent in
2012 by holding back public sector wages and reducing subsidies
to state companies. By contrast, the  Fiscal Council , a three-
member body appointed by Parliament to oversee compliance with
the rules, sees the deficit as high as 4.5 percent.  The  Finance Ministry  said today that it will execute the
early repayment of $400 million in debt to the London Club of
creditors tomorrow, creating a savings of $13 million in
interest payments. Serbia owes $860 million to the club, which
wrote down 62 percent of the Balkan nation’s debt in 2004.  Image Problem  “A country’s image is quite important for investors,”
said Filippos Karamanolis, the head of Eurobank AD, the Serbian
unit of  Greece ’s Eurobank SA, in an interview at a March
economic forum in central  Serbia . “People know very little
about Serbia. They know about bombings.”  At the Belgrade market, business is brisk for 70-year-old
Bora Leskovcanin, who peeked over piles of potatoes, carrots and
lettuce being sold for less than the local grocery story is
offering.  “The EU keeps on blackmailing us,” said Leskovcanin, who
said he is disappointed by government talks with Kosovo. “We
should look at  Russia ,  China  and  India  for partners. That’s
where our markets are.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  