-- South Africa’s Mines Union to Ask for Double-Digit Pay Rise
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-04-28T14:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/south-africa-s-mines-union-to-ask-for-double-digit-pay-increase.html
The  National Union of Mineworkers ,
an ally of South Africa’s ruling  African National Congress , said
it will ask for a double-digit increase in pay when negotiating
with the Chamber of Mines in May.  The demand will apply across the  mining industry , NUM’s
Secretary-General Frans Baleni said by mobile phone today. “We
will try to conclude the negotiations before July 1,” he said.  With industrywide wage talks looming, tensions between
labor groups are intensifying.  Lonmin Plc (LON)  ended a six-week
strike at Marikana last year by agreeing to pay increases for
workers of 11 percent to 22 percent. Strikes in 2012 spread from
platinum to gold and coal mines, costing Africa’s biggest
economy 4.5 billion rand ($494 million).  The union was founded in 1982 by workers including  Cyril Ramaphosa , who went on to lead the biggest-ever strike in the
country’s gold industry five years later and is now the richest
black South African after Patrice Motsepe, according to the
Johannesburg-based Sunday Times. The NUM vies with the National
Union of Metalworkers to be the biggest in the Congress of South
African Trade Unions, which has been in alliance with the ANC
since the first all-race elections in 1994.  Making Profit  “A couple of companies are making profits,” Baleni said,
adding that the union is keeping track of fluctuations in
commodity prices.  Platinum prices have declined 5.9 percent and gold has
retreated 8.5 percent this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. South  Africa  produces three-quarters of the world’s
platinum output.  Gold, coal and most of platinum producers’ wage agreements
will expire at the end of June, Elize Strydom, senior executive
for employment relations at the Johannesburg-based Chamber, said
April 18 in an e-mailed response to questions.  “The AMCU indicated that it would reflect on the Chamber’s
proposal and reasons given for the proposal and would revert
formally,” Strydom said.  The NUM is losing support to other organizations including
the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, which is
the biggest representative of workers at Lonmin,  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the three
largest producers, according to preliminary figures from the
companies.  South Africa  has the world’s biggest known reserves
of the metal.  The AMCU and management of platinum companies met on March
15 to explore the possibility of negotiating directly with the
Chamber, which is the case in gold and coal industries, instead
of holding talks at the company level, according to Strydom.  The union will be holding discussions with the Chamber of
behalf of its 310,000 members, according to Baleni.  “I can’t say if we are going to strike or not,” he said.
“It depends on the outcome of the negotiations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Abelsky at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net  