-- South Korea to Unveil Policies to Boost Corporate Investments
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-04-28T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/south-korea-to-unveil-policies-to-boost-corporate-investments.html
South Korea ’s government will
unveil policies within days to remove “unreasonable”
regulations that deter companies from making investments,
Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said.  The government is also preparing measures, including loan
and marketing support, to help smaller exporters grappling with
the sliding yen, the  Finance Ministry  said in a separate
statement yesterday.  South Korea’s President Park Geun Hye announced a $15
billion extra budget and property stimulus package this month
and the central bank pared its growth forecast for this year as
a decline in the yen hurt exporters and record household debt
restrains consumption. Hyun said last week the government is
planning policy support for services industries to boost  job
creation .  “Weak private consumption and inventory drawdown suggest a
still slower recovery in private demand, which makes the
coordination of policy stimulus all the more important,”  Kwon Goohoon , a Seoul-based economist with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
wrote in an April 25 report after first-quarter economic growth
rose the most in two years, driven by front-loading of fiscal
spending by the government and higher exports.  “We’re trying to do a major easing of rules to revitalize
investment,” Hyun said yesterday during a weekend meeting with
heads of small and medium-sized manufacturers in Siheung,
southwest of Seoul.  The measures will target increasing
“facility investments” by smaller firms through financial
incentives, he said.  Undermine Competitiveness  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said last week that
weakness in the Japanese currency has only just begun and will
hit South Korea’s electronics, automobile and steel makers who
compete against companies from Asia’s second-largest economy.  The yen has dropped about 20 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past six months and about 18 percent against the
won. Lee Won Hee, chief financial officer of Hyundai Motor Co.,
said last week the strong won and weak yen are a concern.  The Finance Ministry warned in its statement yesterday that
April exports of vehicles and other goods may rise 1 percent to
2 percent from a year earlier as the yen’s weakness undermines
the competitiveness of South Korean exporters.  In an interview with  Bloomberg News  in Washington on April
18, Hyun said the weakening yen is hurting the Korean economy
more than threats from  North Korea .  “Compared to the North Korea risk, a sliding yen is having
a considerable impact on the real economy of South Korea,” Hyun
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  