-- Symphony Shies From Indonesia’s Froth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-04-30T00:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/symphony-shies-from-frothy-prices-in-indonesia-southeast-asia.html
(Corrects name in 13th paragraph for story published on
April 29.)  Symphony International Holdings
Ltd. (SIHL)  said it’s seeking private-equity deals in markets including
 Malaysia  and  Thailand  as assets in Indonesia, where it has
invested for more than two decades, have become overvalued.  An increasing number of buyout firms seeking companies that
serve the growing middle class in the world’s fourth-most
populous nation has pushed prices of privately-owned businesses
higher, Anil Thadani, director at Symphony, an Asia-Pacific
private-equity firm founded in 1981.  “Indonesia was a hot market about seven to eight years
ago,” Thadani, who is chairman of Symphony’s investment
manager, said in an interview on April 26. “But the time of the
low-hanging fruits is over. The whole environment has become too
frothy.”  Buyout firms are counting on rising domestic consumption in
Southeast Asia’s biggest economy to boost returns as a slowdown
in global growth has weakened prices of commodities such as coal
and palm oil. Private spending accounts for more than 60 percent
of the economy, according to government data.  “We invested in  Indonesia  in the ’80s, and we did very
well,‘‘ said Thadani, 66. ‘‘So over the last couple of years, we
stayed away as we always do when we see herd behavior. Private
equity is a lot about buying at the right price. And at the
moment, the price isn’t right in that country.’’  Symphony is also looking at investments in Sri Lanka,  India 
and  Japan  and could invest as much as $520 million, he said.  Normal Areas  The London-traded company invests in consumer-related
businesses in the Asia-Pacific region, focusing on health care,
hospitality, lifestyle and property, according to its website.  Symphony has $120 million in cash to invest, Thadani said.
A further $400 million is in liquid assets, which could be sold
at any time should a attractive investment opportunity arise, he
said, adding that ‘‘we aren’t seeing that at the moment.’’  Thadani, who is also chairman of Symphony’s investment and
advisory unit Symphony Asia Holdings Pte, declined to elaborate
on the investments the buyout firm is seeking, except they are
‘‘in our normal areas of focus.’’  Nicholas Bloy, managing partner at Navis Capital Partners
Ltd., said sellers would value a ‘‘typical branded’’ consumer
goods company in Indonesia at between 12 times and 14 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
For private-equity firms, the norm is about 8.5 times the
profitability measure commonly known as Ebitda.  ‘‘You can’t bridge that,’’ he said on April 24. ‘‘Someone
has to give. So currently it’s a waiting game.’’  Best Performers  Prices paid in private-equity transactions have risen in
Southeast Asia over the past few years, according to Bain & Co.,
which provides management consulting services to the private-
equity industry. Buyout firms paid a median of 10 times Ebitda
last year, up from 7.8 times in 2009, it said.  ‘‘High price expectations by sellers is the primary
constraint for deals,’’ Sebastien Lamy, a Singapore-based
private-equity specialist for Southeast Asia at Bain, said in an
e-mailed response to queries. That’s the case in Indonesia in
particular, he said, citing his firm’s surveys.  Indonesia’s benchmark  Jakarta Composite index  more than
doubled in the past five years, making it the third-best
performer among 94 stock gauges worldwide tracked by Bloomberg.  The Jakarta Composite is trading at 19.5 times reported
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, almost twice
the 10.7 multiple for Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , and higher
than the benchmark measures in Singapore and Malaysia.  More Competition  Private-equity firms pool money from investors to buy
companies within about five to six years, overhaul and then sell
them, and return the funds with a profit after about 10 years.  Prices in Southeast Asia are also rising because more
buyout companies are flocking to the region, Thadani said.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm run by Henry Kravis and
 George Roberts , opened its seventh office in the Asia-Pacific
region in Singapore in October, preceded by rivals Blackstone
Group LP and General Atlantic LLC. Navis Capital in January said
it will open offices in Vietnam and Indonesia.  ‘‘The amount of money that is being raised for this
industry is mind-boggling,” Thadani said. “When you have that
kind of money, people are going to overpay. And when people
overpay, prices go up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in  Singapore  at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  