-- U.S. ‘Spy’ Held in Venezuela Is Filmmaker, Lawyer Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-04-28T20:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/u-s-spy-detained-in-venezuela-is-filmmaker-his-lawyer-says.html
The U.S. citizen detained by
 Venezuela  on accusations of spying is a documentary filmmaker
who had accreditation from the South American country’s
electoral council to observe elections this month, his lawyer
said today.  Timothy Tracy was arrested at Caracas’s Simon Bolivar
airport April 24 as he was leaving the country and charged
yesterday with conspiracy, use of false documents and delinquent
association, according to a statement by the public prosecutor’s
office.  Tensions have risen in Venezuela following a contested
April 14 election in which the late Hugo Chavez’s chosen
successor,  Nicolas Maduro , was declared winner by a 1.8
percentage-point margin. The government says opposition
candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski’s decision to not recognize
Maduro’s victory sparked protests that left nine dead and dozens
injured. Venezuela’s intelligence services believes Tracy was
funding a group of students responsible for the violence,
Interior Minister Miguel Rodriguez Torres said April 25.  “The documentaries he makes have nothing to do with state
security,” Tracy’s lawyer, Gloria Stifano, said in comments
broadcast on Globovision. “They are documentaries and
individual and personal stories that aim to understand
scientifically the psychological differences produced by
division.”  Political Spectrum  Stifano said Tracy’s rights were being respected and
diplomatic visits from the U.S. Embassy are being permitted.
During filming, Tracy interviewed both opposition and pro-
government politicians and groups, Stifano said.  “He was mixing with lots of people of different political
leanings,” she said. “He wasn’t a kid who was in hiding, or
evading anything. He went around publicly with a camera.”  U.S. State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell on April
26 declined to comment on whether Tracy had any connection with
any U.S. government agency saying the matter involved a private
citizen while rejecting allegations that the U.S. is involved in
any efforts to destabilize Venezuela.  Tracy worked as a producer on several documentaries and
television series, including “Angry White Man,” “Madhouse”
and “American Harmony,” according to the  Internet Movie
Database . He is also listed as acting the part of a White House
staff member in the Geena Davis series about the first female
president of the U.S., called “Commander in Chief,” according
to IMDb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  