-- Van Persie Scores as Manchester United Earns 1-1 Draw at Arsenal
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-04-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/van-persie-scores-as-manchester-united-earns-1-1-draw-at-arsenal.html
Robin  van Persie  scored against his
former team to earn newly crowned Premier League champion
Manchester United a 1-1 draw at Arsenal.  Chelsea beat Swansea 2-0 to move ahead of Arsenal into
third spot, while Reading and Queens Park Rangers were relegated
from English soccer’s top flight after they drew 0-0 yesterday.  Arsenal took a second-minute lead through Theo Walcott and
dominated United in the first half before Van Persie leveled
from the penalty spot just before halftime. United manager  Alex Ferguson  denied his men started slowly after celebrating the
title they clinched last week.  “Arsenal set off at a fantastic pace, very aggressive and
a lot of tackles, I think the referee just couldn’t keep up,”
Ferguson told  Sky Sports . He said referee Phil Dowd had been
wrong to yellow card five United men, including Van Persie.  “When we have a foul he’s booked us right away,” Ferguson
said. “We have one of the best disciplinary records in the
country. For Man. United to have five players booked, I don’t
think that’s right.”  United has 85 points and cannot now beat Chelsea’s record
Premier League points haul of 95. Last year’s champion
 Manchester City  has 71, followed by Chelsea (65), Arsenal (64)
and Tottenham (62).  Van Persie joined United from Arsenal in a 24 million-pound
($37 million) trade last year. His 25 league goals helped the
Manchester team clinch its 20th English league title and 13th
Premier League crown last week.  Honor Guard  United’s players were welcomed on to the field at Arsenal’s
Emirates Stadium with a guard of honor by the home team. There
was a mixed reception from home fans, with some booing Van
Persie then and throughout the game.  Walcott gave Arsenal the lead from what may have been an
offside position. He collected Tomas Rosicky’s pass on the right
and slotted past goalkeeper David de Gea for his 12th league
goal this season.  Even though United lacked fluency in the first half as
Arsenal pressed, Van Persie tied it in the 44th minute, slamming
a penalty kick past Wojciech Szczesny after he was brought down
by  Bacary Sagna .  Wayne Rooney  and Rafael had attempts on goal for United
after the interval and  Ryan Giggs  saw a late effort deflected
wide.  Aaron Ramsey  and Laurent Koscielny had chances for the
Gunners.  “From the first to the last minute it was two teams giving
absolutely everything to win,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger 
said. “We gave everything and, at the end of the day, the
regret you have is the way we conceded the goal. Just before
halftime that was a serious blow to us.”  Chelsea’s Challenge  Chelsea’s win at  Stamford  Bridge maintains its challenge
for a top-four place and Champions League qualification. Oscar
and  Frank Lampard , with a penalty kick, got the goals in a two-
minute span just before halftime. Lampard’s 201st goal for the
Blues puts him one behind record club scorer Bobby Tambling.  At Reading, either the home team or QPR needed a win to
preserve a chance of avoiding relegation. Neither side could
find a breakthrough in a nervy match that left both teams on 25
points. They can reach a maximum of 34 points in the three games
left.  Wigan has 32 points and  Aston Villa  -- which hosts
Sunderland tonight -- has 34. Wigan plays Villa on the last day
of the season, meaning at least one of those teams is sure to
reach 35 points. Reading was promoted to the top flight last
year, a season after QPR was promoted.  Two days ago, Liverpool won 6-0 at Newcastle, Manchester
City defeated West Ham 2-1 and Everton had a 1-0 victory over
Fulham. West Brom won 3-0 at Southampton, Stoke beat Norwich 1-0
and Tottenham drew 2-2 at Wigan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  