-- VTB Group Secures Investors for $3.3 Billion Share Sale Plan
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-04-29T09:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/vtb-said-to-draw-norway-wealth-fund-to-3-3-billion-share-sale.html
VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-largest
lender, said investors including sovereign wealth funds in
Norway, Qatar and Azerbaijan have agreed to buy all $3.3 billion
of new shares it’s selling to increase capital.  The bank has orders from new and existing shareholders,
including Norges Bank Investment Management, the world’s largest
sovereign fund, and Qatar Holding LLC and  Azerbaijan’s State Oil
Fund , Moscow-based VTB said today in a statement.  VTB plans to sell the stock in Moscow to boost regulatory
capital depleted by acquisitions including OAO Bank of Moscow
and OAO TransCreditBank and a buyback of minority investors. The
share sale will lift its Tier 1 Capital ratio to 11.9 percent
from 10.3 percent at the end of March, VTB said.  “We are delighted to announce the capital increase and are
pleased with the transaction structure,” Andrey Kostin, VTB
chairman, said in the statement. “Binding commitments to
subscribe from major global investors have allowed us to secure
our capital-raising targets.”  The state-run bank is selling 2.5 trillion new shares at
4.1 kopeks apiece, VTB said on April 26. The government  stake  of
75.5 percent in VTB is expected to fall to 60.93 percent
following the placement, VTB said today. Buyers of the new
shares won’t be eligible to receive 2012 dividends, according to
the statement.  Shares Gain  VTB’s shares erased an earlier loss of as much as 4
percent, gaining 2.7 percent to 4.66 kopeks by 12:30 a.m. in
Moscow. The bank’s market value has plunged about 70 percent
since it raised $8 billion selling stock in an initial public
offering in 2007.  “VTB is trading at the price level of a distressed asset,
but I don’t think it is a distressed asset,” Olga Naydenova, a
banking analyst at Moscow-based brokerage BCS Financial Group,
said by telephone. “It’s really cheap and it might be a good
time for these funds to get in.”  Jamala Aliyeva, head of the press service for  Azerbaijan ’s
State Oil Fund in Baku, confirmed it was investing. Mette Fossum
Beyer, spokesman at Oslo-based Norges Bank, which has $714
billion under management, declined to comment on the fund’s
individual investments. A spokesman for the Qatar Holding didn’t
immediately return a telephone call.  VTB Capital and Citigroup Inc. were named as joint global
coordinators and joint bookrunners, while Bank of America Corp.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are joint lead managers, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  