-- Two Italian Policemen Shot Outside Prime Minister Office
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-04-28T15:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-28/two-italian-policemen-shot-outside-prime-minister-office.html
Two Italian police officers were
shot outside the prime minister’s office in  Rome  today by a lone
gunman while the country’s new premier, Enrico Letta, was being
sworn in nearby, police said.  A man wearing a jacket and tie pulled out a gun on fired at
the police officers guarding Palazzo Chigi and then started
shouting “Shoot me! Shoot me,” witnesses told SKY TG24
television. The suspect was subdued by police and taken into
custody without a shot being fired by the officers, Rome Mayor
Giovanni Alemanno said.  The gunman, identified as Luigi Preiti from the southern
region of Calabria, doesn’t have a criminal record, news agency
Ansa reported. The 49-year-old suspect wasn unemployed and
apparently wanted to commit suicide after he fired six shots at
the officers, Interior Minister  Angelino Alfano  said in a
statement. “This tragic criminal gesture appears to be an
isolated incident.” Still, security will be increased for
“sensitive targets” in the country, Alfano said.  Preiti told investigators that he wanted to shoot
politicians on an important day. His brother told journalists
that Preiti showed little interest in politics and the family
had no idea what prompted the attack.  One of the officers, Giuseppe Giangrande, was shot in the
neck and suffered possible damage to his spinal column, doctors
at the Umberto I hospital in Rome said at a press conference.
The second policeman was shot in the leg.  Generational Shift  Letta, 46, went to Palazzo Chigi after the shooting and
held his first Cabinet meeting there. He was sworn in at the
Quirinale presidential palace earlier today after forging an
alliance with  Silvio Berlusconi  that ended a two-month stalemate
and signaled a generational shift in the country’s politics.  Letta, the third-youngest Italian premier since World War
II, will lead a 21-member Cabinet. He named a record seven women
to his Cabinet, including former European Union commissioner
Emma Bonino as foreign minister. He also appointed Bank of Italy
veteran Fabrizio Saccomanni as finance minister.  “Letta’s choice of ministers shows his ability as
mediator,” said Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maffe, professor of
business strategy at Milan’s  Bocconi University . “The ministers
are all moderate and no extremists are included.”  Parliament may schedule a vote of confidence on Letta’s
administration as early as tomorrow.  Obama Statement  U.S. President  Barack Obama  “looks forward to working
closely with Prime Minister Letta and President Napolitano as
our two countries jointly seek to promote trade, jobs, and
growth on both sides of the Atlantic and tackle today’s complex
security challenges,” according to a White House statement
today.  The new prime minister has sealed an alliance with former
premier Berlusconi, resurrecting the coalition that stood behind
Letta’s predecessor,  Mario Monti . While the deal gives Letta a
majority in parliament, he must manage the competing agendas of
his Democratic Party and forces loyal to Berlusconi to find
common ground on policy.  Berlusconi, a three-time premier, told Canale 5 television
yesterday that Letta had agreed to his demand to eliminate a
property tax on first homes and to reimburse last year’s
payment. The pledge was central to Berlusconi’s campaign for the
February elections and helped him narrow the Democratic Party’s
lead before the vote and deny it a majority of seats in the
Senate.  Political Stalemate  The Democrats won a majority in the Chamber of Deputies,
but without the Senate couldn’t build a government on their own.
The stalemate led to the resignation of Pier Luigi Bersani, who
led them into the election. President Giorgio Napolitano asked
Letta to try to build a government on April 24 and the premier
was forced into a coalition with Berlusconi.  Alfano, who also is general secretary of Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party, was named deputy prime minister and
placed at the head of the  Interior Ministry . Anna Maria Cancellieri, interior minister under Monti, will serve as
justice minister. European Affairs Minister Enzo Moavero Milanesi will remain in the same role for Letta and the  Defense
Ministry  goes to Mario Mauro, an ex-Berlusconi ally and member
of Monti’s Civic Choice party.  Letta’s swearing-in ends a political stalemate caused by
inconclusive elections in February that left the country with a
hung Parliament. He is starting his tenure with two-year
government bond yields near a record low and the Italian
economy, the European Union’s third-largest, in its longest
recession for at least 20 years.  Fiscal Austerity  Tax-cut plans enjoy widespread support in parliament, and
members of the governing coalition have repudiated the fiscal
austerity they imposed under Monti. The two-year note closed at
1.29 percent in the last trading session on April 26, down from
1.67 percent when voters went to the polls.  Letta’s party favors progressive taxation and counted on
the support of labor unions at the polls. The party identifies
itself as center-left and brings together ex-Christian Democrats
including Letta and former communists like Bersani. People of
Liberty is calling for cuts to public spending and appeals to
entrepreneurs and professionals.  Letta will be pushed to tackle a new election law -- to
reduce the probability of future stalemates -- as well as
justice reform and a labor-market update that economists have
said is needed to boost productivity.  Property Tax  The property tax, known as IMU, may be the first item on
Letta’s agenda. IMU, created by Monti to help cut the deficit,
became a symbol to Italians frustrated by budget rigor.  The main challenge for Letta, a former industry and
European affairs minister, will be keeping Berlusconi committed
and his own party intact. The  Democratic Party , which fields the
biggest force in parliament, nearly fractured during the post-
election impasse after then-leader Bersani refused to bargain
with Berlusconi and failed to gain a legislative majority.  “Berlusconi has a compact group behind him and Letta
doesn’t,” said Federigo Argentieri, professor at John Cabot
University in Rome. “He risks becoming a hostage of
Berlusconi’s group and I think in that case he would resign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  