-- 
Frank Wants Fiduciary Proposal Withdrawn

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-17T00:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/labor-department-should-withdraw-fiduciary-proposal-frank-says.html
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank ,
the top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, said
the Labor Department should withdraw and re-propose changes to
fiduciary standards, citing overlaps with other U.S. regulators.  Rules governing fiduciary standards for firms that advise
pension-plan sponsors may need to be updated, Frank said. “But
it is important to do this in a way that does not have adverse
effects on the choices available to consumers, municipalities
and pension plans, among others,” Frank said in a Sept. 15
letter to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis.  The Labor Department wants to expand the scope of fiduciary
responsibility to protect those saving for retirement from
conflicts of interest, such as recommending investments with
higher fees. The rule would require investment professionals who
advise employers and workers with retirement savings plans such
as 401(k)s or IRAs to act in the best interest of their clients.  The change may cause financial firms to offer fewer
investment options in retirement accounts and shift to a fee-
based model used by investment advisers, which will raise costs,
Kenneth Bentsen, executive vice president for public policy and
advocacy at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, said in July at a  Washington  hearing before the
House Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions.  The Labor Department should re-propose the rule after
coordinating with the  Securities and Exchange Commission  and
 Commodity Futures Trading Commission , Frank said.  The SEC and CFTC have been working on rules required by the
Dodd-Frank Act that may overlap with the Labor proposal.
Department of Labor spokesman Jesse Lawder couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment on the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  