-- 
South Africa Routs Fiji 49-3 at Rugby World Cup; Argentina Beats Romania

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-17T08:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/argentina-defeats-romania-43-8-in-rugby-world-cup-match-in-new-zealand.html
Defending champion South Africa
beat Fiji 49-3 to move atop its group at the Rugby  World Cup ,
while Argentina got its first win at the tournament in  New
Zealand  by beating  Romania  43-8.  The Springboks, who began their defense of the Webb Ellis
Cup by beating Wales 17-16 last week, scored six unanswered
tries through six different players in Wellington. Morne Steyn
kicked five conversions and two penalties, while Frans Steyn
opened the scoring with a 56-meter penalty.  “We had some work to do, we were a bit rusty in the first
game,” South Africa captain  John Smit  said in a televised
interview. “It was just what we needed. For me, more than
anything, I’m happy to have kept a team like Fiji off the try
line. That’s a pretty good task.”  The victory lifted  South Africa  atop  Pool D  with nine
points through two matches ahead of Fiji and Samoa, which plays
Wales tomorrow. The top two teams from each of the four groups
advance to the quarterfinals.  In today’s last match, two-time champion  Australia  meets
Ireland in a Pool C clash at Auckland’s  Eden Park . The Wallabies
and Springboks would avoid a quarterfinal matchup by finishing
atop their groups.  Springboks fly-half Morne Steyn finished with 21 points in
Wellington after also adding a 62nd-minute try, which secured
the bonus point for scoring at least four tries in a match.  Try Scorers  The Springboks also scored second-half tries through inside
center Frans Steyn, prop Tendai Mtawarira and lock Danie
Rossouw. South Africa had led 21-3 at halftime after tries by
prop Gurthro Steenkamp and outside center Jaque Fourie.  Fiji, which lost 37-20 when the teams met in the 2007
quarterfinals, got its only points from a Seremai Bai penalty.  “It was a disappointing result,” Fiji captain Deacon Manu
said. “It was tough game out there for us and the Springboks
probably showed why they’re world champions.”  Argentina , which finished third at the 2007 World Cup,
rebounded from last week’s 13-9 loss to England by scoring six
tries through six different players to secure a bonus-point win
over Romania.  “We were desperate to get a win, that was the only option
for us,” Argentina captain Juan Martin Fernandez Lobbe said in
a televised interview. “The performance was a little bit patchy
sometimes but we are very happy.”  Santiago Fernandez, Juan Manuel Leguizamon, Juan Figallo
and Lucas Gonzalez Amorosino all touched down for the Pumas in
the first half at Rugby Park, Invercargill, before Romania
responded with a try by Ionel Cazan in 32nd minute.  Counterattack  Replacement winger Juan Jose Imhoff sprinted clear for
Argentina’s fifth try with 16 minutes to go and Genaro Fessia
finished off a 72nd-minute counterattack to complete the try
scoring. Inside center Martin Rodriguez kicked five conversions
and a penalty for Argentina’s other 13 points.  The Pumas moved into second place in Pool B with six
points, three behind leader  Scotland  and two ahead of  England ,
which plays Georgia tomorrow.  U.S. captain Todd Clever escaped a ban after admitting to a
dangerous-tackle charge following his team’s 13-6 win over
 Russia  two days ago. The International Rugby Board’s independent
judicial officer, Jeff Blackett, determined at a hearing in
Auckland that the offense was “at the lower end of the scale of
seriousness” and no further sanction was necessary.  Today’s ruling means Clever, a 28-year-old flanker, is
available for the Eagles’ next match against Australia on Sept.
23 in Wellington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  