-- 
Australia to Expand ‘Graphic’ Health Warnings on Tobacco Packs

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-17T06:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/australia-to-expand-graphic-health-warnings-on-tobacco-packs.html
Australia , which is poised to
become the first nation to require cigarettes to be sold in
plain packs, will expand the size of “graphic” health warnings
on tobacco products.  The warnings will cover 75 percent of the pack’s front,
compared with 30 percent now, when the new laws take effect next
year, Health Minister Nicola Roxon said in a  statement  today.
Cigarettes sold in Australia  currently include  pictures of
tumors and limbs infected with gangrene.  Higher taxes on tobacco and the new packaging rules are
part of a campaign to combat smoking, an activity the government
says kills 15,000 Australians each year. Companies have
introduced their own advertising campaigns against the changes
with manufacturer  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  starting legal
action against the policy.  “The new graphic health warnings are a striking and
confronting reminder of the death and disease that tobacco
brings,” Roxon said in the statement. “Plain packaging and
graphic health warnings mean that the glamor has gone.”  Tobacco producers will have six months to comply with rules
requiring packets to be olive green, with plain text brand names
and the new health warnings when the law takes effect on Jan 1,
2012.  Smoking costs Australia about A$31 billion ($32 billion)
per year in health and workplace costs, according to the
government. With 15.1 percent of the population aged 14 or older
smoking daily, it is the country’s top drug and preventable
health issue, the government says.  Health Risks  “We will ensure that the most effective graphic health
warnings are used to inform consumers of the risks to their
health,” David Bradbury, parliamentary secretary to the
treasurer, said in the statement.  British American last month said it would seek compensation
for the plain packaging laws. The London-based company has said
the laws may infringe international trademark and intellectual
property regulations.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded tobacco company, in June said the Australian law
also violates a 1994 treaty with  Hong Kong  that prohibits the
forced removal of trademarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  