-- 
Belgium, Spain Call for Euro-Area Transactions Tax If No EU Deal

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-17T13:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/belgium-spain-call-for-euro-area-transactions-tax-if-no-eu-deal.html
The euro area’s 17 governments
should consider introducing their own tax on financial
transactions if no agreement is possible at the European Union
level, two of the region’s finance ministers said.  The EU is split over the merits of a transactions tax,
which French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel favor to curb speculation on the markets and
repair public finances. The U.K., an EU member outside the euro
area, has said such a tax would have to be applied across the
Group of 20 nations to be effective and that it will oppose a
unilateral EU measure. U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner yesterday reiterated his opposition to a global tax.  “If it’s impossible at the worldwide level, we need to
organize that in the European Union and at least in the  euro
zone ,” Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said after
meeting his EU counterparts today in Wroclaw, Poland. Such a tax
would be set at a lower rate than one applied globally, he said.  “A tax on financial transactions should at least apply to
the whole euro zone,” said  Elena Salgado ,  Spain ’s finance
minister.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm
in Brussels, said in August it will present proposals for an EU
financial-transactions tax, reversing an earlier position that
such a measure would be unworkable without global support. It
said it will unveil its plans in early October.  Along with the U.K., the Dutch and Swedish governments have
distanced themselves from the measure, which banks have warned
would jeopardize economic growth and distort markets.  ‘Very Divided’  “The union is very divided on this,” Polish Finance
Minister Jacek Rostowski said after today’s meeting. “There is
no consensus.”  His comments were echoed by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial-services commissioner, who added that the introduction
of a “broad-based” tax would be “technically simple,
economically manageable for the financial-services sector,
productive for finances and politically fair.”  Europe ’s
citizens are calling on the banking industry to make a fair
contribution to society, Barnier said.  Before its announcement in August, the commission said it
preferred the introduction of a so-called financial-activities
tax at EU level. Such a levy would target lenders’ balance
sheets or the lower borrowing rates they obtained compared with
other businesses, it said.  “There is a consensus between the major countries of the
euro zone on a tax on financial transactions,” Salgado said.
“Spain supports it.” The plan will “be taken” by the region
to a meeting of G-20 finance ministers next week, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Wroclaw,  Poland  at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Wroclaw, Poland at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  