-- 
Berlin Goes to the Polls as Merkel’s CDU Faces 2011 State Election Endgame

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-17T22:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/berlin-goes-to-the-polls-as-merkel-s-cdu-faces-2011-state-election-endgame.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democrats will today contest the last of seven state
elections this year that have seen the coalition parties
punished amid voter anger over the handling of the debt crisis.  The ballot in Berlin, a city-state of about 3.5 million, is
the culmination of a local election timetable overshadowed by
Merkel’s efforts to stem the euro-area contagion spreading from
Greece. Merkel’s CDU suffered five defeats to one win and her
Free Democratic Party coalition partner lost all its seats in
four of the regional assemblies it contested.  The results add pressure to Merkel as she struggles to
balance domestic fatigue over shouldering rescues with
international calls that she do more to stem the crisis. That’s
widening fissures in her government midway into her second term
as the three-way coalition descends into open conflict over the
euro’s future and financial aid to  Greece .  “The state election results this year show there is a
weakness in mobilization in the CDU,” Gero Neugebauer, a
professor of political science at the Free University in Berlin,
said in an interview. “Merkel is beginning to become a
political weakness to her party.”  The latest polls for Berlin suggest Social Democratic Mayor
Klaus Wowereit, who once referred to Berlin as “poor but
sexy,” will secure a third term. Support for the SPD, the main
opposition party nationally, is at 31 percent, little changed
from the last election in 2006, while Merkel’s CDU is also
unchanged at 22 percent, an Info poll for the Berliner Kurier
newspaper and Berliner Rundfunk radio showed on Sept. 16.  Green Challenge  The Greens under main candidate Renate Kuenast have 18
percent, making them a potential candidate as junior coalition
partner to the SPD. The Left Party, which currently governs with
the SPD, is at 12 percent.  The Free Democrats, with just 2 percent backing, may again
fail to cross the 5 percent threshold needed to win seats in
parliament. The  Pirate Party , whose platform focuses on freedom
of information, open access to technology and the pitfalls of
surveillance and copyrighting, have 9 percent, a result that
would win them their first seats in any legislature. Info polled
1,504 voters on Sept. 9-11. No margin of error was given.  Berlin’s economy grew the most of any state between 2008
and 2010, a period that includes  Germany ’s worst recession since
World War II, federal statistics show. Tourism, technology and
creative industries such as publishing and fashion helped power
the period’s 5.9 percent expansion.  Even so, the jobless rate of 13.3 percent in August was the
highest of any state and nearly double the national average of 7
percent. Berlin has debt of 60 billion euros ($83 billion), the
highest per person of any German state except the northern port
of Bremen, according to the Federal Statistics Office.  Berlin is the “capital of juvenile poverty” and has “the
worst educational system of all federal states,” Merkel told
her party’s closing campaign rally on Sept. 16.  “It’s not enough to talk about ‘poor but sexy,’” she told
a crowd of about 500 on a neighborhood square in the west of the
city. “You also have to think about how to get wealth into
Berlin in the shape of modern, future-oriented jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  