-- 
Blackburn Beats Arsenal 4-3 for First Premier League Victory

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-17T16:33:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/blackburn-beats-arsenal-4-3-for-first-premier-league-victory.html
Blackburn came from behind to
defeat Arsenal 4-3 for its first win of the season in English
soccer’s Premier League.  Norwich and Swansea also won for the first time and QPR
beat Wolverhampton 3-0 to give all three promoted teams
victories. Everton defeated Wigan 3-1 and  Aston Villa  tied 1-1
with Newcastle.  Two goals from Ayegbeni Yakubu and a pair of own goals
lifted Blackburn to the home win after trailing 2-1.  “The boys are really working hard for each other and I’m
delighted,” Blackburn manager  Steve Kean , the target of a fan
protest before the match, told  Sky Sports . “We’ve got character
in the side.”  The victory may take some pressure off Kean and put more on
Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger , whose team has one win from five
games and allowed 14 goals.  “It’s just not good enough, of course, we are very
frustrated,” Wenger said on the club’s website. “You cannot
come here and concede four goals the way we did today.”  Gervinho gave Arsenal the lead after 10 minutes before
Yakubu tied the score.  Mikel Arteta  then put the Gunners back in
front in the 34th minute.  Blackburn pulled even just after halftime as Ruben
Rochina’s free kick bounced off the leg of  Alex Song  for an own
goal. Yakubu scored his second to give Rovers the lead and
Arsenal’s Laurent Koscielny deflected the ball into his own net
to make it 4-2.  ‘Deserved Win’  After Marouane Chamakh scored in the 85th minute, Arsenal
had chances in injury time as Per Mertesacker’s header went over
and Robin van Persie was stopped by goalkeeper Paul Robinson.  “Whenever we play against Arsenal there’s always
pressure,” Yakubu said. “They always fight to the end and we
had to play incredible today. I think we deserved to win.”  Scott Sinclair, Leroy Lita and Nathan Dyer scored as
Swansea beat West Brom 3-0 at home. It was the first goals of
the season for the Swans.  Goals from Anthony Pilkington and Bradley Johnson led
Norwich to a 2-1 win at Bolton, which had Ivan Klasnic red-
carded in the second half.  Joey Barton  and Alejandro Faurlin
scored in the opening 10 minutes as QPR beat Wolverhampton.  It marked the first time since 2007 that all three promoted
teams won on the same day, according to Sky Sports.  Apostolos Vellios scored in the 84th minute to break a 1-1
tie and Royston Drenthe added a goal in stoppage time to secure
Everton’s win over Wigan. Leon Best scored in the second half as
Newcastle drew with Aston Villa, which got a 13th-minute score
from  Gabriel Agbonlahor .  Manchester United  hosts Chelsea, Liverpool is at Tottenham,
Manchester City is at Fulham and Sunderland is home for Stoke in
tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  