-- 
Boeing 747-8 Hits ‘Horrendous’ Setback as Cargolux Puts Off First Delivery

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-09-17T22:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/boeing-747-8-hits-horrendous-setback-as-buyer-delays-delivery.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  had to postpone next
week’s inaugural delivery of the 747-8 freighter, a jet already
two years behind schedule, after its initial customer refused to
accept the first two planes.  Boeing had to cancel three days’ worth of ceremonies and
events yesterday because of “unresolved issues” with Cargolux
Airlines International SA, said spokesman  Jim Proulx . The
carrier was scheduled to fly its first load of freight on the
new plane out of  Seattle  on Sept. 19 and take delivery of a
second jet two days later.  Proulx declined to comment on the reason for the dispute,
and Cargolux would only say today that there had been
“contractual issues” that compelled its board, which met
yesterday, to reject the planes.  The clash mars the arrival of the newest and biggest
version of the jumbo jet that, with its iconic hump, has been
Boeing’s marquee model since its inception in the 1960s. It also
comes after numerous struggles at the company, including a
three-year setback to its 787 Dreamliner, inroads into its
customer base by Airbus SAS and a shift in its new-jet strategy.  “It’s horrendous,” Ken Herbert, an analyst with Wedbush
Securities in  San Francisco , said in an interview. “Just when
you finally thought they were going to turn the corner, this
happens.”  Setbacks  The 747-8 freighter won certification last month from the
U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  to enter commercial
service, capping a two-year, $2.04 billion delay for Boeing’s
biggest plane ever. Luxembourg-based Cargolux was to be the
first to receive the jumbo jets, which feature new engines and a
stretched upper deck and wings.  “We continue to work with Cargolux and look forward to
delivering its airplanes,” Boeing’s Proulx said yesterday from
Everett,  Washington , where the jets are built.  Financing, secured through JPMorgan, has been put on hold,
Cargolux,  Europe ’s largest freight-only carrier, said today.  “In the event that the issues cannot be resolved in a
timely manner, Cargolux will source alternative capacity to
fully meet customer demand and expectations ahead of the
traditional high season,” the company said in a statement.  Qatar Airways Ltd. took a 35 percent stake in Cargolux in
June and said it planned to start converting 20 Airbus SAS A330
jetliners into freighters next year to accelerate its expansion
into logistics.  Trials Continue  Trials continue on Boeing’s 747-8 Intercontinental
passenger model as crews test different systems than on the
freighter, including climate control and airflow balancing. The
first version of that plane is due to be delivered by the end of
this year, and the model is scheduled to begin commercial
service in early 2012 with  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   The setbacks to the model are due in part to the 787
Dreamliner. Engineers were diverted to work on the composite-
plastic Dreamliner as struggles with the new materials and its
production system caused what amounted to seven delays. Boeing
now expects to deliver the first of that plane to  Japan ’s All
Nippon Airways on Sept. 25.  Flight tests then revealed other problems with the jumbo
jet, including flutter in the wings and buffeting around the
wheel wells, which had to be resolved. And work on the new
flight-management computer extended the length of testing,
eventually forcing Boeing to scale back the system to avoid
further delays. A software upgrade is planned later.  Leadership Issues  The 467-seat, $317.5 million 747-8 Intercontinental
competes with Airbus’s 525-seat A380, which entered service in
2007, while the $319.3 million freighter has no commercial
rival. Boeing has 114 orders for the plane.  In July, Boeing abandoned its preference to develop an all-
new, narrow body jet and said it would instead offer new engines
on the current 737. That mirrored a similar move by Airbus the
year before that had helped the European planemaker rack up more
than 1,000 orders for its upgraded A320neo in seven months.  The decision came as Airbus broke an exclusive arrangement
between Boeing and  American Airlines  dating back to 1987 by
selling the A320neo to American. Boeing announced the following
month that it was replacing its top salesman and putting Ray Conner back in the post, in an expanded role.  “Clearly, there’s leadership issues all across the
board,” Herbert said. “It’s been a very difficult couple of
years. There’s so much capital on the sidelines waiting to get
into the stock, and they just need to deliver these airplanes,
but it’s always ‘next month, next month.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  