-- 
Bristol-Myers’s Once-Daily Hepatitis C Drug Cures 83% of People in Study

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-09-17T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/bristol-myers-s-once-daily-hepatitis-c-drug-cures-83-of-people-in-study.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s
experimental hepatitis C drug worked in combination with two
established medicines to cure as many as 83 percent of patients,
a study found.  The trial tested three doses of the drug, called BMS-790052,
with peginterferon and ribavirin, the standard treatment. Pills
with the two highest doses cured 83 percent of patients 24 weeks
after the treatment was completed, compared with 25 percent for
those on the current therapies and a placebo, the New York-based
company said in a statement today at ICAAC, the  Interscience
Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy , in  Chicago .  Two hepatitis C drugs,  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s
Incivek and Merck & Co.’s Victrelis, were approved in May by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration as the first for the illness
in more than a decade. Those treatments are given three times a
day; BMS-790052 is taken in one daily dose, said Douglas Manion,
vice president of development and virology for Bristol-Myers.  “The new standard of care should be 60 to 80 percent cure
rates,” Manion said in a telephone interview.  If approved, Bristol-Myers’s drug may generate sales of
$125 million by the end of December 2015, according to  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston . The
treatment will advance into the final of three phases of trials
usually required for U.S. regulatory approval, and be tested
against the Vertex and Merck pills, Manion said.  About 170 million people worldwide, including 3.2 million
in the U.S., have chronic  hepatitis C , a blood-borne disease
that can lead to liver cirrhosis and cancer, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. No
vaccine exists for the virus, which is usually spread by sharing
needles and can be transmitted sexually in rare cases.  Four Bristol Drugs  BMS-790052 is one of four Bristol-Myers drugs for the
hepatitis C virus in human testing, including a treatment in the
same class as the approved Merck and Vertex medicines and a new
variant on interferon, he said.  The Bristol-Myers study released today tested 48 patients.
Ribavirin and interferon were given plus BMS-790052 in 60-
milligram, 10-milligram or 3-milligram doses.  Forty-two percent of patients given the lowest dose of the
Bristol-Myers drug were cured of the virus after 24 weeks.
Another group received the standard medicines and a placebo.
Their results were measured after 48 weeks, the typical
prescribed length of current treatment.  There were no increased side-effects beyond standard
therapy in any of the patient groups, Bristol-Myers said in its
statement.  Side Effects  Incivek from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Vertex has been
associated with rashes and anemia. Fatigue and anemia are side
effects of Victrelis from  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based
Merck.  Incivek, which is marketed in  Europe  by Vertex and  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ) , is expected to have sales of $719 million in 2011,
according to 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Victrelis
revenue is expected to be $187 million, according to three
analysts.  The new hepatitis C drugs have fewer side effects than the
existing therapies, which fail in about half the patients, and
work more quickly, according to the FDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 