-- 
‘Awkward’ Clegg Pledges to Block Tax Cuts for U.K.’s Wealthy

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-18T13:41:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/clegg-rallies-supporters-with-pledge-to-be-awkward-for-cameron.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said he’d resist any move to cut taxes for the rich as he
tried to rally supporters of his Liberal Democrat party
concerned about his decision to go into coalition with  David Cameron ’s Conservatives.  After a speech to his party’s  annual conference  last night
in which he pledged to be “awkward” over policies his party
didn’t like, Clegg said today that if the top 50 percent tax
rate on income over 150,000 pounds ($237,000) a year isn’t
bringing in enough revenue, an alternative tax on wealth will
have to be found.  “If we discover that the 50 pence rate hasn’t raised money
from the very wealthiest in the way it’s supposed to, then
clearly we need to look at other ways” of taxing them, Clegg
told BBC television’s “ Andrew Marr Show ” at the conference in
Birmingham, central  England . “It stays unless, first, we make
more progress on lowering the tax burden on people on low and
middle incomes, and secondly, we can find other ways that the
wealthiest pay their fair share.”  Since the Liberal Democrats entered the government in May
2010, they’ve seen their support in the polls fall from 23
percent to about 10 percent. The party lost a referendum in May
on its long-held goal of changing the voting system.  ‘Affluent Team’  Danny Alexander , the chief secretary to the Treasury,
announced in a speech today that 2,250 tax inspectors will be
moved into anti-avoidance roles this year, with an “affluent
team” looking at 350,000 of the country’s wealthiest taxpayers.  Alexander also said that in the 2015 election, the party
should campaign to raise the threshold at which people start
paying income tax to around 12,500 pounds a year -- the amount
earned in a full-time job on the minimum wage. The starting
point for the tax is scheduled to rise to 10,000 pounds by 2015,
implementing a Liberal Democrat policy.  In his conference speech yesterday evening, Clegg
acknowledged that his party was failing to communicate what it
was achieving within the coalition and said he’d rectify that.  “We never oppose for the sake of opposition, but we never
shrink from telling it like it is and fighting for what is
right,” Clegg told activists. “In government, it means
sometimes we have to be awkward. As our coalition partners are
finding out on a daily basis, we are not here to make things
easy. We’re here to put things right.”  In a separate television interview, Business Secretary
 Vince Cable  renewed an attack on high executive pay, saying
there is “something not right” with compensation levels in
Britain.  ‘Rewarded for Failure’  “What’s happened in the past decade is that executive pay
has risen massively” compared with returns to shareholders,
Cable told  Sky News . He said some people are being “rewarded
for failure.”  While taking the unusual step of describing Cameron’s
Conservatives as an enemy party, the deputy prime minister last
night defended his decision to go into coalition “for the good
of the country.”  “We did it knowing it meant working with our political
enemies and almost certain short-term unpopularity,” Clegg
said. “People can no longer claim we’re not up to the job.”  He said the “distinct Liberal Democrat voice” in the
coalition was responsible for toning down Cameron’s plans to
overhaul the management of the  National Health Service .  Equalities Minister Lynne Featherstone highlighted an
announcement that the government is planning to legalize civil
marriages for same-sex couples -- a move that may be opposed by
some Conservative lawmakers -- as another example of Liberal
Democrat influence.  ‘No Compromises’  “Gay rights are human rights,” she told the conference.
“No excuses, no exceptions, no compromises.”  A ComRes Ltd. poll for the Independent on Sunday newspaper
suggested the public doesn’t concur with Clegg. It found only 23
percent of respondents agreeing the party has “done a good job
of moderating Conservative policies,” with 24 percent agreeing
the Liberal Democrats are now a “credible party of
government.”  The party’s fortunes haven’t been helped by rising
unemployment and a stalling economy. In an effort to get growth
moving, Alexander announced 500 million pounds today to fund
infrastructure projects that will enable other development.  ComRes surveyed 2,000 adults online Sept. 14-16. It did not
specify a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Birmingham, England, at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 