-- 
Technology Industry’s Gender Gap Seen Hampering Competitiveness

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-09-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/technology-companies-gender-disparity-seen-hampering-u-s-competitiveness.html
The lack of women in technology
will hinder U.S. companies’ global competitiveness, leaving a
valuable source of female workers untapped,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) 
executive Kathy Hill said yesterday at an Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation conference in San Francisco.  Companies should overhaul policies starting at the training
level to ensure a balance between the sexes, Hill said at the
 APEC  meeting, which was attended by U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton . APEC represents 21 economies that account for
more than 55 percent of global gross domestic product.  “Technology has to play a role,” said Hill, a senior vice
president of development strategy and operations at  San Jose ,
California-based Cisco, the world’s largest maker of networking
equipment. “Technology makes a lot more money than other
businesses, and we’ve got job growth.”  While women hold about half the jobs in the broader  U.S.
economy , they account for less than 25 percent of science,
technology, engineering and math positions, according to the
U.S. Department of Commerce.  “We need to unlock a vital source of growth that can power
our economy in the decades to come, and that vital source of
growth is women,” Clinton said yesterday at the conference.
“By increasing women’s part in the economy and enhancing their
efficiency and productivity, we can bring about a dramatic
effect to the competitiveness and growth of our economies.”  Technical Majors  The disparity begins in college. More than 31,000 men
graduated with bachelor’s degrees in computer and information
sciences, outnumbering women by more than fourfold, according to
a 2008-2009  study  by the National Center for Education
Statistics. Males who graduated with technological engineering
degrees during that period dwarfed female counterparts by almost
ninefold, the study found.  Females who start in science, technology, engineering and
math concentrations often switch to other fields before
graduating, said Marilyn Nagel, chief executive officer of
 Watermark , a Palo Alto, California-based, 4,000-member
organization for professional women. Corporations and
universities should make efforts to retain women in those majors
throughout the students’ college careers, she said.  That means supporting them when they’re most likely to
switch from math to another major -- between freshman and
sophomore year -- and bringing them into corporate environments
so they can visualize what they will be doing in their careers.  ‘Business Imperative’  “It’s a business imperative to increase diversity,”
Nagel, 62, said in an interview. “A homogeneous team is not
going to be as innovative and is not going to produce the same
level of well-thought-out results as a diverse team.”  Design skills also may help women break into technology,
said Weili Dai, the 50-year-old co-founder of  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL) , which makes chips for personal computers and mobile
phones. The iPad and iPhone have spotlighted the need for
practical, elegant designs, she said.  ”Technology used to be boring, but now technology is
fashion,” Dai said in an interview at the conference.  Companies need to make sure female mentors are accessible
to younger employees, she said. That allows women to more easily
see themselves in top positions, Dai said.  Just 12 percent of the students majoring in electrical
engineering and computer science at the  University of
California, Berkeley,  are women, said Claire Tomlin, a  professor 
who oversees those majors at the school.  The college is working with middle-school girls to spark
interest in engineering at a young age, and it invites females
from other schools to the campus for summer programs to
cultivate more interest in the field, she said.  Companies in the U.S., where the overall population is 51
percent female, will be more profitable if they foster
collaboration between the sexes, Dai said.  “In my company, any function could be done by a man or
woman,” she said. “How do we leverage the natural attributes
and talents of women?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  