-- 
Euro Strengthens on ECB’s Lending Offer, Merkel, Sarkozy Backing Greece

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-17T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/euro-strengthens-on-ecb-s-lending-offer-merkel-sarkozy-backing-greece.html
The euro rose against the dollar
for the first time in three weeks after the  European Central
Bank  said it will lend dollars to euro-area banks, tempering
liquidity concern amid the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency pared its five-day gain yesterday as
finance ministers from euro-zone nations meeting in  Poland 
failed to inspire confidence in measures to control debt
problems. Canada’s dollar rose against all of its most-traded
counterparts on speculation the nation’s fiscal condition will
attract investors during market turmoil. The Dollar Index fell
before a Federal Reserve meeting next week where officials may
announce further economic stimulus.  “The swap agreement between the ECB and other central banks
helped to alleviate some concerns about funding at European
banks, that’s been a positive,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market
analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a
currency brokerage. ‘The finance ministers’ meeting has been a
little bit of a disappointment and that’s weighting on the
euro.”  The euro strengthened 1 percent to $1.3796, from $1.3656
Sept. 9. It reached a seven-month low of $1.3495 Sept. 12. The
shared currency was little changed at 105.95 yen. The dollar
dropped 1 percent to 76.80 per yen, from 77.61.  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, weakened 0.8
percent to 76.547, from 77.192 last week.  Bank Lending  The euro rose the most in a month Sept. 15 after the ECB
said it will coordinate with Fed and other central banks to
offer three separate three-month loans to ensure euro-area banks
have enough of the U.S. currency through the end of the year.
The common currency gained earlier this week after French
President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said  Greece  should remain in the union and Greece reaffirmed
commitment to its budget plan.  The euro pared gains yesterday as European finance
ministers meeting in Wroclaw, Poland, ruled out efforts to prop
up the region’s economy and raised issues of collateral demanded
to take part in another Greek bailout.  Futures traders increased bets that the euro will fall
against the dollar to the most in more than a year.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- the so-called net shorts -- was 54,459 on
Sept. 13, the most since July 2010, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  Risk Trades  “ Risk aversion  and the euro is reacting to the continuing
disagreements among the euro area on what needs to be done and
these appear to be quite large,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a
currency strategist in New York at Barclays Plc. “It’s all
incremental at this stage and there does not seem to be a
credible silver bullet out there.”  The yen rose toward a post-World War II high against the
dollar as demand for refuge increased and as the Swiss National
Bank-imposed ceiling on the franc leaves  Japan ’s currency as one
of the few haven assets.  The yen reached 76.56 per dollar Sept. 15, within 1 yen of
75.95, the record-high reached Aug. 19.  Bank of Japan  board member Ryuzo Miyao said the central
bank is ready to take “appropriate” action as needed to
support the economy amid worries that the yen will stay strong.  ‘Taking Root’  “An area of concern is that the strong yen is taking
root,” Miyao said Sept. 14. If the dollar and euro remain weak
against the yen on sovereign-debt worries, “concern about the
hollowing-out of domestic industries will increase,” he said.  Japan last intervened in the  currency market , selling yen
to try to curb its climb, on Aug. 4, when it touched 76.97 to
the dollar.  The Swiss National Bank last week imposed a ceiling on the
franc at 1.20 per euro, the first time such a limit was set
since 1978, in an effort to protect the nation’s exporters. The
franc had rallied 13 percent against the single currency this
year before the ceiling was announced.  The franc was little changed this week against the euro at
1.2086. It rose 0.9 percent to 87.56 centimes per dollar.  Canada ’s dollar strengthened for the first week in three
versus the greenback, rising along with the yen and franc, as
investors sought haven assets to protect from euro zone
problems. Canada has a smaller budget-deficit ratio, lower
jobless rate and faster growth than most of its Group of Seven
peers.  Loonie Strength  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 1.9 percent to 97.81
cents per  U.S. dollar , from 99.67.  The British pound fell for a fourth week against the dollar
on speculation a deteriorating economic outlook will spur the
 Bank of England  to introduce additional monetary stimulus. The
pound dropped 0.6 percent to $1.5791, from $1.5883 last week.  The dollar fell as reports showed a stagnant  U.S. economy .
U.S. retail sales were unchanged in August, following a 0.3
percent gain for July that was smaller than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed.  Other reports showed more Americans than projected filed
claims for jobless benefits, consumer prices rose more than
forecast and New York-area manufacturing contracted more than
estimated.  “The whole question is whether the Fed is going to
introduce another round of quantitative easing, whether that is
going to kill the dollar,” said  Kathy Lien , director of
currency research with online trading firm GFT Forex in  New
York .  The  Federal Open Market Committee  may decide to replace
holdings of shorter-term Treasuries with longer maturities at
its two-day policy meeting starting Sept. 20 in an effort to
keep borrowing costs low and support the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  