-- 
Exelon-Constellation Merger Draws Maryland Objections

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-09-17T00:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/exelon-constellation-merger-draws-maryland-objections-1-.html
Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley
plans to seek changes to the terms of  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s $7.9
billion takeover of  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)   The state’s Energy Administration, which advises the
governor, listed the conditions under which it would support the
merger in testimony filed with Maryland regulators late today.  The merger is not in the public interest, and it “poses
significant risk of harm” to customers, Malcolm Woolf, director
of the Energy Administration, testified.  The merger will transfer ownership of Baltimore Gas &
Electric Co. to an owner outside of Maryland that will be
overseen by three separate regulatory jurisdictions, Woolf
testified. The merged company’s “nuclear risk” will be too
high, he said.  Approval of the transaction is needed from the five-member
 Maryland Public Service Commission , which is reviewing the
acquisition.  Maryland  officials have twice blocked takeovers of
Baltimore-based Constellation, owner of Baltimore Gas & Electric.  “Exelon and Constellation welcome input from stakeholders
as we continue to work toward completing our planned merger,”
Judy Rader, an Exelon spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
A Constellation spokesman couldn’t be reached for comment.  O’Malley, a Democrat, rose to statewide prominence as mayor
of Baltimore when he squelched a 2006 bid by NextEra Energy Inc.
for Constellation amid rising power prices.  Exelon, based in  Chicago , met with O’Malley before offering
what it said is $250 million in economic incentives to the state
including a $100 rate credit to every customer of
Constellation’s Baltimore utility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net .
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 