-- 
GE’s Immelt Says U.S. Must Trim Regulations to Spur Job Growth

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/ge-s-immelt-says-u-s-must-trim-regulations-to-spur-job-growth.html
The U.S. government must reduce
business regulation to spur job growth, said  Jeffrey Immelt ,
chief executive officer of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and head of
President Barack Obama’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness.  “The one thing I hope to get done is to create more
jobs,” Immelt said in an interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria
GPS,” scheduled for broadcast today. “There’s got to be some
simplification of regulations.”  Immelt, named to the council in January to build a bridge
between the government and the country’s employers, said
industrywide jobs proposals will be ready by the end of this
year. Americans’ pessimism about the economy has deepened,
sending Obama’s approval ratings to the lowest of his
presidency, as the stagnant labor market limits consumer
spending and threatens to trigger another recession.  One way to boost confidence among employers is to “try to
see through the eyes of small businesses,” which face a bigger
hurdle than large companies such as GE,  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Immelt said.  “We’re big enough companies that we can muscle through
regulatory” pressures, he said. “We can comply. We can do the
things we need to do.’”  “If you’re a $50 million business, it’s just so much
harder,” he said. Seen from his perspective, small business
“has all the problems GE has, only on steroids.”  More Certainty  More certainty on tax rates and health-care policy, and
building a well-trained workforce, also would encourage
companies to hire and increase investment, Immelt said. At the
same time, for companies to say the lack of these incentives is
stopping them from investing is “a crutch,” he said.  GE expects to add about 15,000 jobs in the U.S. this year,
and is investing in the country as well as in overseas markets
such as  China  and  India , Immelt said. He is also chairman of
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, which is the biggest maker of
power generation equipment, medical-imaging machines,
locomotives and  aircraft engines .  Obama’s $447 billion plan includes tax cuts and spending
proposals to jump-start  job creation . Payrolls were little
changed in August and the unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent,
Labor Department figures showed on Sept. 2. Obama’s disapproval
rating reached 50 percent for the first time since he became
president of the U.S., according to a New York Times/CBS News
poll conducted from Sept. 10 to Sept. 15.  Debt, Government Cuts  While the U.S. needs to reduce its debt and the size of the
government, Immelt said, it also needs to spend on improving
education, infrastructure, and research and development to spur
innovation and become more competitive.  “There is a role, I think a small role, to be played by
the government in risk-taking, in helping to evolve where we
go,” Immelt said when asked whether the U.S. government should
be as active as the Chinese government has been in a push to
wrest market share from GE in  wind turbines .  For more than 100 years, the U.S. government has been “a
catalyst to drive growth,” he said. The  National Institutes of
Health  helped to create the world’s best health-care system, and
“the nuclear industry was built on the back of the  Department
of Defense ,” which also “spawned the Internet,” Immelt said.  In China, there is a “system where the government
fundamentally runs the play,” Immelt said. He said he makes GE
executives study China’s five-year economic plans to better
understand how to compete and win.  “We do have to recognize that competition is changed, 
that the biggest competitor plays the game in a very
state-driven way,” Immelt said on CNN.  In the U.S., businesses work together, and the government
and private industry team up to find solutions, he said.  The U.S. has thrived on a “sense of partnership that’s
very much a part of the American culture,” Immelt said, adding
he is confident that “will ultimately play out” and work in
the nation’s favor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  