-- 
Geithner Warning of ‘Catastrophic Risk’ Highlights Gap With EU

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-17T15:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/geithner-warning-of-catastrophic-risk-highlights-gap-with-eu.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s 10-hour visit to Poland ended with European
counterparts rebuffing his suggested fix to their debt crisis
and some taking shots at the economic woes across the Atlantic.  Geithner urged European leaders to set aside their
differences to excise “catastrophic risks” from the markets.
He also floated a variation of a 2008 policy he developed while
at the New York Federal Reserve to expand the reach of Europe’s
bailout fund that would use leverage in a partnership between
euro governments and the central bank, said Irish Finance
Minister  Michael Noonan .  While U.S. and European officials such as  Germany ’s
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  emphasized the benefits of trans-Atlantic
communication, comments by Austria’s Maria Fekter and  Sweden ’s
Anders Borg underlined a sense of mutual frustration.  “I’m not sure it’s productive for Secretary Geithner to
have gone to Poland given the European resentment towards the
U.S.,” said  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at the New York-based
research firm Graham Fisher & Co., in a telephone interview. “I
fear that it may cause Europeans to cut off their nose to spite
their face.”  Investors have dumped debt from all but the top-rated euro
countries, sending up borrowing costs as concerns rise that
 Greece  will default. European Union ministers have been unable
to decide how to implement a second Greek rescue plan that was
agreed upon in July, and this weekend’s meetings in Wroclaw,
 Poland , brought little progress on practical details.  ‘Need Progress’  “Geithner is right that we need to make progress, but it’s
quite clear the U.S. has a big debt problem and the situation
would be better if the U.S. could show a sustainable way
forward,” Borg told reporters yesterday in Wroclaw, where the
27 European Union finance chiefs and central bankers gathered
for their monthly meeting. It was the first time Geithner
attended.  The 50-year-old U.S. Treasury chief arrived at the city’s
Centennial Hall at about 7:30 a.m. to meet euro-area finance
officials. He walked in with  France ’s  Francois Baroin  and
exchanged greetings with Greece’s Evangelos Venizelos and ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , before addressing the group with
a speech that began by identifying some common ground.  “Our politics are terrible, maybe worse than they are in
many parts of  Europe ,” he said. “Given the damage we caused
the world in the early stages of the financial crisis and given
the challenges we have, we are not in a particularly strong
position to provide advice to all of you.”  Such overtures were rejected by Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who said there was no discussion of
expanding the Europe’s rescue fund, at least “with a non-member
of the euro area.”  ‘Total Failure’  European officials have been criticized by policy makers
outside the euro area for failing to stamp out the debt crisis
that began in Greece in 2009 and now stands as a risk to the
global economy. Jean-Pierre Roth, the former president of the
 Swiss National Bank , said historians will judge this period as a
“total failure” of European leadership, according to an
interview published in Switzerland’s L’Hebdo magazine.  Schaeuble said yesterday that U.S. and European policy
makers each need to solve their problems. “The Europeans have
to do their homework and the Americans theirs,” he told
reporters.  Between meetings with finance ministers and central
bankers, Geithner headed to a meeting of financial-services
industry executives at a local university, where he spoke in
front of the group with Polish Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski.  ‘Ongoing Conflict’  The Treasury chief urged an end to the “ongoing conflict”
between national governments and the  European Central Bank ,
calling it “very damaging from the outside,” since cooperation
will be required to solve the crisis. “You have to, governments
and the central banks have to, take out the catastrophic risk
from markets,” he said.  He then returned to the economic and finance ministers
meetings for the rest of his European day.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter told reporters
Geithner explained “very dramatically” that Europe must come
up with money to avoid further financial troubles. She said
Schaeuble replied that doing so at the cost only of taxpayers
probably isn’t possible.  Noting that Geithner rejected the EU proposal to impose a
financial transaction tax, Fekter said: “I found it peculiar
that the Americans, although they themselves have significantly
worse fundamental data than the euro area, explain to us what we
should do and when we make a proposal” that involves market-
oriented cost support “they say no right away.”  Geithner departed the meeting venue for  Washington  at 5:15
p.m., talking intently on his cellphone and declining to meet
with reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Wroclaw, Poland at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  