-- 
GM Reaches Tentative Agreement With UAW to Add Union Jobs

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-09-17T05:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/general-motors-reaches-tentative-accord-with-uaw-including-profit-sharing.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and the  United
Auto Workers  reached a tentative agreement on a four-year labor
contract that improves profit sharing and will create jobs, the
company and the union said in separate statements.  The accord goes to 48,500 GM hourly workers for a
ratification vote in the next seven to 10 days, GM said. The
union typically uses the first accord to set a pattern for pay
and benefits for the other two U.S. automakers. UAW negotiators
will seek a deal with Chrysler Group LLC next and then go to
 Ford Motor Co. (F) , three people familiar with the talks have said.  The UAW, while declining to provide details, said the
agreement includes improved health care and enhanced profit
sharing with “far greater transparency.” GM will also invest
in its plants, hire back laid-off members and return work to the
U.S. from overseas, UAW President  Bob King  said in a statement.  “This is a contract negotiated in tough times, when the
economy is uncertain and a battered industry is still in
recovery,” said  Harley Shaiken , labor professor at the
 University of California  at Berkeley. “The union is saying,
‘Look, we’ve addressed  job security  when that is vital to our
members and to the whole economy.’”  The union said it rebuffed efforts to weaken health-care
coverage and won “significant improvements.”  ‘New Strategies’  “The UAW approached these negotiations with new strategies
and fought for and achieved some of our major goals for our
members, including significant investments and products for our
plants,” King said. “This contract will get our members who
have been laid off back to work and will create new jobs in our
communities.”  The agreement positions GM for long-term success, Cathy Clegg, GM vice president for labor relations, said in a
statement.  “We worked hard for a contract that recognizes the
realities of today’s marketplace, enabling GM to continue to
invest in U.S. manufacturing and provide good jobs to thousands
of Americans,” she said.  The UAW will probably turn its attention next to Chrysler,
majority-owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , said Shaiken. The GM accord, he said
“defines competitiveness for  Detroit  going forward.”  “The details will be critical because the union’s goals of
job security and sharing in the success of the company can be in
conflict,” he said in a telephone interview, noting that he
hasn’t been briefed on those details. “The results will not
make everyone happy.”  Non-Union Competition  King, 65, has pledged to organize a foreign automaker this
year to expand the UAW’s bargaining power beyond GM, Ford and
Chrysler. He said the union has “recommitted to that goal.”  “As long as unionized workers are being forced to compete
with nonunion workers who in most cases receive lower pay and
benefits -- many in temporary jobs -- there will continue to be
a downward pressure on the wages and benefits of all
autoworkers,” he said in the statement.  Contracts covering 113,000 workers at GM, Ford and Fiat
SpA-controlled Chrysler were set to expire Sept. 14 and have
been extended while negotiations continued.  The UAW proposed a signing bonus of $8,000 to $10,000 for
each member, five people familiar with discussions said last
week. A large bonus may help sell the deal to union members
looking to be repaid for what King has estimated as $7,000 to
$30,000 in concessions they each gave since 2005.  Workers at Detroit-based GM, Ford and Chrysler received
signing bonuses of $3,000 after they ratified the current
contract in 2007. Prior to that, signing bonuses had been around
$1,000, Shaiken said last week.  Past Concessions  Previous concessions included surrendering raises, bonuses
and cost-of-living adjustments as well as agreeing to a two-tier
wage system, where new hires are paid about half as much as
senior employees. With GM and Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford
profitable, workers have said they want to recover what they
gave up.  Workers at Ford have filed an “equality of sacrifice”
grievance against the automaker for restoring raises and bonuses
to salaried workers last year. An arbitration hearing on that
dispute started Sept. 15.  UAW members agreed to a no-strike pledge at GM and  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler as part of their U.S.-backed
bankruptcies in 2009. Unsettled disputes at the automakers are
to be decided through binding arbitration. Ford didn’t receive a
U.S. bailout and UAW members there went against the wishes of
union leaders and rejected a strike ban and arbitration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  