-- 
Germany Rejects Using ECB Leverage to Increase European Rescue Fund’s Size

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-17T15:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/germany-rejects-using-ecb-leverage-to-lift-rescue-fund-firepower.html
Germany’s top two finance officials
rejected using the  European Central Bank  to boost the euro-area
rescue fund’s firepower, rebuffing a suggestion by U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  Inviting Geithner to a euro meeting for the first time,
European finance chiefs who wrapped up two days of talks in
Wroclaw,  Poland , today also said the 18-month debt crisis leaves
no room for tax cuts or extra spending to spur an economy on the
brink of stagnation.  The German stance risks leaving the euro area without
sufficient means to prevent the crisis from engulfing Spain and
 Italy . Geithner floated a variation of a 2008 policy he
developed while at the New York Federal Reserve that would
expand the reach of the 440 billion-euro ($607 billion) European
Financial Stability Facility using leverage in a partnership
with the ECB, said Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan .  “The EFSF’s sole purpose is the financing of states and
that’s in order as long as it’s done via the  capital market ,”
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told reporters today. “If
it’s done via the central bank it constitutes monetary state
financing,” which is forbidden under European Union rules.  ‘Non-Member’  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
meetings of euro region finance ministers, said yesterday:
“We’re not discussing the increase or the expansion of the EFSF
with a non-member of the euro area.” Instead, the ministers
recommitted to a July 21 decision to empower the fund to buy
bonds in the secondary market, offer precautionary credit lines
and create a bank-recapitalization facility.  “We don’t think that real economic and social problems can
be solved by means of monetary policy,” said German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , speaking alongside Weidmann after
the meeting of EU finance ministers and central bank governors.
“That has never been the European model and it won’t be.”  Neither German policy maker ruled out leveraging the
backstop’s lending capacity, saying the feasibility of the idea
depends on how it’s done. It wouldn’t be acceptable to leave the
ECB with the risks from such an operation, said Weidmann.  Europe projects an image of “ongoing conflict” between
national governments and the central bank, hampering efforts to
put the economy on a sounder footing, Geithner said yesterday at
a banking conference in between euro meetings.  ‘Big Question Marks’  Europe’s economy will barely grow in the second half of
2011, a casualty of the debt buildup that 256 billion euros in
aid for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  has failed to extinguish.  Germany ’s credit risk on its contribution to the EFSF may
reach 465 billion euros, the Ifo Institute said today. The risk
has risen from less than 400 billion euros in April, the Munich-
based economic institute said in a statement.  Weidmann said he would put “big question marks” on
proposals to give the EFSF a license to let it operate as a bank
that could tap the ECB for its refinancing.  The ECB was in the forefront again this week, joining other
major central banks in offering dollar loans to ease a liquidity
crunch that had confronted European banks with the highest costs
for obtaining the U.S. currency in almost three years.  The ECB last month started buying Italian and Spanish
government bonds after  Europe ’s debt crisis pushed their yields
to euro-era records. Since starting its bond program on May 10,
2010, the Frankfurt-based central bank had spent 143 billion
euros on sovereign bonds through Sept. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Wroclaw, Poland, at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Wroclaw, Poland, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  