-- 
GM Said to Increase Entry-Level UAW Wage by $2 to $3 an Hour

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-09-17T19:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/gm-said-to-increase-entry-level-uaw-wage-by-2-to-3-an-hour-1-.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  will increase
entry-level pay by $2 to $3 an hour as part of a tentative
agreement on a new four-year contract with the  United Auto
Workers , said two people familiar with the accord.  Starting pay will increase to about $16 an hour from
$14 and rise to about $19 an hour from a previous maximum of
$16, said the people who asked not to be identified disclosing
details before they have been presented to union members for
ratification. UAW President  Bob King  had said getting those
workers a middle-class lifestyle was his highest priority.  “This is a wage gain in an economy that is cratering in
some places,”  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the
 University of California  at Berkeley, said in a telephone
interview today. “It’s an important symbol.”  GM will also pay a record $5,000 signing bonus if a
majority of the 48,500 hourly workers vote to ratify the accord,
the people said. That would cost the Detroit-based automaker
$242.5 million. The accord also includes new jobs and better
profit-sharing, the union said. Ratification votes will probably
be held within 10 days, GM said.  The new entry-level wage will get workers close to the
average manufacturing wage in the U.S., Shaiken said. In August,
it was $18.90 an hour, according to the Commerce Department.  Tennessee Plant  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson also agreed reopen a
former Saturn assembly plant in Spring Hill,  Tennessee , the
people said.  GM made its last Chevrolet Traverse sport-utility vehicle
at the Spring Hill, Tennessee, factory in November 2009,
according to its website. The assembly plant has been on standby
since then. GM continued to produce 4-cylinder engines at the
site, about 40 miles south of Nashville, and kept running a
stamping plant and paint operation.  “It’s an impressive agreement in a very tough economy,”
said Shaiken, the Berkeley professor. “This agreement amounts
to a stimulus package because it generates jobs and puts
purchasing power into the economy.”  The profit-sharing plan becomes more generous and
transparent, the union said last night. The company will give
workers a schedule that bases bonuses on GM’s profit in  North
America , the people said. The plan requires a minimum profit to
produce a payout and includes caps on such distributions, they
said.  GM must make at least $1 billion in North America to pay a
UAW bonus, one of the people said. Last year, members would have
received about $5,000 on average instead of $4,300, the person
said. The profit-sharing checks would roughly equal $1,000 per
$1 billion in North American profit, one of the people said.  Shared Sacrifice  “When GM was struggling, our members shared in the
sacrifice,” UAW Vice President Joe Ashton, who directs the
union’s General Motors Department, said in a statement released
last night. “Now that the company is posting profits again, our
members want to share in the success.”  The union typically uses the first accord to set a pattern
for pay and benefits for the other two U.S. automakers. UAW
negotiators will seek a deal with Chrysler Group LLC next and
then go to  Ford Motor Co. (F) , three people familiar with the talks
have said.  King and Ashton plan to present the agreement to the
president and chairman of each UAW local on Sept. 20 in  Detroit ,
said four people familiar with the schedule.  The union said it rebuffed efforts to weaken health-care
coverage and won “significant improvements.”  ‘New Strategies’  “The UAW approached these negotiations with new strategies
and fought for and achieved some of our major goals for our
members, including significant investments and products for our
plants,” King said. “This contract will get our members who
have been laid off back to work and will create new jobs in our
communities.”  The agreement positions GM for long-term success, Cathy Clegg, GM vice president for labor relations, said in a
statement.  “We worked hard for a contract that recognizes the
realities of today’s marketplace, enabling GM to continue to
invest in U.S. manufacturing and provide good jobs to thousands
of Americans,” she said.  The UAW will probably turn its attention next to Chrysler,
majority-owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , said Shaiken. The GM accord, he said
“defines competitiveness for Detroit going forward.”  “The details will be critical because the union’s goals of
 job security  and sharing in the success of the company can be in
conflict,” he said in a telephone interview last night, noting
that he hasn’t been briefed on those details. “The results will
not make everyone happy.”  Non-Union Competition  King, 65, has pledged to organize a foreign automaker this
year to expand the UAW’s bargaining power beyond GM, Ford and
Chrysler. He said the union has “recommitted to that goal.”  “As long as unionized workers are being forced to compete
with nonunion workers who in most cases receive lower pay and
benefits -- many in temporary jobs -- there will continue to be
a downward pressure on the wages and benefits of all
autoworkers,” he said in the statement.  Contracts covering 113,000 workers at GM, Ford and Fiat
SpA-controlled Chrysler were set to expire Sept. 14 and have
been extended while negotiations continued.  The UAW proposed a signing bonus of $8,000 to $10,000 for
each member, four people familiar with discussions said last
week. A large bonus may help sell the deal to union members
looking to be repaid for what King has estimated as $7,000 to
$30,000 in concessions they each gave since 2005.  Workers at GM, Ford and Chrysler received signing bonuses
of $3,000 after they ratified the current contract in 2007.
Prior to that, signing bonuses had been around $1,000, Shaiken
said last week.  Past Concessions  Previous concessions included surrendering raises, bonuses
and cost-of-living adjustments as well as agreeing to a two-tier
wage system, where new hires are paid about half as much as
senior employees. With GM and Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford
profitable, workers have said they want to recover what they
gave up.  Workers at Ford have filed an “equality of sacrifice”
grievance against the automaker for restoring raises and bonuses
to salaried workers last year. An arbitration hearing on that
dispute started Sept. 15.  UAW members agreed to a no-strike pledge at GM and  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler as part of their U.S.-backed
bankruptcies in 2009. Unsettled disputes at the automakers are
to be decided through binding arbitration. Ford didn’t receive a
U.S. bailout and UAW members there went against the wishes of
union leaders and rejected a strike ban and arbitration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  