-- 
Papandreou to Meet Greek Cabinet on Crisis

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-09-18T18:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/greece-s-papandreou-cancels-u-s-trip-ahead-of-critical-week.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  canceled a U.S. visit that was to begin today, saying
he needed to remain in the country for a “critical” seven days
as European Union creditors prepare to judge whether budget
measures will be enough to avert a bond default.  The premier met with his cabinet today in Athens after a
gathering of European Union finance ministers ended yesterday in
Wroclaw,  Poland , with demands that Greece meet the terms of an
international bailout.  “It’s very important for Greece to protect itself in this
tense volatile market environment,” Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said after the meeting, in comments televised live on
state-run NET TV. “We must not become the easy alibi for the
weakness of European and international institutions to manage
this crisis and we must give a final solution to the attacks on
the strongest currency of the world, which is the euro.”  Greece  is rushing to meet demands from international and EU
partners that will allow the release of a sixth tranche of loans
to prevent default. The government on Sept. 11 announced a levy
on properties to help raise 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) in a
bid to show it’s serious about plugging a swelling budget
deficit, key to getting a second financing package agreed to by
EU leaders on July 21.  EU and International Monetary Fund inspectors will hold a
conference call with Venizelos to resume and accelerate their
review tomorrow. The cabinet will convene again after that call,
Venizelos said today.  No Bankruptcy  Some measures in the five-year 78 billion-euro medium-term
budget plan approved by Parliament in June may need to be
brought forward to meet targets for 2011 and 2012, part of
government goals that will lead to creating a primary surplus,
he said. Structural reforms must also be pursued with vigor, he
said.  Venizelos yesterday dismissed talk of the country declaring
bankruptcy and said Papandreou canceled his visit to be prepared
to take quick decisions in the coming week.  “The situation is serious in the sense that we need to
take serious, definitive and complete decisions,” Venizelos
said in a statement.  Papandreou’s trip cancellation “isn’t due to the fact
there is an economic risk or some extraordinary economic event
but to the fact that now is the time to take the necessary
political, legislative, organizational and administrative
initiatives which will definitively lead the country out of this
recycled pressure,” Venizelos said.  ‘Inexplicable’ Trip  An editorial in  Kathimerini newspaper  published yesterday
entitled “Your Country Needs You” called the U.S. trip
“inexplicable” and said a week-long absence wasn’t compatible
“with the gravity of the current situation, as Greece stares
into the abyss.”  Papandreou had planned to meet officials including IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  and U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  on his trip to  New York  and  Washington . His
first meeting was scheduled for New York today. A separate
meeting this month between Lagarde and Venizelos is still
planned, a Finance Ministry official said.  Papandreou has promised a “decisive battle” for budget
cuts to persuade European governments and the IMF to release the
8 billion-euro loan installment.  Oct. 3 Meeting  Pledges, including that of the property tax and a series
announced Sept. 6 such as immediately transferring state assets
to a special fund for sale, placing civil servants in a
“reserve” system to cut expenses and merging and shutting down
dozens of government agencies have failed to impress EU
partners.  Greece is now looking to the next meeting of euro-area
finance ministers, on Oct. 3, for a decision on the release of
the installment. The loan would be disbursed by mid-October,
enabling the government to pay its bills through the end of the
year.  Greece has the cash reserves to cover its needs for
October, Deputy Finance Minister Filippos Sachinidis said on
Sept. 12  Higher taxes and cuts in wages and pensions in return for a
110 billion euro May 2010 package of loans from the EU and IMF
have weighed on the Papandreou government’s standing with
Greeks, with his Pasok party now trailing the main opposition in
opinion polls. EU partners have said the sixth loan won’t be
paid if they aren’t convinced Greece is doing enough to curb a
budget gap that soared to 15.4 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  