-- 
Billionaire Reddy to Sell $1 Billion Unit Stake to Buy Mines

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 
2011-09-19T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/gvk-to-sell-1-billion-of-unit-s-stake-to-buy-rinehart-s-australian-mines.html
GVK Group, controlled by Indian
billionaire G.V. Krishna Reddy, plans to raise $1 billion
selling a stake in its energy unit to help fund the purchase of
coal assets from a company owned by  Australia ’s richest woman.  The group that runs airports and builds  power plants  and
highways, plans to sell the stake in GVK Coal Developers
( Singapore ) Pte. in three to six months, said G.V. Sanjay Reddy,
vice chairman of  GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP) , the group’s
publicly traded unit. GVK agreed to pay $1.26 billion to buy a
79 percent stake in Gina Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting Pty.
coal assets, according to a statement e-mailed on Sept. 16.  Utilities in  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy
are seeking fuel in Australia and  Indonesia  to overcome a local
shortfall as they build power plants. The GVK Group may spend a
total of $2.1 billion, including development costs, for the
purchase, Chief Financial Officer Isaac George said. The company
will borrow $1 billion, he said.  “The acquisition will give the coal security for its power
plants and also make it a notable player in coal, which is so
much in demand today,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief
strategist at New Delhi-based SMS Wealth Management Services.  GVK Coal is buying the 79 percent stake in the Alpha and
Alpha West projects, all of the Kevin’s Corner project as well
as the rail and port projects connecting the coal deposits to
Abbot Point in Australia’s Queensland state. Privately held
Hancock Prospecting is chaired by Rinehart, the first woman to
top Forbes Asia’s list of Australia’s richest people.  Coal Trading  “This deal will help us secure fuel for our thermal power
projects,” George said in a telephone interview on Sept. 17.
“We are also planning to enter the business of commodity
trading of coal.”  GVK agreed to pay $500 million once the transaction is
completed, followed by $200 million one year from the deal
closing. It will pay an additional $560 million after the
financial closure of the project, expected to be in 2012.
Funding for the acquisition is “tied up with banks,” GVK said
in the statement, without disclosing names of the lenders.  Hyderabad-based GVK will keep GVK Power & Infrastructure,
which had 52.5 billion rupees ($1.1 billion) of long-term debt
at the end of March 31, or almost double the company’s market
value, out of the fund-raising process, Reddy said in a separate
interview on Sept. 17.  Development Cost  GVK Power & Infrastructure will own 10 percent of GVK Coal
with an option to raise the stake to 49 percent, according to
the statement. GVK Power & Infrastructure will invite Rinehart
on its board as a director, according to the statement.  “They may be stretching themselves too thin for the
acquisition,” said Thunuguntla. “Even if the listed company’s
contribution is not major, in the event of any risk, it will
have to bear the onus being the largest company in the group.”  GVK Power & Infrastructure rose 3.5 percent to 17.60 rupees
at 9:59 a.m. in Mumbai trading after climbing as much as 7.4
percent, the most since Feb. 11. The stock has dropped 56
percent this year, after reports of the purchase began in
January.  At full output, the projects may produce 84 million metric
tons of coal annually, GVK said in the Sept. 16 statement.
Production is scheduled to start in 2014 at a rate of 30 million
tons of power station coal a year, the company said. Development
of the first phase of output is estimated to cost $10 billion,
it said.  “We have a feeling that the project development cost can
be significantly brought down to $7 billion,” Reddy said.
“This can happen through cost optimization and outsourcing a
range of activities such as coal washing and laying rail
tracks.”  Ernst & Young LLP was the sole financial adviser to GVK,
according to the statement. The transaction is expected to close
in two weeks, the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  