-- 
Libya Forces Call in Artillery on Sirte Battle

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-09-18T12:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/libyan-weapons-control-is-a-problem-un-adviser-says-nine-dead-in-syria.html
Libyan opposition fighters prepared
to launch an offensive near Muammar Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte
as their ruling council said it was close to forming a new
government.  Members of the National Transitional Council are meeting in
the eastern city of Benghazi and may form a cabinet as early as
today, spokesman Abdul Busin said in an interview in Tripoli.
The council, which is working to establish its authority in the
capital and establish diplomatic ties abroad, has received
visits from the leaders of  France , the U.K. and Turkey in the
past week.  Rebel fighters positioned heavy artillery near Sirte
overnight in preparation for the assault on loyalist forces. The
coastal city, one of the last places to hold out against the
rebels, has been the focus of fierce fighting since last week.
At least 18 soldiers have been killed and 51 wounded in the area
since Sept. 15, the opposition’s military council in Misrata
said yesterday. Rebel fighters are also facing resistance in the
mountain town of Beni Walid.  NATO aircraft destroyed a loyalist ammunition dump early
today to the west of Sirte and have been carrying out
“intensive armed reconnaissance missions” over the city, the
U.K.’s Ministry of Defence said in an e-mailed statement.  Foreign Dignitaries  In the past week the National Transitional Council has
received visits from U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan . The United Nations also agreed to permit envoys
of the Libyan opposition group to take the country’s seat at
meetings of the world body.  International acceptance of the transitional council is
“very strong indeed,”  Ian Martin , a UN special adviser, said
from Tripoli yesterday in an interview with Al Jazeera
television. The UN wants the NTC to “complete the transition
with as little bloodshed as possible,” he said.  U.S. President Barack Obama will meet Mustafa Abdel Jalil,
chairman of the NTC, at the opening of the United Nations
General Assembly in  New York  on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in  Libya  at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 