-- 
Libyan Forces Capture Sirte Airport

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-09-17T11:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/libyan-forces-capture-sirte-airport-as-qaddafi-forces-defend-strongholds.html
Libyan opponents of  Muammar Qaddafi 
captured the Al-Gurdabia airbase south of Sirte as fighters
faced fierce resistance from loyalist forces in his remaining
strongholds.  The airbase outside Qaddafi’s birthplace on the
Mediterranean coast was captured yesterday, the opposition’s
military council in Misrata said in a statement. At least 18
soldiers have been killed and 51 wounded in fighting around
Sirte since Sept. 15, the council said.  Libyan National Transitional Council forces have also faced
stiff resistance from Qaddafi loyalists in Bani Walid. National
Transitional Council forces were forced to pull back yesterday
from the mountain town under heavy shelling,  Al-Jazeera 
television reported, citing its correspondent.  The fighting continued as the opposition’s ruling council
worked to establish its authority in Libya and improve ties with
other countries. Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  was
greeted yesterday in the capital, Tripoli, by Mustafa Abdel Jalil, chairman of the National Transitional Council. Erdogan
said Turkey would aid Libya militarily and politically, and
offered help with building a parliament, telling a crowd,
“Libya belongs to Libyans.”  Erdogan’s trip follows a visit on Sept. 15 by U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , the
first foreign leaders to visit Tripoli since helping the rebel
forces oust Qaddafi last month. U.S. President Barack Obama will
meet Abdel Jalil at the opening of the United Nations General
Assembly in  New York  on Sept. 20.  The military council in Misrata, one of the main rebel
strongholds during the seven-month conflict, said on Sept. 15
that its fighters took control of the entrances to Sirte, and
began searching for officials loyal to Qaddafi. They deployed
900 armed  pickup trucks : the largest fleet assembled by the
forces for a single operation against Qaddafi’s supporters since
the uprising began in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  