-- 
Indian Inflation to Slow to Around 7% by March, Rangarajan Says

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-17T14:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/indian-inflation-to-slow-to-around-7-by-march-rangarajan-says.html
India ’s inflation, which
accelerated to the highest level in 13 months in August, will
slow early next year, a top economic adviser to Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  said.  “Inflation should be around 7 percent by March 2012,”
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s
Economic Advisory Council, said in the southern Indian city of
Hyderabad today. “But for the next three or four months, it’s
likely to remain at a high level. Beginning January 2012, it
will show definite signs of decline.”  The  Reserve Bank of India  yesterday extended its record
interest-rate increases after inflation quickened to 9.78
percent in August. The move is in contrast with fellow so-called
BRIC nations that have either cut borrowing costs or kept them
on hold to protect their economies from faltering recoveries in
Europe and the U.S.  The yield on the 7.8 percent bond due April 2021 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.36 percent, a six-
week high, at the close of trading in  Mumbai  yesterday. The
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index gained 0.3 percent and the
rupee advanced 0.6 percent to 47.265 per dollar.  The Reserve Bank may increase its repurchase rate to 8.5
percent from 8.25 percent by the end of December, according to
11 of 16 economists in a Bloomberg News survey after the
monetary authority raised the benchmark by a quarter of a
percentage point yesterday. The rest expect no change.  Rupee Decline  Higher fuel prices and  Asia ’s worst-performing currency
this quarter may fan inflation that has exceeded 9 percent in
each of the past nine months.  The  Indian rupee  has declined 5.4 percent this quarter as
investors shunned emerging markets on concern the world economy
is weakening.  Inflation in India is the highest among the BRICS nations.  Consumer prices rose 7.2 percent in  Brazil , 8.2 percent in
 Russia  and 6.2 percent in  China  last month from a year earlier.
In  South Africa , they climbed 5.3 percent in July.  Officials from China to  South Korea  have refrained from
raising rates in recent weeks to gauge whether slowing economic
growth will dissipate price pressures. In Brazil, the central
bank opted to cut its target Selic rate on Aug. 31 for the first
time since 2009 to protect expansion.  Policy makers in Russia, which doesn’t target one rate,
reduced the rate charged on repurchase loans and raised the
deposit rate on Sept. 14 to bolster the amount of cash in the
market and spur growth.  Control Inflation  India’s central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has raised
borrowing costs by a total of 350 basis points starting mid-
March 2010, the fastest round of increases since the  Reserve
Bank  was established in 1935, Bloomberg data show.  India needs to control inflation to protect purchasing
power and sustain growth, the Reserve Bank has said.  The $1.7 trillion economy expanded 7.7 percent in the three
months ended June 30 from a year earlier, the slowest pace since
the last quarter of 2009. Gross domestic product rose 7.8
percent in the previous three months.  India’s central bank said that even as many indicators
point to moderating growth, “in the current scenario, with the
likelihood of inflation remaining high for the next few months,
rising inflationary expectations remain a key risk.”  Inflation may accelerate after Indian Oil Corp., the
country’s biggest refiner, raised gasoline prices yesterday for
the second time in four months. Losses from selling fuels below
cost are increasing following the rupee’s decline against the
dollar, Indian Oil Finance Director P.K. Goyal said Sept. 15.  India also needs to narrow its  budget deficit  to help curb
inflationary pressures, according to the central bank.  The country’s budget shortfall in the first four months of
the fiscal year that started April 1 reached 55.4 percent of the
annual target, according to the government’s accounts office.
The deficit was 23.8 percent of the annual target in the same
period a year earlier.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee plans to reduce the
budget gap to a four-year low of 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product in the year ending March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  