-- 
Ireland May Reconsider Plan for Anglo Irish Bondholder Losses, Noonan Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-17T13:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/ireland-may-drop-anglo-irish-bondholder-loss-plan-noonan-says.html
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
said the Irish government may reconsider its push for senior
bondholders of Anglo Irish Bank Corp. to absorb losses.  Noonan said Ireland now was likely to pursue other angles
rather than continue to press for bondholder losses, noting that
European authorities are “dead set against” a coercive
approach. The cost savings might not justify the potential hit
to Ireland’s standing with markets, he told reporters today
after talks with European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  during a meeting of European Union finance ministers in
Wroclaw,  Poland .  “The amount of money outstanding in unguaranteed senior
bonds in Anglo is just over three billion” euros, Noonan said.
“If you did some kind of voluntary burden sharing you might
gain 100 million” and “one wouldn’t risk reputation for
that.”  Anglo Irish, the recipient of a 29.3 billion-euro ($40
billion) bailout, had its credit rating cut in June by  Standard
& Poor’s  to CCC, four levels above default, after Noonan said
senior bondholders may face losses. The ECB has consistently
opposed this possibility.  Trichet said Ireland should learn from the aftermath of a
European push for investors to share in the cost of a second
rescue package for  Greece , Noonan said.  “Private-sector involvement in Greece had a very quick
knock-on effect into Italy and  Spain , and private-sector
involvement didn’t seem to be the way forward if you were trying
to encourage the markets,” Noonan quoted Trichet as saying.  ‘Burden Sharing’  “He said Ireland had done particularly well over the
summer” and that bond spreads had narrowed, Noonan said. “He
felt that anything to do with burden sharing might knock the
confidence of the market and the spreads might go back out again
and we might lose the ground we had gained.”  Irish officials will now reflect on Trichet’s advice,
echoed by European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn , as they consider how to proceed, Noonan
said. Trichet didn’t weigh in on a proposal to refinance the
bank’s promissory notes, he said.  Future payments on Anglo Irish bonds won’t be an additional
drain on government coffers, Noonan said. The provisions the
government already has made include bondholder payments.  “There’s no new penalty on the Irish taxpayer,” Noonan
said. “If we didn’t have to pay, there’d be an advantage to the
taxpayer down the line, but I think we can get a much bigger
advantage if we pursue another piece of negotiations around an
alternative piece of financial engineering to the promissory
note arrangement.”  The possible changes to the promissory notes haven’t yet
been discussed with  credit-rating  companies, he said.  Noonan said Ireland may save more money than expected from
interest-rate cuts on its government aid packages, based on
preliminary EU estimates of its loans from the European
Financial Stability Mechanism.  EU officials indicated that “the actual reduction will be
3.75 percent, which is very serious money,” Noonan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Wroclaw, Poland, at  Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  