-- 
NexBio Anti-Flu Drug Reduces Virus in Trial to Seek New Therapy

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-09-17T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/nexbio-anti-flu-drug-reduces-virus-in-trial-to-seek-new-therapy.html
An experimental flu medicine from
 NexBio Inc.  reduced the virus in patients’ blood by the second
day of treatment, suggesting the drug may be an alternative to
existing medications the virus has learned to evade.  Patients given the therapy, dubbed DAS181, for three days
also took less acetaminophen to reduce fever and symptoms than
those given a placebo, according to study results presented at
the  Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and
Chemotherapy  in  Chicago  today. The 177-patient clinical trial is
from the second of three phases of tests typically required for
U.S. approval.  NexBio’s DAS181 is an inhaled powder that’s absorbed
through the airways, where it prevents viruses from getting
inside the cells where they reproduce. The drug’s mechanism
differs from that of existing treatments including  Roche Holding
AG (ROG) ’s Tamiflu and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK) ’s Relenza, which means the
drug may work against flu strains that resist current therapies,
said Ron Moss, vice president of clinical development for San
Diego-based NexBio, a closely held drug developer.  “In the back of everyone’s mind is the concern about the
ongoing evolution of the virus, and the potential there could be
a new pandemic strain that’s resistant to the current
treatments,” said Moss, in a telephone interview. “Everyone’s
biggest fear is 1918.”  The  1918 form of influenza  left 50 million people dead,
killing a disproportionate number of otherwise healthy people
from the ages of 20 to 40, according to the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.  Fighting Resistance  Roche’s Tamiflu had sales of $840 million in 2010. The
NexBio drug targets the patient’s cells, covering the place
where the virus gets in, which may make it more difficult for
the virus to develop resistance, Moss said. Tamiflu and Relenza
target an aspect of the virus to keep it from spreading to other
cells.  NexBio was raided by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in
August,  according to an Aug. 4 report from the  San Diego Union-
Tribune website. Moss declined to comment on the case.  “As far as I know, the clinical development of this drug
is continuing,” Moss said. Another study of similar size is
planned, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 