-- 
Obama Says U.S. Still Hurting From Wall Street Crisis of 2008

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-17T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/obama-says-u-s-still-hurting-from-wall-street-crisis-of-2008.html
President  Barack Obama , urging
Congress to pass his jobs plan, said the economy is still
struggling three years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  In his weekly radio and Internet address today, Obama said
his $447 billion jobs package would be fully paid for and he
will present his proposals for cutting the nation’s debt to a
congressional supercommittee in two days. His approach will
follow “some basic principles: making sure we live within our
means and asking everyone to pay their fair share,” Obama said.  “But right now, we’ve got to get Congress to pass this
jobs bill,” Obama said. “Everything in the American Jobs Act
is the kind of idea that’s been supported by Democrats and
Republicans before.” He urged listeners to “help make it
happen by telling your congressperson to pass this jobs bill
right away.”  Since announcing his jobs plan to a joint session of
Congress on Sept. 8, Obama has traveled to election battleground
states of Ohio, Virginia and  North Carolina  to recruit support
for it, saying it will reduce the nation’s 9.1 percent
unemployment rate.  “I know some of them would rather wait another year to
wage another election than work together right now,” Obama said
of congressional critics. “But most Americans don’t have the
luxury of waiting. It was three years ago this week that a
financial crisis on  Wall Street  made things much more difficult
for working folks on Main Street. And too many are still hurting
as a result.”  Ease Regulations  In the Republican response to Obama’s address,
Representative Peter Roskam of  Illinois  said excess federal
regulation of companies is hindering job growth.  “Washington has become a red-tape factory, with more than
4,000 rules in the pipeline -- hundreds of which would cost our
economy more than $100 million each annually,” Roskam said.  He praised legislation approved by the House this week to
curb the powers of the  National Labor Relations Board  as an
example of how to ease regulations and save jobs. The bill’s
supporters cited an NLRB complaint that accused Boeing Co. of
retaliating against its union employees in the Seattle area by
building a non-union factory in  South Carolina  for its 787
Dreamliner aircraft.  The legislation “stops the government from telling an
employer where it can -- and cannot -- create jobs,” Roskam
said. “We can take common-sense steps like these and still have
rules that look out for our health and safety.”  The House bill, which would apply to pending cases such as
Boeing’s, was backed by eight Democrats from states that have
right-to-work laws, which let employees opt out of joining a
union. The Obama administration in July said it opposed the
legislation because it would undermine U.S. labor laws.  The bill is H.R. 2587.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 