-- 
Pound Falls Versus Dollar on Bets BOE to Provide More Stimulus

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-17T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/pound-falls-versus-dollar-on-bets-boe-to-provide-more-stimulus.html
The pound posted its fourth
consecutive weekly loss against the dollar on speculation a
deteriorating economic outlook will spur the Bank of England to
introduce additional monetary stimulus.  Sterling also slumped against the Canadian and New Zealand
dollars this week and reached an eight-month low versus the
greenback on Sept. 14. Business Secretary Vince Cable called for
further monetary stimulus, or quantitative easing, and
recommended the use of “creative mechanisms” that go beyond
the purchase of  government bonds . Reports this week showed U.K.
retail sales fell, jobless claims rose and inflation
accelerated. Gilts posted their first weekly loss in three.  “This week’s data has not been supportive of sterling,”
said Audrey Childe-Freeman, global head of currency strategy in
London at the private-banking unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The
U.K. is facing continual inflationary pressure in a stagnant
economic environment, and that’s never great for the currency.
There is growing sentiment in the market that there will be
further QE.”  The pound weakened 0.5 percent this week to $1.5802 at 4:37
p.m. in London yesterday. Sterling lost 1.4 percent versus the
euro to 87.24 pence, the first five-day decline in three weeks.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Deputy Prime
Minister Nick Clegg have emphasized the possibility of further
monetary easing to help revive Britain’s economy. Bank of
England policy maker  Adam Posen  called on Sept. 13 for the
central bank to buy as much as 100 billion pounds in securities
within three months and said officials’ delay in acting has made
economic prospects “worse.”  Blanchflower View  The central bank and the  Federal Reserve  will embark on
further quantitative-easing measures by November,  David Blanchflower , a professor at Dartmouth College and a former
member of the bank’s Monetary Policy Committee, said Sept. 15 at
the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in  New York .  Gilts fell, pushing up 10-year yields three basis points to
2.49 percent.  The  Bank of England ’s quantitative-easing program,
currently worth 200 billion pounds, remains the preferred tool
to stimulate demand, Cable wrote in a pamphlet published
yesterday before the Liberal Democrats, the junior coalition
party, holds its annual  conference  next week.  U.K. inflation accelerated for a second month in August,
reaching 4.5 percent from a year earlier, compared with 4.4
percent in July, the Office for National Statistics said on
Sept. 13. A report the following day showed public-sector
employment fell by a record in the second quarter while jobless-
benefit claims increased by 20,300 last month, amid the biggest
fiscal cuts since World War II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  