-- 
Russia’s VEB May Seek Embraer, Bombardier Help to Make New Plane

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-09-17T10:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/russia-s-veb-may-seek-embraer-bombardier-help-to-make-new-plane.html
Russia ’s state development bank VEB
wants to finance the creation of a new regional jetliner
following last week’s air crash that killed a local hockey team,
Chairman Vladimir Dmitriev said.  Russia’s own producer, United Aircraft Corp., can team up
with Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA, known as Embraer,
Montreal-based  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  or European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. to develop an airplane with fewer than 50 seats, he
told reporters today.  “We have a catastrophic situation in aviation today,”
Dmitriev, who is also chairman of United Aircraft, told a news
conference in Sochi, on Russia’s Black Sea coast.  A chartered Yakovlev-42 plane carrying Russia’s Lokomotiv
Yaroslavl hockey team crashed on Sept. 7 during takeoff, killing
43 of the 45 crew and passengers on board. President  Dmitry Medvedev  said a day after the crash that Russia may turn to
foreign planemakers to ensure safe  air travel .  The number of air accidents in Russia in the first seven
months soared 60 percent to 24 and the number of fatalities
jumped nine-fold to 72, Federal Statistics Service data show.  Russia’s air carriers increased the number foreign aircraft
in their fleets to 528 from 46 units in 2000, according to the
country’s aviation agency, Rosaviatsia. Domestic airplanes
account for 48 percent of the 608 mid-range and long-range
passenger jets now in operation.  Dmitriev said in April 2010 that his bank was in talks with
Embraer to make regional airplanes at a production plant in
Kazan in Russia’s Tatarstan region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Sochi at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  