-- 
Salgado Says EU Finance Chiefs Didn’t Consider Greek Default

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-17T12:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/salgado-says-greek-default-not-considered-by-eu-finance-chiefs.html
Spain’s Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said European Union finance ministers haven’t even
considered the possibility of a Greek default and that they
agreed the European banking industry must be made more robust.  “There is no vision in that respect,” Salgado told
reporters when asked about the prospect of a default after a
two-day informal meeting of the ministers and central bank
governors in Wroclaw, Poland. “We didn’t mention it, nor is it
an alternative.”  “Markets need to know we will do everything we need to do
for  Greece  to resolve its problems and remain in the euro
zone,” she said today. It is “the right thing to do” to wait
for a mission from the European Commission, the  International
Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank  to complete its
assessment of adjustments and reforms in Greece before making
any decisions.  The 17-nation currency pared gains yesterday as finance
ministers ruled out efforts to prop up the region’s economy and
raised issues of collateral demanded to take part in another
Greek bailout.  Salgado said EU finance chiefs concluded that measures must
be taken to make the financial industry more robust.
“Supervision of the financial sector must be reinforced at the
national authorities’ levels and at the European level,” she
said.  Stress tests must be homogenized to generate “lasting
confidence,” Salgado said. “We need to make stress tests more
rigorous.”  There is a consensus between the major countries of the
euro region on a tax on financial transactions, she said. The
tax should apply to the entire currency area, Salgado said. A
proposal will be presented when Group of 20 gather in  Washington 
as part of an IMF meeting from Sept. 23-25, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Wroclaw, Poland, at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick Henry  at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net  