-- 
U.S., Europe Policy Inaction on Debt Crises Raises Risk, South Africa Says

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-09-18T11:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/u-s-europe-inaction-on-debt-raises-risk-south-africa-says.html
Political inaction in the U.S. and
European Union in tackling debt crises has increased
“uncertainty” and risks for the global economy,  South African
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  “There is a serious crisis we confront today, a crisis
which sees the traditional, developed part of the world in both
economic and political stasis,” Gordhan said in a speech in
Cape Town yesterday.  German officials last week rejected a proposal by the U.S.
to use the  European Central Bank  to boost the size of a rescue
fund for the euro zone, fueling concern that the region may not
have adequate resources to prevent Spain and Italy from being
overwhelmed by the debt crisis.  Europe  buys about a third of
South Africa’s manufactured goods.  Political indecisiveness and economic policies are “having
major and significant impacts in terms of increasing risk for
the rest of the world,” Gordhan said.  Growth in South Africa, the biggest economy on the
continent, slowed to an annualized 1.3 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest pace in two years, the statistics office
said on Aug. 30. The government estimates it needs annual growth
of 7 percent over the next decade in order to slash the jobless
rate to 14 percent from 25.7 percent currently.  ‘Political Courage’  Gordhan, along with the finance chiefs of  Australia ,
 Canada ,  Singapore  and the U.K. last month called for “political
courage” from the U.S. and European Union to address the debt
crisis to prevent the global recovery from stalling.  European leaders moved last week to show support for
Greece, as the nation struggles to meet requirements in order to
get loans necessary to prevent default. U.S. Treasury bonds and
German bunds both declined last week.  The Group of 20, which will meet next week in  Washington ,
faces a “critical challenge” in ensuring “cohesion and
political decisiveness,” Gordhan said.  “At the moment the jury is out and it’s very difficult to
say if the political will is there,” the minister said.  South Africa , which produces platinum, gold and other
commodities, may benefit from rising prices as investors seek
safe-haven assets. Gold has surged 27 percent against the dollar
in the past six months.  Gordhan said African governments must ensure that mineral
wealth is used for the benefit of their economies, not just
individuals.  “Africa needs to ensure that the money it is getting from
mineral and other wealth doesn’t end up in the pockets of the
elite,” Gordhan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  