-- 
Venezuela’s Chavez to Travel to Cuba for Cancer Treatment

-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 
2011-09-17T22:18:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/venezuela-s-chavez-to-travel-to-cuba-for-chemotherapy-treatment.html
Venezuela’s President  Hugo Chavez 
will depart for Cuba today for a fourth round of chemotherapy to
treat an undisclosed type of cancer, he said on state
television.  Chavez, speaking after welcoming Bolivian President  Evo Morales  on a visit to Caracas, said that he expected to be on
the Caribbean island for less than five days.  “I’m going to Cuba this afternoon,” said Chavez. “They
will finish some exams tonight, and early tomorrow morning I’ll
start the fourth round of chemotherapy. It’s likely that this
will be the last round, and then we’ll be able to close this
page.”  Chavez, who lost all his hair during treatment, was
operated on to remove a “baseball-sized” tumor from his pelvis
on June 20 during a visit to Cuba. The self-professed socialist
completed the first two rounds of chemotherapy on the island
nation before undertaking the third round in  Venezuela . Chavez
said on Sept. 15 that he would miss a United Nations General
Assembly meeting this month in  New York  because of cancer
treatment.  Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro will represent Venezuela at
the United Nations General Assembly meeting, and  Iran ’s
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will visit Caracas on Sept. 24,
Chavez said today during a televised cabinet meeting.  Courts, Banks and Elections  The South American leader criticized a Sept. 16 decision by
the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, the judicial arm of
the  Organization of American States , that ordered Venezuela to
lift a ban preventing opposition candidate Leopoldo Lopez from
challenging the president in next year’s elections.  “For me, that court is not worth anything,” said Chavez.
“Venezuela has a consolidated democracy with institutions that
know how to do their jobs.”  The former paratrooper renewed threats against private
banks that do not meet government-mandated lending requirements
for housing projects.  “I don’t have any problem with nationalizing or
expropriating banks,” said Chavez. “Put the document in front
of me and I’ll do it.”  Chavez promised to win a presidential election set for Oct.
7, 2012 and said an “electoral hurricane” would hit the
country. The president on Sept. 14 said he would defeat his
opposition with ten million votes.  “The Chavez that’s coming is going to be more
revolutionary and more socialist,” he said before leaving for
his helicopter bound for Cuba.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Theo Mullen at 
 tmullen11@bloomberg.net  