-- 
LVMH Sees No Slowdown in Luxury Goods Demand

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   L a r s   K l e m m i n g
-- 
2011-09-17T09:42:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-17/lvmh-sees-no-slowdown-in-luxury-goods-demand-expands-stores-in-asia.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
the maker of Celine handbags and TAG Heuer watches, sees no
signs of slowing demand for luxury products in  Europe  or America,
said Yves Carcelle, who runs the fashion and leather goods unit.  “Even in period of crisis, people want to treat
themselves,” Carcelle, 63, said at the opening of a Louis
Vuitton shop at the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore today. “We
don’t see any signs of slowing down whether it’s in Europe or in
America. The world of luxury doesn’t obey the same rule.”  Carcelle said there will be less net opening of stores and
more investment into improving the size of stores, because
“luxury retail has to be a luxurious experience.”  Three days ago, LVMH named former Danone SA executive Jordi Constans to replace Carcelle as head of  Louis Vuitton  at the end
of 2012. Constans, 47, will work next year with Carcelle to
familiarize himself with LVMH and the Vuitton brand, which
Carcelle has led since 1990. The brand is opening stores in  Asia 
to tap demand from growing numbers of wealthy Asians.  The company is expanding its store in  Manila  and adding one
level to its Lee Gardens store in Hong Kong to double its floor
space, Jean-Baptiste Debains, president of Louis Vuitton Asia-
Pacific, said at the Singapore opening. It’s also making its
Sydney outlet “two or three times bigger” and expanding its
store in  Ho Chi Minh City  in  Vietnam , he said.  LVMH has lost 6.4 percent to 115.25 euros in Paris trading
this year, giving the maker of Moet & Chandon champagne and
$6,000 TAG Heuer chronographs a market value of 58.6 billion
euros ($80.9 billion).  Asian Market  The biggest market in the world is still  Japan , while the
No. 1 clientele is mainland Chinese, who shop “a lot” when
they travel to places such as Singapore,  Hong Kong , Macau and
Paris, Carcelle said.  Luxury goods sales in  China  are set to rise 18 percent a
year to 180 billion yuan ($28.2 billion) between 2010 and 2015,
consultant McKinsey & Co. has estimated. Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA said this month it sees no signs that demand is
weakening in the country, after posting a 46 percent increase in
Asia-Pacific sales in the five months through August.  In  India , “one of the things that slows down the
penetration of luxury and of course investment is the fact that
today the global infrastructure, and especially the commercial
infrastructure, are missing,” Carcelle said. Allowing companies
to own a maximum of only 51 percent of shares in retail
companies is holding back foreign investment in the country, he
said.  Carcelle Succession  Carcelle will become president of Fondation Louis Vuitton,
an art museum that’s slated to open in 2013, LVMH said. He will
remain on LVMH’s executive board and undertake strategic roles
alongside Chairman Bernard Arnault, the company said.  “The succession of Mr. Carcelle had to happen one day,”
Pierre Lamelin, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux, wrote in a Sept. 15
note to clients. “We are reassured by the smooth transition
process over 18 months and believe that Mr. Constans has the
management and brand-building skills required by the top job at
Louis Vuitton.”  Net income climbed 25 percent to 1.31 billion euros in the
first half, the Paris-based company said in July. The average
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit
of 1.25 billion euros. Second-quarter sales advanced 9 percent
to 5.05 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming in Singapore at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net . 