-- AbbVie Price Boost of Drug Slammed in Studies Criticized
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-23T20:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/abbvie-price-boost-of-drug-slammed-in-studies-criticized.html
AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  boosted the price of its
Niaspan heart pill by 37 percent to offset prescription losses
after studies panned the drug, drawing criticism from doctors
amid a national debate over the high cost of health care.  The findings from two studies, in almost 30,000 people,
were reported in 2011 and last year. Neither showed benefit from
the drug, which is also sold as a generic called niacin, and the
2011 research was stopped early after the National Institutes of
Health said patients on the medicine had strokes at double the
rate of those just taking a companion drug.  Yet  revenue  from AbbVie’s  sixth-best-selling product  has
remained steady at about $120 million a month since before the
research was published, according to prescription sales data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s because from the time the first
negative study was published through this month, the North
Chicago, Illinois-based drugmaker increased its per-pill price
to $4.78 from $3.50.  “I don’t know how you can justify it,” Robert Giugliano,
a cardiologist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in  Boston  and an
associate professor of medicine at Harvard. “The balance of the
data suggests that niacin has little if any role in” treating
patients with cholesterol problems, he said in a telephone
interview.  AbbVie declined less than 1 percent to $46.59 at the close
in New York. The company has gained 36 percent this year.  Curtail Spending  Niaspan is an example of the difficulty faced by the U.S.
in its attempt to curtail the almost $3 billion spent on health
care each year.  “The way our market works it’s not surprising the company
would do that,” said Dee Mahan, a drug-pricing expert with the
Washington-based consumer group Families USA. “It does point to
some failures of our system.  ‘‘We’re relying on insurance companies and pharmacy benefit
managers to negotiate prices and put pressure on
manufacturers,’’ Mahan said. ‘‘As a consumer advocate you wish
the market could be regulated in a better way so consumers don’t
get hurt.’’  Niaspan raises so-called good cholesterol, or HDL, which
scientists say may help away dangerous excess fats in the blood.
It’s often prescribed along with a statin such as Pfizer Inc.’s
Lipitor or Merck & Co.’s Zocor, which lower bad cholesterol, or
LDL. Approved for sale in the U.S. in 1997, Niaspan generated
$5.11 billion in sales through 2012.  Since the 2011 study, monthly prescriptions for the drug
have fallen by about 33 percent as of last month, to 382,000,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AbbVie Reaction  Greg Miley, a spokesman for AbbVie, declined to comment on
the drug’s pricing, the effect of the studies or the number of
prescriptions. ‘‘Niaspan remains an important treatment option
to help patients with abnormal cholesterol levels,” and the
drug’s safety profile is made clear on its label, Miley said in
an e-mail response to questions.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , AbbVie’s former parent company, said
after the 2011 study was published that the “relevance” of the
results “to patients outside the study population is currently
unknown and it would be premature to extrapolate these results
to a broader patient population.”  Drugmakers frequently raise prices on their products,
depending on the response of the marketplace, said Chris Bowe,
an industry analyst with Informa-Scrip Intelligence in New York.  “You’re seeing some sales leak away, and any business is
going to try and raise prices to make up for that,” Bowe said
in a telephone interview. Niaspan’s patent protection ends next
year, and it’s especially common for a company to raise the
price toward the end of its exclusivity to capture every last
dollar from a product, he said.  Less Understandable  What’s less understandable is why insurers and pharmacy
benefit managers go along with AbbVie’s action after the studies
were released, Bowe said. “You’d think they’d say, ‘Come on!’”
he said.  Express Scripts Holding Co., the largest U.S. processor of
drug prescriptions, has seen a similar drop in the use of the
Niaspan, which is on the St. Louis-based company’s list of
covered medicines.  “Individual plan sponsors ultimately make the final
decisions about what adjustments they’d like to make to our
recommended formulary,” David Whitrap, an Express Scripts
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Niaspan was approved by U.S. regulators as an extended-release version of niacin, or form of vitamin B3 that’s been
around since 1956 as a treatment for patients whose bad
cholesterol is too high. Side effects to the drug, noted on its
label, include red skin rashes and itching.  AIM-HIGH  The 2011 study, dubbed AIM-HIGH, was funded by the U.S.
National Institutes of Health and Abbott, and  published  in the
New England Journal of Medicine.  Released in May of that year, the 3,414-patient trial found
that Niaspan didn’t prevent heart attacks in patients whose
cholesterol was controlled with a statin, such as Merck & Co.’s
Zocor. It was stopped early after the National Institutes of
Health said the rate of strokes in patients on the drug was more
than double those taking a statin alone.  The 2012 study, sponsored by Merck and called HPS2-THRIVE,
combined niacin with a Merck drug laropiprant meant to lower its
flushing side effects. Released in December, the trial in 25,673
patients also failed to find a benefit and may have raised side
effects such as muscle pain or infections.  The drug’s performance “did not translate into clinical
benefit,” said William Boden, chief of medicine at the Samuel
S. Stratton VA Medical Center in  Albany , New York, who was a
principal investigator in the 2011 study. Even so, the drug
still has a role for about 25 percent to 30 percent of patients
who have the highest risk for heart attacks, he said.  “There’s a group of individuals -- probably in the
minority, and I’d include myself -- who feel there continues to
be a role for niacin,” Boden said in an interview. He takes the
drug himself, and said he has for about a decade. He still
prescribes it for patients with very low HDL levels, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  