-- Activists Target Apple to NetApp Preying on Aging Tech Industry
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-05-23T15:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/activists-target-apple-to-netapp-preying-on-aging-tech-industry.html
Activist investors are targeting
companies from  NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , preying on an aging
U.S. technology industry.  Data-storage company NetApp, under pressure from Elliott
Management Corp. to boost  shareholder value , said this week it’s
cutting jobs and returning cash through stock buybacks and
dividends.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the target of the biggest technology
takeover this year, is now in  Carl Icahn ’s sights as well after
the billionaire investor deemed the offer price too low. Even
iconic Apple boosted its stock buybacks last month following the
urgings of hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn .  Mature tech companies’ slowing growth, coupled with a
substantial cash pile of more than $500 billion and the low debt
typical of the industry, make them ripe for activist investing,
which has historically targeted cyclical sectors such as retail
and consumer goods. That may spell more activists in tech, said
Michael Carter, co-head of U.S. technology investment banking at
 RBC Capital Markets .  “Not all technology companies have proven savvy at cycle
management, continuing to view themselves as high-growth when
maturity has settled in,” Carter said. “Failure to act or
react has opened a window to vocal and agitated shareholders.”  Elliott’s Influence  NetApp, based in Sunnyvale, California, announced its staff
reductions and share repurchases at the same time it forecast
sales that fell short of analysts’  estimates . Before today its
stock had sunk by more than one-third since 2011, giving the
company a market value of about $13 billion. Elliott, the hedge-fund company founded by billionaire  Paul Singer , owns about 16
million shares of NetApp, according to a statement this week.  Elliott took aim at NetApp after its success with Houston-based  BMC Software Inc. (BMC)  The firm spent almost a year pressing
the software maker to seek a sale, culminating in its acceptance
of a $6.9 billion buyout this month from Bain Capital LLC and
Golden Gate Capital. The day the deal was announced, BMC
reported fourth-quarter earnings that trailed analysts’
projections.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , in the midst of a multiyear
turnaround, named activist shareholder Ralph Whitworth as
interim chairman in April. The largest personal-computer maker,
founded more than 70 years ago, shook up its board amid
shareholders’ disappointment with the company’s performance and
its botched acquisition of Autonomy Corp.  “The macroeconomic environment has caught up with the
industry, which has been a darling of the market during and
after the financial crisis,” said Drago Rajkovic, head of
technology M&A at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Technology companies
have started missing earnings forecasts in the last two quarters
amid an IT spending slowdown.”  Dell Deal  Dell, the target of a $24.4 billion buyout by its founder
and Silver Lake Management LLC, is among them. The  Round Rock ,
Texas-based company reported last week that profit in the first
quarter ended May 3 shrank to 21 cents, compared with the 35-cent average of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The performance
of the company, started almost 30 years ago in a Texas dorm room
by  Michael Dell , underscores the very reason Dell is going
private.  Meanwhile, activists keep circling. Icahn, for example,
joined forces with top outside Dell investor Southeastern Asset
Management Inc. to propose an alternative deal, saying the
$13.65-a-share offer isn’t enough. As of this week, Dell’s board
was pressing Icahn to provide more details on the proposal for
evaluation.  High Prices  While some technology ages, major secular shifts such as
cloud computing, big data and social media have fueled growth at
next-generation companies, said Michal Katz, Carter’s co-head of
U.S. technology investment banking at RBC in  New York . That’s
attracted older companies on the hunt for growth: For example,
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , an up-and-comer in the dot-com heyday, agreed this
week to pay $1.1 billion for Tumblr Inc., staking the future of
the largest U.S. Web portal on the blogging startup.  Of course, the hot sectors come complete with high prices.
Yahoo is paying about 85 times revenue for Tumblr, the richest
valuation for a dot-com company since 2000, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. When social-media giant  Facebook Inc .
went public more than a year ago, it was valued at about 26
times trailing 12-month sales, making the company more expensive
than every single member of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index at
the time.  Tech IPOs  While Facebook’s shares have since sunk, other initial
public offerings of next-generation technology companies are
faring well. Tableau Software Inc. and Marketo Inc. surged in
their stock-market debuts last week.  Before today, Seattle-based Tableau, a provider of digital
charting tools, had gained more than 60 percent since pricing
its initial public offering last week. Marketo, the  San Mateo ,
California-based company that sells software for marketing
automation, had almost doubled since pricing its IPO.  They joined a crop of recent business technology providers
thriving in public markets. Workday Inc., which went public in
October, and ServiceNow Inc., whose offering took place last
June, have both more than doubled since their debuts.  “Technology has become a tale of two cities,” said RBC’s Katz. “On one hand, you have the maturing slower-growth
companies, which generate healthy cash flow and need to rethink
their  capital structure . On the other, you have the high-growth
next-generation companies which trade at skyrocketing
multiples.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  