-- Alex Denner Joins Vivus Activist Slate in Post-Icahn Move
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-05-23T20:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/alex-denner-joins-vivus-activist-slate-in-post-icahn-move.html
Alex Denner , the former head of
health-care investments for billionaire  Carl Icahn , joined the
activist slate challenging drugmaker  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  in the first
move of his new fund, Sarissa Capital Management LP.  First Manhattan Co., which said it holds about 10 percent
of Vivus shares outstanding, added Denner to its proposed slate
to bring the total number of potential directors to nine,
matching an expansion by Vivus of its board in the past month.
Denner’s fund owns about 2 million shares, or 2 percent, of
Vivus’s stock, First Manhattan said today in a statement.  First Manhattan has criticized  Mountain View , California-based Vivus’s handling of its obesity drug Qsymia, which gained
U.S. approval in July. Qsymia sales have lagged behind analysts’
estimates, coming in at $4.1 million in the first quarter, Vivus
said earlier this month.  Denner, who started his fund after spending five years
leading Icahn’s forays into biotechnology companies, is a
director at  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and  Enzon Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ENZN)  He
also has served on the boards of ImClone Systems Inc., Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Adventrx Pharmaceuticals Inc.  In addition to Denner, First Manhattan added Rolf Bass,
former head of the human medicines evaluation unit at the
European Medicines Agency, and Mel Keating, former chief
executive officer of  Alliance Semiconductor Corp. (ALSC) , to its
proposed slate. Vivus’s shareholder meeting is set for July 15.  ‘Great Asset’  “We’re very focused on getting the best people behind a
great asset,” Sam Colin, senior managing director at First
Manhattan and a board nominee, said today in a telephone
interview. “This is the most effective drug ever in obesity. We
just need the best people to do intelligent things.”  Since April 30, Vivus has expanded its board by three,
adding Robert N. Wilson, J. Martin Carroll and Jorge Plutzky.
CEO Leland Wilson has told shareholders the company plans to
“vigorously oppose First Manhattan’s hostile solicitation.”  Vivus gained 7.3 percent to $14.50 at the close in  New
York , its biggest single-day increase since May 8, when the
company said it was in talks with large pharmaceutical companies
about potential partnerships. The company has declined 41
percent in the past 12 months.  “The Vivus board of directors is comprised of proven
business leaders,” the company said today in an e-mail. The
board is “committed to maximizing value for all shareholders
and to considering a broad range of opportunities to achieve
this objective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  