-- Halfords Drops by Record on Surprise Dividend Cut: London Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-05-23T15:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/halfords-drops-most-ever-on-surprise-dividend-cut-london-mover.html
Halfords Group Plc (HFD) , the car-repair
business that is also the U.K.’s biggest seller of bicycles,
fell the most on record after announcing a surprise  dividend
reduction  to boost investment in training workers, revamping
stores and improving its Web offering.  Halfords unveiled a three-year, 100 million-pound ($151
million) investment plan today to deliver sustainable sales
growth through more product offerings and better customer
service. The company reduced its final dividend by 35 percent to
9.1 pence.  “This is a business that has been going backwards
consistently,” Matt Davies, who became chief executive officer
of Halfords last year, said on a call with reporters this
morning. “Two-thirds of our estate is below par. There is a
burning need to address that.”  Halfords  tumbled  16 percent, the most since the shares
began trading in  London  in 2004, to 333.3 pence, for the second-biggest decline on the  FTSE All-Share Index. (ASX)  The number of
shares traded was 10 times the three-month daily average.  Halfords said the investment plan and dividend reduction
will help it reach 1 billion pounds in revenue in 2016. Sales
rose 1 percent to 871.3 million pounds in the year ended March
29. Davies, formerly the leader of the Pets at Home chain, said
he would start a new website, modernize cycling departments and
refurbish about 150 stores over the next three years.  “These vital investments will inevitably reduce short-term
retail profitability,” the retailer said in a statement.
Halfords, based in Redditch,  England , also offers car parts and
repair services.  ‘Robust Foundation’  “It is clear that the new CEO is committed to creating a
very robust foundation on which the business can grow into the
medium term,” Georgina Johanan, an  analyst  at JPMorgan, said in
a note today.  While saying that the dividend cut and investment will
depress shares immediately, Johanan maintained an overweight
recommendation on the stock and a prediction it will rise to 405
pence. Philip Dorgan at Panmure Gordon & Co. also maintained a
buy rating, while cutting his earnings estimates by 32 percent
for fiscal-year 2014 and 44 percent for the following year.  Halfords said that its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization “may not exceed current levels”
until fiscal-year 2016. The full-year dividend for 2014 will be
about 14 pence per share, or 36 percent lower than in 2012, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  