-- Ally to Pay ResCap $2.1 Billion to Settle Creditor Claims
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-05-23T16:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/ally-to-pay-rescap-2-1-billion-to-settle-creditor-claims.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
majority-owned by the U.S. government, agreed to pay
$2.1 billion to avoid lawsuits related to its bankrupt mortgage
unit, Residential Capital LLC.  Under the settlement, Ally will pay $1.95 billion in cash
to the ResCap bankruptcy estate, plus $150 million in insurance
proceeds, according to a court filing today. The money will be
added to $4.5 billion ResCap raised by selling its mortgage-servicing business and a loan portfolio and eventually
distributed to creditors owed at least $6.3 billion under a
reorganization plan supported by Detroit-based Ally.  Settling creditors include ResCap noteholder Paulson & Co.,
MBIA Insurance Corp. and a group of securitization trusts that
sued for losses tied to bad mortgages. Under the accord, Ally
will be guaranteed full repayment of the $1.13 billion it claims
ResCap owes it, Ally said in a statement.  The deal “signals an end to the litigation, infighting and
potential ‘nuclear war’ in these cases,” ResCap bankruptcy
attorney Gary Lee wrote in court papers filed today in
 Manhattan . The judge overseeing ResCap’s bankruptcy, Martin Glenn, had warned the parties that without a settlement, their
court fights would be like “nuclear war.”  Bigger Settlement  The settlement is more than twice the $750 million that
Ally agreed to pay when ResCap filed bankruptcy a year ago.
Unsecured creditors attacked that proposed payment as too low.  “Putting these issues behind us is in the best interest of
our shareholders, employees and customers,” Ally Chief
Executive Officer Michael A. Carpenter said in the statement.  The settlement doesn’t resolve claims against Ally brought
by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., as receiver for certain failed banks.  The reorganization plan ResCap will propose under the deal
will confirm that the company has responsibility for the costs
and obligations of a foreclosure settlement it signed last year
with the U.S. Justice Department, Ally said.  ResCap, based in  New York , filed for bankruptcy partly to
help it resolve lawsuits brought by purchasers of mortgage bonds
backed by home loans. The investors claimed the bonds lost value
because many of the loans were bad. Such losses account for much
of the $25 billion in unsecured debt that the creditors
committee claimed ResCap may owe.  Bonds Drop  Ally’s 8 percent bonds due in 2031 fell 1.3 percent to
130.8 cents on the dollar today minutes after the settlement was
made public, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ResCap’s 6.5 percent bonds that were due in April, fell
less than 1 percent to 33.7 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace. The bonds have gained about 39 percent this year.  “We are supportive of the settlement that allows Ally to
move forward,” said Dan Kamensky, a partner at Paulson, the
largest holder of the unsecured bonds.  ResCap, Ally and the creditors came to an agreement after
weeks of negotiating with the help of a mediator, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck. On May 13, word of a settlement
leaked out as a former bankruptcy judge, Arthur J. Gonzalez,
prepared to make public the results of his investigation into
Ally’s pre-bankruptcy relationship with ResCap. The amount of
the settlement wasn’t made public until today.  The settling parties persuaded Glenn to temporarily seal
the investigative report at least until the deal comes before
the court for final approval.  Examiner’s Probe  Gonzalez, who spent more than $80 million on his
investigation, examined claims that Ally exerted so much control
over ResCap that the auto lender could be forced to pay the
unsecured debts of its mortgage unit.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the holding company run by the
billionaire  Warren Buffett , asked Glenn to unseal Gonzalez’s
report, saying creditors need it to decide whether to support or
oppose the settlement.  “Sealing the examiner’s report deprives creditors of the
very benefit of appointing an examiner: an objective and
independent assessment of the prepetition dealings between the
debtors and Ally that lie at the heart of these bankruptcy
cases,” Berkshire said in its request, filed late yesterday.  Berkshire, a ResCap bondholder, last year successfully
pushed for an examiner to be appointed by the court.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  