-- America’s Cup Suggests Safety Equipment, Catamaran Checkups
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-23T04:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/america-s-cup-suggests-safety-equipment-catamaran-checkups.html
Structural reviews of competing
America’s Cup catamarans, a lower wind limit and improved safety
equipment for sailors are being recommended to prevent a repeat
of a training accident that killed an Olympic yachtsman.  The 37 recommendations set forth yesterday by Regatta
Director Iain Murray are designed to increase the safety of the
sailors by calling for buoyancy aids,  body armor , crew locator
devices, hands-free breathing apparatus and high visibility
helmets as well as ensuring the seaworthiness of the vessels.  “Producing and implementing the safety plan is within the
scope of the America’s Cup, as the sponsoring organization for
this summer’s racing,” Stephen Barclay, the chief executive of
the America’s Cup, said in a  statement . “This America’s Cup
safety plan is a necessary component of the permit application
submitted to the Coast Guard for their consideration.”  Andrew Simpson, 36, died May 9 after he was trapped beneath
a section of a capsized yacht, out of sight from other vessels
and divers searching for him, according to Murray. Simpson won a
gold medal for Britain in the Star class at the 2008 Olympics as
crew for Iain Percy, now Artemis’s sailing team director. The
pair won a silver medal in 2012.  ‘Safe Racing’  The accident was the second involving the new 72-foot (22-meter) boats being used in the Cup. Powered by 131-foot carbon
wing sails and capable of skimming above the water on hydrofoils
at speeds exceeding 40 knots (46 mph, 74 kph), they are among
the fastest sailboats ever built.  Larry Ellison ’s Oracle Team,
the defending champion, destroyed a wing during an October
training accident.  Patrizio Bertelli, chief executive officer of the Italian
racing team  Prada SpA (1913) , said last week that the wind speed limit
at the start of the America’s Cup finals should be reduced to 25
knots from 33 knots.  Murray’s recommendations call for decreasing the wind limit
by 10 knots to 23 knots maximum, as well as checking the
integrity of the vessels.  “We will only race if our sailing team believes they are
safe racing AC72s,” said Paul Cayard, chief executive of
Artemis Racing. “This confidence will be dependent on many
criteria, one of the most important of which is the new safety
criteria and rules changes that the America’s Cup organizers and
competitors will adopt.”  Murray will now form committees to bring in experts to
define additional technical recommendations for specific safety
items such as protective gear for sailors.  “All four competing America’s Cup teams have cooperated in
an open, helpful and constructive way,” Murray said. “The
Review Committee noted there is a clear desire on the part of
the teams to ensure the safety of the America’s Cup as much as
possible.”  The Louis Vuitton Cup regatta is July 4 to Aug. 30 in  San
Francisco , followed by the Red Bull Youth America’s Cup on Sept.
1-4 with the America’s Cup Finals running Sept. 7-21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  