-- Anti-Islamic Group Draws Following After Soldier Murder
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-05-24T15:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/anti-islamic-group-draws-following-after-soldier-murder.html
In the 48 hours after the killing of
a soldier in  London  two days ago, the number of people
“liking” the anti-Islamic English Defence League’s Facebook
page rose more than fivefold to 110,000.  Following the attack outside a barracks in Woolwich, in the
course of which the murderers chanted Islamic slogans, according
to U.K. news reports, a mosque in Gillingham, Kent, 23 miles (37
kilometers away, and a Muslim prayer center in Braintree, Essex,
35 miles away, were targeted by anti-Islamic protesters.  While the EDL describes itself as “peacefully protesting
against militant Islam,” with a division for gay members, its
Twitter feed following the murder urged people: “Take to the
streets ENOUGH IS ENOUGH.” That evening, the police dispersed
an EDL march through Woolwich, a suburb in the southeast of the
capital.  “There’s no question that the attack has fueled something
of a resurgence of interest in the far right,” Matthew Goodwin,
an associate professor of politics at Nottingham University, who
studies such groups, said in a telephone interview. “A
significant number of people have been brought into contact with
them.”  Nick Griffin, the leader of the British National Party,
visited the scene of the killing today to lay flowers. Griffin’s
party, which won 2.8 percent of the vote in the Greenwich and
Woolwich parliamentary district in the 2010 general election,
campaigns for the  repatriation of immigrants .  ‘Knee-Jerk Responses’  The Ministry of Defence yesterday named the soldier killed
by two men wielding knives and meat cleavers as Lee Rigby, a
drummer in the 2nd Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.
Police shot, wounded and arrested two men at the scene. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  called the attack a “betrayal of Islam”
and warned against “knee-jerk responses.”  In Gillingham, a man was arrested after a window and a
bookcase at a mosque were smashed, police said. In Braintree, a
man was arrested outside an Islamic prayer center on suspicion
of possession of an offensive weapon and attempted arson,
according to the Essex force.  The EDL’s Twitter feed offered links to reports of both
attacks. It said its members had thrown missiles at the police
in Woolwich, where London’s Metropolitan Police described the
march as “a minor disturbance.”  ‘At War’  “We’re at war,” EDL leader Tommy Robinson said in a
YouTube clip posted late yesterday. “We’re sleepwalking into
oblivion, our whole entire race.”  On Facebook, the EDL page read “Rest In Peace, Woolwich
Soldier.” It announced marches for tomorrow in Newcastle in
northeast  England  and for May 27, a public holiday, in central
London.  “It’s an old strategy called ‘march and grow,”’ Goodwin
said. “Hold demonstrations and rallies as a way of identifying
recruits.”  Local residents in Woolwich expressed anger yesterday about
the changing demographics in the area.  “It’s horrible here now,” said Stuart Webb, 42. “I don’t
want to be classed as a racist but I’ve been abused in the
street for being white. I feel intimidated.”  According to Goodwin, the evidence from the U.S. is that
the level of hate crimes rises in the two weeks following a
terrorist incident and then falls away. “The long-term effects
are more significant, in terms of whether they help these
organizations grow,” he said.  For Sunder Katwala, the director of British Future, a
research group looking at integration and immigration, there’s a
“symbiotic relationship between Islamic extremists and far-right groups. This is the best thing that can happen to the far
right. It’s an act designed to create polarization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  