-- Marathon Ends Talks With Potential Oil Sands Buyer
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-23T18:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/marathon-oil-doesn-t-reach-deal-for-sale-of-oil-sands-stake.html
Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  ended talks to
sell part of its stake in the Athabasca Oil Sands Project as
Canadian oil sands deals languish in the face of low heavy crude
prices and competing U.S. shale investments.  Marathon didn’t reach an agreement with a prospective buyer
for part of the company’s 20 percent stake in the project and
isn’t engaged in any more discussions, the Houston-based company
said in a statement today.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  owns 60 percent
of the Alberta project and operates it, while  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  owns
20 percent.  The announcement comes after ConocoPhillips said last month
its effort to sell stakes in Canadian oil-sands assets may
stretch into 2014.  Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH) , which said in August it
had signed a letter of intent with a partner to develop oil-sands properties, has yet to announce a deal. The holdings are
among 11 billion barrels of recoverable reserves valued at an
estimated C$17 billion ($16.5 billion) that were put up for sale
in the oil sands last year, according to investment bank Peters
& Co.  “The oil sands is languishing right now because they’re
really in direct competition with the shale plays in the U.S.,”
Fadel Gheit, a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. who
rates Marathon a buy, said in a phone interview today. The need
for new pipelines, environmental resistance and the low price of
Canadian crude make U.S. assets with higher rates of return
“much more attractive” than oil sands, he said.  Price Differential  A lack of pipelines from  Alberta ’s oil sands is depressing
prices for Canadian heavy crude, which today were $20 a barrel
 less than  West Texas Intermediate, a U.S. benchmark.
Environmental groups opposed to rising emissions from oil-sands
development are attempting to block new pipelines that would
allow producers to bring more bitumen to markets.  Lee Warren, a Marathon spokeswoman, declined to comment on
why talks broke down, why the company is no longer trying to
sell the stake or identify the potential buyer. The company said
in October it was in talks to sell part of its stake.  Marathon still plans to divest $1.5 billion to $3 billion
in a three-year asset sale program that will end this year, the
company said today. About $1.3 billion in sales have been
announced or closed so far.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  has said before it’s not in a hurry to sell
Canadian oil-sands assets.  “We have received significant interest in them and we are
currently evaluating our options,” Davy Kong, a spokeswoman for
the Houston-based company, said in a phone interview today.  Prospective buyers of oil-sands assets aren’t worried about
“short-term” issues such as lower prices for Canadian heavy
oil, Andre De Leebeeck, vice president of investor relations for
Calgary-based Athabasca, said in a phone interview today. “Long
term, oil sands are competitive. Large players have a decades-long view.”  De Leebeeck declined to comment on any discussions with
potential partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  