-- At Last, Germany Secures Total Dominance of Europe
-- B y   J i m   O ’ N e i l l
-- 2013-05-23T22:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/at-last-germany-secures-total-dominance-of-europe.html
This weekend,  Bayern Munich  and
 Borussia Dortmund (BVB)  will play in the final of  Europe ’s most
prestigious soccer competition, and for the first time it’s an
all-German affair. There’s something a little too apt about
Germany’s domination of Europe’s favorite sport this year. As
goes football, so goes the European economy? Bear with me. There
could be something to it.  This weekend’s match, the 58th UEFA  Champions League  soccer
final, marks the culmination of the steady rise of the German
football league in recent seasons. The finalists underlined the
point by each eliminating clubs recently seen as the game’s most
glittering stars: Barcelona and Real Madrid. German engineering
prevails over Spanish flair. The success of German clubs against
more glamorous counterparts, not just in  Spain  but also in  Italy 
and the U.K., seems to say something about backbone and strength
in depth.  But that’s not all. Dortmund and Munich are two very
different sorts of club. Dortmund represents Germany’s old
industrial heartland. Munich, the capital of Bavaria, is the
modern center of a remarkably prosperous region. Germany’s
economic resilience owes a lot to the diffusion of its strength
across a strikingly diverse range of big cities. This is
uncommon in the rest of Europe. In addition to well-known
economic hubs such as Munich, Stuttgart and many others, Germany
has cities like Hamburg -- once written off in the same way many
northern English cities have been, it is now a booming economic
center, thanks to  Germany ’s success as an exporter to the big
emerging-market economies, China in particular.  Fiscal Metaphors  Fiscal rectitude, as you might guess, comes into it as
well. German football has built its success this year on the
biggest match-day attendances of the top European leagues, even
moving ahead of the British Premier League -- solid revenue. Its
clubs, which by the way have to be majority-owned by Germans,
operate under tight restrictions on the use of debt for
acquisitions -- prudent finance. By global industry standards,
wages consume a small share of receipts -- cost control.  By contrast, look at the news from some of the gaudier
leagues. Strength in depth?  Madrid  and Barcelona dominate the
Spanish game so completely that La Liga almost resembles the
Scottish league these days, with about the same degree of
boredom over which club might upset the standings. As for fiscal
control, I used to joke that you would know the euro crisis was
serious once Spanish banks stopped doling out cash so readily to
the country’s football clubs. Actually, that moment has arrived.  Once-almighty Italian football isn’t remotely what it was.
Concerning the English Premiership, where to begin? It has
enjoyed stunning revenue growth thanks to a global following --
but the money disappears into outlandish pay for far too many
ordinary players. Where’s the discipline? The percentage of
revenue spent on wages is far higher in the English Premiership
than in Germany’s Bundesliga -- and in many clubs it exceeds 100
percent.  Not unlike their finance-sector equivalents, English
football regulators prefer a light touch: They are open to all
comers in the market for clubs, irrespective of financial
standing or commitment to the local community. Strategy seems
lacking. Foreign players predominate at the top of the English
game, so the talent pool for the national team grows ever
smaller. Despite having a lot of foreign players, Germany has a
national team that remains one of the world’s best. Somehow,
Germany is better at developing its national assets.  Defining ‘Football’  An English soccer star of the 1980s, Gary Lineker, once
defined the sport in a way that still makes sense to Englishmen.
Football: a simple game in which 22 men chase a ball for 90
minutes and at the end the Germans win. Must we accept the
corollary? European monetary union: a currency system in which
17 countries strive to stay competitive and at the end the
Germans win.  We will see, though the latest data suggest that the  German
economy  isn’t quite as unstoppable as its footballers. Exports
to Germany’s struggling neighbors are depressed.  China ’s growth
is slowing as well, shrinking another market vital to German
success. With domestic demand, as usual, weaker than it might be
-- the ethic of austerity prevails in Berlin and in households
across the land -- the German economy has been faltering of
late. People forget, but the term “eurosclerosis” was applied
to Germany and its inability to adapt in the 1990s. Things move
in cycles, so who knows?  Unconvinced? I will leave you with another consoling
thought that is going around before the big game. This one you
can take to the bank. It’s certain that the loser this weekend
will be a team from Germany.  (Jim O’Neill, the outgoing chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jim O’Neill  at  joneill62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Clive Crook at   ccrook5@bloomberg.net . 