-- Tata Steel Gains Most in 8 Months on Smaller-Than-Estimated Loss
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-05-24T10:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/tata-steel-turns-to-loss-on-writedown-weak-european-demand.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) ,  India ’s biggest
producer of the alloy, gained the most in eight months after
posting a smaller loss than analysts estimated.  The  shares  reversed a three-day drop to climb 4.5 percent
to 313 rupees at the close in  Mumbai , the most since Sept. 14.
The stock has plunged 27 percent this year. Group net loss,
including that of unit Tata Steel Europe Ltd., was 65.3 billion
rupees ($1.2 billion) in the quarter ended March 31, compared
with a profit of 4.33 billion rupees a year ago. That beat the
81.2 billion-rupee mean loss estimate of five analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  In Europe, the company benefited from cost-cutting measures.
That combined with falling raw material costs helped it beat
analyst forecasts. Europe’s economic crisis, which has resulted
in quarterly losses at European steelmakers such as
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , may slow demand at the
Mumbai-based group, according to  Abhisar Jain, an analyst at
Centrum Broking Pvt.  “The fourth-quarter numbers are better than our
expectations but there is no reason to believe that the
improvement will be sustained,” said Mumbai-based Jain. “The
uncertain macroeconomic situation in the continent will limit
improvement in earnings.”  Reorganize Business  Tata Steel on Nov. 23 said it plans to reorganize its U.K.
business by cutting 900 jobs and closing 12 sites. The proposals
are part of a strategy to transform Tata Steel Europe into an
“all-weather” steel producer, capable of succeeding in
difficult economic conditions, Karl-Ulrich Koehler, managing
director of the company’s European operations, said in the
statement that day.  The company’s sales rose 0.9 percent to 341.8 billion
rupees. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose to 43.7 billion rupees in the quarter, from
34.2 billion rupees a year earlier. That beat the 32.85 billion
rupee median estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Group deliveries
for the quarter rose to 6.56 million metric tons from 6.22
million tons a year ago.  The company has plans to spend about $2.5 billion in
capital expenditure, most of which will go in building the new
factory in the east Indian state of Odisha, Group Chief
Financial Officer Koushik Chatterjee told analysts yesterday.
Tata spent 83 billion rupees as of last year on the proposed
mill.  It plans to spend $7 billion in phases to build a 6 million
ton steelmaking capacity at Kalinganagar in the state. The
company has tied up 228 billion rupees of financing for the
project with a consortium of 21 banks, Chatterjee said.  Costs Drop  Total operating costs fell 0.5 percent to 317.5 billion
rupees in the quarter, while raw material expenses dropped 14
percent to 87.5 billion rupees, the company said. Net debt was
554.2 billion rupees as of March 31, compared with 476.6 billion
rupees a year ago, the company said in a statement.  A drop in the cost of inputs and a 9.4 billion rupee gain
from the sale of investments trimmed the loss. Prices of coal
fell about 30 percent last quarter compared with a year ago,
Marek Jelinek, chief financial officer at  New World Resources
Plc (NWR) , a coking coal producer in central Europe, said on May 16.  European steelmakers are grappling with excess capacity
that’s pushed down prices. The region has capacity to make about
210 million metric tons of steel a year, while demand in a
“normal market” is 150 million to 160 million tons, according
to industry lobby group Eurofer.  Hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark product used in
automobiles and buildings, declined 8 percent to an average
price of 497 euros a ton in the three months ended March,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on data from Metal
Bulletin.  European Crisis  Tata Steel joins European steelmakers such as ArcelorMittal
and ThyssenKrupp AG in reporting a quarterly loss as  Europe ’s
economic crisis saps demand and slower Chinese growth weighs on
commodity prices. The company wrote down $1.6 billion of mostly
overseas asset values, including $1.35 billion for Europe, in
the period. Most of the goodwill at the company’s Port Talbot
unit has being taken off, Chatterjee said after earnings
yesterday.  Steel usage in the Europe, which constitutes two-thirds of
Tata Steel’s output, fell almost 8 percent in the year ended
March 31.  “Europe’s economic deterioration last year reversed the
modest recovery in European steel demand that had been going on
since 2009 and our deliveries fell as a consequence,” Koehler
said yesterday in the statement.  Tata Steel will abandon a project in  Vietnam , Managing
Director H.M. Nerurkar said at a press conference in Mumbai
yesterday, without giving a reason. The company signed an accord
with Vietnam Steel Corp. in May 2007 for the $5 billion plant,
which was to have a capacity of 4.5 million tons a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  