-- Australian Venture OneWind Plans $2 Billion in Power Projects
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-23T04:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/australian-venture-onewind-plans-2-billion-in-power-projects.html
OneWind  Australia , a venture backed
by private equity fund Denham Capital Management LP, expects the
first of as much as $2 billion in wind farms it plans in the
country to start operating by 2015.  OneWind is developing five wind projects in New South
Wales, Tasmania,  South Australia , Western Australia and
Queensland states, Managing Director Michael Toke said yesterday
in an interview in Sydney. The wind farms would have a combined
capacity of as much as 1,000 megawatts, with the 100-megawatt
Glen Innes plant in New South Wales, Australia’s most populous
state, expected to be first, he said.  OneWind is also studying wind and diesel hybrid projects in
Australia at sites that aren’t connected to the electricity grid
and will consider expansion in regions including  Europe , Toke
said. The venture plans to take advantage of the declining cost
of wind power in Australia and the  country’s policy  to get 20
percent of its power from renewable energy by 2020.  “Compared with other places in the world, wind is quite
competitive in this market,” Toke said. “It’s a combination of
the competitiveness of wind and the need for new renewables
here. There’s an opportunity to generate good returns.”  Electricity can be supplied from a new wind farm in
Australia at a cost of A$80 ($77) per megawatt hour, compared
with A$143 a megawatt hour from a new coal-fired power plant or
A$116 from a new station powered by natural gas when the cost of
 carbon emissions  is included, according to a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance report published in January.  Wind Costs Competitive  The wind projects, which may cost between $1.5 billion and
$2 billion if they’re all built, will need to reach power-supply
agreements, Toke said.  Shenhua Group Corp.,  China ’s biggest coal producer, and
Hydro Tasmania could jointly invest A$1.6 billion by the end of
the decade to build Australian wind farms, Hydro Tasmania said
in April.  Denham, a $7.3 billion U.S. fund focused on mining and
energy, agreed to invest $75 million in the portfolio of
Australian wind power projects under development, joining with
Enersis Group’s Australian unit, National Power and Kato Capital
Pty to form OneWind, the company said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  