-- Austin Ventures Said to Reduce Fund Size for Early-Stage Focus
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/austin-ventures-said-to-reduce-fund-size-for-early-stage-focus.html
Austin Ventures , the biggest backer
of technology startups in  Texas ’s capital city, is reducing the
size of its next fund by half from its prior fund as it focuses
on younger companies, said two people familiar with the matter.  The 34-year-old firm is aiming to bring in $450 million for
its 11th fund, down from the $900 million fund it raised in
2008, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
fundraising is private.  Austin Ventures, with close to $4 billion under management,
has helped stoke a revival in the local technology scene,
backing  HomeAway Inc. (AWAY)  and  Bazaarvoice Inc. (BV) , which have both sold
shares to the public in the past two years. The firm also
invested in  SolarWinds Inc. (SWI) , which went public in 2009, and is
the lead investor in  RetailMeNot Inc. , an online coupon provider
that is preparing for an initial public offering.  While Austin Ventures’ early bets are paying off, the firm
has had less luck with its investments in more mature companies.
In its early stage portfolio, the firm writes initial checks of
$500,000 to $10 million with a  focus  on business technology,
Internet and digital-media startups. It’s cutting back on
venture growth investments in bigger companies, the people said.  Kim Hughes, a spokeswoman for the firm, declined to
comment.  Austin Ventures also buys stakes in what it calls middle-market companies, Texas-based businesses in a range of
industries including oilfield services, food services and light
manufacturing.  Funds’ Returns  At $450 million, the new fund would be the firm’s smallest
since it brought in $320 million in 1998.  The firm’s previous fund was worth 1.2 times its original
investment and producing an annual gain of 9.7 percent as of
Dec. 31, according to Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund
performance data. The ninth fund, which brought in $525 million
in 2005, was valued at 1.1 times the original investment with a
3.1 percent annual return as of Sept. 30, according to
performance data on California Public Employees Retirement
System’s website.  Other fast-growing Austin startups the firm has backed
include Spiceworks Inc., a provider of free software used by
information-technology pros to track and fix internal computers
and servers, and MapmyFitness Inc., developer of Web-based
software for sharing workouts.  U.S.  venture firms  raised $4.1 billion in the first quarter
of this year, a 14 percent decline from a year earlier,
according to the  National Venture Capital Association . Firms
invested $533.6 million in Texas startups in the first three
months of the year, up 30 percent from the same period in 2012,
the NVCA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  