-- Avianca to Spend $4 Billion on Planes as Air Traffic Rises
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-05-23T17:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/avianca-to-spend-at-least-4-billion-on-planes-as-traffic-rises.html
Avianca Holdings SA Chief Executive
Officer Fabio Villegas said the Colombian airline will spend at
least $4 billion through 2019 as it buys more than 100 planes to
meet rising passenger traffic in  Latin America .  Avianca, which has total assets of about $4.5 billion,
plans to spend $4 billion to $5 billion over the next seven
years to buy 104 planes, including 15  Boeing Co. (BA)  787
Dreamliners, Villegas said in an interview. The plan is
conservative under the company’s traffic projections and could
be scaled up if warranted, he said.  “We have to grow, but it has to be in a profitable way,”
Villegas, 58, said yesterday at the company’s headquarters in
Bogota. “The biggest failures in this industry start with
disproportionate expansion plans.”  Avianca this month sold $300 million of bonds in
international markets, taking advantage of investor demand for
emerging-market debt as central banks in the U.S. and  Europe 
hold  interest rates  close to zero to stimulate economic growth.
The bonds have a B+ from  Fitch Ratings , four levels below
investment grade.  The seven-year notes were sold on May 3 to yield 8.63
percent, more than the weighted-average yield of 6.31 percent
for debt from Tam SA, the Brazilian unit of  Latam Airlines Group
SA. (LFL)   On the first day of trading after the sale, the Avianca
bonds jumped to 104.75 cents on the dollar from the sale price
of 98.71 cents, according to Trace, the reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. They have since
increased to 107.45 cents, pushing yields down to 7 percent,
according to Trace.  ‘Right Price’  Villegas said the company didn’t overpay on the yields for
the bonds.  They were “issued at the right price,” he said. “It’s
really good that investors are gaining from it, and that was
always part of our strategy.”  The company’s  shares  advanced 1.8 percent to 4,440 pesos at
11:57 a.m. in Bogota. They’re down 1.5 percent this year after
gaining 38 percent in 2012, Avianca’s first full year as a
public company after an initial public offering in 2011.
Villegas has served as CEO since 2005, according to a bond-offering document.  Dreamliner Routes  Avianca will expand available seat-kilometers -- a measure
of passenger capacity -- by about 8 percent to 9 percent per
year over the next five years, Villegas said. Capacity growth
was 10 percent last year, according to a report on its  website .  The new plane orders “are mostly for replacement, and our
growth will be quite reasonable,” he said. Avianca operated 152
aircraft as of Dec. 31, according to the bond-offering document.  The Dreamliners will allow the company to add routes and
fly existing routes more profitably, he said.  Routes within Latin America are “where we’re playing and
expanding and it’s precisely the market growing the most,” he
said.  Villegas said the company’s investment plans won’t require
a sale of additional shares in  Colombia  or a new listing in  New
York  or other foreign markets. The company sold 500 billion
pesos ($270 million) of shares in the 2011 IPO, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “All of that depends on market conditions and how
investors see it and if the valuations are right, but we don’t
need it,” he said. Share sales “aren’t done when you need
them. They happen when you show the market you don’t need it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  