-- Avis, Hertz Sue Chicago Over Airport Facility Cost Burden
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-23T18:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/avis-hertz-sue-chicago-over-airport-facility-cost-burden.html
Hertz Corp. and Avis Budget Car
Rental LLC are among four car rental companies suing the city of
 Chicago  over the bidding to occupy a new facility to be built at
O’Hare International Airport.  The third-biggest U.S. city and its Aviation Department are
requiring the companies to guarantee payment of rising facility
construction costs and other expenses, according to a complaint
filed yesterday in state court in Chicago.  The companies called that process “legally deficient” and
are seeking a court order delaying a May 24 bid deadline.  If forced to choose, “they will either become parties to a
defective public bidding process and illegal contract, or
forfeit their substantial on-site operations at O’Hare,”
according to the complaint.  Joining the suit are the Chicago unit of Enterprise
Holdings Inc., the biggest U.S. car rental operator, and Dollar
Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. The four companies account for 97
percent of U.S. airport rental car business according to the
complaint.  Roderick Drew, a spokesman for the Chicago Department of
Law, declined to comment immediately on the allegations, saying
the city had not yet been served with the complaint. The
Aviation Department’s media relations staff did not immediately
reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Cost estimates for the consolidated rental facility project
have climbed to $765 million this year from $397 million when
the project was announced in 2010 and may reach $817 million,
the companies allege.  “The city, through the consolidated facility bidding
process, seeks to use unlawful means to put the rental car
companies on the hook for those ever-expanding costs,” the
rental firms said in their filing.  The case is Enterprise Leasing Co. of Chicago LLC v. City
of Chicago, 13CH13269, Cook County,  Illinois , Circuit Court,
 Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 