-- Bigelow Aerospace to Study Moon Base in Deal With NASA
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-05-23T21:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/bigelow-aerospace-to-study-moon-base-in-deal-with-nasa.html
Bigelow Aerospace LLC, a maker of
inflatable space habitats, will study the possible return of men
to the moon as part of an agreement with  NASA  that may lead to
more public-private partnerships for exploration.  The company said it will identify options for government
and private investments to advance human space exploration
beyond low-Earth orbit, or more than 1,200 miles (1,900
kilometers) from Earth’s surface. Las Vegas-based Bigelow
Aerospace won’t be paid for work that is scheduled to be
completed this year.  A lunar base will be part of the study announced today by
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, though the
space agency isn’t planning to fund a moon mission. NASA instead
intends to focus on landing humans on an asteroid by 2021.  The deal “signals that NASA is open to working with the
private sector on lunar activities even if the agency itself
does not want to lead such an effort,” Scott Pace, director of
the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University, said
in a phone interview.  Pace, a critic of the Obama administration’s focus on the
asteroid program, said NASA should participate in an
international mission to the moon to prepare for a possible
manned exploration flight to Mars.  NASA plans to capture an asteroid with an unmanned
spacecraft and re-direct it to a location near the moon. A crew
would land on the space rock as early as 2021.  NASA ‘Distraction’  Robert Bigelow, who made his fortune in budget hotels and
has bet $500 million on his space venture, said the asteroid
mission is “a distraction to other more efficacious missions
that NASA should focus on.”  Space technologies offered by companies such as Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , Dulles, Virginia-based  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB) 
and Hawthorne, California-based Space Exploration Technologies
Corp. will be part of the study, Bigelow said.  While NASA focuses on asteroids, opportunities exist for
the agency to collaborate with industry on lunar activities,
William Gerstenmaier, NASA associate administrator for human
exploration and operations, said during the press conference.  NASA could potentially share rides to the lunar region with
commercial interests while it pursues other missions,
Gerstenmaier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  