-- Bird Flu Virus Is Capable of Human Spread, Ferret Studies Show
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-23T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/bird-flu-virus-is-capable-of-human-spread-ferret-studies-show.html
The bird flu virus that’s killed 36
people in  China  is capable of human-to-human spread, scientists
found in animal studies that highlight its pandemic potential.  Ferrets experimentally infected with the new H7N9 strain
passed it to other ferrets occupying the same cage, indicating
the virus’s ability to spread via direct contact, researchers at
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention in Beijing
and the University of  Hong Kong  said. Flu transmission in
ferrets is a predictor of patterns in humans, the authors said
in the study, published yesterday in  Science Express .  The research will help health officials tailor their
response to the H7N9 strain, which is known to have infected 131
people since March, mostly through contact with virus-laden
poultry. No cases have been reported since May 8, weeks after
authorities curbed live poultry sales in the eastern cities of
Shanghai, Nanjing and Hangzhou. So far, there is no evidence of
sustained human-to-human transmission -- a feature required for
flu to spark a pandemic -- the  World Health Organization   said .  “The emergence of the H7N9 influenza virus in humans in
Eastern China has raised concerns that a new influenza pandemic
could occur,” Yuelong Shu and colleagues wrote. “Under
appropriate conditions, human-to-human transmission of the H7N9
virus may be possible.”  The scientists showed that healthy ferrets caught the virus
and began shedding it within three days of being caged with
infected ferrets. By the sixth day, they were sneezing, coughing
and had runny noses.  Coughing Ferrets  In a separate experiment, three ferrets were caged 10
centimeters (4 inches) away from infected ones to test whether
they could become infected through the aerosols produced by
coughs and sneezes of diseased animals. One of the three ferrets
became infected, demonstrating that transmission is possible via
direct contact and exposure to aerosols, but “less
efficiently,” the Chinese researchers said.  Similar experiments with H7N9-infected pigs didn’t result
in transmissions onto ferrets and other pigs sharing the same
space or air, according to the study.  By comparison, ferrets infected with the H1N1 swine flu in
the study’s control group transmitted that virus to all other
ferrets that came in contact directly as well as through the
air. H1N1, which originated in pigs and then mixed with human
and avian viruses, touched off the first global flu outbreak in
more than 40 years and killed about 284,500 people, according to
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Brain Infection  The H7N9 virus can infect the upper and lower respiratory
tracts, and lymph nodes and potentially the brain, according to
the researchers, who detected the viral RNA in the organs of
infected ferrets. The animals also started shedding the virus
before most clinical signs appeared, a trait that “has been
observed previously for pandemic and seasonal influenza,” they
said.  “If this virus acquires the ability to efficiently
transmit from human-to-human, extensive spread of this virus may
be inevitable, as quarantine measures will lag behind its
spread,” the Chinese researchers said.  The findings support the need to reconsider management of
live poultry markets, especially in urban areas, in case H7N9
becomes endemic in poultry, increasing the opportunities for the
virus to evolve “to acquire human-to-human transmissibility,”
the authors said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  