-- Bass Sees BOJ Bond Purchases Overwhelmed as Investors Dump Debt
-- B y   R o c k y   S w i f t
-- 2013-05-23T19:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/boj-bond-buying-to-be-overwhelmed-by-investor-sales-bass-says.html
J. Kyle Bass, whose Hayman Advisors
LP made $500 million amid the U.S. subprime crisis, said the
 Bank of Japan  will have to “dramatically” increase bond-buying
efforts that have been “overwhelmed” by investors selling.  Benchmark 10-year Japanese government  bond  yields rose to 1
percent yesterday for the first time since April 2012, more than
triple the all-time low reached last month, a day after the BOJ
announced unprecedented bond buying. Japanese shares also
plunged the most in two years, trimming gains since November
when Shinzo Abe called for expanded fiscal and monetary stimulus
before elections that made him prime minister.  “Abe and the BOJ face what I call the ‘rational investor
paradox,’” Dallas-based Bass, who has predicted a financial
collapse in  Japan  since 2010, wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions. “If JGB investors begin to believe that Abenomics
will be successful, they will ‘rationally’ sell JGBs to buy
foreign bonds or equities.”  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said after a board meeting two
days ago that excessive  bond-market  volatility must be avoided
and he will adjust debt-buying operations as needed. His board
affirmed a policy set on April 4 of expanding the monetary base
to fuel 2 percent inflation in two years. JGBs rallied yesterday
after the BOJ said it would supply 2 trillion yen ($19.7
billion) in one-year funds to financial markets.  Debt Service  The 10-year JGB yield closed down five basis points to
0.835 percent. The 17 1/2  basis-point gap  between yesterday’s
high and low rate was the widest since April 5. The BOJ’s
injection was done in response to excessive volatility,
according to an official who asked not to be named due to the
central bank’s policy. The Topix Index of shares plunged 6.9
percent, the most since the March 2011 record earthquake and
nuclear disaster.  Selling from JGB investors has “overwhelmed the BOJ’s
ability to purchase them,” according to Bass. “The BOJ is
going to have to dramatically expand its JGB purchasing
operation if it is going to be successful in holding back
rates.”  Bass said in an interview with Bloomberg Television last
month that a rise in JGB yields following the BOJ’s April pledge
was a sign of stress in the market. He said in January he’s
buying bearish options that are “way out of the money” to bet
against Japan.  Not Enough  Japanese banks, which had been using their excess deposits
to buy  government bonds , have reduced their holdings as the
central bank increases purchases. Lenders had 164 trillion yen
of the securities in February, down from a record 171 trillion
yen in March last year.  “Everyone that holds JGBs will likely act rationally and
sell a portion of their JGBs to buy foreign bonds or domestic
equities,” Bass said. “If holders sell a mere 5 percent of
their holdings (50 trillion yen), then the BOJ’s new plan isn’t
large enough.”  Bass, a former salesman for Bear Stearns Cos. and Legg
Mason Inc., started Hayman in 2006 to focus on corporate
turnarounds, restructurings and mortgages.  Bass has been skeptical about many of the measures
governments have taken to address problems in the wake of the
financial crisis. In October 2010 he said Japan’s economy might
unravel in the next two to three years, and that its interest
payments would exceed revenue. “Japan can’t fund itself
internally,” Bass said. In March 2009 he said the rise in
 government borrowing  could produce a “potential inflationary
time bomb” that would grow with fiscal stimulus.  Price volatility  for Japanese government bonds surged 2.6
percentage points this year to 3.69 percent as of May 21 based
on a 60-day reading, the biggest advance among 26 sovereign-debt
markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  GDP Expands  Japan’s debt-servicing costs will rise 100 billion yen for
each 10 basis-point increase in yields, Finance Minister Taro
Aso said May 16. Yields on Japanese government bonds of all
maturities climbed to 0.72 percent on May 22, from 0.4 percent
on April 4, the lowest since 2003, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data.  The nation’s debt-carrying costs will probably reach a
record 23.8 trillion yen to 23.9 trillion yen in the fiscal year
starting April 2014, up more than 7 percent from this fiscal
year, the Ministry of Finance projected in March. This year’s
 costs  made up 24 percent of the budget. In the U.S., total
interest payments of $359 billion accounted for about 10.2
percent of budgetary outlays in the year that ended September,
according to  Treasury data .  Debt Burden  The outstanding debt of the world’s third-largest economy
was 991.6 trillion yen at the end of March, a ministry report
showed this month. It’s projected to reach 245 percent of gross
domestic product this year, according to an International
Monetary Fund estimate, the highest ratio in the world.  Japan’s economy expanded at an annualized 3.5 percent pace
last quarter, the fastest rate in a year, a government report
showed on May 16. Gross domestic product will probably grow 1.4
percent this year and 1.3 percent in 2014, according to median
estimates in Bloomberg News surveys.  If the BOJ fails to spark economic growth or destabilizes
the bond market, “real JGB yields will rise and increase future
funding costs,”  Tom Byrne  and  Matt Robinson , analysts at
Moody’s Investors Service, wrote in a report last month.
Considering the size of the nation’s debt, “there is little
room for miscalculating the market.”  Kuroda said the BOJ will adjust its bond-buying program as
needed. He said he’s not expecting yields to jump a lot and
volatility in the bond market isn’t affecting Japan’s economy
yet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  