-- Murray International’s Stout Says Stocks Too Expensive
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2013-05-24T08:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/bonds-rigged-as-stocks-expensive-for-scots-manager-doubling-fund.html
From his view of the world in
 Scotland , Bruce Stout says investors risk getting burned because
optimism is too high for stocks and bond yields are too low. The
markets might be proving him right.  The MSCI World Index, a gauge of developed stock markets,
sank by the most yesterday since April 15, while  Japan ’s Topix
Index lost 6.9 percent. Stout, whose 1.5 billion-pound ($2.3
billion)  Murray International Trust (MYI)  at  Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc (ADN)  posted triple-digit returns during the past four years, has
been selling shares he reckons are now too expensive, while his
fixed-income holdings are the lowest in 25 years.  “The higher prices go the more short-term expectations can
distort things and then you can lose your money,” Stout said at
his office in Edinburgh. “That’s why we’re in a capital
preservation mode to try and not lose money.”  With economies in Europe yo-yoing in and out of recession,
a slowdown in China and India, and central banks from the U.S.
to Japan still printing money to revive growth, Stout is more
pessimistic than some of the world’s biggest investors.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said this week that the U.S.
stock-market rally may last at least another 2 1/2 years. While
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of the
world’s biggest fixed-income fund, said May 10 that a 30-year
 bull market  in bonds has probably ended, he raised his holdings
of Treasuries in April to the highest since July 2010.  Paying Up  “You can’t have the worst economic fundamentals of all
time and record-low bond yields,” Stout, 54, said on May 17,
calling the  bond market  “rigged.” “In the stock market, it’s
understandable that people will pay up for growth, but when you
pay too much for anything you lose your money.”  Stout, whose fund can invest in any asset anywhere in the
world, has reduced the fund’s stakes this year in companies such
as Kimberly-Clark de Mexico SAB and  Novartis AG. (NOVN)   His  closed-end fund  has risen 125 percent since March 2009,
based on net asset value per share. Over the past five years,
its returns rank first of 10 comparable so-called global growth
and income funds, according to data compiled by Morningstar Inc.
This year, shares in Murray International, which was founded in
1907, have risen 21 percent, placing it third at Morningstar.  Higher Valuations  Even with yesterday’s 1.3 percent drop, the MSCI World
Index climbed 25 percent in the past year, pushing company
valuations to their highest since 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The current average price-to-earnings ratio is
17.1, up from 13.6 two years ago. The index has  returned  146
percent since March 9, 2009, including dividends, the data show.  The index was little changed at 9:10 a.m. in London, rising
less than 0.1 percent. After rising and falling as much as 3.3
percent, the Topix recovered 0.5 percent from yesterday’s
decline, the biggest since the tsunami disaster in March 2011.  Markets had rallied this year as the  Federal Reserve ,  Bank
of England  and  Bank of Japan  injected money into the economy
with asset purchases, a process called quantitative easing.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week that the flow
of asset purchases could be reduced “in the next few meetings”
if economic conditions improve. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
in the U.S., which rose to records this month, dropped for a
second day yesterday. The yield on  10-year Treasuries (USGG10YR)  rose 36
basis points to 2.03 percent so far in May.  ‘No Chance’  In the U.K., the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  is up 14 percent, more than
at any time year-to-date since 1998, while 10-year government
bond yields are at  1.91 percent . The British economy expanded
0.3 percent in the first quarter, the  Office for National
Statistics  said this week, after shrinking by the same amount in
the previous three months.  “Would you lend money to Westminster or Washington today
at 2 percent?” said Stout. “I wouldn’t. No Chance.”  It’s been years since Stout had a more optimistic outlook
from his office opposite Edinburgh Castle.  The Scottish  money manager , whose fund benefited by not
holding bank stocks during the credit crunch, said in an
interview in August that central bankers were “blinkered” when
it came to tackling debt. A year earlier he talked of how it was
difficult to make any money and the key was not to lose it. In
February 2010, he called the U.K. currency “vulnerable.”  “The fundamentals supporting the currency are worse than
they were five years ago,” Stout said in the interview last
week. “The enormous amount of quantitative easing has meant a
huge expansion of the gilt market at a time when the quality of
those bonds has deteriorated.”  Biggest Holdings  Murray International’s biggest stockholdings were Mexican
airport operator  Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste SAB , which has
risen 44 percent over the past year, and  British American
Tobacco Plc (BATS) , which is up 25 percent. New stakes this year
include  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , Stout said. Its shares
advanced 26 percent in the past 12 months.  He added to a holding in French retailer  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  as it grows its business in  emerging markets . The
company’s stock, which gained 24 percent in the past year, was
cheaper because of being “tainted” by being based in a euro
country, Stout said. Its price-to-earnings ratio is 8.8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  He sold shares of consumer goods company Kimberley-Clark de
Mexico, a 60 percent advancer over the past year. Its  P/E ratio 
on current profit is 28.8, the Bloomberg data show. Novartis,
Europe’s biggest drugmaker, is up 46 percent in the past year
and its  P/E ratio  is now 18.7.  “The main problem is trying to get yield in a world where
there is no yield,” Stout said. “But paying up for it is not
the solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  