-- Brainard Says Europe Needs Decisive Action Now to Spur Demand
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-05-23T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/brainard-says-europe-needs-decisive-action-now-to-spur-demand.html
The U.S. Treasury Department’s top
international official said European officials deserve credit
for restoring financial stability and must shift quickly to
spurring domestic demand to avert a prolonged economic slump.  “Decisive action is needed now to restart demand and avoid
the risk of protracted stagnation,”  Lael Brainard , the
Treasury’s undersecretary for international affairs, said in
testimony prepared for a hearing today before the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.  Brainard reiterated the department’s view that access to
credit for small and medium-sized businesses in southern  Europe 
must be improved to combat high unemployment. The financial
 crisis in Cyprus  underscores “the importance of moving forward
with a full banking union,” she said.  The euro area’s 18-month recession will end in the second
quarter, as the economy stagnates before returning to growth in
the following three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists. The economy contracted 0.2 percent in the first
quarter.  The 17-nation economy’s contraction has left the  European
Central Bank  to try to mitigate the damage by cutting  interest
rates  and exploring unconventional ways of channeling money to
needy companies, especially in the south. The ECB this month cut
its benchmark rate to a record low of 0.5 percent.  “U.S. companies are adversely affected by weak business
and consumer demand across Europe,” Brainard said. “Three
years into the euro-area crisis, the risk of protracted
stagnation represents one of the most important challenges to
the global economic outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  