-- Bratkowski Seeks Half-Point Polish Rate Cut on Weak GDP
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2013-05-23T09:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/bratkowski-seeks-half-point-polish-rate-cut-on-weak-gdp.html
Polish central banker Andrzej Bratkowski said he’ll seek a half-point cut in  interest rates 
next month as prospects for a quick economic recovery fade.  The  reference rate ’s optimal level for the next several
quarters is from “2 percent to 2.5 percent,” according to
Bratkowski, one of 10 rate-setters on the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Council. While the economy will probably bottom
out in the second quarter, the recovery will be slow, he said
yesterday in an interview in Warsaw.  Policy makers have cut interest rates by 175 basis points
since November to a record-low 3 percent as the European Union’s
largest eastern  economy  expanded at the slowest pace in four
years in the first quarter. The  International Monetary Fund  last
week urged policy makers to lower borrowing costs further
“without delay” as the euro area’s longest-ever recession
curbs demand for Polish exports.  “Another 50 basis-point rate cut is completely justified
and I expect that will be my position at the June policy
meeting,” Bratkowski said in Warsaw. “After that, we can be
more cautious about whether to do another two smaller cuts. If
nothing dramatic happens, we can afford to take smaller steps.”  Polish derivatives investors are betting on 34 basis points
of cuts through August, according to the gap between three-month
forward-rate agreements and the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate.
The zloty, the fifth-worst performer this year against the euro
among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg with a 2.8
percent decline, extended its drop after Bratkowski’s comments,
falling 0.4 percent to 4.2037 per euro, the lowest since Feb. 1.  Biggest Backers  Bratkowski has been among the most vocal supporters of
monetary easing among Poland’s central bankers. He was the first
to seek a half-point cut last July, two months after the panel
voted to increase borrowing costs, according to voting records
on the central bank’s  website .  While the economy is poised to expand at its slowest pace
in more than a decade this year and the inflation rate is the
lowest in seven years, policy makers are split about the need
for further monetary easing. Jan Winiecki said this week that
rate reductions will be ineffective in boosting investment.
 Jerzy Hausner  told TVN CNBC on May 20 that he doesn’t see large
scope for cuts.  There are “some signs” the slowdown has reached the
bottom as exports are no longer decelerating and slow inflation
should encourage  consumer spending , according to Bratkowski.
Still, there’s “no way” the recovery will be speedy given the
scope of the debt crisis in the euro area, which buys 52 percent
of Polish exports, he said.  Worst Quarter  “The second quarter will be the weakest,” Bratkowski
said. “After that, annualized growth should improve because the
base effect of year-earlier growth will be in our favor.”  Polish  industry  grew 2.7 percent from a year earlier in
April, less than economists forecast, while  employment  at
companies with more than nine workers declined 1 percent.
Retail-sales data for last month are due to be published
tomorrow, with economists  predicting  a 1 percent annual decline.  Inflation (POCPIYOY)  probably won’t experience a “quick uptick”
after slowing to 0.8 percent from a year earlier in April,
Bratkowski said. The central bank is targeting medium-term
consumer-price growth of 2.5 percent with a tolerance range of 1
percentage point around that goal.  The inflation rate may dip “below zero” for one or two
months if the EU economy remains weak and food and energy prices
stay low, according to Bratkowski.  ‘No Tragedy’  “That’s no tragedy, because it’s nonsense to think a
country like Poland can get sucked into a deflationary spiral,”
he said. “That shouldn’t happen.”  Gross domestic product  advanced 0.4 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter, according to a flash estimate
released last week by the statistics office. To kick start the
economy, the central bank should use traditional monetary-policy
tools to support domestic demand because net exports are the
only growth engine at present, according to Bratkowski.  “The situation in  Poland  isn’t so dire that we need to
jettison conventional policy and adopt an anti-inflation
orthodoxy that conflicts with direct inflation targeting,” he
said. “If that doesn’t work, then we can consider other means,
although I personally don’t see any instruments that could boost
lending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  