-- U.K. Officials Add Homegrown Radicalism to Attack Mysteries
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-24T10:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/british-officials-add-homegrown-radicalism-to-attack-mysteries.html
The young man dripping with blood
after the murder of a U.K. soldier declared in a south London
accent that he was acting in defense of “our lands.” He didn’t
mean Britain.  The intent of the words and deeds are among the puzzles law
enforcement has set to solving. As investigators piece together
the attackers’ path to a vicious daylight assault outside a
military barracks in London, security experts are again
confronting the issue of home-grown terror.  “It’s the million-dollar question of why someone becomes
radicalized,” said  Raffaello Pantucci , a research fellow at the
 Royal United Services Institute  in London and author of the book
“ We Love Death as You Love Life: Britain’s Suburban
Mujahedeen ,” due to be published shortly.  The killing caught on tape and broadcast around the world
has reignited a debate about how to prevent homegrown attacks on
British soil after more than a decade of U.K. engagement in
foreign conflicts and how to allocate the 31 billion pounds ($47
billion) the government will spend in 2013-14 on public order
and safety.  Michael Adobalajo, one of the two alleged attackers, was
under arrest in a London hospital after being shot by police.
The other alleged assailant remains unidentified and is in a
separate hospital. The victim was named as Lee Rigby, a drummer
in the 2nd Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.  Police said yesterday they also arrested a man and a woman,
both 29, on suspicion of conspiracy to murder.  Al Muhajiroun  The Independent newspaper reported yesterday that Adebolajo
was known to belong to a banned Islamist organization, Al
Muhajiroun, which favors sharia law and publicly celebrated the
Sept. 11 bombings in the U.S. He went by the name of Mujahid --a
Muslim engaged in holy war -- until two years ago, Anjem
Choudary, the group’s former leader, was cited as saying by the
newspaper. No charges have been filed.  All experts can do is guess about his motive.  “It’s often for a blend of personal and political reasons
that someone is radicalized,” Pantucci said in an interview
today. “Perhaps it’s what MI5 identify as ‘blocked mobility’ --
your life is not going in the way you’d like or perhaps the call
to radicalism is the loudest thing in your life.”  In 2010, a 21-year-old woman was sentenced to life in
prison for stabbing British lawmaker Stephen Timms after she
downloaded teachings from the Internet inciting jihad against
non-Muslims.  Timms Recollection  Roshonara Choudhry had been attending King’s College in
London until only weeks before the crime. In a letter to her
mother found on her computer, Choudhry said she hated living in
Britain and couldn’t live in a non-Muslim country.  “She was a very bright student doing English and planning
to be a teacher,” Timms said in a telephone interview today.
“She dropped out and spent a huge amount of time listening to
the sermons of Anwar al-Awlaki. His message was ‘strike a blow
where you can.’”  In 2008, the domestic security agency, MI5, released a
classified report to the  Guardian newspaper  saying there is no
clear way to identify or profile those who become involved in
U.K. terrorism.  Drawing on case studies, it found the majority of those
engaged in terrorist acts are British nationals; many lack
religious literacy and a higher-than-average number are
religious converts.  Classified Report  The newspaper, which was allowed to read the classified
report, said there is no more evidence of mental illness than in
the general population. The majority of those engaged in acts
are in their early- to mid-twenties when they become radicalized
and almost all hold low-grade jobs. Yet they are no more
unintelligent or gullible than the rest of the population, the
report said.  MI5 estimates that British nationals account for three
quarters of prisoners jailed for terrorism offenses in the U.K.
Fifty-two people were killed by four British-born  suicide
bombers  in London on July 7, 2005. Security services have since
halted a number of attacks being planned by young British men.  “Unless the government helps the Islamic community to
eradicate extremism we can’t do anything,” Saeed Omer, 44, a
spokesman for the Greenwich Islamic center said in an interview
today. “We fight with Muslim extremism. We have kicked them out
of here. We have gone to court to kick them out.”  Individuals Targeted  Jacqui Smith, who served as home secretary from 2007 to
2009, said the case yesterday more closely represents the type
of attack seen in  Northern Ireland  in recent years that targets
individual soldiers. That contrasts with other al-Qaeda attacks
that aim for maximum damage and loss of life such as the so-called 7/7 attacks, she said.  “This has more resemblance to Northern Irish terrorism in
terms of its method,” she in a telephone interview today.
“Given that is was an attack on an individual representing the
military as opposed to an attack on just a crowded place.”  The U.K. counter-terrorism strategy, known as CONTEST, is
made up of four strands. Smith said it was developed to deal
with home-grown terrorism. The first, “Prevent,” involves
community engagement to deter radicalization of individuals. The
second, “pursue,” means authorities will go after terrorists
posing a threat to the U.K.  The third, “protect,” involves improving security to
borders, transport and buildings. “Prepare” focuses on
assessing risk, improving responses and evaluation of
preparedness for attack.  Terror Trial  A trial of the two suspects would be the first for a
terrorism attack in the U.K. since before the 7/7 attacks. Since
2006, defendants convicted for plotting to commit terrorism in
the U.K. have been sentenced to as much as life in prison. In
many of the cases, the men were British nationals who converted
to Islam.  Radicalization can appeal to an individual because it can
be “quite empowering,” Pantucci said. “You are not some
loser, you are a proud Muslim who is supporting and fighting for
your community. It’s a comforting and fulfilling message that
you are part of a bigger cause.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  