-- Bulgarian Socialists to Form Cabinet After Gerb Rejects Offer
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-23T13:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/bulgarian-socialists-to-form-cabinet-after-gerb-rejects-offer.html
Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev
asked the Socialists to form a coalition Cabinet after ex-Premier Boyko Borissov, the winner of May 12 elections, rejected
the offer as he lacks sufficient parliamentary support.  Borissov ruled out an agreement with rival parties to
support his minority Cabinet because he doesn’t want to enter
into an “unprincipled alliance,” he said in a live television
broadcast from Plevneliev’s office in Sofia today. Plevneliev
said he will ask the Bulgarian Socialist Party, the election
runner-up, to form a government.  “I’m returning the mandate, because I don’t want to betray
my voters,” Borissov said. “I haven’t held negotiations with
anyone because I know I can form a government only if I enter
into unprincipled alliances.”  Bulgaria , the European Union’s poorest nation, is
struggling to emerge from political turmoil that started with
anti-austerity protests that forced out Borissov’s government in
February and led to early parliamentary elections. Bulgaria
survived the global financial crisis without an international
bailout because of deep cuts.  The former ruling Gerb party won 97 seats, falling short of
the 121 votes needed for an outright majority in the 240-member
legislature, in which four parties are represented. The
Socialists, the ethnic Turk Movement for Rights and Freedoms and
the nationalist Attack party ruled out taking part in a
coalition with Gerb.  The Socialists, which have 84 seats, and the Movement
representing ethnic Turks, with 36 seats, said they are prepared
to form a coalition, while Attack said it won’t support any
government. The Socialists and the Movement met in Parliament
today to discuss a joint program.  Cabinet Approval  “It is quite possible next Tuesday to offer the new
Cabinet for approval to parliament,” Lyutfi Mestan, leader of
the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, told reporters in Sofia
today, after talks with the Socialists.  The Socialists have proposed former Finance Minister Plamen Oresharski as premier and drafted a program intended to boost
economic growth and demand, Socialist leader Sergei Stanishev
told reporters in Sofia today.  The plan includes reimbursing value-added tax to companies
at an estimated cost of 350 million lev ($230 million) and
repaying about 100 million lev for completed public orders to
businesses, Stanishev said.  Increasing social benefits for the poor and families with
young children, which will require a total of 7 million lev, is
also part of the plan.  The yield on Bulgaria’s euro-denominated bonds maturing in
2017 rose one basis point to 1.74 percent at 2:42 p.m. in Sofia.
The cost of insuring the country’s debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 6 basis points to
105.98.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  