-- Cablevision Shareholders Removed by Police at Annual Meeting
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-05-23T20:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/cablevision-shareholders-removed-by-police-at-annual-meeting.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-largest U.S. cable company, asked police to remove people from
its annual meeting today after shareholders protested the
company’s union pay policies.  About 30 minutes into the meeting, a shareholder accused
Chief Executive Officer  James Dolan  of paying bribes and
illegally firing 22 technicians in Brooklyn, New York. Following
a back-and-forth exchange with Dolan, the Cablevision CEO
repeatedly asked the person to leave.  When the man refused, Dolan called for the police. The
protester was joined by at least four others who began yelling
at Dolan to pay union workers the same rate as nonunion
employees. The  National Labor Relations Board  has been
investigating Cablevision’s labor practices amid complaints from
the  Communications Workers of America , which represents
unionized employees at the company.  “I’m not making this meeting a meeting about the CWA,”
Dolan said, raising his voice over the protesters. “That’s
enough on that subject. I’m going to ask you all to leave. Do we
have the police here? Please bring in the police. Please escort
these people out. I sure hope they’re going to be here soon.”  At least five shareholders were removed from the meeting.
After the event, the CWA said it has “recently entered into
closed-door negotiations with Cablevision” to end their
yearlong labor despite, according a statement. Cablevision has
almost 3 million video subscribers in  New York ,  New Jersey  and
Connecticut.  “It is a shareholder meeting with a clear set of rules,”
said Kelly McAndrew, a spokeswoman for the Bethpage, New York-based company. “The CWA attempted to disrupt the meeting; they
were asked to refrain and when they did not they were asked to
leave. The matter is now in the hands of the authorities.”  Cablevision shares rose 0.7 percent to $15.45 at the close
in New York. The stock has gained 3.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  