-- Inbursa Drops as CaixaBank Weighs 10% Sale: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-05-23T20:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/caixabank-weighs-sale-of-10-of-slim-s-mexican-lender-inbursa.html
Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB (GFINBURO) , the
financial-services firm controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ,
fell the most in 21 months after  CaixaBank SA (CABK)  said it may sell
half of its 20 percent stake.  Inbursa dropped 7 percent to 27.31 pesos at the close in
 Mexico  City, the biggest one-day decline since August 2011. The
shares have slumped 30 percent this year, compared with a 7.3
percent decline for the benchmark IPC index.  The sale by CaixaBank, Spain’s third-biggest bank, would
unlock 10 percent of Inbursa’s shares for public trading,
reducing their scarcity. CaixaBank is studying a public offering
for the stake in Mexico and overseas, Inbursa Chairman Marco Antonio Slim Domit -- Slim’s son -- said in an e-mail.  Selling Inbursa shares wouldn’t affect CaixaBank’s
commitments to the lender or its main shareholders, according to
a regulatory filing from the Barcelona-based company today. A 10
percent stake had a value of almost $1.6 billion based on
Inbursa’s market capitalization at yesterday’s close.  CaixaBank would join Spanish lenders including Banco
Santander SA and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  that sold
assets in Latin America to replenish capital depleted by losses
suffered during the country’s property crash. CaixaBank  has said 
it will bolster its financial strength by aiming for a core
capital ratio of more than 8 percent by year-end, taking into
account all the adjustments required under Basel III rules.  “Inbursa is one of the few of their investments where they
can realize clear gains, so from that point of view it was an
obvious candidate for CaixaBank when it came to selling
assets,” said Antonio Ramirez, a London-based analyst at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Ltd., who  rates the lender  “market perform.”
“Mexican bank valuations have done very well in recent years.”  Spanish Sales  La Caixa banking group agreed to buy 20 percent of Inbursa
for 1.5 billion euros ($1.93 billion) in 2008 as a vehicle to
expand in the Americas. Inbursa shares have climbed 66 percent
in the past five years through yesterday.  The two companies remain “good partners,” Slim Domit said
today.  Shares in CaixaBank climbed 0.8 percent to 2.75 euros at
the close in  Madrid , valuing the bank at 12.78 billion euros.  Santander sold a stake last year in  Grupo Financiero
Santander Mexico (SANMEXB) , adding to disposals of other Latin American
assets including its Colombian bank. BBVA agreed in November to
sell its Mexican pension fund business for $1.6 billion.  The sale by Spanish lenders of valuable assets in countries
such as Mexico has led to criticism that they are relinquishing
future earnings growth. Daragh Quinn and Jaime Hernandez,
analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in an April 4 report
that they expect loan growth of as much as 17 percent a year in
Mexico can be sustained through 2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  