-- Canada Dollar Gains From One-Year Low Amid Paring of Easing Bets
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-23T21:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/canada-dollar-snaps-two-day-slide-amid-paring-of-easing-bets.html
The Canadian dollar gained from a
one-year low against its U.S. counterpart amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  may not taper its monetary stimulus, known as
quantitative easing, as soon as some investors anticipated.  The currency climbed against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as oil, the nation’s largest export, erased an
earlier drop. The so-called loonie extended the advance after
 Statistics Canada  said the number of Canadians receiving jobless
benefits fell 1 percent in March from the previous month. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers yesterday a premature
withdrawal of stimulus could endanger economic recovery in
 Canada ’s biggest trading partner.  “All markets are very sensitive to any shift in Fed
policy, and even the slightest of possible easing can send the
market into a tizzy, as it did yesterday,”  Sal Guatieri , an
economist at the Bank of Montreal, said in a phone interview.
“The market has realized that it overreacted to Fed commentary
when the Fed is in no hurry to tighten or even slow policy, and
that is why we are seeing the Canadian dollar turn around.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.6 percent to
C$1.0305 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching
C$1.0394, weakest since June 5, 2012. One loonie buys 97.03 U.S.
cents.  Futures for  crude oil  added 0.1 percent to $94.40 a barrel
in  New York  after falling as much as 2.2 percent. Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  of stocks dropped 0.3 percent.  ‘Easy Money’  “The feeling is that perhaps tapering or easing off of QE
is not quite as imminent as what we were expecting yesterday,”
 Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London, said in a telephone interview.
“The pound has appreciated, so has the euro, likewise Canada
and the Aussie are having a bit of revival.”  The loonie fell 1 percent yesterday as Bernanke testified
in  Washington  that, as the outlook for the labor market
“improves in a real and sustainable way, the committee will
reduce the flow of purchases.”  The U.S. central bank is buying $85 billion of government
and mortgage debt each month to cap borrowing costs and help the
economy. Minutes of the Fed’s April 30-May 1 policy meeting
released yesterday showed that a “number” of officials were
willing to taper bond buying as early as the next meeting in
June should economic reports show evidence of sustained growth.  Flaherty’s View  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , speaking in Ottawa
yesterday, said the loosening of fiscal and monetary policies in
some countries may be increasing risks to the global economy.  Some policy makers favor “growth at any cost,” Flaherty
told a committee of lawmakers. Those authorities believe “not
only should they be doing more in fiscal policy, but they should
continue what some of them are doing in monetary policy,
printing money.”  The number of regular beneficiaries of Canadian jobless
benefits declined by 5,220 to 523,700. From the year-ago month,
the total number of beneficiaries fell 8.1 percent, or by
46,390, the Ottawa-based agency said.  The Canadian dollar is exhibiting some technical signs of
being oversold versus the U.S dollar, even as a strong U.S
currency trend is in place,  George Davis , chief technical
analyst for fixed income and currency strategy in Toronto at
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , wrote in a note to clients.  “This suggests a more cautious stance as the prospects of
a short-term corrective pullback are increasing,” he wrote.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 0.6 percent this week, the
most after the pound among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
dropped 0.4 percent, the euro advanced 0.4 percent and the yen
added 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  