-- Canada Slack Means Poloz Should Drop Rate Bias, BMO Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-05-23T17:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/canada-slack-means-poloz-should-drop-rate-bias-bmo-says.html
The time is right for Stephen Poloz
to drop the Bank of  Canada ’s bias toward raising  interest rates 
when he takes over as governor next month, according to Bank of
Montreal’s  Doug Porter .  A cooling housing market, lower commodity prices, an
overvalued currency and the slowest economic growth in two
decades argue against the central bank keeping its outlier
status as the only Group of Seven central bank considering
raising borrowing costs, saidPorter, chief economist in Toronto
at BMO Capital Markets.  “It seems the time is right for a fresh start and to drop
the tightening bias,” Porter wrote in a note to clients today.
“After all, the market has long since stopped listening, and
Canadians appear to have long since heard the message.”  Poloz will have to deal with challenges such as sluggish
 economic growth  and record consumer debts when he takes over
Canada’s central bank, Porter said. Carney, who departs June 1
to head the  Bank of England , has kept the central bank’s policy
rate at 1 percent for more than two years, and has indicated
since April 2012 his next move would probably be to raise it.  The world’s 11th largest economy will expand 1.6 percent
this year, the slowest pace in two decades outside of the
2008-2009 recession, Porter said. That isn’t fast enough to help
lower the  unemployment rate  or to do much to bring  inflation 
from April’s 0.4 percent pace to the central bank’s 2 percent
target, he said.  Poloz takes office June 3, and makes his first speech on
June 19 followed by a July 17 interest-rate decision.  Canada’s dollar is overvalued by 5 percent to 10 percent
based on “fundamentals” such as prices for major commodity
exports including lumber, gold, wheat and natural gas, Porter
said. Other risks include the pace of a housing market slowdown
and growth of consumer debts that have already reached a record
165 percent of disposable income, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  