-- China Tightens Trade-Document Scrutiny After Fake-Export Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-23T05:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/china-tightens-trade-document-scrutiny-after-fake-export-reports.html
China ’s foreign-exchange regulator
told banks to improve checks of customer documents related to
special trade zones amid speculation that the areas have been
exploited to disguise capital inflows as exports.  Banks shouldn’t provide cross-border payment services to
companies in the so-called bonded zones that aren’t pre-registered with the foreign-exchange authority, according to a
notice issued yesterday by the  State Administration of Foreign
Exchange  that takes effect June 1. If an exporter decides to
deposit its revenue overseas, banks must know the size, duration
and remittance arrangements, SAFE said.  Bonded zones, which lie within the nation’s borders and
handle inbound and outbound shipments as international trade,
may help account for inflated data on  export growth  this year,
according to Bank of America Corp. and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. SAFE’s notice follows a May 5 statement that it will
increase scrutiny of cross-border capital flows.  “The problem of inflated export data is clearly there, and
it shows that SAFE is trying to tackle it,” said  Ken Peng , a
BNP Paribas SA economist based in Beijing. “China’s economic-growth data is partly supported by an artificially high net
export contribution in the first quarter, and that support will
fizzle away as SAFE steps up controls.”  Zheng Yuesheng, a spokesman for the General Administration
of Customs, said last month that China is investigating possible
fraud behind first-quarter export growth and said the practice
of false trade declarations “does exist but is definitely not
mainstream.”  China’s trade  surplus  is one-tenth the official $61 billion
reported in the first four months of the year after accounting
for fake transactions used to disguise hot-money inflows,
according to Bank of America.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  