-- China Should Stop ‘Micromanaging’ Auto Industry, Researcher Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-23T03:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/china-should-stop-micromanaging-auto-industry-researcher-says.html
China  should refrain from
“micromanaging” the automotive industry and allow market
competition to spur innovation and weed out weaker automakers,
the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences said in a report.  The government should focus instead on building a fair and
competitive environment and abandon monopolistic polices aimed
at creating fewer and bigger automakers, the state-backed
 research institute  said in an annual report on industrial
competitiveness released this week.  “A fair and competitive market is the most effective
mechanism for promoting innovation,” according to the report by
the academy, which provides research to the State Council, or
cabinet. “This isn’t to say the government isn’t important. On
the contrary, it is asking more of the government, to transform
from being a direct participant to that of an enabler.”  The recommendations in the report stand in contrast to
China’s auto policy of encouraging mergers and reorganizations
in the industry in order to create two to three large domestic
carmakers that can compete with companies like  General Motors
Co. (GM) , which is spending $11 billion by 2016 to expand in China.  China’s auto market is dominated by foreign joint ventures,
which accounted for 95 percent of passenger-vehicle profits in
2011, according to the academy. Chinese automakers are overly
reliant on their foreign partners like GM and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , which retain tight control over key functions such as
research and development, branding, design, and components, the
report said.  To help local automakers progress to making higher-end
products, the government should increase its financial support
for research and development, the report said. Only eight
percent of automaker employees in China are in technical
positions, compared with about 30 percent in developed markets,
according to the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  