-- China Money Rate Rises to One-Month High as Companies Pay Tax
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-23T03:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/china-money-rate-rises-to-one-month-high-as-companies-pay-tax.html
China ’s money-market rate rose to a
one-month high on speculation the central bank’s cash injections
are insufficient to offset outflows for tax payments.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, gained 17 basis points to 4.20 percent as of 11:16
a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. It earlier touched 4.5
percent, the highest level since April 25.  The People’s Bank of China  added  a net 128 billion yuan
($20.9 billion) to the financial system this week, the most
since February, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The central
bank also withdrew funds today. It issued 6 billion yuan of
three-month  bills  at a yield of 2.9089 percent, unchanged from
the May 21 sale, and 5 billion  yuan  of 28-day repurchase
contracts, according to a statement.  “The central bank’s capital injection probably can’t
totally ease the cash shortage,” said Chen Qi, a strategist at
UBS Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The tax payments in May are
usually the biggest of the year. The cash shortage may ease
slowly after companies complete the tax payment.”  China’s manufacturing is contracting in May for the first
time in seven months, according to a report today released by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The preliminary reading
for a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 49.6, compared with a final
50.4 for April. A reading of 50 or above signals expansion.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.28 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, Robin Ganguly  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 