-- China Rule Changes May Halt Copper-Financing, Goldman Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-23T06:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/china-rule-changes-may-halt-copper-financing-deals-goldman-says.html
New rules from  China  to control
capital inflows are likely to end commodity-financing deals,
hurting the short-term outlook for copper, analysts at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. wrote in a research report today.  The regulations from the State Administration of Foreign
Exchange, effective from June, will probably mean an end to
Chinese use of copper as a tool to enable interest rate
arbitrage, Goldman said. The London Metal Exchange market may
need to “carry” as much as 250,000 metric tons of additional
physical copper over one to three months, about 4 percent to 5
percent of quarterly global supply, the bank said.  The clampdown follows severe discrepancies in China’s trade
data in the first four months that aroused suspicions about
companies using trade deals to evade  capital controls  and take
advantage of interest-rate arbitrage between China and overseas.
Some Chinese banks have stopped issuing letters of credit for
copper importers as the regulators tightened rules governing
such trade, the National Business Daily reported yesterday.  “The policy shift is directly targeted against abnormal
trading activity and will at least have a negative impact on
copper,” Judy Zhu, an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, said
by phone from  Shanghai  today. “Still, we don’t know what
portion of copper trade falls under the more stringent rules.”  Goldman sees downside risks to its six-month target of
$8,000 a ton and unwound a September-delivery recommendation at
a 3 percent loss, according to the report.  ‘Bearish’ Prices  “While some uncertainty remains, the new policies are in
our view likely to bring to an end to these financing deals,”
analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie  wrote. Stopping the deals
completely “would likely be bearish for copper prices.”  Copper for delivery in three months on the LME declined 2.9
percent to $7,260 a ton at 3:42 p.m. in  Tokyo . The metal has
retreated 8.5 percent this year. The contract for delivery in
September on the Shanghai Futures Exchange fell 2.6 percent to
52,200  yuan  ($8,508) a ton.  A short-term increase in supply will also widen the so-called contango, where later-dated contracts cost more than
those with nearer dates, according to the report.  China’s  trade surplus  is 10 percent the official $61
billion reported so far this year after accounting for fake
transactions used to disguise so-called hot-money inflows,
according to a report from Bank of America.  The state administration increased scrutiny of trade and
called on businesses with substantial foreign-exchange receipts
to explain whether the capital flows are supported by real trade,
analysts at Barclays Plc said in a research note earlier this
week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  