-- North Korean Tells China His Country Is Ready for Talks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-24T07:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/china-party-official-liu-meets-north-korea-envoy-amid-tensions.html
A North Korean envoy told a top
Chinese official his country is willing to return to dialogue,
as the U.S. and  China  press the totalitarian state to come back
to the negotiating table over its nuclear weapons program.  The U.S. and  South Korea  said it was too early to tell if
Choe Ryong Hae’s comments yesterday during a visit to Beijing
marked a step forward in efforts to restart six-party talks
stalled since 2008. The North defied United Nations sanctions
with a rocket launch in December and a nuclear test in February.  China, the North’s chief political and  economic  benefactor,
has come under pressure to rein in Kim Jong Un’s regime, which
threatened in March to launch preemptive nuclear strikes against
South Korea and the U.S. Choe’s visit may signal that North
Korea is looking to ease tensions as backs off its bellicose
rhetoric from recent weeks.  “This is North Korea’s way to say ‘Ouch, you’ve got us,’”
said  Paul Haenle , director of Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for
Global Policy in Beijing. “‘You’ve turned up the pain and we
feel it. Now we are coming to you to let you know that you have
leverage.’”  Choe is the highest ranking North Korean official to visit
China since Kim succeeded his late father Kim Jong Il as leader
in 2011. He met today with Fan Changlong, the vice chairman of
China’s Central Military Commission.  Alleviate Tensions  During a meeting with Choe yesterday, Liu Yunshan, deputy
general secretary of China’s Communist Party, told Choe that
China hopes all countries concerned will stick to the goal of
denuclearization and resume six-nation talks as soon as possible
to alleviate tensions, according a Chinese Foreign Ministry
statement.  North Korea  is “willing to accept advice from the Chinese
side and carry out dialogue with relevant parties,” China’s
official Xinhua News Agency reported last night. The countries
in the talks are North and South Korea, China, Russia, Japan and
the U.S.  “I think the Chinese took advantage of the opportunity to
be able to express their displeasure with the regime, but also
give them some kind of bone to hopefully prevent them from going
beyond the provocation cycle,” said David S. Maxwell, associate
director of the Center for Security Studies at  Georgetown
University ’s School of Foreign Service.  South Korean Foreign Ministry has no confirmed knowledge on
whether Choe has met Chinese President Xi Jinping.  Too Early  South Korean Unification Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk
said today it was too early to draw any conclusion from the
remarks. Foreign Ministry spokesman Cho Tai Young declined to
comment.  U.S. State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell said the
Obama administration didn’t know enough about the visit to
characterize the remarks.  “We’re committed to keeping the five parties of the six-party process very much united and focused on denuclearization
and our core goal in that regard,” he said.  North Korea depends on China for  fuel oil  and  consumer
goods , and trade between the two has dropped since the rocket
launch and nuclear test. The regime fired six short-range
missiles between May 18 and 20, and freed a Chinese fishing
vessel and its crew on May 21 after China filed a formal
complaint over the detention.  Second-Highest  Choe, 63, holds the second-highest rank in the North Korean
military after Kim Jong Un. He rose to prominence in October
2010, when  Kim Jong Il  tapped him to serve as a guardian for his
son and successor.  The Chinese statement restated the government’s position on
four items that Kim’s government has rejected publicly,
including eliminating all nuclear weapons from the Korean
Peninsula and the six-nation talks, wrote U.S. intelligence
analyst John McCreary, an expert on Northeast  Asia , in his May
22 NightWatch newsletter, published by Kforce Government
Solutions Inc. of Fairfax, Virginia.  “The concluding paragraph of the Chinese statement is a
strong indicator that the conversation was probably ‘heated,’
not just ‘warm,’” McCreary wrote. “The next round of
appointments Choe makes or does not make will provide important
insights as to the state of China’s relations with North
Korea.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  