-- China May Factory Output Contracts in Test for Premier
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-23T10:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/china-manufacturing-contracts-for-first-time-in-seven-months.html
China ’s manufacturing is contracting
in May for the first time in seven months, adding to signs that
economic growth is losing steam for a second quarter.  The preliminary reading of 49.6 for a  Purchasing Managers’
Index (EC11FLAS)  released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
compares with a final 50.4 for April and the 50.4 median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading above 50
indicates expansion. A separate Markit  index (SHCOMP)  for euro-area
services and factory output increased more than forecast.  Asian  stocks  slumped after the data, which may test the new
government’s commitment to tolerate slower growth after Premier
 Li Keqiang  last week signaled reluctance to add stimulus.
Investors soured on China’s outlook in a Bloomberg global poll
this month, with the share of respondents who see the economy
deteriorating doubling from January.  “The slowdown is really bad,” said  Ken Peng , a BNP
Paribas SA economist based in Beijing. “It’s a big probability
now that China’s GDP growth rate in the second quarter will be
lower than in the first quarter,” he said, referring to gross
domestic product.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks fell 3.2 percent as
of 5:34 p.m. in  Tokyo , headed for the biggest loss since
November 2011, as Japan’s Topix Index closed down 6.9 percent,
the most since the aftermath of the Fukushima disaster in March
2011. The Australian dollar and copper also declined. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks fell 1.2 percent at
the close, the largest drop in a month.  Euro Recession  A euro-area  composite index  based on a survey of  purchasing
managers  in services and manufacturing rose to 47.7 from 46.9 in
April, London-based Markit said today, adding to signs the
currency union is beginning to emerge from its record-long
recession. The manufacturing and services gauges improved to
47.8 and 47.5, respectively, both three-month highs.  Still, the composite index has been below 50, indicating
contraction, for 16 consecutive months. The  European Central
Bank , which  cut its benchmark interest rate  to a record low of
0.5 percent this month, forecasts the euro-area economy will
shrink 0.5 percent in 2013.  “The euro zone’s second recession in five years looks set
to drag on into a seventh successive quarter,” Markit’s chief
economist,  Chris Williamson , said in today’s report. “The ECB’s
quarter-point cut in interest rates seems to have done little to
inspire confidence that the economy will start to pick up
again.”  U.S. Manufacturing  Elsewhere in  Europe , Britain’s economy resumed growth in
the first quarter as companies built up stocks and  consumer
spending  increased, offsetting a drop in exports. Gross domestic
product rose 0.3 percent in the period.  Markit’s U.S. manufacturing index probably fell to 51.2 in
May from 52.1 a month earlier, according to the median of 13
economists’ estimates in a  Bloomberg survey  before a report
later today.  China’s growth unexpectedly slowed to 7.7 percent in the
first quarter while remaining above the government’s full-year
target of 7.5 percent. Data earlier this month on fixed-asset
investment and  factory production  missed forecasts and gauges of
manufacturing and service industries declined. The economy
expanded 7.8 percent in 2012, the slowest pace in 13 years.  Second-quarter growth was projected at 7.8 percent, based
on the median estimate in a  Bloomberg News  survey conducted from
May 16 to May 21, down from last month’s 8 percent forecast.  ‘External Headwinds’  HSBC will release the final PMI reading on June 3. The
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing will release their own PMI survey, with a bigger
sample size, on June 1. The official PMI in April was 50.6, down
from 50.9 in March.  The preliminary, or flash PMI is based on about 85 percent
to 90 percent of responses from more than 420 manufacturers.
Today’s data reflect “slower domestic demand and ongoing
external headwinds,”  Qu Hongbin , HSBC’s Hong Kong-based chief
China economist, said in a statement. Signs of labor-market
slack “call for more policy support,” Qu said. “Beijing still
has fiscal ammunition to do so.”  A gauge of output showed a preliminary reading of 51 for
May, down from 51.1 in April, according to HSBC.  “We disagree with HSBC’s call for firing fiscal bullets”
because it’s not in line with the new leadership’s policy, said
 Steve Wang , chief China economist in  Hong Kong  for Reorient
Financial Markets Ltd. Output is still expanding and an index of
export orders improved, Wang said.  Subway Projects  Previously released data showed industrial production rose
9.3 percent in April from a year earlier, below the median
analyst estimate of 9.4 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.
Fixed-asset  investment  excluding rural areas rose 20.6 percent
in the first four months of the year, compared with forecasts
for 21 percent.  The National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top
economic-planning agency, in April approved 54.6 billion  yuan 
($8.9 billion) of subway projects in four cities, according to
statements posted on the commission’s website.  UBS AG this week cut its economic-growth forecast to 7.7
percent from 8 percent for this year, joining Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in reducing estimates for 2013 expansion.  At the same time, economists have forecast that the
 People’s Bank of China  is more likely to raise interest rates
than cut them in the coming year. Eight of 15 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News earlier this month project an increase in the
benchmark deposit rate by the end of June 2014, compared with
two who see a reduction.  ‘No Sign’  JPMorgan Chase & Co., among those projecting an  interest-rate  increase, said in a note today that “there is no sign that
the new government will introduce new pro-growth measures in the
very near term despite the weak economic data.”  Iron ore  slumped into a  bear market  last week on concern
that slowing economic growth in China, the world’s biggest
buyer, will hurt the outlook for demand. Prices will decline as
supplies expand over the long term, Alan Chirgwin, general
manager of iron ore marketing at Australia’s  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the largest mining company, said May 8.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  