-- Colombia Senators Drop America Movil Antitrust Proposal
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-05-24T20:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/colombia-lawmakers-shelve-antitrust-bill-aimed-at-america-movil.html
Colombian lawmakers shelved a bill
designed to challenge the dominance of  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  in the
mobile-phone industry, a victory for a company besieged by
regulatory crackdowns in  Latin America .  A Senate committee voted 6-3 to drop the measure, which
would have restricted any carrier from controlling more than 30
percent of the market, according to a  statement  yesterday on the
government’s website. Senators argued that  Colombia ’s
constitution already includes measures to address
anticompetitive behavior.  The decision allows  America Movil , whose Claro unit has  62
percent  of Colombia’s mobile-phone lines, to hold on to
subscribers it would have had to shed under the proposed law.
The company, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , is
contending with government-mandated fee cuts in Brazil and a new
Mexican law that may force it to share infrastructure.  “Claro’s power is very great, and the government also
didn’t promote or defend the bill,” said Jorge Enrique Robledo,
one of the proposal’s sponsors. “We’ll keep fighting.”  An America Movil press official declined to comment.  Colombia is planning an auction this year for licenses to
use public airwaves for 4G, or fourth-generation, wireless
services. The offer includes rules that would limit America
Movil to frequencies that are more expensive to operate.  Lawmakers are also working on a measure that would do away
with contracts that require wireless customers to stay with a
provider for a set time frame, Robledo said in an interview.  Colombia and Panama make up America Movil’s third-biggest
division after Mexico and Brazil, representing 9.5 percent of
sales.  America Movil was  unchanged  at 12.54 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, where it is based. The shares have dropped 16
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  