-- ComfortDelgro Falls After Investor Sells Stock: Singapore Mover
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   K e n n e t h   F o o
-- 2013-05-23T10:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/comfortdelgro-falls-after-investor-sells-stock-singapore-mover.html
ComfortDelgro Corp. (CD) , the biggest
operator of taxis and buses in Singapore, plunged the most in
more than a decade on the city’s stock exchange after its former
largest shareholder sold part of its stake.  The stock  fell  12 percent, the most since April 2003, to
close at S$1.925 in Singapore. The drop trimmed ComfortDelgro’s
gain this year to 8.1 percent,  compared  with a 7.1 percent
advance for the benchmark Straits Times Index.  Singapore Labour Foundation  raised S$329.8 million ($261
million), selling 170 million shares at S$1.94 each, 11 percent
lower than yesterday’s closing price, according to terms for the
deal obtained by Bloomberg. ComfortDelgro was formed in March
2003 after the merger between Comfort Group Ltd. and Delgro
Corp. to help the companies expand overseas and cut costs. It
now gets almost half its operating profit from overseas
operations.  “It’s very surprising as to why it has decided to cash out
right now,” said Siyi Lim, an analyst at OCBC Investment
Research in  Singapore  with a hold rating on the stock. “Most of
the street views Singapore Labour Foundation as a very long-term
investor that has been with Comfort since before the merger.”  UBS AG was the sole bookrunner for the placement.  Overseas Expansion  Singapore Labour Foundation was ComfortDelgro’s biggest
 shareholder  before it sold about 67 percent of shares it owned
in the taxi fleet operator. The investor last sold 124 million
shares in February 2006.  ComfortDelgro has been expanding its overseas business in
 China , U.K. and  Australia  through  acquisitions . The company
earlier this week said it agreed to pay A$22 million ($21
million) for Australia’s Driver Group Pty Ltd., which operates
bus routes in  Melbourne .  The stake sale doesn’t change the fundamentals of the
company, which has a strong  balance sheet  and potential growth
from acquisitions, said Chan Wen Jie, a Singapore-based analyst
at Nomura Holdings Inc. who recommends buying the stock.  “We suggest that investors focus on the facts and judge
the company by its fundamentals and not the noise generated by
this transaction,” Chan said.  ComfortDelgro reported first-quarter  net income  of S$57.7
million, 7.9 percent more than a year earlier, helped by its
taxi operations. Sales increased 1.8 percent to S$870.8 million.
The company had cash and near-cash of S$757.9 million at the end
of March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Foo in Singapore at 
 kfoo23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  