-- Commodities Drop on Double Blow of China Data, Bernanke R
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-05-23T11:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/commodities-drop-to-one-week-low-on-china-data-bernanke-remarks.html
Commodities fell for a third day,
paced by declines in copper and oil, as manufacturing in China
unexpectedly shrank for the first time in seven months and the
head of the  Federal Reserve  hinted that stimulus may be tapered.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities dropped
as much as 1.2 percent to the lowest level in a week, and was
0.5 percent lower at 623.11 at 11:46 a.m. in  London . Copper in
London, seen as an indicator of economic activity because of its
use in construction, lost 2 percent to $7,324 a ton. Oil in  New
York  sank 0.7 percent.  The preliminary reading for a Chinese  Purchasing Managers ’
Index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics missed
analysts’ estimates and came in below the level of 50 for May,
indicating a contraction. China is the biggest metals consumer
and the second-largest oil user. The S&P GSCI has fallen 3.7
percent this year as base metals dropped on prospects for
surpluses while gold and silver tumbled into bear markets.  “China’s PMI data coming in below forecast is adding a
strong downdraft across most commodity markets,” said Mark Keenan, a director of commodities research and strategy at
Societe Generale SA in  Singapore . “The comments from the Fed,
hinting at the scaling back of quantitative easing if the
economy improves further, have driven the dollar higher, which
is also contributing to the general weakness.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that the U.S.
central bank may reduce the pace of asset purchases in the next
few meetings if policy makers can be confident of sustained
improvement in the world’s largest economy. The Dollar Index
rose to its highest in almost three years today before declining
as the yen surged after stocks tumbled.  Labor Market  Bernanke also said in testimony to Congress yesterday that
a premature withdrawal of stimulus could endanger the U.S.
economic recovery. Many Fed officials said more labor market
progress is needed before paring $85 billion in monthly asset
purchases, minutes of their last meeting showed yesterday.  The preliminary reading of 49.6 in May for  China ’s PMI
compares with a final 50.4 for April and was below the 50.4
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, adding to signs growth is
losing steam for a second quarter.  China’s growth  slowed to 7.7
percent in the first quarter, after the second-largest economy
grew 7.8 percent in 2012, the slowest pace in 13 years.  “There was a double blow of bad news to risk appetite the
last 18 hours, starting with Bernanke testimony that was widely
viewed as opening a more-than-expected door to a slowing in the
pace of Fed balance sheet expansion, followed by weak data out
of China,” Citigroup Inc. analysts including Steve Englander,
head of Group of 10 currency strategy, wrote in a note today.  West Texas Intermediate crude for July delivery fell as
much as 1.7 percent to $92.67 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $93.48 at 12:03 p.m. London time.
Nickel, zinc, and aluminum declined on the London Metal
Exchange, while spot palladium and platinum also retreated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  