-- Conditions Ripe for Active Atlantic Hurricane Season
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-05-23T19:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/conditions-ripe-for-active-atlantic-hurricane-season.html
Warm Atlantic waters and favorable
wind patterns may produce 13 to 20 named storms this year for
the fourth above-average hurricane season in a row, the  National
Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration  predicted.  Of those storms, seven to 11 may become hurricanes with
winds of at least 74 miles (119 kilometers) per hour, and three
to six may become major systems with winds greater than 111 mph,
said Kathryn Sullivan, acting NOAA administrator.  There’s no way to tell now where those storms may strike,
she said during a conference call with reporters.  “We can tell you your weather-risk exposure can be high
and may be extremely high,” Sullivan said. “If you live along
the shorelines, this is your warning.”  Last year, four systems struck the U.S., including
hurricanes Isaac and Sandy, which together caused more than $52
billion in damage and killed at least 179 people. That marked
three years in a row with 19 storms, the third-most in a single
season.  The most named storms ever recorded in a season was 28 in
2005, the year of  Hurricane Katrina . There were also 19 storms
in 1995 and 1887, according to the  National Hurricane Center .
The 30-year average is 12. A system receives a name when its
winds reach 39 mph.  The NOAA forecast is in line with one issued last month by
researchers at  Colorado State University  that called for 18
tropical storms, nine of which may become hurricanes and four
major systems.  Warmer Atlantic  Waters across the tropical Atlantic are currently 0.8
degree Fahrenheit (0.4 Celsius) warmer than normal, said Gerry Bell, lead seasonal hurricane forecaster for the  U.S. Climate
Prediction Center  in  College Park ,  Maryland .  In addition, waters in the  Pacific Ocean  are near normal in
temperature, which make winds in the Atlantic more favorable for
hurricane formation.  The Atlantic is also in a period when it is producing more
storms. That began in 1995 and is expected to last for at least
another 20 years.  “This year, regarding the factors for the  hurricane
season , there are no mitigating factors that would suppress the
activity,” Bell said.  The six-month Atlantic season begins June 1 and runs
through Nov. 30.  Last year , two storms had formed before the
starting day. Bell said there isn’t any indication that will
happen again this year.  Season’s Peak  Hurricane activity begins to pick up about Aug. 20 and the
statistical peak of the season occurs on Sept. 10, according to
hurricane center data.  Sullivan said it’s impossible to determine this far ahead
 where hurricanes will land  and whether the U.S. will be struck
by a major storm. The U.S. hasn’t been hit by a Category 3 or
higher system since 2005.  “Mother Nature may know that answer, but science does not
know that answer,” Sullivan said.  With nothing to stop hurricane formation this year, people
need to prepare now, said Joe Nimmich, the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency ’s associate administrator for response and
recovery.  “This is a very dangerous hurricane season,” Nimmich
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  