-- Confidence Improves as U.S. Consumers’ Views on Economy Mend
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-05-23T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/confidence-improves-as-u-s-consumers-views-on-economy-mend.html
Consumer sentiment advanced last
week, an indication that gains in housing and stock markets are
bolstering Americans’ outlooks on the economy.  The weekly Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  Index (COMFCOMF)  increased to
minus 29.4 for the period ended May 19 from minus 30.2 the prior
week. A measure of personal finances was positive for a sixth
consecutive week, the longest stretch in more than five years.  Higher  stock prices  and property values are helping
consumers repair finances, which may underpin spending, the
biggest part of the economy. Many Federal Reserve policy makers
have said more labor-market progress is needed to ensure the
expansion is sustained, which means low  interest rates  will
probably continue to prop up households’ assets.  “Price appreciation in domestic equity markets and housing
has likely bolstered confidence of Americans in the
sustainability of the current expansion,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “The
late arrival of the recovery in housing should serve to elongate
that expansion.”  The comfort gauge has been hovering close to a five-year
high of minus 28.9 reached at the end of April. It foreshadowed
a similar gain in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
index of  consumer sentiment , which reached an almost six-year
high this month.  Fewer Americans than projected filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, a sign that the job market is
sustaining recent gains, another report today showed.  Fewer Claims  Jobless claims  decreased by 23,000 to 340,000 in the week
ended May 18, according to figures from the Labor Department.
The median forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a drop to 345,000.  Stocks dropped as data showed Chinese manufacturing
unexpectedly shrank and equity markets from  Europe  to  Japan 
tumbled. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1 percent to
1,637.48 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York .  Two of the three components of the comfort index climbed
last week.  The index of Americans’ views of the national economy
improved to minus 55, its strongest in a month and second-highest since January 2008, from minus 57.9 in the prior week. A
gauge of buying conditions was little changed at minus 34.4 from
minus 34.6.  While down on the week, to 1.3 from 1.8, the gauge of
personal finances was positive for a sixth consecutive period,
its strongest run since March-April 2008.  Upper Income  Those earning from $75,000 to $100,000 a year are
particularly optimistic, with that income group turning positive
for the first time since November 2007. Confidence for
households with incomes of $100,000 or more a year has been
positive in 28 of the past 29 weeks.  Homeowners registered their strongest reading since January
2008, reflecting healing in residential real estate.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes climbed in April to
the highest level in more than three years, the National
Association of Realtors reported yesterday in  Washington .
Purchases of existing houses increased 0.6 percent to an annual
rate of 4.97 million, the most since November 2009.  Residential real-estate  prices  rose in February by the most
since May 2006, with the S&P/Case-Shiller index of house values
in 20 cities up 9.3 percent from a year ago.  “The housing market continues to show convincing signs of
life,”  Robert Niblock , chief executive officer of  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) ,
the second-largest U.S. home-improvement retailer, said on an
earnings call yesterday. “We do expect that the lagged effect
of recent gains in housing will benefit home-improvement demand
as the year progresses.”  Fed Action  Still, more improvement in the world’s largest economy will
be needed to convince the Fed to slow the pace of monthly asset
purchases that are meant to boost the recovery.  The  unemployment rate  stands at 7.5 percent almost four
years into a recovery from the longest and deepest recession
since the Great Depression. Payrolls in April climbed by 165,000
workers, the Labor Department said, after a gain of 138,000 jobs
in March.  “A premature tightening of  monetary policy  could lead
interest rates to rise temporarily but would also carry a
substantial risk of slowing or ending the economic recovery and
causing inflation to fall further,” Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said yesterday in testimony to the Joint Economic
Committee of Congress in Washington. Monetary policy is
providing “significant benefits,” he said.  Many Fed officials said more progress on the labor market
is needed before deciding to slow the pace of asset purchases,
according to minutes of their last meeting.  Older Americans  Among age groups, confidence among 55- to 64-year-olds
climbed last week to minus 28.8, the strongest since December
2007, from minus 35.5 in the prior period.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers ages 18 and older.  Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their views on the
 U.S. economy , personal finances and buying climate. The
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  