-- Congo, Rwanda Must Commit to Peace for World Bank’s $1 Billion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-05-23T11:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/congo-rwanda-must-commit-to-peace-for-world-bank-s-1-billion.html
World Bank  President Jim Yong Kim
said the lender’s $1 billion pledge to  Africa ’s Great Lakes
region obliges countries including the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo and  Rwanda  to adhere to a peace accord signed in February.  Kim is traveling in the region with United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon amid renewed fighting between
rebels and the Congolese army in eastern Congo, which has
experienced nearly two decades of conflict. Congo joined 10
African countries, regional organizations and the UN in signing
a so-called framework agreement in February to bring peace to
the region.  The World Bank is “dramatically increasing our commitment
to a regional solution because we think that the opportunity of
the peace framework is so important that we’ve got to move with
extra funding,” Kim said in an interview yesterday in Kinshasa,
Congo’s capital. “We’re asking everyone to abide by the peace
framework.”  The bank, based in  Washington , will provide $1 billion in
new funds to promote cross-border trade and for projects
including hydropower plants and road construction, Kim announced
yesterday. The programs will benefit Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, and
Tanzania, he said.  “For us, it’s not so much a gamble as it is a commitment
up front that the kind of development we’re talking about –-
energy, agriculture, health care, trade –- that these are the
things that are at the root of the conflict in the first
place,” Kim said.  Rwandan Genocide  Fighting in Congo began when the perpetrators of Rwanda’s
1994 genocide fled over the border to Congo along with millions
of refugees. Two wars followed, in which soldiers from at least
seven African countries fought on Congolese soil. A peace
agreement was signed in 2003, though more than a dozen foreign
and Congolese rebel groups remain in the country’s east.  As of March, about 1.6 million people were displaced in
North and South Kivu provinces, which border Rwanda, Burundi,
Tanzania and  Uganda , according to the UN Humanitarian Agency.  Last year, Congo and UN experts accused Rwanda and Uganda
of backing rebels in the mineral-rich provinces. Both countries
denied the charges. Western nations including the U.S., the U.K.
and  Germany  withheld hundreds of millions of dollars in planned
aid to Rwanda because of the accusations.  Under the terms of the February peace framework,
signatories pledged not to destabilize neighboring countries or
support armed groups. Congo agreed to reorganize its army and
police, which have been accused by the UN of abuses. The Central
African country also said it would decentralize power, undertake
governmental and financial reforms, and promote reconciliation
and democracy.  Growth Recovering  Congo’s wars decimated its economy, which is slowly
recovering. While gross domestic product increased 7.2 percent
last year, in March the UN named Congo the least-developed
country in the world, tied with Niger.  Congo’s reputation for corruption has discouraged companies
from investing in the country of more than 70 million people,
according to the World Bank. In 2013, the International Finance
Corp., the bank’s private-lending arm, ranked Congo 181 out of
185 economies listed by ease of doing business. In November, the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its loan program with Congo
because of concern that the way the government manages the
 mining industry  is opaque.  Congo was the world’s largest producer of cobalt and the
eighth-largest producer of copper last year, according to the
 U.S. Geological Survey .  “There are always going to be problems and downsides with
the governance of places that are fragile and conflict-affected
like the DRC,” Kim said. “The point is that by investing, and
by helping governments get better, that over time we can both
reduce the conflict and improve governance overall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  