-- Copper Falls Most in Three Weeks as China Manufacturing Shrinks
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-23T18:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/copper-falls-most-in-three-weeks-as-china-manufacturing-shrinks.html
Copper fell the most in three weeks
in  New York  after manufacturing shrank for the first time in
seven months in  China , the world’s biggest user of the metal.  A  Purchasing Managers ’ Index from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics showed a preliminary reading today of 49.6 for
May, below the level of 50 separating growth and contraction.
Asian stocks slumped after the data, which may test the new
government’s commitment to tolerate slower growth after Premier
 Li Keqiang  last week signaled reluctance to add stimulus.  “Reduced demand prospects for metals, coupled with
abundant capacity and a government not inclined to ‘prime the
pump,’ means that China will not be coming to the rescue of the
metal markets,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL FCStone in New
York, said in a report. “Overall growth estimates for China are
being reduced.”  Copper futures for delivery in July dropped 2.3 percent to
settle at $3.304 a pound at 1:17 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest decline since May 1.  New Chinese rules taking effect from June are likely to
halt commodity-financing accords in the country, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said in a report. An end to copper-financing
transactions would be negative for prices, the bank said.  The metal advanced 6.1 percent this month through yesterday
amid signs of an improving U.S. housing market and a  jump  in
orders to remove copper from inventories.  Sales of new U.S. homes climbed in April to the second-highest level in almost five years, a government report showed
today. An average single-family house contains 439 pounds of
copper, according to the  website  of Peoria, Arizona-based  Viking
Minerals Inc. (VKML)  The metal is used in pipes and wiring.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months retreated 2.3 percent to $7,300 a metric ton ($3.31 a
pound).  Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc were also lower in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  