-- Dutch Scientists Defend Patenting of Saudi Coronavirus
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-05-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/coronavirus-found-in-saudi-patented-by-dutch-scientists.html
Dutch scientists who took out a
patent on the novel coronavirus that’s killed 22 people since
emerging in Saudi Arabia last year defended the move after the
Saudi Health Ministry said the patent was hindering the fight
against the outbreak.  Albert Osterhaus and  Ron Fouchier , virologists at Erasmus
Medical Center in the Netherlands, said patenting the virus was
a “normal thing to do,” and that they have shared it freely
with more than 40 labs worldwide, in a phone interview from
Rotterdam yesterday.  “We’re still sharing this virus with everyone who wants to
do public health research,” Osterhaus said. The suggestion that
the patent was impeding progress in public health was
“definitely not the case,” he said.  Saudi Deputy Health Minister, Ziad Memish, told the  World
Health Assembly  in Geneva earlier yesterday that the virus was
sent from the country without proper permission, and that
scientists outside the country had signed contracts with
companies that make antivirals and vaccines, delaying the
development of a diagnostic test. The assembly is the top
decision-making body of the World Health Organization.  Osterhaus said no agreements have been signed with any
companies, and “diagnostic tests were developed instantly and
were made freely available immediately to anyone who asked for
them.”  Killer Virus  The virus now known as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome
Coronavirus, or MERS-CoV, has sickened at least  44 people 
globally since June, and killed 22, of which 10 have been in
Saudi Arabia, according to the WHO. Laboratory-confirmed cases
have also been reported in  Jordan , Qatar, the United Arab
Emirates,  France , the U.K., Germany and Tunisia, the United
Nations health agency said.  The doctor who treated the first case, Ali Mohamed Zaki,
sent a sample of the virus to Osterhaus and Fouchier for
identification, Osterhaus said.  “He didn’t know what he had,” he said.  WHO Director-General Margaret Chan told health ministers
and officials at the assembly yesterday that the virus should
have been sent to a WHO lab, and that she would investigate the
legal implications of the event.  “Please, I’m very strong on this,” she said. “Making
deals between scientists because they want to take out IP and be
the first to publish in scientific journals, we cannot allow
that. No intellectual property should stand in the way of you
protecting your people. Do you agree or not?”  The assembly applauded.  ‘Ethical Obligation’  Osterhaus and Fouchier said they had an “ethical
obligation” to patent the virus in order to accelerate the
development of vaccines and antivirals.  “Industry would not be interested if there was a patent
minefield,” Osterhaus said. Erasmus is not in discussions with
any companies “at this stage” and the patent may never make
any money, he said.  Keiji Fukuda, the WHO’s assistant director-general for
health, security and the environment, said the agency’s first
priority was to deal with the outbreak.  “When you have a house burning, you look at how to put the
fire out,” Fukuda told reporters in Geneva yesterday. “That’s
what we’re worried about. Later on you might look at the
neighborhood and what the other issues are.”  Few Patents  There are few patents on viruses mainly because most of the
known ones were identified a long time ago, said  Kevin Noonan , a
biotechnology patent lawyer with McDonnell Boehnen Hulbert &
Berghoff in  Chicago . The patent would be on an isolated version
that’s made in the laboratory rather than the virus as it’s
found in a patient, he said. Research institutes commonly obtain
patents on their work as a way to control how it’s being used
even if they allow others to conduct tests freely, he said.  “It’s great publicity to say they’re sharing it,” Noonan
said. “They’re trying to be good citizens because they’re a
university.”  Coronaviruses are a family of pathogens that cause
illnesses ranging from the common cold to SARS, which sickened
more than 8,000 people in 2002 and 2003, according to the WHO.
While the new virus is related to the one that causes SARS, it
appears far less transmissible, the WHO has said.  Fouchier authored a study last year that showed five
genetic tweaks to the deadly H5N1 bird flu virus made it
airborne in ferrets, the mammals whose response to flu most
closely resembles that of humans. Fouchier’s team, and another
group led by Yoshihiro Kawaoka at the University of Wisconsin at
Madison, called a voluntary moratorium on the work after
publication of their studies was delayed over concerns their
research may be used by bioterrorists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  