-- Credit Risk Surges From Three-Year Low on Slowing Growth Concern
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-05-23T08:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/credit-risk-surges-from-three-year-low-on-slowing-growth-concern.html
The cost of insuring European
corporate debt rose from a three-year low as disappointing
Chinese manufacturing data triggered concern global economic
growth will slow.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings rose seven basis
points, or eight percent, to 94 basis points at 9:30 a.m. in
 London , the biggest increase in more than nine months.  Manufacturing in  China  unexpectedly fell for the first time
in seven months, according to a report from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said yesterday that a premature end to stimulus could endanger
the U.S. economic recovery.  “It’s a combination of the Chinese PMI data and Bernanke’s
statement yesterday,” said Juan Esteban Valencia, a strategist
at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “Stocks are lower and these
indexes are taking a cue from equities thus heading wider. After
a sustained period of risk-on we’re having a risk-off day.”  In the corporate  bond market , U.K. tour operator  Thomas
Cook Group Plc (TCG)  is marketing a sale of 525 million euros ($677
million) of seven-year bonds as part of a package to refinance
the equivalent of $2.4 billion of debt. The notes are expected
to yield 7.625 percent to 7.875 percent, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  Betting Shops  William Hill Plc (WMH) , a U.K. operator of more than 2,300
betting shops, is meeting bond investors starting May 28 for a
potential sale of pound-denominated securities, a person
familiar with the plan said. The company, which last sold debt
in 2009, hired Barclays Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc to arrange the meetings.  The average yield investors demand to hold euro-denominated
corporate bonds fell to 1.74 percent, holding near the record
1.72 percent reached on May 17, while sterling bonds yield 3.45
percent on average, up from a low of 3.34 percent on May 2, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on 50
companies with high-yield credit ratings jumped 25.5 basis
points to 392, the highest in a week and the biggest rise since
March 20. An increase signals deterioration in perceptions of
 credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers rose eight basis points to 134, and the
subordinated index climbed 13 basis points to 190.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  