-- Crude Landlocked as Canadians Join U.S. to Halt Pipelines
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-05-24T08:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/crude-landlocked-as-canadians-join-u-s-to-halt-pipelines.html
British Columbia , the Canadian
province whose official slogan to its own beauty is “Super,
Natural,” is invoking another saying: “No more supertankers.”  That’s potentially big trouble in a nation where  oil
exports  amount to $73 billion annually and the industry employs
more than 550,000 workers. It’s also a bad omen for nations,
notably  China , that have invested billions in Canadian oil
projects with expectations that they will one day be able to buy
vast quantities of heavy Canadian crude.  To do that means not just pumping it from the vast  tar
sands  -- thought to hold as many as 170 billion barrels -- lying
mainly to the east in the neighboring province of  Alberta . It
also means building pipelines to carry that heavy oil, known as
bitumen, west to the coast. From there, fleets of supertankers
will be needed to ship it across the Pacific to Asian markets
that desperately want cheap oil.  Two such projects, representing about C$11.4 billion ($11.1
billion) in investments, are on the drawing boards. British
Columbia, with its mountainous forests, national parks and
salmon streams standing between the crude and the sea, wants no
part of those pipelines -- nor does it want its scenic bays to
be turned into supertanker terminals.  In  Vancouver , with a metro-area population of 2.5 million,
the evergreen-rimmed, blue sprawl of English Bay laps up to the
city center and is already a port for supertankers taking crude
from an existing pipeline known as the Trans Mountain conduit.
Sean Austin offered an opinion sounded often there -- that
enough is enough. “English Bay shouldn’t become a parking lot
for supertankers,” Austin, a 41-year-old construction worker,
said in an interview as the sun set over a seawall behind him.  Chinese Caught Out?  An end to the pipeline projects would be devastating news
to a number of Chinese companies including  Sinopec (386)  and  Cnooc
Ltd. (883)  Collectively, they have invested $36.3 billion in Canadian
oil and gas assets over the past two years -- the largest
foreign investment in  Canada ’s petroleum industry.  “The expectation for Chinese investors from the very
beginning was that Canadian oil would physically be delivered to
China,”  Wenran Jiang , an adviser to the Alberta government on
Asian investment, said in an interview. “Chinese companies are
heavily invested in the  oil sands  and they want to see these
pipelines built.”  Austin’s view is backed up by a recent opinion poll that
shows 60 percent of British Columbia voters fear continued oil
and gas development will ruin their green paradise. The two
projects drawing their ire are  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s  Northern Gateway 
pipeline and the proposed expansion of  Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners LP (KMP) ’s  Trans Mountain conduit .  Kinder Morgan Campaign  Kinder Morgan has been conducting a “grassroots” campaign
to meet with British Columbians that would be affected by its
project, in what will amount to a two-year effort in advance of
the company seeking regulatory approval in late 2013, Ian
Anderson, president of  Kinder Morgan ’s Canadian unit, said
yesterday in Calgary.  There is “value-based opposition and opinion-based
opposition, and where we have our work ahead of us is to
understand where that opinion lacks information, lacks clarity,
and informing that,” Anderson said in an interview yesterday.  Across Rockies  Northern Gateway would cut a line across the middle of the
province through a national park and over the Rockies and Coast
Mountains, an area sparsely inhabited by aboriginal groups that
say they don’t like pipelines. Kinder Morgan wants to more than
double capacity on the Trans Mountain conduit, in operation for
half a century, to 890,000 barrels a day to bring more oil
through Vancouver to the city’s port.  Without these and other such projects, “Canada’s oil
industry is facing a serious challenge to its long-term
growth,”  Craig Alexander , chief economist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank, said in an interview.  While fights over  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline,
designed to transport Canadian tar-sands oil to U.S. refineries,
have gotten most of the press, this long-simmering and
escalating resentment of the province becoming a tar-sands
conduit may in the end prove more damaging.  British Columbia voters on May 14 went through provincial
elections in which the opposing parties fought hotly over a
laundry list of social and economic issues. Yet the parties
agreed vociferously on one thing: British Columbia will not
sacrifice its environment for economic growth.  Harper’s Position  The national ruling  Conservative Party  of Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper  favors oil and gas development and has the power
to outright veto a pipeline project, following hearings by the
national energy regulator. In January 2012, as pipeline
regulatory hearings were about to begin, Harper’s government
seemed steadfast in its support of the Northern Gateway project
with Joe Oliver, Harper’s natural resources minister, accusing
opponents of attempting to “hijack” the nation’s regulatory
process in an effort to block energy exports.  As pipeline opposition mounted across the nation, however,
Oliver in a speech last October said such projects shouldn’t
proceed unless they are “safe and responsible.”  “We are committed to building a strong economy and
protecting the environment,” said Todd Nogier, an Enbridge
spokesman. “There is support for the project. And we are
committed to increasing support.”  Even if the federal government gives the green light,
British Columbia and its green groups have weapons to fight the
projects beyond the court of public opinion.  Ecojustice Lawsuit  Litigation, potentially long and costly, is already a
reality. Environmental groups led by  Ecojustice  filed suit in
September to stop the pipeline projects, contending that the
federal government hasn’t performed adequate environmental
impact statements on the threat to imperiled species.  One British Columbia native group, the Saik’uz First
Nation, has also threatened legal action should Enbridge win a
green light from the federal regulator. The company has been
threatened with civil disobedience and legal action that will go
on “for years,” said John Ridsdale, a hereditary chief of the
 Wet’suwet’en nation .  “The big concern is the tanker traffic on the coast,”
according to Andrew Weaver, a University of Victoria climate
scientist and the first Green Party member to win a seat in the
provincial legislature. “That issue won’t go away.”  Oil Price Reaction  The uncertainty over the fate of these pipelines is
beginning show up in the oil price, with Canada’s biggest export
being discounted as land-locked supplies build up.  The price of Canadian heavy has fallen 17 percent from last
year’s high of $90.50. The discount to the U.S. price is costing
the Canadian economy C$27 billion a year in lost profits and
taxes and deprives markets of the world’s cheapest crude,
according to the Alberta Finance Minister Doug Horner.  A majority of British Columbians don’t care. The same poll
by Forum Research in December that found 60 percent of voters
opposed oil and gas development also found only 37 percent of
voters in favor.  Of course, Vancouver is known as “Lotus Land” in the rest
of Canada. It’s also home to yoga-gear maker  Lululemon Athletica
Inc. (LULU) , a mayor who started an organic juice company called Happy
Planet and a green movement every bit as vociferous as
 California ’s.  So even as British Columbia’s economy has
traditionally been reliant on forestry and mining, the times and
attitudes are changing.  “People have a right to enjoy this inlet, this very small
inlet, without having to look at  oil tankers ,” said Austin.
“You have this wonderful sea walk. If the pipeline goes through
and you have more tankers, what’s the use of having a sea
walk?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  