-- Crude-by-Rail Boosts Union Pacific as CEO Sees 40% Gain
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-05-23T17:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/crude-by-rail-boosts-union-pacific-as-ceo-sees-40-gain.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest U.S.
railroad, may carry as much as 40 percent more crude oil in 2013
and is seeing evidence that the slump in coal shipments is over,
Chief Executive Officer Jack Koraleski said.  The gains in crude-by-rail, driven by increasing output
from hard-to-reach petroleum deposits in shale formations, can
withstand the construction of pipelines including Keystone XL,
Koraleski said in an interview today at Bloomberg headquarters
in New York.  “We’ve proved we can move oil two to three times faster
than a pipeline, and we’ve proved we can be consistent and
reliable,” Koraleski said. “Customers have told me that, if
and when they build a pipeline, they’re still going to carve out
a piece of their business for rail.”  Crude volume grew more than threefold at Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific last year, helping the Omaha, Nebraska-based
company achieve record  profit . That helped ease the effects of a
decline in coal, the company’s largest cargo, as utilities
switched to less expensive natural gas to generate electricity.  Coal shipments climbed 8.1 percent in the week ended May 18
from a year earlier, just the second gain of 2013 and the
largest in more than 15 months, according to Association of
American Railroads data analyzed by Bloomberg.  “We’re at the bottom,” Koraleski said. “We need a nice,
normal summer and the coal business will be coming back. We’ve
turned the corner.”  Economic Growth  Union Pacific fell 1.21 percent to $155.68 at 1:40 p.m. in
 New York  trading. The stock previously climbed 25 percent this
year,  compared  with a 16 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  The crude gains enhance growth in the company’s other
businesses. Union Pacific’s revenue from automobile shipments
climbed 13 percent to $487 million in the first quarter on 2
percent higher volume, the company said last month. Lumber
volumes, which are tied to new  home construction ,  grew 18
percent , helping push industrial-products sales up 6 percent to
$916 million.  The advances show the  U.S. economy  is gaining strength,
Koraleski said.  “We’re seeing a nice, slow and steady growth in the
economy,” he said. “When we look at housing starts and we look
at the automobile business, we think that’s a pretty good
indication that  consumer confidence  is doing OK.”  The surge in domestic petroleum production that’s driving
increases in Union Pacific’s crude volumes is also drawing
foreign manufacturers to the U.S., Koraleski said.  “In the last 12 to 15 months, we’ve probably had six
different companies that have made a decision, rather than build
where they historically have, to build within the U.S.,”
Koraleski said. “We have a lot more people lining up to talk to
us about potential rail sites.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  