-- Dallas Cowboys’ Josh Brent Faces Possible Bail Revocation
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/dallas-cowboys-josh-brent-faces-possible-bail-revocation.html
Dallas Cowboys football player Josh Brent, charged with intoxication manslaughter after a car crash
that killed teammate  Jerry Brown , faces possible revocation of
his bail.  Dallas prosecutors in court papers filed yesterday said
Brent missed two bond-supervision appointments, may have
tampered with an electronic monitor he must wear to maintain his
freedom before trial and has “repetitively” failed to download
data from the device.  “It is the state’s belief that the defendant has violated
his conditions of pretrial release by interfering with the
court’s ability to properly monitor him while he is on bond,”
Assistant Criminal District Attorney Gary C. McDonald Jr. wrote
in the filing.  A hearing is scheduled for today before Dallas County Judge
 Robert Burns . Brent’s attorney, George Milner, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment on the prosecutor’s request.  The accident happened Dec. 8 when the car, which was moving
at a high rate of speed, flipped at least once after hitting a
curb, according to police. Brent had a blood-alcohol level more
than twice the legal limit for operating a  motor vehicle , the
Dallas Morning News has reported.  Brent was indicted in December and faces as long as 20
years in prison if he’s found guilty. The defensive lineman’s
trial is scheduled for Sept. 23.  Ankle Bracelet  Bail terms required him to post a $100,000 bond. He was
forbidden from consuming alcohol and required to wear the ankle
bracelet, which monitors his blood alcohol level.  Brent was in his third season in the  National Football
League  after playing at the  University of Illinois  and started
five games last season.  Brown, who also attended  Illinois , joined the Cowboys’
practice squad on Oct. 24. He had yet to appear on the active
roster.  Debbie Denmon, spokeswoman for the Dallas District Attorney
Craig Watkins, said, “We’re going to ask the judge to lock him
up and it’s up to the judge  whether he wants to do that.”  The case is State of  Texas  v. Brent, F12-35545, Criminal
District Court, Dallas County, Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  