-- Draghi Says Bond-Buying Pledge Helps Transmit Rates
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-24T06:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/draghi-says-bond-pledge-helping-interest-rate-cuts-reach-economy.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said his pledge to buy  government bonds  is helping to
ensure that interest-rate cuts reach the parts of the euro-area
economy that need them the most.  “Our measures gave breathing space from markets driven by
panic, which were forcing the economy into a position where
inappropriately high  interest rates  would make default a self-fulfilling prophecy,” Draghi said in a speech in  London .
“Today we are seeing some encouraging signs of tangible
improvements in financial conditions. Spreads in sovereign and
corporate debt markets have narrowed considerably.”  Since Draghi pledged last year to buy unlimited amounts of
government bonds in exchange for countries signing up to
economic reforms, conditions in euro-area financial markets have
improved. Even though his so-called Outright Monetary
Transactions program has yet to be used, bond yields in
distressed countries such as Greece and  Spain  have dropped from
euro-era records and banks’ reliance on ECB funding has
declined, indicating confidence is returning.  The ECB has “started observing convincing signs that
fragmentation on the funding side for banks has decreased
greatly,” Draghi said last night. “And although bank lending
to businesses and households remains anaemic, we are now seeing
some signs of slight improvement on the lending side as well.”  Challenging Conditions  The yield on Greek 10-year bonds fell below 10 percent on
May 3 for the first time since October 2010. It traded at 8.83
percent at 8:28 a.m. in Frankfurt. The yield on Spanish 10-year
securities rose 2 basis points to 4.31 percent. The euro was
little changed at $1.2937.  The ECB cut its  benchmark interest rate  to a record low of
0.5 percent this month and Draghi indicated he’s ready to lower
borrowing costs again if the economic outlook deteriorates. The
Frankfurt-based institution will publish new forecasts in June.  “Economic conditions in the euro area remain challenging”
and “labor-market conditions remain weak,” Draghi said. “To
maintain and expand the productive capacity of our societies,
national governments need to improve the structural functioning
of their respective economies.”  The “painful” reforms already undertaken by debt-strapped
countries “are starting to bear fruit,” he said. “We see this
very clearly, for instance, in the impressive improvement in
export performance in Ireland, Spain and  Portugal  and in the
recent uptick in industrial production in the latter two
countries.”  Europe ’s monetary union is more stable than it was a year
ago and markets are “fully confident that the euro is a strong
and stable currency,” Draghi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  