-- Drowning Caused One-Third of Deaths From Hurricane Sandy
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-23T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/drowning-caused-one-third-of-deaths-from-hurricane-sandy.html
One-third of the victims who died
because of  Hurricane Sandy  drowned, according to a U.S. report
that emphasizes the need for plans that ensure residents are
moved to safety.  Of 117 deaths caused by the October storm, 40 were from
drowning, the  U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
said today in a report. Flooded homes in  New York City  accounted
for almost half the drownings.  New York  state was the hardest
hit by Sandy, with 53 deaths from all causes, followed by  New
Jersey  with 34 and Pennsylvania with 12, the CDC said.  Sandy hit the New York and New Jersey coastlines on Oct. 29
and within 48 hours the region had six to 12 inches of
precipitation, as many as 8 million people without power and
20,000 people in shelters, the CDC said. Emergency plans need to
make sure evacuation messages are clear and residents are able
to leave, according to the report.  “Hurricane-related drowning deaths in evacuation zones are
preventable,” the CDC said. “A successful evacuation depends
on officials providing timely messaging to all affected persons,
on persons receiving those messages, and on persons having the
capacity, resources, and willingness to leave.”  Of the 40 drowning deaths, 21 were in people’s homes, 11
were outside, one was in a commercial building and another
person drowned while intentionally swimming off a storm-affected
beach, according to the report.  The number of deaths attributed to the storm were compiled
from American Red Cross reports, the CDC said. The American Red
Cross notes listed reasons for not evacuating by 20 people who
died in flooded homes in or near New York City’s Evacuation Zone
A, including a fear of looters, lack of transportation, and
disbelief in the intensity of the storm after a previous one
turned out to be mild.  While drowning also was the leading cause of death for
 Hurricane Katrina  in the  Gulf Coast  in 2005, that has not been
the usual case in recent decades, the CDC said. Trauma was the
leading cause of deaths for Florida hurricanes in 2004 and 2005,
and carbon monoxide poisoning for Hurricane Ike in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  