-- The Mathematician Who Could Be a Movie Star
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-05-23T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/the-mathematician-who-could-be-a-movie-star.html
In the distraction of the scandal-fever swirling through  Washington  and the news media, you might
have missed the announcement the other day that one of the great
puzzles of number theory had been solved.  What makes the news most fascinating is that the solver
isn’t on the faculty of a top university and wasn’t known until
this month to others who work in the field. He is a Chinese
immigrant in his 50s named Yitang Zhang, a onetime accountant
and part-time lecturer at the University of  New Hampshire  who
used to make sandwiches in a Subway shop.  Said  one leading
number theorist: “Basically, no one knows him.”  Cue the agents and film producers.  Because the story gets better. Zhang’s accomplishment
tracks our romantic vision of the dedicated genius working alone
in his garage. The truth is even more unlikely.  Zhang hit upon the crucial idea not in his garage but at a
friend’s house in  Colorado , where he had gone to clear his head.
He was sitting in the backyard, waiting to leave for a concert.
(Imagine it cinematically: Zhang skips the concert, ignoring the
entreaties of his skeptical hosts, and refuses to budge from the
yard, where he sits all through the frigid Rocky Mountain night,
feverishly scratching equations into tree bark.)  Faithful Genius  The achievement that has inspired such awe among
mathematicians is Zhang’s proof of the “weak” form of the twin
prime conjecture -- a proof so strong that he was recently asked
to present it to an audience at  Harvard University . This isn’t
the place to explain what the twin prime conjecture is, or why
it has a strong and weak form, or even why the solution has
posed such a challenge. (Here’s  a good primer  for the
mathematically curious.)  The fascinating part is how Zhang succeeded where others
had failed. There was no flash of genius, no invention of an
entirely new methodology. He saw the promise in an approach that
others had abandoned, and -- mirabile dictu! -- had enough faith
in his idea to stick with it until everything clicked. (Note to
producers: Be sure to write in mocking younger colleagues, who
think the old guy is past it. See if Benedict whatshisname --
the “Star Trek” guy -- is available.)  The story’s had a bit of coverage, but not nearly what it
deserves. The media by and large aren’t terribly excited about
science these days. Technology, sure -- albeit generally on the
very personal level. An exciting new smartphone application will
get commentators salivating, and smiling news anchors will
report the results of the latest clinical study on the efficacy
of a popular drug, whether or not they understand the data.  Pure science, however, discovery for discovery’s sake -- in
short, using our brains because we have them -- doesn’t get a
lot of airtime. (Except when thrillingly dangerous, like  the
rumors  a few years back that the Large Hadron Collider near
Geneva might create a black hole that would destroy the world.
The world, having survived, immediately lost interest.)  I’ve  noted before  that we may be losing a generation of
pure scientists. It has become a truism that many of the
brightest science, technology, engineering and math majors are
passing up graduate study for law or business school. I am old
enough to remember when young people looked with admiration and
even envy on their gifted peers who planned to be scientists.
Nowadays, a facility with numbers is a highly valued skill, and
the returns on careers in law and finance dwarf what they could
earn in the academy or the research laboratory. Whenever I’m
asked how the students have changed over my three decades of law
teaching, I point to the growing disproportion of science
majors.  Scientific Romance  The problem isn’t the public’s lack of scientific literacy.
Veteran science writer Daniel S. Greenberg, in his 2001 book
“ Science, Money, and Politics ,” put the point this way:
“Science, democracy, and prosperity are said to be at risk,
though, mysteriously, all have spread robustly despite the
dearth of public understanding.” The problem is the lack of
serious public interest.  We need to recover what the late Carl Sagan called “the
romance of science.” We can do this in part by coming to
appreciate the human side. The media can do their part by paying
more attention to stories like that of Yitang Zhang -- “Tom” to
his friends and students -- because there is human interest
everywhere, if we but choose to look. For example, everybody
knows that nobody does important work in mathematics after 40,
the age at which one becomes ineligible for the  Fields Medal ,
often referred to as the  Nobel Prize  of the field. And Zhang is
in his 50s, and used to work at Subway, and -- as I said, the
story writes itself.  Now, I know you have to get back to the scandals of the
moment. Before you do, let’s follow the romance of pure science
one act further: Zhang says his great breakthrough during his
sojourn in Colorado came on July 3. Hmm. Memo to the producers:
Can we push that back a day, and set fireworks behind his head,
something like what Baz Luhrmann did for our first sight of
Gatsby? Just a thought.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 