-- EBay Focuses on $195 Billion Global Emerging Markets Push
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/ebay-focuses-on-195-billion-global-emerging-markets-push.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , owner of the biggest
Internet marketplace, is boosting staff in its emerging-markets
group by 50 percent this year, seeking to win loyalty in
burgeoning regions where online sales may top $195 billion.  The team tasked with stepping up sales growth in  Russia ,
Latin America and  China  has reached 140 employees and may
increase by about 60 more people by the end of 2013, said Wendy
Jones, who oversees geographic expansion and cross-border trade
at  San Jose , California-based EBay. The effort is “incredibly
well-funded” and plans to focus first on Russia, she said.  EBay Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe  is betting on
regions of the world where consumers and merchants are starting
buy and sell more over the Internet. The company predicts that
25 percent of its users will be in  developing countries  at the
end of 2015, up from about 5 percent in 2012, as EBay works to
narrow Amazon.com Inc.’s lead in global e-commerce.  “There is still a significant, untapped opportunity out
there,” said Dan Kurnos, an analyst at Benchmark Co., who
recommends buying EBay shares. “If EBay doesn’t address it,
someone else will.”  EBay ended 2012 with 6 million active users in  Brazil ,
Russia,  India  and China, with $3.2 billion in sales to consumers
there. It had more than 112 million active users worldwide.  Language Barriers  EBay is reaching into developing countries as the company
competes with  Amazon (AMZN) .com for the loyalty of merchants selling on
its online store. Amazon is increasingly shifting to a
marketplace model similar to EBay’s, with 40 percent of units on
the site sold by outside vendors in the first quarter.  “We are sparing no expense,” Jones said in an interview,
referring to staff dedicated to developing countries.  Donahoe’s biggest hurdle will be fostering trust in markets
where fraud abounds, couriers such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  don’t exist,
and most consumers don’t rely on credit cards or PayPal, instead
using cash to pay for online purchases upon delivery.  “The challenges involved are significant,” said Michael DeSimone, CEO of Borderfree, which helps companies adapt e-commerce sites for new countries. “Culture is so different.
Language is so different. To really do business in those
countries, you need to be on the ground.”  Rapid Growth  E-commerce revenue in China, India and  Latin America  were
estimated to exceed $185 billion in 2012, increasing at rates as
fast as 44 percent a year, compared with 14 percent growth in
the U.S. in the same period, according to Forrester Research.
Russia’s online retail industry expanded 25 percent in 2011 to
$10.5 billion, according to a  report  by East-West Digital News.
Combined, Internet commerce in emerging regions approached the
value of the U.S. market, where sales reached $231 billion in
2012.  Gaining ground abroad could help EBay close sales-growth
and share-price gaps with Amazon. Shares of Seattle-based Amazon
have more than tripled in the past five years, while EBay has
increased 78 percent. Amazon’s sales tripled from 2008 to 2012,
and EBay’s rose 65 percent.  There are reasons these emerging regions are under served.
Shipping, translation, Internet search and payments all pose
obstacles for companies. EBay itself closed its unprofitable
Web-auction unit in China in 2006 and formed a venture with
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Tom Online Inc.  New Approach  This time, the company is trying to take a smarter
approach. EBay debuted a Russian-language site earlier this
year, following the release of a mobile application focused on
fashion in the country in 2012. EBay saw users in Russia surge
by 75 percent in 2012.  To support its efforts in Russia last year, EBay began
building a team charged with forging partnerships with local
companies, improving shipping times and making payments easier.
The company hired Vladimir Dolgov, who most recently oversaw
Google Inc.’s efforts in Russia and was previously CEO of that
country’s online retailer Ozon.ru.  Dolgov’s team of less than 10 people is working to learn
how to best service a country where there is no clear road map
to success for non-native e-commerce sellers.  EBay focused first on smartphones and tablets, releasing
its mobile application before the desktop website -- an approach
it may also take in Latin America, Jones said. The company is
trying to reach consumers who are still in the nascent stages of
online buying. While most have mobile phones, not all have
laptops or desktop computers, which tend to be more expensive.  Native Content  One shortfall EBay is seeking to fill is a lack of home-grown content in  emerging markets . Consumers outside the U.S.
are used to to sub-par experiences because offshoots of U.S.
sites tend to be badly translated, sporadically updated and
prone to showing out-of-date merchandise.  Products displayed on such pages are often tailored to U.S.
customer interests –- a football game on the display of a flat-screen television, for instance. This can turn off users and
ruin brand trust, said Chuck Whiteman, senior vice president at
MotionPoint Corp., which works with U.S. retailers to help them
improve their international sites.  “It’s the world wide web -- it’s a global consumer,”
Whiteman said in an interview. “As soon as that consumer
decides they’re in an experience that isn’t the best that
company has to offer, they abandon it.”  Localizing Sites  In the summer of 2012, EBay introduced its Global Buying
Hub, which focuses on localizing sites for larger markets
outside the U.S., according to Sylvie de Wever, senior director
of geographic expansion. Russian visitors on EBay’s site last
spring saw merchandising for U.S. college basketball’s  March
Madness , she said.  Shipping has also long been a nightmare for retailers in
new markets. Merchandise can take weeks or months to arrive
because of delays when crossing country borders. Certain
wildlife products -– an ostrich-skin purse with feather
detailing, for example -– have to be accompanied by extra
documentation. If they aren’t, they stay put in customs until
the correct papers arrive.  In Russia, the delivery network is made up of local
companies that service small areas within the country and are
often loyal to local retailers. Theft and fraud are common, and
consumers tend to pay with cash upon delivery, rather than with
credit cards ahead of time.  Paying Later  “Most people think you can stick it in a FedEx box and
everything will work out perfectly,” Borderfree’s DeSimone
said. “It just isn’t like that.”  Jones’s team is discussing a payment-on-delivery technology
that doesn’t involve cash -- an attempt to stay loyal to Russian
consumers, who tend to open boxes and then decide whether
they’re satisfied with the products before they pay.  “If the way people shop is an environment where I
physically want to see and touch and feel the goods before I
pay, that’s great,” Jones said. “But we don’t necessarily want
rubles handed over to a delivery person. We’re partnering with
PayPal -- we’re partnering with others in the market -- to
continue to learn and figure out how do we solve that in a
uniquely EBay way.”  Because U.S. retailers have had trouble breaking into
markets like Russia, the rewards of doing so at EBay are
potentially that much greater. There’s latent demand for western
brands, such as  Michael Kors ,  Tory Burch  and Balenciaga.  That doesn’t extend solely to luxury-fashion items. The day
EBay unveiled its Russian site, the company promoted pink
baseball hats featuring the  New York  Yankees  -- a brand that’s
popular globally.  Local Competitors  EBay also has to deal with different search algorithms used
abroad. Most U.S. companies have become accustomed to using
Google’s technology to make themselves more easily findable on
the Web. In Russia and China, Google isn’t the dominant search
engine, with most consumers using Yandex NV’s. To learn about
the nuances, EBay has begun teaming up with companies that have
been in the market longer, such as  Opera Software ASA (OPERA) , the most
popular browser in Russia with 25 percent of the market, Jones
said.  There’s also the local competition. Ozon.ru describes
itself as the Amazon.com of Russia, and it increased net sales
by 55 percent last year, according to a statement in March. In
China, EBay is going up against Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s
Taobao, which has an estimated 90 percent share of the market,
Forrester Research analyst Zia Daniell Wigder wrote in a report.  Alibaba’s billionaire founder, Jack Ma, last year said the
company may go public within five years. While Alibaba already
dominates in China, the company may position its initial public
offering as a bet on gaining even deeper penetration in the
country, according to a person familiar with the situation.  Potential Returns  Still, the potential payoff in developing regions makes the
bet worthwhile for EBay. China’s online retail market is poised
to reach $356.1 billion in 2016, more than tripling from $118
billion in 2011, Wigder wrote.  EBay re-entered China in November as part of partnership
with luxury online seller Xiu.com. The company will probably
seek additional partners as the team learns more about the
market, Jones said -- a similarly methodical approach to the one
it’s taking in Russia.  “Will they be the only people that we potentially will
work with? Probably not,” she said of Xiu.com. “We’re now in
the process to start to ramp that up and spend a little bit more
behind it, as we continue to learn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  