-- ECB’s Weidmann Says France Shouldn’t Exhaust Budget Flexibility
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-05-23T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/ecb-s-weidmann-says-france-shouldn-t-exhaust-budget-flexibility.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
urged  France  to stick to European Union deficit rules and
increase competitiveness.  “Looking at the challenges for fiscal policy, I consider
it imperative to stick to existing rules of deficit reduction,”
Weidmann said in a speech in Paris today. “The credibility of
rules shouldn’t be questioned by the fact that their flexibility
will be fully exhausted at the first test,” he said, while
acknowledging that France has reduced its structural deficit in
the past three years.  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  this month
declared an end to the era of austerity after the country won a
two-year extension to meet EU deficit rules. Coalition lawmakers
in  Germany  pushed against giving France more time as Chancellor
Angela Merkel campaigns for a third term in a Sept. 22 election.  “Excessive flexibility hurts fiscal policy more than it
helps,” Weidmann said, adding that the watering-down of the
Stability and Growth Pact in 2005 has contributed to the current
crisis. “Growth is the key to solving the crisis. We all agree
on that. A departure from consolidation won’t get us anywhere
closer to this goal. And monetary policy can’t solve the crisis
either.”  Governments should use the time provided by the  European
Central Bank  because the measures taken “aren’t free of risks
and side-effects,” said Weidmann, who also sits on the ECB’s
Governing Council.  “Increasing competitiveness remains a big challenge for
France, which has lost one seventh of its global market share in
the past five years,” he said.  A 2012 plan to cut payroll charges by raising France’s main
sales-tax rates was “a further step into the right direction,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  