-- Ecclestone Bribery Case Seen Disrupting CVC Plan for Sale of F1
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-05-23T13:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/ecclestone-bribery-case-seen-disrupting-cvc-plan-for-sale-of-f1.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd.’s plan to
hold an initial public offering of Formula One may be hurt by a
bribery investigation involving the auto-racing series’ boss
Bernie Ecclestone.  Ecclestone will be charged by prosecutors in  Germany  for
his part in Bayerische Landesbank’s 2005 sale of the sport to
CVC, German news magazine  Der Spiegel  reported May 13. The chief
executive officer’s lawyers Sven Thomas and Norbert Scharf said
May 15 they haven’t received the indictment, which Der Spiegel
said is being translated into English.  The 82-year-old is negotiating an accord known as the
“Concorde Agreement” through 2020 with teams, which will race
this weekend at the Monaco Grand Prix. Ecclestone hasn’t
appointed a deputy, and it could take years for a replacement to
“get up to speed,” according to former team owner Paul
Stoddart.  “CVC is between a rock and a hard place,” Stoddart, who
ran the now-defunct Minardi squad from 2001 to 2005, said by
telephone. “If  Bernie Ecclestone  was forced to stand down, the
Concorde Agreement would be throw into complete turmoil.”  The investigation, which saw BayernLB’s Formula One manager
Gerhard Gribkowsky sentenced to 8 1/2 years in prison in 2012,
could result in the series deciding Ecclestone should step down
permanently or temporarily, according to a prospectus of an IPO
suspended last year on market conditions.  Ecclestone said “everyone” on the Formula One board voted
at a meeting in Geneva to retain him as CEO unless he is
convicted, the Sunday Times reported May 19. CVC spokesman James
Olley declined to comment on what the London-based buyout firm
will do if Ecclestone is charged with a crime.  Series Sale  Gribkowsky admitted accepting $44 million from Ecclestone
to steer the sale of BayernLB’s 47 percent stake to CVC and
agree to a sham contract under which the CEO allegedly received
a kickback. Ecclestone told the court he was caught up in a
“sophisticated” shakedown by Gribkowsky and feared the banker
might tell U.K. tax authorities he had influence on his family
trust, which could have landed him with a financial penalty. CVC
said it didn’t know about the payment.  Ecclestone has brokered every Concorde Agreement since
1981, when the accord gave him the right to manage Formula One’s
television rights. The agreement, which covers everything from
revenue distribution to intellectual property rights and
corporate hospitality, takes its name from the Place de la
Concorde, where Formula One rule-maker  Federation Internationale
de l’Automobile  is based.  Unknowns  Since Jan. 1, when the latest edition of the accord
expired, most teams have been tied to bilateral agreements that
only address key financial and governance issues, according to
three people familiar with the situation. They weren’t
authorized to speak publicly because the talks are private and
ongoing.  On May 10, at the  Spanish Grand Prix  near  Barcelona ,
Ecclestone referred a question about the progress of the latest
agreement to a comment by Ferrari SpA chairman Luca Cordero di
Montezemolo who told reporters that a deal was “very close.”
Ferrari owns the sport’s oldest and most successful team. Most
of the 11 teams haven’t seen a first draft of the proposed
accord, the people said.  CVC is scaling back its interest in Formula One, selling
stakes worth $1.6 billion to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  Waddell & Reed
Financial Inc. (WDR)  and Norges Bank Investment Management last year.
The buyout firm has reaped more than $4 billion on its original
investment of $1 billion and expects to make as much as $7
billion, CVC partner Donald Mackenzie said in an Oct. 29
interview. Ecclestone said by telephone last month CVC wants to
go ahead with the IPO this year.  ‘Major Earthquake’  Ecclestone’s biographer Tom Bower said it would be
difficult for CVC to hold an IPO without Formula One’s chief
executive officer.  “It’s not a simple matter like a normal company where you
can hand over the management,” Bower said by phone. Ecclestone
“holds all the strings in Formula One. If he is forced out, it
would be a major earthquake.”  Ecclestone’s influence extends to owning the offices where
Formula One is based by  London ’s Hyde Park -- he lets the
premises to Formula One for 500,000 pounds ($754,000) a year,
according to last year’s IPO prospectus. In the prospectus,
Formula One’s owners said they have a  succession plan  for when
he departs, without giving any details.  Ecclestone standing trial could strengthen the arm of teams
and the FIA as they negotiate new terms, according to Xander
Heijnen, a partner at Munich-based  Communications & Network
Consulting AG  who has advised carmakers about participating in
Formula One.  “If there is a power vacuum, the FIA and teams could see
this as a chance to strengthen their positions,” Heijnen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  