-- Teen Birth Rate in U.S. Declined to All-Time Low in 2011
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/teen-birth-rate-in-u-s-declined-to-all-time-low-in-2011.html
Teen birth rates dropped 25 percent
in the U.S. in a five-year period to an all-time low in 2011, as
pregnancy prevention measures paid off, according to a health
agency report.  In all U.S. states except  North Dakota  and  West Virginia ,
the rate of teen mothers dropped 15 percent in 2011 from 2007,
the Atlanta-based  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
said today in a report. In seven states, rates fell 30 percent
or more.  Teen birth rates have dropped by almost half since 1991,
the CDC reported. Data from previous surveys have shown that
teenage girls are using contraception more often and that fewer
teenagers are having vaginal sex, as 57 percent of girls ages 15
to 19 reported being virgins in 2010. That’s an increase from 49
percent of teen girls in 1995.  “More teens are delaying sex, and those who were sexually
active used contraception better, both good and responsible
things,” Bill Albert, the chief program officer of the  National
Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy , said in a
telephone interview. “There’s a real concern about sexually
transmitted diseases and HIV in particular in the ’80s and
’90s.”  Today’s report finds that an increasing number of
adolescents are using two kinds of contraception, hormonal birth
control and condoms, in combination. Contraception rates vary
widely among the states, the CDC said.  Sex Education  Earlier sex education was mostly for girls, and pregnancy
was viewed as the girl’s problem, Albert said. Unlike pregnancy,
however, HIV “is an equal-opportunity infection,” so it may
have caught the attention of teenage boys in a way that
pregnancy didn’t, he said.  The U.S. still has  one of the highest birth rates  among
teens in Western countries, the CDC said.  There were about 31 births per 1,000 teenagers in 2011,
compared with 41.5 per 1,000 in 2007, according to the CDC
report. Rates fell among all racial and ethnic groups, with the
steepest decline for Hispanic teenagers. Black and Hispanic
teens have historically had higher rates of pregnancies and
births than whites.  Adolescent birth rates are a public health concern because
teenage pregnancies are more likely to result in premature
births of low-weight babies at higher risk of dying in infancy,
compared with babies born to women who are 20 and older. Teen
pregnancy also costs the public $10.9 billion annually,
according to the CDC’s report.  Across Ethnicities  The birth rates of white, Hispanic and Native American
girls dropped 50 percent in 2011 from 1991. Black and Asian or
Pacific Islander girls experienced a drop of at least 60 percent
in the same time period. If the decline from 1991 hadn’t
occurred, an additional 3.6 million children would have been
born to teenagers over the two decades, the CDC said.  “For many young people, the opportunity costs are quite
real,” Albert said. “In this day and age, the costs are quite
steep, and teenagers aren’t stupid. They know this is not the
time to start a family, they want to achieve their goals
first.”  The report was written by Brady Hamilton, T.J. Matthews,
and Stephanie J. Ventura, from the National Center for Health
Statistics’  reproductive health  branch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  