-- Elan Board Unanimously Rejects $6.4 Billion Takeover Offer
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-05-23T20:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/elan-board-unanimously-rejects-6-4-billion-offer-from-royalty.html
Elan Corp.’s board of directors
unanimously rejected a higher takeover offer from Royalty
Pharma, an investor in royalty streams from pharmaceuticals,
saying the proposal “substantially undervalues the company.”  Royalty raised its bid to $6.4 billion on May 20 from a
previous bid of $5.7 billion. The all-cash offer is valued at
$12.50 per American depositary receipt. The ADRs rose 2.7
percent to $12.36 at the close in New York.  “The revised offer from Royalty Pharma continues to
grossly undervalue our company’s current business platform and
our future prospects,” Elan Chairman Robert Ingram said today
in a statement. “This offer is no more than an opportunistic
attempt to acquire our company at a substantial discount.”  Pablo Legorreta, Royalty’s founder and a former Lazard
banker, is pursuing the Dublin-based company after Elan Chief
Executive Officer Kelly Martin, a former Merrill Lynch & Co.
banker, initially offered to buy Royalty.  An acquisition by Royalty would enable Elan shareholders to
avoid the risks of Martin’s strategy of reinvesting the $3.25
billion Elan received from  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  for divesting its
stake in the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri, Royalty said. Elan
has said it will pay investors dividends directly linked to
Tysabri sales as a 20 percent share of the royalty received from
Biogen.  Shareholder Meeting  Elan this month announced a $1 billion investment in
 Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s royalties, a $340 million takeover of Vienna-based AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals AG and the purchase of a 48
percent stake in Dubai-based NewBridge Pharmaceuticals for $40
million. The company also plans to issue $800 million in debt.  An extraordinary general meeting of shareholders will be
held on June 17, when investors will vote on the proposed
transactions, Elan said in the statement today.  Royalty Pharma’s takeover  offer  is contingent on Elan
investors voting against the proposed deals, Royalty said this
week.  “Accepting the Royalty Pharma Offer would eliminate --
forever -- the opportunity for Elan’s shareholders to
participate in the future business and growth made possible by
the reallocation of capital following the Tysabri transaction,”
Ingram said in a  letter  to shareholders today.  ‘Appropriate Balance’  A spokesman for New York-based Royalty had no immediate
comment on Elan’s rejection of the higher bid. Earlier today,
Legorreta said in a statement that Elan’s directors “have
failed to maintain an appropriate balance between supporting
management’s acquisition plan and their fiduciary
responsibilities to Elan shareholders.”  Ingram challenged an assertion made by Royalty Pharma on
May 20 that Elan’s board can’t recommend an offer at any price
without breaching its agreement with Theravance.  “This is untrue,” he said. “The board is at all times
willing to consider any reasonable and meaningful offer for the
Company, be that from Royalty Pharma or any other person.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Groton
Partners are advising Royalty Pharma. Elan’s financial advisers
include Davy Corporate Finance, Morgan Stanley, Ondra Partners
and Citigroup Inc.  Founded in 1996, Royalty Pharma owns royalty interests in
38 approved and marketed pharmaceutical products. In 2004, the
firm bought Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center’s U.S.
royalty interest in Amgen Inc.’s Neupogen drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  