-- Melco Drives Slump on Manufacturing Data: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-05-23T21:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/melco-drives-slump-on-manufacturing-data-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks listed in the U.S.
tumbled to the lowest in three weeks, led by  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  and  China Unicom (CHU)  Hong Kong Ltd., as a report
showed manufacturing in the world’s second-largest economy
contracted for the first time in seven months.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 1.3 percent to 92.64 in New
York, the lowest since May 3. Casino operator Melco Crown
declined to a one-month low and  China  Unicom, the nation’s
second-largest mobile-phone company, sank the most since
January.  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME)  surged as its mobile game revenue
jumped in the first quarter.  Global stocks fell as a preliminary reading of 49.6 for a
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index released yesterday by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics was below a 50.4 median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. The data adds to evidence that China’s
economic growth is losing steam for a second quarter. Chinese
Premier  Li Keqiang  signaled last week that policy makers are
reluctant to use stimulus to counter the slowdown as they focus
on market reforms.  “We are cautious, but not panicking,” said Elena Ogram,
who holds Chinese stocks in her $50 million portfolio of
emerging-market assets at Bank Bellevue AG, said by phone from
Zurich yesterday. “The economy is not accelerating. It’s the
new reality. There’s transformation taking place. It takes time
to do what they have to do.”  Ogram favors consumer stocks and companies from sectors
that may benefit from the reforms, such as health care.  ETF Slides  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., lost 1 percent in New York to
$37.18, the lowest since April 26. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slipped 0.3 percent to 1,650.51, on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  may reduce monetary stimulus.  American depositary receipts of Melco Crown, which operates
casinos in Macau, fell 4.7 percent to $23.26. The number of
Japanese visitors to Macau slumped 25 percent in a year through
April as the yen dropped, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  The ADRs traded at 3.7 percent below their equivalent
shares in  Hong Kong , the  deepest discount  since February.  China Unicom’s ADRs declined 4.5 percent, the biggest drop
in four months, to $14.08. They traded at a 1 percent discount
to their Hong Kong shares, the most since February.  Economic data earlier this month showed that fixed-asset
investment and factory production missed forecasts, after growth
unexpectedly slowed to 7.7 percent in the first quarter, from
7.9 percent the previous period. Premier Li said on a May 13
speech that relying on government-led investment for growth “is
not only difficult to sustain but also creates new problems and
risks.”  Shanda Earnings  Shanda Games, China’s third-largest web games operator,
surged 16 percent, the most since March 2011, to $3.61.  The Shanghai-based company reported first-quarter earnings
of 16 cents per share, matching the median forecast of  three
analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue from the mobile game
business increased to 106.5 million  yuan  ($17 million), from
zero a year earlier, and accounted for about 10 percent of the
company’s total sales, it said in a statement.  “The bright spot is on the mobile gaming side,” said Andy Yeung, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., in a phone interview
from New York. “It shows significant contribution to the
revenue. Everyone is interested in the mobile business space.
People will take comfort that they are making good progress.”  Sohu Retreats  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981) , a
Shanghai-based computer chip foundry, rose 4.7 percent, the most
in two weeks, to $4.20, after BNP Paribas SA started its
coverage on the company with a buy recommendation.  Sohu.com Inc., (SOHU)  a provider of news, games and video based in
Beijing, fell 1 percent to $63.81. The company’s negotiation
with PPTV.com to buy the Chinese video website has stalled
because of a disagreement on price, Guangzhou-based Xinkuai
newspaper reported. PPTV is looking for other potential buyers,
the newspaper said.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.1 percent to 2,275.67
at the close, the biggest loss since April 23.  The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks traded in Hong Kong
fell 2.8 percent, the most since April 5, to 10746.70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  