-- Telecom Italia Delays Network Spinoff Decision to Next Week
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-05-24T08:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/telecom-italia-delays-decision-on-fixed-line-spinoff.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  delayed a crucial
verdict over a proposed spinoff of its fixed-line network that
will help decide whether the country’s biggest phone company can
have a new source of funding to pare  debt .  Its board of directors, after a meeting in  Rome  yesterday,
will gather on May 30 to make a final decision on the plan,
Milan-based Telecom Italia said. The spinoff is a complex
project because it involves regulatory issues and delaying a
decision a week gives the company more time to prepare the final
plan, said a person familiar with the matter. Telecom Italia
didn’t provide details of the review in its statement yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe is considering a
sale of an initial 30 percent stake in the new company to state
lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti after a separation, people
familiar with the matter have said. Such a move could generate
cash used to reduce  net debt  -- which at 28.8 billion euros
($37.2 billion) at the end of March is more than double Telecom
Italia’s market value -- and reinvest in expanding coverage.  Sales at the new company, called Opac SpA, are forecast to
slip 0.3 percent this year to 4.6 billion euros from 2012, while
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
will probably decline 1.6 percent to 2.33 billion euros,
according to internal documents seen by  Bloomberg News .  The assets have a  valuation  of about 14 billion euros,
based on a multiple of six times Ebitda, said a person with
knowledge of the matter, asking not to be named because the
numbers are confidential.  Telecom Italia shares fell 1.1 percent to 64.4 cents at
10:04 a.m. in Milan trading.  Rival Access  If Telecom Italia proceeds with the separation proposal, it
would also need to hold talks with Agcom, the country’s
telecommunications regulator, and agree on a framework of rules
governing the new company to ensure rivals have access to its
transmission network, the person said.  Telco SpA, the biggest  shareholder  in Telecom Italia, with
a 22.4 percent stake, wrote down the value of its holding to
1.20 euros a share in February. Telco’s investors include
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Intesa Sanpaolo SpA
and investment bank Mediobanca SpA.  Yesterday’s board meeting took place hours after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the former phone monopoly’s rating to one step above
junk, citing  Italy ’s “tough” economic environment and
competition in its mobile-phone business.  The carrier is separately evaluating a possible combination
of its wireless unit with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s 3 Italia,
although  Spain ’s Telefonica remains skeptical of a transaction,
people familiar with the matter have said.  Open Access  In 2008, Telecom Italia created Open Access, a division
that manages the grid and offers access to competitors, about
two years after  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  established a similar, fully-owned
unit called Openreach. Yet, to fully separate a fixed-line
network -- considered strategic assets by many governments --
would be unique among European carriers in recent years.  Industry Minister Flavio Zanonato told Parliament this week
that the government would closely monitor Telecom Italia’s
separation plan.  The government is in favor of naming a Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti executive to oversee the new company as its chairman
and to ensure a level playing field for other carriers, while
Telecom Italia could name its CEO, another person said.  ‘Debt Spiral’  “It is a mark of the vulnerability of this company to a
debt spiral that they would accept the spinoff of even a
minority of their wireline infrastructure with the appointment
of a CDP chairman,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, said yesterday.  S&P’s one-step  cut  today to BBB-, the lowest investment
grade, puts its rating in line with Moody’s Investors Service’s.
Credit-default swaps insuring Telecom Italia’s debt for five
years jumped as much as 5.4 percent yesterday, signaling a
deterioration in creditworthiness.  In its statement, S&P said it expects a “protracted”
decline in Telecom Italia’s Ebitda in Italy and an
“insufficient” credit cushion from international subsidiaries.
The outlook is stable, reflecting the carrier’s “adequate
liquidity” and ability to trim debt, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  