-- Ellington Hires GMAC Mortgage Head for New Business
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t ,   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-23T18:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/ellington-hires-gmac-mortgage-head-for-new-business.html
Ellington Management Group LLC, the
$5.5 billion investment firm founded by Michael Vranos that
specializes in mortgage-backed bonds, hired Steven Abreu from
GMAC Mortgage to start an origination business.  Abreu, the former president of GMAC Mortgage, starts at Old
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Ellington today in the newly
created role of head of mortgage originations, the company said
in a statement, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
Abreu will seek to buy one or more originators through its
publicly traded affiliate,  Ellington Financial LLC (EFC) , according to
the statement.  Investment firms including Pine River Capital Management LP
and Angelo Gordon & Co. have taken steps to move into the
mortgage-origination and servicing market amid a rebound in new
home loans. Lenders made $1.9 trillion in new mortgages last
year, the most since 2007, as borrowers refinanced to take
advantage of record low interest rates and federal programs
helped homeowners. Originations fell to $500 billion in the
first quarter from $525 billion in the fourth quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from Inside Mortgage Finance.  Ellington is beginning to see consolidation in the industry
and will purchase small- or medium-sized originators, Laurence
Penn, Chief Executive Officer of Ellington Financial, said in a
telephone interview. Ellington Financial has more than $650
million of equity, a portion of which may be used for the
acquisitions.  ‘Top-Tier’  “While our typical acquisition target may currently be
originating $1 billion to $3 billion per year, our long-term
goal is to build a top-tier national originator with $20 billion
or more of originations per year,” Vranos, chief executive
officer of Ellington Management Group, said in an interview.  Abreu, 48, had been president of GMAC Mortgage since 2009.
The company was owned by  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s Residential
Capital LLC mortgage unit, which filed for bankruptcy last year.
Before GMAC Mortgage, he was chief executive officer and
president of GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Inc.  Ally, the auto lender majority owned by the U.S.
government, agreed to pay $2.1 billion to avoid lawsuits by
unsecured creditors of ResCap, according to a court filing
today.  Private-equity firm Cerberus Capital Management LP said in
a February filing tied to the potential initial public offering
of a mortgage real-estate investment trust that the company
might purchase lenders. Pine River and Angelo Gordon have
expanded their efforts on the mortgage-origination and servicing
side to help fuel earnings of publicly traded mortgage-investment companies they oversee.  Private Capital  “We think that private capital is going to be more and
more important in the next phase of the mortgage-finance
industry in the United States,” as U.S.-controlled Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac raise their guarantee fees to scale back the
government’s role in financing about 90 percent of new loans,
Abreu said.  The biggest opportunity currently is in agency mortgages,
or those backed by the U.S. government, he said. Long term, the
firm expects non-agency originations will represent a bigger and
more important part of the business.  Market Share  Wells Fargo & Co. has been the biggest originator with 22
percent of the market in the first quarter, followed by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Quicken Loans Inc., the largest non-bank
originator, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In addition to origination fees, lenders can earn fees from
mortgage-servicing rights, which involves sending out bills,
performing collections and handling the costly foreclosure
process if the borrowers don’t pay. Wells Fargo, Bank of America
Corp. and other lenders have been selling servicing rights
because proposed capital rules would classify them as riskier
assets that require more equity to cover potential losses.
Buyers include firms such as Ocwen Financial Corp., which
specialize in servicing and aren’t subject to the same rules as
banks.  Independent mortgage banks and mortgage subsidiaries of
chartered banks made an average profit of $2,256 on each loan
they originated in the fourth quarter of 2012, down from $2,465
per loan in the third quarter, as increasing costs outweighed
higher revenues, the Mortgage Bankers Association reported April
2.  Ellington, founded in 1994, manages portfolios of
residential mortgage-backed securities, both those that have and
lack support by the U.S. government; invests in assets including
commercial mortgage loans, commercial mortgage-backed
securities, asset-backed securities; and makes direct
investments in single-family and multi-family real estate. It
also uses systematic strategies to invest in equities and
futures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  