-- Help 9 Million Students Now or Pay Medicaid Later
-- B y   W i c k   S l o a n e
-- 2013-05-23T22:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/help-9-million-students-now-or-pay-medicaid-later.html
A myth won’t educate a nation.  The myth is that the U.S. should be doing a better job of
preparing underprivileged high school students, so they can win
scholarships to Yale, Harvard and other top schools. Then they
can  march across  commencement stages into prosperous careers.
This is worse than a myth. It’s a joke.  The Ivy League -- Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Harvard,
 Princeton , Pennsylvania and Yale universities, plus  Dartmouth
College  -- has a total of 38,464 undergraduate slots. If you add
in the 31-college cabal, the Consortium on Financing Higher
Education, which includes the  Ivy League  members and is the
private elite colleges’ own selection of the best of the best,
you have 118,784 total undergraduate seats.  If you then add the  University of California  at Berkeley;
the  University of Michigan  at  Ann Arbor ; the  University of Texas 
at Austin and the  University of Illinois  at Champaign-Urbana,
the total potential myth-actualizing undergraduate population
rises to 242,905.  To demonstrate the folly of the myth, note that if students
on  Pell grants  took every undergraduate seat at these selective
colleges, that would still leave us with 9.157 million for whom
we have no plan. A total of 9.4 million students in college
receive  Pell grants , the bedrock federal aid for low-income
students. They are the ones who might work two -- even three --
jobs to support families, and who may have been lucky to
complete the semester, never mind a degree.  Scary Numbers  The scary truth is that letting these 9.4 million founder
is our -- we, the people’s -- active national higher-education
plan. We know it leads to  fewer jobs  for the 9.4 million, many
without health insurance or a living wage, and we know we will
pay later in Medicaid and  food stamps .  This plan isn’t in a single report to download. It is the
sum of our inactions and stale policies. Solutions require
accountability, and in America’s systems no one is responsible
for educating the poor.  In the marketplace of democracy and capitalism, who would
directly profit from educating, say, 1 million more able, but
low-income, students? No one. A balanced budget with reserves in
the bank is the reasonable goal of any college president.
Higher-education leaders, whatever their goodwill, have no
incentive to  educate  the poor.  Funding abounds for research papers, conferences and ideas.
What’s missing is anyone willing to be responsible for seeing
that more of these 9.4 million people complete their education,
degree or certificate, or just obtain a skill. Is the world too
messy for such big plans? U.S. President  Lyndon Johnson  would
have disagreed. He enacted the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the
Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Higher Education Act of 1965
-- the backbone of today’s federal higher-education policies --
all with the  Vietnam War  under way.  Taking responsibility for educating 9.4 million students
bludgeoned by poverty is a daunting problem. I know this from
the hundreds of them I have seen over six years in my College
Writing I  class  at Bunker Hill Community College in  Boston .  I will celebrate any individual triumph for what that is --
one success with millions of students to go. A year ago, I
screamed with joy as an Iraq veteran, a Lakota Sioux in my very
first College Writing I class, accepted his diploma from
Dartmouth. That was a “makes life worth living” moment. The rest
of that class? Only one other I know of completed college.
Ambitions and motivation  crumbled  under jobs, health issues and
family problems.  Forget Yale  In early returns for this year, my colleagues and I have
helped students who will be heading this year to Amherst, Mount
Holyoke and Wellesley colleges, as well as  Tufts University .
( Williams College  and Yale, Harvard and Princeton won’t visit to
look for students.)  However gratifying the triumphs of these few students, we
know we are  failing  because we know the others. That would
include a student coming to my 7 a.m. class from an overnight
shift. Or the one leaving a midnight class at 2:30 a.m. for a
seasonal job at Logan Airport, de-icing planes.  We all struggle to retrain ourselves to meet the needs of
such students. My major professional development this year has
been learning to recertify students for food stamps.  I will yield to the cries that all these millions don’t
need a full four-year degree. My alarm is that our national
discussions on an educated citizenry have lost touch with the
skills that even entry-level jobs in the U.S. require today.  Look at courses in  community colleges . Running an MRI
machine requires an anatomy and physiology course in the same
detail that a pre-medical student would take. A basic Microsoft
Excel course involves understanding finance for those functions
and formal logic for the IF functions.  Using Excel pivot tables, my colleagues tell me, is a skill
that all but guarantees a decent entry-level job for a
community-college graduate. As I learned in the 629-page entry-level Excel textbook that I’m muddling through, pivot tables are
for data mining. This, the book tells me, is the process of
“analyzing large volumes of data using advanced statistical
techniques.”  How many graduates with bachelor’s degrees know finance,
logic and advanced statistical techniques? What is the plan for
even half of the 9.4 million on  Pell grants  to learn these
entry-level job skills? We don’t have one. The few who might win
scholarships at selective colleges won’t transform the nation’s
workforce.  Two recent studies show how blinkered our thinking is. In a
Brookings Institution paper titled “The Missing ‘One-Offs’: The
Hidden Supply of High-Achieving, Low Income Students,” Caroline Hoxby of  Stanford University  and Christopher Avery of Harvard
affirmed that there are talented poor students with high SAT
scores who, shockingly enough, have never heard of Harvard or
Williams.  Wrong Investments  The take-away in discussions of this study is that we
should do a better job of getting them into wealthier colleges
that will pay their way.  Why not say that they are worth the
public investment, no matter what school they go to.  Finding more spots for low-income students at selective
colleges may be impossible in any case. A New America Foundation
study by  Stephen Burd  details what students from families that
make $30,000 a year or less have to pay out of their own
pockets, even after financial aid is taken into account. While
Amherst sets the standard on generosity, with a net price of
$448 a year for Pell grant recipients, Williams charges $5,402
and Princeton $7,545, according to the study.  My favorite graduations aren’t the ceremonies that
perpetuate the myth. They are at community colleges, where the
images are flipped. Parents and grandparents are receiving the
degrees with their children and grandchildren in the audience
cheering. I will share their joy, however incomplete the
achievement for now. And one day, I hope I will see something to
celebrate for millions more of them.  (Wick Sloane teaches writing at Bunker Hill Community
College in Charlestown,  Massachusetts , and writes a column for
Inside Higher Ed. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Wick Sloane at  wick.sloane@insidehighered.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 