-- Emerging Stocks Cap Biggest Decline in 10 Months on China
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-05-23T21:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/emerging-stocks-head-for-biggest-drop-in-10-months.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled the
most in 10 months, led by Russian and South African shares, as
exporters slumped after weaker  China  manufacturing data
bolstered concern the global economy is faltering.  OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s biggest gas producer, declined 4.4
percent as crude retreated for a third day, while Brazilian
iron-ore producer Vale SA dropped the most in a week. Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest contract
maker of chips, slumped the most since June in Taipei. South
Africa’s rand weakened as much as 1.3 percent against the dollar
earlier today before rebounding after the central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged to curb inflation.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 2.1 percent to
1,025.92, the most since July 23. Stocks joined a global slump
as China’s manufacturing contracted for the first time in seven
months. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told Congress
yesterday that the flow of asset purchases will slow as the
employment outlook “improves in a real and sustainable way.”  “China is the source of marginal global growth, so when
they have a hiccup, it echoes through the global economic
system,”  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund
manager at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about $380
billion, said by phone. “The action that’s driven stocks higher
has been that hand of the Fed. So when the Fed speaks on this
issue, it’s not just tapping on the brakes, investors fear it’s
more standing like on the brakes.”  All  10 groups  in the developing-nation measure declines as
energy and technology shares slid at least 2.5 percent. The
broad index has lost 2.8 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent increase in the MSCI World Index. The gauge’s 30-day
 volatility  rose to 12.5, the highest level in seven months.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund retreated 0.7 percent to $42.64. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 7.9 percent to 20.41.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa fell for the first time in five sessions
as a slowdown in China, the nation’s top trading partner, dimmed
the outlook for commodity exporters. Raw material producers
account for about  42 percent  of the index’s weighting, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Vale dropped 1.8 percent.  Mexico ’s IPC Index gained 1 percent, the most among the
world’s main equity benchmarks, rebounding from the lowest level
since September.  Russian stocks led the losses among major emerging-market
gauges as the  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 3.6 percent. Gazprom dropped
to a one-month low, while OAO Mechel and OAO Novolipetsk Steel
fell at least 4.7 percent as metals retreated.  Turkey, Hungary  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index
dropped from an all-time high, while benchmark gauges in the
Czech Republic, Poland and  Hungary  slid at least 0.4 percent.  South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share (JALSH)  Index lost 2.3
percent as African Bank Investments Ltd. sank 3.2 percent. The
rand has slumped almost 7 percent against the dollar since
reaching a four-month high on May 3, restricting the central
bank’s ability to stimulate an economy.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
dropped the most since April 5, while the Shanghai Composite
Index slid 1.2 percent.  PetroChina Co. (857) , the nation’s No. 1
energy producer, slid 2.9 percent. The Taiex Index fell the most
since April 8 as Taiwan Semiconductor tumbled 3.6 percent.
 India ’s benchmark index slid a fourth day as State Bank of India
plunged after profit fell short of estimates.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 273 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  