-- Enbridge to Meet Re-Elected British Columbia Liberals on Gateway
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-23T22:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/enbridge-to-meet-re-elected-british-columbia-liberals-on-gateway.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  is moving ahead with
plans to meet five conditions for the British Columbia
government to support its proposed Northern Gateway oil
pipeline, after a Liberal re-election made clear terms needed to
satisfy officials in the Pacific Coast province.  Enbridge, the largest transporter of Canadian crude, plans
to sit down with Premier Christy Clark’s government to discuss
her support, Vern Yu, vice president of business development at
Enbridge, told reporters today in Calgary. The C$6 billion ($5.8
billion) conduit would carry oil-sands crude to the Pacific
Coast for export.  The May 14 re-election of Clark’s Liberals in British
Columbia meant the defeat of the  New Democratic Party  under
Adrian Dix that had vowed to block plans by Enbridge and  Kinder
Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  to expand oil shipments from  Alberta 
through  Canada ’s western-most province. Clark didn’t rule out
oil shipments, while imposing five conditions on the projects.  “We’re well on our way to meeting three of those five
conditions and we look forward to sitting down with her
government to address the last two,” Yu said, after a panel
talk about pipelines. “It does appear that her government has
formed more of an opinion of what’s necessary to get the project
across the finish line than perhaps the NDP did.”  The projects by Calgary-based Enbridge and Houston-based
Kinder Morgan would together move more than 1 million barrels a
day from Alberta, home to the third-largest oil reserves. Oil-sands output is poised  to double  last year’s production by 2022,
according to energy regulators in Alberta.  Kinder Morgan  plans a
C$5.4 billion twinning of its Trans Mountain line that runs from
 Edmonton  to a terminus near Vancouver.  Five Conditions  Among five conditions laid out by Clark to support oil
pipeline expansions in British Columbia is what she’s labeled a
“fair share” of economic benefits for her province.  Kinder Morgan is scheduling a meeting with the British
Columbia government “in a couple of weeks,” Ian Anderson, the
president of the company’s Canadian unit, said in Calgary today.  “I don’t think the certainty of the pipeline proposal has
changed,” with the election, Anderson said in an interview. The
review process is largely in the federal government’s hands and
the company would have had “a clear path” for necessary
provincial permits from the British Columbia government under
either the Liberals or the NDP, Anderson said.  Kinder Morgan plans to apply to Canada’s  National Energy
Board  for the expansion late this year, Anderson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  