-- Lender Processing Surges on Report of Sale Talks
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r ,   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-05-23T22:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/lender-processing-surges-on-report-of-sale-talks.html
Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) 
climbed the most in almost four years after a report that it’s
in talks to sell itself for about $2.9 billion.  Fidelity
National Financial Inc. (FNF) , a would-be buyer, also surged.  LPS, a provider of mortgage-processing services to lenders,
is in advanced negotiations to be sold to U.S. title insurer
Fidelity National and private-equity firm Thomas H. Lee
Partners, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said,
confirming a Wall Street Journal report from yesterday.  LPS jumped as much as 15 percent in New York, the most
since July 2009. The Jacksonville, Florida-based company rose 13
percent to $32.88 at the close and has gained 46 percent in the
past year. The transaction would value LPS at about $33 a share,
the person said, requesting anonymity because the talks aren’t
public.  “While the deal has not yet been announced, we believe
that it would make sense and that the details from media report
also appear quite feasible,” Mark Palmer, an analyst at BTIG
LLC, wrote in a research note.  Fidelity National advanced 5.7 percent to $25.75 in New
York. The firm, also based in Jacksonville, rose as much as 9.4
percent, the biggest intraday gain since April 2009. It has
climbed 9.3 percent this year.  Fidelity National formerly owned LPS, which was spun off in
2008. Spokesmen for LPS and Thomas H. Lee Partners didn’t return
messages seeking comment. Daniel Kennedy Murphy, Fidelity
National’s senior vice president and treasurer, declined to
comment.  LPS would operate as a subsidiary of Fidelity National,
which would take about an 80 percent stake in the business,
according to the person. Boston-based Thomas H. Lee would hold
about 20 percent of the company, the person said. LPS says its
technology is used by lenders to handle about 50 percent of all
U.S. mortgages by dollar value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  