-- Lenovo Quarterly Profit Rises 90% on Market Share Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-23T10:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/lenovo-full-year-profit-rises-34-on-market-share-gains.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, reported a 90
percent gain in fourth-quarter profit after increasing its
market share and boosting smartphone sales.  Net income  climbed to $126.9 million in the three months
ended March, from $66.8 million a year earlier, Lenovo said in a
statement today. That beat the $108.1 million average of eight
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenovo is developing mobile devices such as smartphones and
tablets as it seeks to lure customers from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Samsung Electronics Co. and weather a global slump in demand for
PCs. The company maintained PC sales and expanded market share
in the quarter, even as global shipments dropped 13.9 percent,
researcher International Data Corp. reported in April.  “Somebody over there is doing something right,” Alberto Moel, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong,
said by telephone. “The size of the beat is quite solid. They
did better margins everywhere, with material expansion in PCs in
Europe, Middle East and  Africa  as well as North America, while
the smartphone business also continued to improve.”  Revenue rose 4.5 percent to $7.83 billion. That compares
with the $7.98 billion average of 14  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Lenovo, which has its headquarters in Beijing and
Morrisville, North Carolina, rose 2.8 percent to close at
HK$7.38 in Hong Kong. The stock has climbed 5.1 percent this
year, surpassing the 0.1 percent gain for the city’s Hang Seng
Index.  Increased Share  Lenovo was the only one of the top five vendors to avoid a
decline in PC shipments, and boosted its share of the global PC
market to 15.3 percent in the period, from 13.2 percent a year
earlier, as the company “continues to execute on a solid
‘attack’ strategy,” IDC said in the April report.  Lenovo narrowed the gap with market leader  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) , which saw its share fall to 15.7 percent from 17.7 percent,
according to IDC.  “We have a strong PC business foundation that we are
confident will be even stronger and more profitable in the year
ahead,” Lenovo Chief Executive Officer Yang Yuanqing said at an
earnings conference today. “At the same time, we are now much
more than a PC company.”  Lenovo introduced touchscreen handsets in  Russia ,  India ,
 Indonesia ,  Vietnam  and the  Philippines  last year following the
debut of its first model in  China  in 2010. The company this
month said it will introduce its first smartphones in Africa,
with a release planned for Nigeria before the end of the year.  Servers, Storage Devices  The company cemented its position as the second-largest
smartphone vendor in China, behind Samsung, by more than
tripling shipments in the quarter, Lenovo said today. The Mobile
Internet Digital Home unit that sells handsets boosted total
sales 74 percent to $736 million in the period, while
profitability “continued to improve,” the company said.  Lenovo seeks to be the smartphone market leader in China,
and will “aggressively” expand in  emerging markets , Yang said.
The company’s smartphone shipments this year will rise 72
percent to 50 million units, from 29 million last year, he said.  Tablet shipments this year will rise to 10 million units,
from 2.2 million last year, according to the CEO.  Lenovo also plans to become a “relevant global player” in
servers and storage devices within three years, Yang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  