-- Lenovo Sees No Limit to Size for Phone, Server Purchases
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-24T09:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/lenovo-sees-no-limit-to-size-for-acquisitions-in-phones-servers.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the second-biggest
personal computer maker, said the company’s  cash reserves  of
more than $3 billion enable it to pursue an acquisition of
almost any size to expand in new business areas.  The PC maker is most interested in adding assets to bolster
its growing business for smartphones and tablets, and hardware
such as servers and storage for business computing, Chief
Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming said in a phone interview
yesterday.  There is “no limit” for Lenovo when considering the size
of targets, Wong said, without commenting on any specific
opportunity. “We can actually look at literally every single
opportunity because we obviously have the ability to finance.”  Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  is pursuing a broad
diversification strategy to help weather a global slump in
demand for PCs. The move into smartphones, tablets, TVs and home
entertainment systems is already paying off, as Lenovo reported
a 90 percent jump in  profit  in the three months ended March,
even as global PC shipments fell 13.9 percent. Now, Yang is
looking to add another prong by boosting sales of the storage
equipment and servers that run corporate networks.  Net income climbed to $126.9 million in the fourth quarter,
from $66.8 million a year earlier, Lenovo said yesterday. That
beat the $108.1 million average of eight analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 4.5 percent to $7.83
billion.  Lenovo, which has its headquarters in Beijing and
Morrisville,  North Carolina , rose 3.8 percent to HK$7.66 at the
close in Hong Kong trading, the highest level since March 28.
The  stock  has climbed 9.1 percent this year, while the city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has declined 0.2 percent.  Storage Devices  Lenovo plans to become a “relevant global player” in
servers and storage devices within three years, Yang said at an
earnings conference yesterday. The company last year allied
itself with EMC Corp. to boost sales of storage equipment.  Talks with  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  for Lenovo
to buy parts of the Armonk, New York-based company’s server
division broke down after the two sides couldn’t agree on a
price, a person familiar with the discussions said May 3. The
person indicated at the time that talks could still resume at a
later date. Wong and Yang both declined to comment on IBM.  While Lenovo can become “a very decent player” in servers
by organic growth alone, the company will be open to expansion
via potential  acquisitions , Yang said in the interview.  ‘Opportunity-Driven Growth’  “If we can get a good deal, that’s definitely a shortcut
but you can’t count on that,” Yang said. “That’s opportunity-driven growth. We still need to prepare the organic growth
approach.”  Lenovo wanted to pay toward the low end of the $2.5
billion-to-$4.5 billion range that Bloomberg News reported on
April 19, while IBM sought a substantially higher valuation, the
person familiar said May 3, without providing details. In 2005,
Lenovo purchased IBM’s personal-computer unit, helping it become
the world’s second-largest PC manufacturer. The servers rely on
similar x86 processors.  IBM was looking to divest a portion of its business with
lower profit as it seeks earnings per share of $20 by 2015,
compared with $15.25 last year. The company has had trouble
selling its hardware products, with a 17 percent drop in the
unit’s  revenue  last quarter.  Without commenting specifically on IBM, Wong said valuation
is a key consideration for any purchase.  “We look at the valuation, does the acquisition add value
to our business?” Wong said. “We obviously make sure that
after buying the company that it will fully integrate into the
Lenovo family so we will be able to leverage the full value of
the asset that we acquire.”  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  