-- Merck Halts Development of Parkinson’s Drug on Lack of Benefit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-23T21:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/merck-halts-development-of-parkinson-s-drug-on-lack-of-benefit.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  said it will end
development of the experimental drug preladenant for  Parkinson’s
disease  because a preliminary review of the data from late-stage
clinical trials suggests it doesn’t work.  The drugmaker said it will stop the extension portions of
the trials and no longer plans to file for marketing approval of
the medicine. There were two studies that added preladenant to
levodopa, the standard treatment for Parkinson’s disease, and
one that tested it as stand-alone care,  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based Merck said in a statement.  “While these results are disappointing, this program is an
important example of Merck’s continued commitment to pursue
promising science with the goal of bringing forward medicines
that address important unmet medical needs,” said David
Michelson, vice president of clinical research in neuroscience
at Merck Research Laboratories.  The company is committed to working on complex diseases and
neuroscience research, he said in a statement. The company will
conduct additional analyses of the results and present them at a
future medical meeting, he said.  Preladenant was  forecast  to generate $211 million in 2016
and $271 million in 2017, according to the average of three
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Parkinson ’s is a progressive neurological disorder that
causes body tremors, the loss of muscle control and impaired
movement, according to the  National Institutes of Health . There
is no cure. A variety of medicines provide relief from symptoms
for the estimated 10 million people worldwide with the disease.  Patients gradually lose neurons that make the brain
chemical dopamine. The lack of dopamine leads to increasing
activity in a part of the brain called the subthalamic nucleus,
which influences movement. Treatment typically includes drugs
designed to boost dopamine levels in the brain, though the
benefits may wane and side effects become intolerable over time.  The clinical trials halted by Merck were part of the third
and final stage of testing usually required for U.S. regulatory
approval of a new therapy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  