-- Merkel Says EU Needs Policy Coordination to Avoid Crisis Repeat
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-05-23T18:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/merkel-says-eu-needs-policy-coordination-to-avoid-crisis-repeat.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said
European countries must coordinate economic policy to compete
globally and avoid a repeat of the euro area’s debt crisis.  Europe, including  Germany , faces a “long and certainly not
easy” path to overcome the loss of confidence in the joint
currency that policy makers have acted to restore since the
outbreak of the crisis, Merkel said in a speech today at St.
Stephen’s Church at Nijmegen, a Dutch city about eight
kilometers (five miles) from the German border.  “I am very confident that this will succeed,” Merkel
said. “The goal will be a much stronger coordination of
economic policy in the euro zone, or even in all of Europe.
Already today, the goal is a much stronger coordination of
fiscal discipline.”  Merkel didn’t name specific policy areas in her speech,
which came a day after she and other European Union leaders
vowed to investigate “aggressive” tax planning and urged
faster integration of the EU’s energy markets at a summit in
Brussels. She spoke in Nijmegen, the Netherlands’ oldest city,
after meeting Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte in the German
border town of Kleve and receiving an honorary doctorate from
Nijmegen’s Radboud University at the 13th-century church.  Fiscal discipline and economic growth aren’t opposites,
Merkel said, while EU governments are looking for agreed
measures to combat youth unemployment in countries worst hit by
the debt crisis, Merkel said.  Confidence in the euro will return to pre-crisis levels if
“we move forward step by step, if everyone does their homework,
if we stick together,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  