-- Tesco Chiefs Face Bonus Drought Unless They Reverse Profit Drop
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-05-23T09:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/tesco-chiefs-face-bonus-drought-unless-they-reverse-profit-drop.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  senior managers will only
receive an annual bonus if they manage to reverse the U.K.
grocer’s declining profit, according to today’s  annual report.   Chief Executive Officer Philip Clarke and his management
team missed out on a bonus and other long-term incentives last
year as profit at Britain’s largest supermarket company fell for
the first time in two decades, the document shows.  “Our financial performance fell short of where we wanted
it to be,” Stuart Chambers, chairman of Tesco’s remuneration
committee, said in the report. In future and in accordance with
new guidelines, bonuses will only be paid if profit has grown.  Clarke plans to dump the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain and is
retreating from international markets and reducing Tesco’s
domestic store expansion as the Cheshunt, England-based company
struggles to maintain its dominant share at home. The grocer
last year invested 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) revamping
stores and training staff as it seek to win customers back from
discounters such as Aldi and more upscale chains like Waitrose.  To reflect Tesco’s “fundamentally different approach to
space going forward,” the company said in the report it will
base future pay awards on trading profit rather than so-called
underlying profit as the former doesn’t include property gains.  Tesco said last month it will scrap 100 major store
developments, marking the end of a space race that defined the
country’s largest retailer for the past two decades. Instead,
the retailer will focus on expanding its online and convenience-stores as it seeks to address market share losses.  Mason Payoff  Today’s report also shows that the company paid former
Fresh & Easy CEO Tim Mason 1.6 million pounds in “liquidated
damages” after he was ousted last year. Mason, who established
the U.S. business in 2007, had worked at Tesco for 30 years.  Under the new remuneration plan, annual bonuses will be
“less heavily weighted towards short-term profits, but linked
to a more balanced scorecard of financial, strategic and
operational measures,” according to the report.  Still, if maximum targets are met, Clarke can earn as much
as 7 million pounds, with his base salary making up 16 percent
of the package, the annual bonus 40 percent and the performance
share plan 44 percent. Under similar metrics, Chief Financial
Officer Laurie McIlwee can earn a maximum of 4.6 million pounds.  Clarke’s base salary this year will be 1.12 million pounds,
while McIlwee will earn basic pay of 869,040 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  