-- EU Drops Threat of Anti-Subsidy Tariffs on Chinese Bicycles
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-23T09:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/eu-drops-threat-of-anti-subsidy-tariffs-on-chinese-bicycles.html
The European Union dropped a threat
to impose tariffs on bicycles from  China  to counter alleged
subsidies to Chinese exporters, marking a respite in the EU’s
wider battle to protect its producers.  The EU closed a probe into whether Chinese bikemakers
receive trade-distorting  government aid , a step that removes the
possibility of anti-subsidy duties by the 27-nation bloc on
imports of bikes from China.  The European Bicycle Manufacturers Association withdrew its
subsidy complaint on March 22, the European Commission, the EU’s
trade authority in Brussels, said today in the  Official Journal .
The commission opened the subsidy inquiry in April 2012 as a
result of the bicycle group’s complaint.  Europe is stepping up scrutiny of alleged state aid to
Chinese manufacturers, raising the prospect of more European
 import duties  to protect higher-cost producers. Most of the EU’s
punitive tariffs against China punish exporters there for
selling goods in Europe below cost, a practice known as  dumping .  China faces more EU anti-dumping duties than any other
country. To date, the EU has hit China with anti-subsidy levies
only twice -- on paper in 2011 and on steel earlier this year.  In two separate investigations that continue, the EU is
threatening to slap anti-subsidy duties on solar panels and
solar glass from China. In addition, the commission said last
week that it was prepared to probe possible subsidies to Chinese
makers of mobile-telecommunications equipment unless the
government in Beijing negotiates an “amicable solution.”  The EU already imposes an anti-dumping duty on Chinese
bicycles -- trade protection that is 20 years old. In March
2012, the bloc said it may ease the 48.5 percent duty because of
changes in the Chinese and EU markets. That review continues. In
an investigation begun last September, the EU is also examining
whether Chinese bikemakers have circumvented the anti-dumping
duty by shipping bicycles to Europe via Indonesia,  Malaysia ,  Sri
Lanka  and  Tunisia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  