-- EU Ports Face Renewed Market-Opening Push After Previous Vetoes
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-23T14:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/eu-ports-face-renewed-market-opening-push-after-previous-vetoes.html
European Union regulators revived a
push to boost competition at the bloc’s seaports following two
failed attempts in the past decade, saying the market-opening
steps would bolster an economy mired in recession.  The European Commission proposed to open procedures for
selecting port-service providers, prevent possible price abuses
by operators with exclusive rights and establish a port users’
advisory committee. The draft law covers 319 EU ports -- from
Rotterdam and Hamburg in the north to Genoa and  Athens  in the
south -- deemed a key part of the European transport network.  “We are facing major challenges in terms of congestion,
traffic growth and investment,” EU Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas said today in Brussels. “These proposals will bring
 Europe ’s port services into the 21st century, help attract
investment and create jobs.”  With 74 percent of the goods that enter or leave the EU
going by sea and a fifth of that amount being handled by
Rotterdam, Hamburg and Antwerp, the commission is seeking to
address an imbalance in port performances to prevent extra costs
for shippers and consumers. The proposal could save the European
economy as much as 10 billion euros ($12.9 billion) by 2030,
according to the commission, the EU’s regulatory arm.  The draft legislation is a tamer version of previous
proposals that the European Parliament vetoed in 2003 and 2006
following protests by dock workers concerned about possible job
losses. The failed market-opening plans included a controversial
provision that would have allowed workers on ships to unload
them as part of a “self-handling” right.  Dock Labor  The new proposal, which must be approved by the EU
Parliament and governments, omits this provision. The latest
plan also excludes a previous draft measure that would have let
cargo-handling companies hire the staff of their choice
regardless of local arrangements on dock labor.  The new draft law’s market-opening provisions cover six
types of port services: mooring, piloting, towing, dredging,
bunkering and waste management. In the area of investment, the
proposal would extend the freedom of ports to impose
infrastructure levies while seeking more transparency in the way
charges are set and public funds are used.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  