-- EU’s Draft Fund Manager Pay Rules Will Backfire, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-23T16:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/eu-s-draft-fund-manager-pay-rules-will-backfire-lawmaker-says.html
European Union proposals to limit
fund manager bonuses are “crude” and would drive up fixed
salaries if implemented, said Syed Kamall, a London lawmaker in
the European Parliament.  The plan to ban managers of so-called UCITS funds from
receiving bonuses larger than their fixed salaries would damage
the link between pay and performance, Kamall, who is in charge
of examining the draft rules for the parliament’s Conservative
group, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Unfortunately, there is simply an ideological objection
from Christian Democrats,  Socialists and Greens to high
salaries,” he said. “This means that we are less focused on
meaningful transparency of fees and making sure asset managers
do not receive bonuses when their funds perform poorly.”  The draft rules for fund managers go beyond planned EU
curbs on banker pay that would allow bonuses of twice fixed
salary. European asset-management firms are concerned the
proposal, which may affect two-thirds of senior fund managers,
may cause a bidding war for their best-performing employees,
increasing fixed costs and making the industry more vulnerable
to market downturns.  EU lawmakers supporting the cap say their proposals will
rein in risk-taking and better align the interests of fund
managers with investors.  Asset Managers  “It’s frustrating that we are not focusing on making sure
asset managers’ fees and bonuses reflect their performance,”
Kamall said.  Parliament lawmakers discussed the UCITS rules at a meeting
this week in Strasbourg,  France . Talks are set to continue on
the measure prior to a vote by the full assembly. Members of the
assembly’s economic and monetary affairs committee called for
the fund manager bonus curbs earlier this year.  UCITS, or Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities, had more than 6 trillion euros ($7.8
trillion) under management as of April 2012, according to the
European Commission. The funds are regulated at EU level and
have the right to operate throughout the 27-nation bloc if they
meet minimum oversight and investor-protection standards.  The full parliament is set to vote on the measures before
the end of July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  