-- Euro-Area Services, Factory Gauge Rises More Than Estimated
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-23T09:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/euro-area-may-services-factory-output-rises-more-than-estimated.html
A euro-area services and factory
output gauge increased more than economists forecast in May,
adding to signs the currency bloc is starting to emerge from its
 record-long recession .  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries rose to 47.7 from 46.9 in April, London-based
Markit Economics said today. That exceeded the median estimate
of 47.2 in a  Bloomberg News survey  of 27 economists. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  While the euro-zone manufacturing index rose to a three-month high of 47.8 in May, Chinese factory output contracted for
the first time in seven months, signaling the country’s economic
growth is losing steam for a second quarter.  “We see the euro zone being out of recession in the third
quarter,” said Christian Schulz, senior European economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London . “We’ve seen improving confidence
since the ECB provided a safety net, and the risk of countries
having to leave the euro has decreased. Also austerity is
fading.”  The euro extended gains after the data were released,
trading at $1.2903 at 10:56 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.4 percent on
the day. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was down 2.1 percent to
303.97.  Rate Cut  The euro area’s 18-month recession will end in the second
quarter, as the economy stagnates before returning to growth in
the following three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists. The economy  contracted  0.2 percent in the first
quarter.  The 17-nation economy’s contraction has left the European
Central Bank to try to mitigate the damage by cutting interest
rates and exploring unconventional ways of channeling money to
needy companies, especially in the south. The ECB this month  cut
its benchmark  rate to a record low of 0.5 percent.  Today’s PMI data followed a May 16  trade report , which
showed euro-area exports rose a seasonally adjusted 2.8 percent
in March and the trade surplus widened to 18.7 billion euros
($24.1 billion). European Union car sales rose in April for the
first time since September 2011.  ECB President Mario Draghi said after the bank’s May 2
meeting that “euro-area export growth should benefit from a
recovery in global demand and our monetary policy stance should
contribute to support domestic demand.”  Weaker Demand  While the Markit report showed an improvement, its
composite gauge has been below 50, indicating contraction, for
16 consecutive months. The services index improved to 47.5 in
May from 47 a month earlier.  The ECB forecasts the euro-area economy will shrink 0.5
percent this year, while the European Commission sees a 0.4
percent contraction.  “The euro zone’s second recession in five years looks set
to drag on into a seventh successive quarter,” Markit’s chief
economist, Chris Williamson, said in today’s report.  “The ECB’s quarter-point cut in interest rates seems to
have done little to inspire confidence that the economy will
start to pick up again,” he said. “In fact, expectations about
the year ahead deteriorated again in the service sector,
suggesting recovery remains a long way off still and that
policymakers need to do more to stem the downturn and revive
growth.”  Schaeffler AG, the family-owned bearing maker that’s the
biggest investor in car-parts producer  Continental AG (CON) , said on
May 21 that profit fell as gains at the automotive unit failed
to offset weaker demand at its industrial division. Chief
Executive Officer Juergen Geissinger said the company was “not
anticipating a quick recovery of the European markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  