-- European Soccer Body UEFA Introduces Minimum 10-Game Racism Ban
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-23T13:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/european-soccer-body-uefa-introduces-minimum-10-game-racism-ban.html
Soccer players found guilty of
discriminatory behavior in European club competitions face a
minimum 10-game ban, regional governing body UEFA said today as
it moved to toughen penalties following several cases of racism.  The sanctions come a week after  England ’s Football
Association introduced a minimum five-game ban for players found
to have engaged in racist behavior.  UEFA’ s new regulations also
impose a partial closing of a stadium for a first violation by
supporters, and a full closure for repeat offenders as well as a
mandatory 50,000 euro ($65,000) fine.  A referee in an Italian league match between Roma and AC
Milan on May 12 suspended play for two minutes after Roma
supporters aimed racist chants at Milan’s black players,
including striker  Mario Balotelli . Roma was fined 50,000 euros
and ordered to shut part of its stadium for one game next
season.  UEFA also introduced measures aimed at protecting match
officials, with the minimum ban for anyone found guilty of
insulting them increasing to three games from two and assaults
punished by a minimum 15-game suspension, up from 10. The Nyon,
Switzerland-based group also granted additional powers to its
disciplinary body to take action against match-fixing,
corruption and doping if member associations fail to act.  The group also decided that Berlin's Olympiastadion will 
host the  Champions League  final after next year's in Lisbon. 
This year’s game featuring  Germany ’s Bayern Munich and Borussia
Dortmund will take place at  London ’s Wembley stadium in two
days. The 2015 Europa League final will be played at the
National Stadium in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  