-- Euro Gains Second Day Versus Dollar on German Ifo; Yen Advances
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-24T11:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/euro-set-for-fourth-weekly-gain-versus-pound-before-german-data.html
The euro strengthened for a second
day against the dollar after an industry report showed German
business confidence unexpectedly increased in May, adding to
optimism the region’s biggest economy is improving.  The 17-nation currency extended its biggest weekly advance
in seven weeks as a separate report forecast German consumer
sentiment will improve in June. The yen extended its biggest
weekly gain versus the dollar since June after  Bank of Japan 
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the central bank had announced
sufficient monetary easing.  Australia ’s dollar weakened against
all of its 16 major counterparts as HSBC Holdings and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. predicted it would weaken.  “The Ifo is crucial data for euro-dollar right now,” said
 Peter Frank , global head of currency strategy at  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in  London . “It’s the German economy that
is going to be driving the euro-zone to the next level of
improvement. It’s not going to come from anywhere else. The
number wasn’t big but it was above consensus and that’s enough
to push the euro higher.”  The euro advanced 0.2 percent to $1.2959 at 7:11 a.m. in
New York, extending this week’s gain to 0.9 percent, the most
since the period ended April 5. The shared currency dropped 0.5
percent to 131.34 yen. The yen jumped 0.7 percent to 101.31 per
dollar, having risen 1.9 percent this week.  The Ifo institute’s German  business climate index  improved
to 105.7 from 104.4 in April. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News (GRIFPBUS)  predicted it would remain unchanged. GfK AG said its
consumer-sentiment index will increase to 6.5 next month from
6.2 in May. That would be the highest since September 2007.  Gather Pace  While risks stemming from Europe’s debt crisis persist, the
German economy will gather pace in the current quarter, the
Bundesbank said this week. Factory orders surged for a second
month in March and exports increased.  The yen rose for a second day versus the dollar as Kuroda
said the BOJ will implement flexible money-market operations and
he wants to avoid increasing volatility in bond markets.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225  Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.9 percent today
after sliding as much as 3.5 percent. It tumbled 7.3 percent
yesterday, the most since the aftermath of the March 2011
earthquake and tsunami.  “The BOJ have done a huge amount and now they have to wait
and see how its policy runs its course,” said  Simon Smith ,
chief economist at FxPro Group Ltd. in London. “It’s relatively
early on in its path and Kuroda was probably quite correct to
not lead the market to expect more at this stage. A lot of
people had been playing the weaker yen story through stocks, and
it was always vulnerable for a correction.”  Worst Performer  The yen slumped 12 percent this year, the worst performer
of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as the Bank of Japan doubled
monthly bond purchases in April to end deflation. The euro
gained 3 percent and the dollar advanced 5 percent.  The Australian dollar extended a third weekly loss as HSBC
said the currency will weaken to 90 U.S. cents by year-end,
compared with a previous forecast for 95.  Goldman Sachs said yesterday it remained bearish on the
Aussie, expecting it to weaken to 90 cents in 12 months.  “There’s a lot of negative sentiment around the Aussie,”
said Peter Dragicevich, a Sydney-based currency economist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s largest lender.  Australia’s dollar fell 0.7 percent to 96.80 U.S. cents,
having declined 0.5 percent this week. It dropped to 95.94 cents
yesterday, the lowest since June 1.  China’s  yuan  rose to a 19-year high versus the dollar as
the central bank set a record reference rate for the currency
and Premier  Li Keqiang  reiterated the country was making
progress in opening up its capital account.  The yuan rose 0.04 percent to close at 6.1316 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched
6.1276, the strongest since the government unified official and
market rates in 1993.  Financial markets in the U.S. and U.K. will be shut for
public holidays on May 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  