-- Euro-Area Consumer Confidence Increases for Sixth Month in May
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-05-23T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/euro-area-consumer-confidence-increases-for-sixth-month-in-may.html
Euro-area  consumer confidence 
increased for a sixth consecutive month in May, adding to signs
the euro area is starting to emerge from a record-long
recession.  An index of household confidence in the 17-nation  euro zone 
rose to minus 21.9 from minus 22.3 in April, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had forecast an
increase to minus 21.8, according to the median of 25 estimates
in a  Bloomberg News survey .  The euro area’s 18-month recession will end in the second
quarter, as the economy stagnates before returning to growth in
the following three months, according to a separate Bloomberg
survey of economists. The economy  contracted  0.2 percent in the
first quarter.  Today’s confidence data followed a May 16  trade report ,
which showed euro-area exports rose a seasonally adjusted 2.8
percent in March and the  trade surplus  widened to 18.7 billion
euros ($24.1 billion). European Union car sales rose in April
for the first time since September 2011.  Record unemployment of 12.1 percent and spending cuts
across the euro area have eroded consumer spending power even as
inflation has been below the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling since
February.  Retail sales  fell 0.1 percent in March, the last month
for which data are available.  Adidas Revenue  EU car sales rose in April for the first time since
September 2011, though the number registered was still the
third-lowest for the month since the data series began in 1990,
according to the Brussels-based European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based sporting
goods-maker, said May 3 that first-quarter revenue in western
Europe slid 6 percent on a currency-neutral basis, led by
declines in Spain, Italy and the U.K.  The commission is scheduled to publish the final numbers
for May  consumer confidence  and the wider indicator of euro-area
economic confidence on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  