-- Levin Says Tax Changes Should Focus on Unjustified Breaks
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-05-23T16:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/levin-says-tax-changes-should-focus-on-unjustified-breaks.html
Democratic Senator Carl Levin said an
overhaul of the U.S. tax code would be difficult to accomplish
and instead lawmakers should focus on curbing “unjustified”
tax breaks.  “Corporate tax reform is going to be very, very difficult
if you’re looking at the legitimate deductions, because there’s
a reason for those deductions,” Levin said at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast today. “They serve an economic purpose so
the economic interests that were able to get those passed, put
into law, are going to fight very hard to keep those
deductions.”  Levin, of  Michigan , said the focus should be on limiting
some tax breaks rather than on a tax code rewrite that wouldn’t
raise additional revenue.  Levin’s comments follow a hearing this week by the Senate
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, of which he is
chairman, that focused on $102 billion in assets that  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , the most valuable technology company, has stored in
offshore entities.  Executives of Apple, based in Cupertino,  California ,
defended their practices at the hearing. Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  said the company complies with all laws and has no
plans to repatriate earnings kept abroad.  “That’s why my focus has been on the ones that are
unjustified where it’s pretty hard to defend them,” Levin said.
“What’s the answer that we got from Apple? Change the law.”  Jump-Start Discussions  Cook’s appearance before the panel was intended to draw
attention to the flawed U.S. tax system and jump-start
discussions about rewriting the tax code, Levin said.  The push to rewrite tax laws has moved out of the spotlight
as the pace of deficit growth has slowed and lawmakers focus on
other matters. Those include revising immigration law and
investigating accusations that the Internal Revenue Service
improperly gave extra scrutiny to applications of small-government groups seeking tax-exempt status.  “It is a scandal, as far as I’m concerned, for the IRS to
be choosing and picking people to investigate based on
ideology,” Levin said.  Levin said the IRS investigation doesn’t mean “the air is
out of the room” on rewriting tax laws. Still, he said the IRS
matter has put on a “side track” his committee’s investigation
into whether the IRS wrongly allowed tax-exempt status for some
groups that are primarily political.  Crafting Legislation  Levin is crafting legislation that would end some offshore
tax benefits for companies.  Levin, 78, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee,
said in March that he wouldn’t seek a seventh term in 2014.  His support for business tax changes that would raise fresh
revenue sets him apart from others who back a budget-neutral
rewrite of corporate taxes. That position has drawn support from
President  Barack Obama  and Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.  Camp says his committee will pass a bill this year that
would lower tax rates for individuals and businesses and remove
or curtail tax breaks. He has released draft legislation on
international taxation, small businesses and financial products.  The Senate Finance Committee has been holding a series of
bipartisan meetings on the issue.  Obama has offered a framework for business tax changes that
would reduce the top corporate rate for most companies to 28
percent from 35 percent.  Levin said tax breaks “ought to go” if they “can’t be
justified as a way of producing cleaner air, cleaner water,
using less energy, building a home through a mortgage” or other
economic grounds.  “We shouldn’t even think about using that revenue for
anything other than deficit reduction,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  