-- Texas Cited by Democrat as Model for Less Flaring After Fracking
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-23T16:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/texas-cited-by-democrat-as-model-for-less-flaring-after-fracking.html
Texas  should be the model for other
states as officials seek to reduce the need to burn, or flare
off, methane coming from oil and gas wells drilled by hydraulic
fracturing, a top Senate Democrat said.  Senator Ron Wyden, chairman of the  Energy and Natural
Resources  Committee, praised Texas for a flaring rate of 0.5
percent of the gas it produces.  “I want to hear what the industry can do to get other
states’ levels of flaring down to Texas’ levels,” Wyden of
 Oregon  said at a committee roundtable with gas producers and
environmental groups in Washington.  With an oil boom in North Dakota, drillers are flaring 30
percent of the gas being released,  according  to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. The activity drew global attention
after  NASA  distributed a nighttime  photograph  showing the lights
from flaring towers and oil-field equipment in a state with 9.7
residents per square mile in 2010.  Gas output in Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia is
booming as drillers unlock shale deposits using the hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, that shoots water, sand and chemicals
underground to crack rock and free trapped gas. The process has
spurred complaints from landowners and environmental groups
about increased air pollution and water contamination.  That process is used in states such as North Dakota, Texas
and  Wyoming  to get oil. Those oil wells also produce natural
gas, and with natural gas prices low and infrastructure sparse,
drillers often burn off the initial gas from a well.  In addition to flaring, lawmakers heard about water-contamination issues tied to fracking and whether a minimal
federal standard is necessary for the practice. Representatives
from companies such as  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , citing a lack of
instances of water contamination from fracking, said federal
oversight isn’t needed.  “In our experience, the states are the best situated to
regulate oil and gas activities,” David Porges, chief executive
of  EQT Corp. (EQT) , a Pittsburgh-based natural-gas producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  