-- Mexico’s Altamira Scheduled to Get LNG Spot Cargo From Nigeria
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-05-23T02:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/mexico-s-altamira-scheduled-to-get-lng-spot-cargo-from-nigeria.html
Mexico  is scheduled to receive a spot
cargo of liquefied natural gas from  Nigeria  today, according to
ship-tracking data.  The Trinity Glory, with a capacity of 152,675 cubic meters,
is due to arrive at the Altamira facility on Mexico’s east
coast, according to ship transmissions captured by IHS Fairplay
on Bloomberg. The tanker sailed from Nigeria LNG Ltd.’s Bonny
Island terminal, where it loaded the supercooled gas and
departed May 2.  Koninklijke Vopak NV (VPK) , a Dutch storage provider, is the
majority shareholder in Altamira with a 60 percent stake,
according to the company’s  website .  Gerbert van Genderen Stort, a Rotterdam-based spokesman for
Vopak, and Kudo Eresia-Eke, an Abuja-based official at Nigeria
LNG, didn’t respond to phone calls or e-mails sent outside
working hours.  Mexico doesn’t have term contracts to buy LNG from Nigeria,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The country’s state
utility, Comision Federal de Electricidad, bought 19 cargoes
from Trafigura AG and eight shipments from  BP Plc (BP/)  through a spot
buy tender over the last two weeks.  Force Majeure  Nigeria LNG, Africa’s largest exporter of the fuel, said
May 15 it declared force majeure on exports after  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  discovered a pipeline leak and halted deliveries.  The announcement followed Shell’s shutdown of its Gbaran
Ubie and Soku gas facilities after the pipeline leak cut
supplies by half, Eresia-Eke said May 17 in an e-mail. Force
majeure is a legal step that protects a company from liability
when it can’t fulfill a contract for reasons beyond its control.  Latin America’s LNG import capacity will increase to 49.2
million metric tons a year in 2020 from a projected 30 million
this year, Anton Safronov,  Total SA’s (FP)  LNG origination director,
said May 9 in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  