-- Spokane Ricin Suspect Charged With Threatening U.S. Judge
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-05-23T19:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/fbi-arrests-man-in-connection-to-threatening-ricin-letter.html
A 37-year-old man was charged with
threatening a federal judge in Spokane,  Washington , in a letter
sent with the deadly chemical ricin, the FBI said.  Matthew Ryan Buquet was arrested yesterday and charged with
mailing a threatening communication on May 14 addressed to U.S.
District Judge Frederick Van Sickle at the federal courthouse in
Spokane, according to a court filing yesterday.  The letter contained “a threat to injure and kill Judge
Van Sickle,” according to a grand jury indictment. The  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  said in a statement yesterday that tests
of the letter confirmed it contained ricin.  A bail hearing was scheduled for May 28. Buquet is in
custody, authorities said today.  A 41-year-old man from Tupelo,  Mississippi , was arrested
last month in connection with the mailing of letters containing
ricin to President  Barack Obama  and U.S. Senator  Roger Wicker .
James Everett Dutschke was charged with producing a biological
agent for use as a weapon.  Dutschke, a former martial arts instructor, was arrested on
April 27, four days after federal prosecutors dropped charges
against Paul Kevin Curtis, 45, an Elvis impersonator from
Corinth, Mississippi. A lawyer for Curtis had told a federal
judge during a court hearing that he may have been framed by
Dutschke because the men had a long-running feud.  Plea Entered  Buquet appeared in court yesterday with an attorney and was
advised of the allegations and his rights, according to court
documents. He was appointed a federal defender and a not guilty
plea was entered, according to the minutes of a hearing before
U.S. Magistrate Judge Cynthia Imbrogno.  The maximum penalty for mailing a threatening letter is
10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.  Representatives of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Spokane
didn’t respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
indictment. Nor did Robert Fischer, a federal defender at the
hearing.  Ricin  is made from castor beans and has been used
experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s
harmful and potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, according
to the CDC.  The case is U.S. v. Buquet, 2:13-cr-00085, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Washington (Spokane).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  