-- Fed History Shows Punch Bowl Goes as Jobs Rise: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-05-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/fed-history-shows-punch-bowl-goes-as-jobs-rise-cutting-research.html
An improving labor market rather than
accelerating inflation made the  Federal Reserve  decide to end
its last three episodes of easy monetary policy. It may be about
to happen again, says Barclays Plc strategist Barry Knapp.  He looked back to May 1983, February 1994 and the February-to-August period of 2004 to see what prompted the U.S. central
bank to tighten policy, which former Fed chief William McChesney
Martin likened to taking away the punch bowl just as the party
gets going.  In all three cases, inflation measures were generally
falling. It was employment, the other part of the Fed’s dual
mandate, that spurred a policy shift, wrote Knapp, head of U.S.
equity strategy at Barclays in  New York .  The 2003-2004 period is most useful to examine because by
then the Fed had begun releasing statements after policy
meetings to explain its decision-making, he said. The statements
indicated an evolution from “firing has stopped” to “hiring
has picked up.”  “The triggers that marked the end of the recent extreme
accommodation periods were  employment , not inflation,” Knapp
said in a May 22 report  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated May 22 that the Fed
is seeking “real and sustainable” progress in shrinking
unemployment before it begins to pare record stimulus, through
such measures as reducing or tapering monthly bond buying.  The Fed’s embrace of transparency before the third period
studied meant markets were less volatile the last time interest
rates were increased. In 1983 and 1994, 10-year yields increased
nearly 200 basis points as the Fed began to tighten policy.  In 2004, the end of a pledge to keep policy accommodative
for a considerable period and strong payroll reports led to a
110-basis-point rise in yields.  While Barclays currently predicts the Fed will maintain its
current rate of asset purchases into next year, Knapp said in an
interview the labor market is again the Fed’s focus. A strong
payroll report for May could prompt investors to anticipate a
faster pullback in stimulus, he said.  * * *  European exporters may not need to worry about the sliding
yen making their products less competitive in international
markets.  While the yen has dropped 13 percent against the euro this
year, economists at AllianceBernstein Holding LP say the decline
may not threaten  Europe ’s trade position.  That’s partly because  Japan (BOJDTR)  accounts for just 2.4 percent
of euro-area exports, about a 10th of the U.K.’s share, said
AllianceBernstein economists Darren Williams and Guy Bruten in a
May 17 report. Accounting for  Japan ’s role in Europe’s other
export markets, they found Japan to be the euro area’s fourth
biggest competitor.  The threat it poses is also diminishing. Japan has a 6
percent weight in the euro’s trade-weighted exchange rate index,
down from 11.6 percent in the mid-1990s. That’s because of the
emergence of  China  as a trade rival, leaving the euro area more
vulnerable to shifts in the  yuan  than in the yen.  * * *  The ability of U.S. college graduates to find jobs may
depend on where they’re looking, according to the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York .  Seeking employment in bigger cities, where there are more
employers and employees, can give people a better chance of
matching their skills to a job, economists Jaison R. Abel and
Richard Deitz said May 20 on the Fed bank’s Liberty Street
Economics  blog .  Their research showed the probability of a college
graduate working in a job requiring a degree increases to 64.5
percent from 61.1 percent when the population size of a
metropolitan area increases to the 99th percentile from the 55th
percentile nationally.  This implies a college degree-holder finding a job is about
6 percent more probable in a place like  New York City  than in,
for example, Syracuse, New York.  “The larger and thicker local labor markets of big cities
appear to help college graduates find better jobs by increasing
both the likelihood and the quality of a job match,” said Abel
and Deitz.  * * *  U.S. employment is 1 percent weaker than the level
suggested by a popular economics’ rule of thumb, meaning about
1.2 million people can’t blame their lack of work on the weak
recovery.  That’s the conclusion of a paper published this week by the
 National Bureau of Economic Research , which looked at Okun’s
Law. Created by the late Yale University professor  Arthur Okun ,
it maps a statistical relationship between gross domestic
product growth and changes in the jobless rate.  The  findings  suggest more than 1 million of the jobs lost
since the end of the 2008-2009  recession  can’t be attributed to
cyclical factors. That challenges the view of some Fed
officials, including Bernanke, who question the assertion that
the economy is suffering from structural shifts that permanently
lift unemployment.  “Eliminating this shortfall will depend upon the
implementation of measures that improve the workings of the
labor market, as well as other government policies that raise
the natural rate of unemployment,” said Menzie D. Chinn of the
 University of Wisconsin , Laurent Ferrara of the Bank of  France 
and the University of Paris Ouest’s Valerie Mignon.  * * *  A 17 percent slide in Japan’s working-age population over
the next two decades is forecast to swamp policy maker efforts
to propel the world’s third largest economy out of deflation.  In a May 20 report,  Carl Weinberg  of High Frequency
Economics said fewer workers will make it harder for Japan to
service a debt he predicts will grow unabated over the next 17
years. An increase in the ratio of retired workers to 32 percent
of the population from 23 percent now means those who are
working in 2030 will also have to give up more of their incomes
to support retirees.  The need to finance public debt and help the old will mean
investment will extend its decline of the last 15 years, said
Valhalla, New York-based Weinberg. Writing three days before the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average took its biggest one-day plunge since
2011, Weinberg said the benchmark index also will continue its
23-year decline.  “Demographics doom Japan to dismal deflation and economic
depression,” he said. “This is no place to bet on equities in
the long term.”  * * *  Long recessions can erode more than the skill of workers.
They can also sap their work ethic.  A model of “social hysteresis” designed by Wolfgang
Lechthaler and Dennis J. Snower of the  Kiel Institute for the
World Economy  shows that without a job, people’s incentives to
seek and retain employment fall. That in turn undermines their
ability to secure fresh positions.  They based their analysis on what they called elite
workers, who tend to like to work and are unhappy to be out of
it. They therefore are more likely to be employed than less-educated, who are less likely to enjoy work.  “The deterioration of employment prospects during a deep,
prolonged recession might induce some elite workers to lose
their pro-work ethic,” Lechthaler and Snower said in the  study ,
which was published this week by the London-based Centre for
Policy Research. “In this way, temporary recessions may come to
have permanent effects on aggregate employment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  