-- Bullard Says Fed Should Wait to Slow Bond Buying
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-23T14:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/fed-s-bullard-says-bond-buying-should-respond-to-economic-data.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said he wants to continue the current
pace of bond purchases as long as falling inflation is a
concern.  “My own forecast is that it would be a little closer to
target by now, so I am a little bit nervous about the fact that
inflation has been low and has been trending down,” Bullard
said in  London  today. “I would like to get some reassurance
from the data that it’s going to turn around and go back toward
target before we start tapering” bond purchases by the Fed.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the  U.S. economy 
remains hampered by high unemployment and government spending
cuts, and raising interest rates or reducing asset purchases too
quickly would endanger the recovery. Bullard, a voting member of
the  Federal Open Market Committee  this year, said earlier this
month that the Fed should keep up bond buying because it’s the
best option for boosting growth.  In response to audience questions at an event hosted by the
Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum, Bullard said
any decision to taper the pace of quantitative easing “does
depend on the data.” He added that  labor markets  “have been
improving.”  Bullard told reporters after the event that while slowing
purchases is the more likely course over time, increasing the
pace of purchases remains an option if inflation falls further.  “Right now, I don’t think the deflation risk is very high
in the U.S., but it will start to go up if inflation continues
to decline,” he said.  Small Changes  Bullard told reporters any slowing in purchases should be
done in “relatively small moves” just as changes in  interest
rates  are typically in small increments. “You should only make
moderate moves,” he said.  In prepared remarks at the event, Bullard said the Fed
should “continue with the present quantitative easing program,
adjusting the rate of purchases appropriately in view of
incoming data on both real economic performance and inflation.”  Inflation as measured by the personal consumption
expenditures price index rose 1 percent for the year ending
March, below the central bank’s 2 percent goal.  Fed officials are debating how to eventually curtail asset
purchases that have expanded its balance sheet to a record $3.35
trillion. The FOMC agreed May 1 to maintain monthly buying of
$40 billion in mortgage securities and $45 billion of Treasuries
to boost employment.  Purchase Pace  The FOMC said that day that it is prepared to accelerate or
slow purchases in response to changes in the labor market and
inflation. It also left unchanged its statement that it plans to
hold its target interest rate near zero as long as  unemployment 
remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation doesn’t
exceed 2.5 percent.  “The reaction in financial markets clearly indicates that
such purchases are effective in easing financial conditions,”
Bullard said.  The traditional effects of easier monetary policy include
higher inflation expectations,  currency depreciation , higher
equity valuations and lower real interest rates, according to
the policy maker. “All of these have been associated with
quantitative easing in the U.S.,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  