-- Finland Must Cap Mortgages to Boost Stability, Central Bank Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-05-23T08:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/finland-must-cap-mortgages-to-boost-stability-central-bank-says.html
Finland ’s financial regulator needs
the power to impose a binding cap on mortgages to prevent
household debt growth from threatening financial stability, the
central bank said.  “There are good reasons to ensure the readiness to make
use of macro-prudential tools in time, such as loan-to-value
regulation and a systemic risk buffer,” Deputy Governor Pentti Hakkarainen, who’s in charge of financial stability at the Bank
of Finland, said in an e-mailed report today. “Ongoing debt
accumulation erodes the ability of households and the economy to
adapt to negative economic surprises.”  Finland’s financial watchdog recommended in March 2010 that
banks cap mortgages at 90 percent of the property value. More
than half of first-time home buyers exceed the threshold, which
isn’t legally binding, according to the FSA sample studies in
2010 and 2012.  Household debt reached 119 percent of disposable incomes
last year, the highest level since at least 1986, the central
bank said. The increase is fueled by record-low interest rates.
The European Central Bank this month cut its  benchmark rate  to a
0.5 percent to boost the 17-member euro-area economy that’s
shrinking for the second year.  Finland should consider extra regulation on systemically
important financial institutions in harmony with the global and
Nordic banking market, the central bank said.  Banks in Finland have sufficient own funds that are
“mainly of high quality,” the central bank said. Still, the
profitability of lenders is deteriorating as the low level of
rates reduces net interest income, according to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  