-- Stockholm Firefighters Attacked in Fourth Night of Rioting
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-05-23T15:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/firemen-attacked-as-stockholm-riots-continue-for-fourth-night.html
Rioters outside Stockholm burned cars
and trash cans, attacked schools and pelted emergency workers
with rocks in a fourth night of violence sparked by a police
shooting in one of  Sweden ’s most ethnically diverse suburbs.  As many as 30 cars were on fire in the Swedish capital’s
southern suburbs, while 11 were set alight in the Husby area,
north of the city center, where the unrest broke out four days
ago, police spokesman Kjell Lindgren said by phone today. Police
detained one person, a 16-year-old girl suspected of preparing
an act of arson. That followed eight arrests since Tuesday.  Violence erupted about a week after police shot a 69-year-old man brandishing a knife in Husby, an area dotted with high
rises built in the 1970s. The suburb is home to about 12,000
people, 60 percent of whom were born outside the Nordic country.  Sweden -- where immigrant unemployment is about twice the
national average -- has suffered similar unrest before. In 2008,
rioters clashed with police outside the southern Swedish city of
Malmoe. Back then, the violence also spread to  Stockholm ’s
Tensta and Husby suburbs.  “While the situation has become better in Husby, where a
lot of local people have become engaged to calm things down,”
it “has intensified on the southern side of the city,”
Lindgren said. “We will continue to show our presence in the
suburbs with strengthened resources.”  Angry, Sad  Last night, firefighters trying to rescue a restaurant in
Skogaas were attacked by stone-throwing youths. Police officers
were also attacked in Husby. Several other suburbs reported
vandalism and fires.  “The local families I met yesterday are extremely angry
and sad and they hope those responsible get harsh sentences,”
Adam Khoder, a member of Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt’s
Moderate Party for the local Rinkeby-Kista council, which is a
part of Stockholm’s local government, said in an interview.
“This is not normal.”  Three police officers suffered minor injuries after being
hit by rocks overnight, Lindgren said. None of them required
hospitalization, he said. In Raagsved, 11 people were detained
before being taken away in police buses. Police are working to
identify more rioters, many of whom were masked.  School Fires  There were similar scenes on Tuesday, when about 30 cars
were set on fire in areas with some of Sweden’s highest
immigration rates. A Husby school and cultural center were set
alight while garbage cans burned across other suburbs. A school
was set on fire in Skaerholmen and a police station and
buildings in central Jakobsberg were vandalized. The average age
of those arrested on Tuesday was about 20, police said. They
didn’t provide further details identifying those detained.  “I don’t know the reasons behind what’s happened, but
perhaps these people didn’t go to school, didn’t apply for jobs
and just haven’t tried,” Khoder said. “But it is important to
mention that many of them did not come from Husby and that this
is about a few criminal youths, not entire neighborhoods.”  The family of the man who was killed by police has urged
rioters to stop.  It’s “the wrong way to react,” said Risto Kajanto, the
dead man’s brother in-law, according to Swedish tabloid
 Aftonbladet . “We must discuss with the police and get along --
violence only feeds more violence.”  Police must also admit their mistakes in the shooting,
Kajanto said. The deceased man, who emigrated from  Portugal  in
the 1970s and his wife, who came from  Finland , had been out
eating in a restaurant on the day he was killed, according to
Aftonbladet. On the way home, they were threatened by a group of
youths, prompting the man to get a knife. He was later shot by
police in his apartment, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  