-- Flaherty Says He's Worried by Loose Policies Globally
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/flaherty-says-he-s-worried-by-loose-policies-globally.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the loosening of fiscal and monetary policies in
some countries may be increasing risks to the global economy.  Some policy makers favor “growth at any cost,” Flaherty
told a committee of lawmakers from the Senate in Ottawa
yesterday. Those authorities believe “not only should they be
doing more in fiscal policy, but they should continue what some
of them are doing in monetary policy, printing money.”  “This is worrisome and there are some of us, including
 Canada  and a couple of others, who don’t share that view,”
Flaherty said.  Four years after the deepest recession since World War II,
central banks are still combating slow growth with interest-rate
cuts and asset purchases. So far this month, monetary
authorities overseeing a quarter of global gross domestic
product have lowered interest rates, including in the euro-area,
Australia and  Israel .  Flaherty, the dean of Group of Seven finance ministers, is
one of the most vocal with concerns that policy makers have
become too accommodating. At a meeting of G-7 officials near
 London  earlier this month, Flaherty said that U.S. officials
pushing for an easing of austerity to aid economic growth need
to take a clear position about where they stand on budget cuts.  Some of the world’s largest economies have failed to meet
fiscal commitments, made at a 2010 Toronto summit, to cut budget
deficits in half by this year and a related pledge to stabilize
debt by 2016.  Another Crisis  There’s “no doubt” the world will suffer another
financial crisis, and loose fiscal and monetary policy make
countries vulnerable, Flaherty said.  “In the big picture, there’s too much capital sloshing
around the world, which is worrisome, because we’ve seen this
before,” he said. “In 2007, this was so, and it tends to
create asset bubbles.”  The Canadian government has been mindful of overheating in
the country’s housing  market , especially with  interest rates 
near historic lows, according to Flaherty.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney “has indicated that
the  policy rate  of the bank will not rise for some time, so this
is a persisting problem,” Flaherty said.  Measures introduced by the government to tighten mortgage
lending rules have helped to moderate price increases, he said,
adding there is no “bubble” in Canada’s housing market.  The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions,
the country’s banking regulator, will continue to monitor state-run housing agency Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. “very
closely,” because it has become a “major financial
institution” and needs to operate like one, Flaherty said.  OSFI “has been over there doing some stress testing, and
we’re going to continue monitoring CMHC very closely,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  