-- Forest Labs’ 85-Year-Old CEO Solomon to Leave at Year End
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-05-23T20:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/forest-laboratories-says-solomon-to-leave-ceo-post.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , maker of
the Alzheimer’s drug Namenda and blood-pressure pill Bystolic,
said Howard Solomon will retire as chief executive officer at
year’s end after holding the job for more than three decades.  Solomon, 85, will remain chairman through the 2014 annual
shareholder meeting, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Forest Labs said it has already been evaluating
candidates both from within the company and outside and plans to
name a new CEO before the end of the year.  “We have been actively engaged in the succession planning
process for some time and agree with Howard that now is the
right time to begin the transition to new leadership,” Gerald M. Lieberman, a member of the board committee overseeing the
succession, said in the statement. “Our mission and focus now
is to find the right CEO to take our products forward and build
on the platform that Howard helped put in place.”  Solomon joined Forest Labs in 1964 as a director and board
secretary and became CEO in 1977, overseeing the company’s
progression from a small maker of vitamins into a  drug company 
with $4.6 billion in  sales  in fiscal 2012. Revenue tumbled 32
percent in fiscal 2013 after patent protection ended on the
company’s antidepressant Lexapro, once its biggest-seller with
more than $2 billion in annual sales.  The company is pushing to offset the decline with the sale
of newer drugs, including the lung treatment Tudorza and bowel
disorder medicine Linzess.  Icahn Battle  Forest Labs gained 5.4 percent to $39.53 at the close in
 New York , the biggest single-day increase since September 2010.
The shares have increased 12 percent this year.  The company in recent years has fought off the advances of
billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who won a board seat last year
in his second proxy fight. Icahn’s qualms included the potential
for Solomon’s son David to succeed him.  Forest Labs lost exclusivity on Lexapro in March last year,
causing the company to report its first annual loss since fiscal
1997 as cheaper generic copies flooded the market.  Solomon has focused on selling new products, introducing
seven medicines since 2008, he said in an April 23 statement.  Before joining Forest Labs, Solomon was a lawyer. He now is
a trustee of the New York Presbyterian Hospital, a member of the
executive committee of the board of the  Metropolitan Opera ,
director of the  New York City Ballet  and director emeritus of
 Lincoln Center . He graduated from the  City College  of New York
and has a law degree from  Yale University .  “I recognize that the time has come for me to retire from
the full time responsibility of running Forest Laboratories,”
Solomon said in the statement. “I will be 86 this August and I
think the company is entitled to the rigorous assurances of
continuity that a younger chief executive can provide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  