-- Forint Drops Most in Month as RSI Fuels Selloff: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-23T12:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/forint-drops-most-in-month-as-rsi-fuels-selloff-budapest-mover.html
The forint plunged the most in a
month as technical indicators signaling the currency had rallied
too much spurred the selloff triggered by speculation of an
easing in U.S. monetary stimulus.  Hungary’s currency retreated after a six-day rally that
pushed its 14-day relative strength index to 71, above the 70
level which signals to some analysts that a security or index is
overbought. It traded 0.8 percent lower at 292.01 per euro by
12:20 p.m. in Budapest, the biggest drop since April 23.  The eastern European nation’s exchange rate has
outperformed all 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg this
quarter with an advance of 4.2 percent as investors sought
higher-yielding assets amid record-low rates in developed
countries. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, who initially told a
Joint Committee of Congress in  Washington  yesterday that
reducing stimulus too soon would endanger economic recovery,
later signaled the central bank will scale back stimulus if
economic conditions improve.  “The forint is definitely reacting to the Fed comments,
which reduced risk appetite,” Andrej Taraczky, head of currency
trading at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt., said by phone from
Budapest.  The RSI fell to 60 today after the forint strengthened past
its 200-day moving average yesterday.  Turning Point  While the forint’s RSI level showed it was overbought, it’s
more significant that the currency yesterday failed to stay
stronger than its 200-day moving average, according to Taraczky.
“Many people saw that as the sign of a significant turning
point” in the exchange rate, he said.  Hungary ’s Debt Management Agency sold 45 billion forint
($199 million) in 12-month Treasury bills at an auction today, 5
billion forint less than planned. The average yield was 4
percent, compared with a record-low 3.96 percent at the last
sale of that maturity two weeks ago.  Hungary’s central bank cut its benchmark rate for a ninth
month to 4.75 percent on April 23, an all-time low, indicating
that further easing is possible if the inflation outlook and
financial markets allow. The Monetary Council will probably
reduce the  base rate  by 25 basis points on May 28, according to
all 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The continued rate cuts and expectations for more easing
priced in by the market may reach a level which weakens the
forint,” Taraczky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  