-- Former Fisker CEO LaSorda Teams With Penske on Venture Fund
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-05-23T15:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/former-fisker-chief-lasorda-teams-with-penske-on-venture-fund.html
Tom LaSorda, former chief executive
officer of Fisker Automotive Inc. and of the predecessor of
Chrysler Group LLC, is starting a venture capital fund with
racing mogul Roger Penske to invest in technology companies.  IncWell LP will provide seed capital of $50,000 to $250,000
to companies with a consumer and industrial focus, according to
a statement today. The Birmingham, Michigan-based fund plans to
target startups with new technology for clean energy, medical,
health-care, transportation and information applications.  LaSorda, 58, was replaced as Fisker’s CEO in August 2012 by
 Tony Posawatz , a former head of  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Volt plug-in hybrid program. Fisker is now seeking a buyer, after the
Anaheim, California-based company in April fired most of its
staff and missed its first federal loan payment. Fisker stopped
making $103,000 plug-in Karma sedans last year.  “I’m not sure I would get into the electric-car space,
unless I can get a good deal with Tesla” Motors Inc., LaSorda
told reporters today on a conference call. “We’re betting on
great people and great ideas. We would assume that nine out of
10 won’t make any money.”  IncWell will consider funding startups with breakthrough
technologies that don’t yet have large cash needs, LaSorda said.
Such requests will come from entrepreneurs who say they have
developed technologies “in my garage, I’ve done them at this
university, this thing works, now I need money to advance it to
the next level,” he said.  ‘Angel’ Investor  “We’re a startup, a seed, an angel-kind of investing,”
LaSorda said. “We’re not into the stage two or stage three
levels where companies are coming in needing $1 million, $2
million to help launch a technology.”  LaSorda served as Fisker’s chief for less than six months.
He is a manufacturing specialist who was a Chrysler executive
from 2000 to 2009, when it went through a U.S.-government-sponsored bankruptcy and was taken over by Turin, Italy-based
Fiat SpA. Before that, LaSorda was an executive at GM.  He said IncWell would not invest in another company founded
by  Henrik Fisker , who started his eponymous maker of luxury
hybrid plug-in cars in 2007 and resigned from it in March
because of disagreements with other company executives.  LaSorda said that if Fisker Automotive can avoid
bankruptcy, finding a buyer “would be the smartest strategy.”  “It sounds like they’ve got interested parties and I’m
glad they did because I want to get my money back out of that
investment,” LaSorda said. “Knowing some of the guys that are
the big investors, private-equity funds that are involved in
Fisker are very, very good and very sharp, I think that would be
the No. 1 strategy for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  