-- FracFocus Drillers’ Registry to Create Chemicals Database
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-23T18:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/fracfocus-drillers-registry-to-create-chemicals-database.html
FracFocus , the website drillers use
to disclose chemicals in hydraulic fracturing, is revamping its
system next week to let regulators for the first time search and
aggregate the information.  The industry-backed system, which is used by drillers such
as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , is resolving
a criticism from environmental groups by converting the online
information into a database of chemicals used in individual
wells that can be analyzed, said Stan Belieu, deputy director of
the Nebraska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, who testified
on behalf of FracFocus today at a Senate forum.  “The improvements that are going to be made to FracFocus
will be a substantial improvement,” Mark Brownstein, associate
vice president of the  Environmental Defense Fund , said today at
the Senate forum on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. For
regulators, “this helps them target resources and
enforcement.”  FracFocus is a voluntary registry of the chemicals used in
fracking. Of 18 states that require companies to disclose their
chemicals, 11 require or allow the reporting to be on FracFocus.
The Bureau of Land Management proposed last week that it would
use the system for drillers on federal lands.  The online registry, created in April 2011, has collected
and published its information in online document form. To
analyze that information across wells would require the user to
extract and enter the data into their own database, Belieu said
today.  Database Format  As of June 1, all information must be submitted, and can be
accessed, in a database, he said. Each state will determine how
much information, and in which form, it will be available.  FracFocus is a response to public concern about fracking,
in which producers shoot a mixture of water, sand and chemicals
underground to access oil and natural gas in dense rock
formations. Environmental groups still complain that drillers
can keep confidential too many of their chemicals, and that
neither the data nor the group is governed by state or federal
disclosure rules.  “The issue is that FracFocus is still not a public
entity,” Deb Nardone, the head of the  Sierra Club ’s Beyond Gas
campaign, said today at the forum.  FracFocus is operated by the  Ground Water Protection
Council , a group of state water officials; and the Interstate
Oil and Gas Compact Commission, an association of states that
produce the fuels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  