-- French Wheat Premium Seen Erased by Russia Rebound: Commodities
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-05-23T16:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/french-wheat-premium-seen-erased-by-russia-rebound-commodities.html
French wheat exporters face tougher
competition from the Black Sea this year as crops in  Russia  and
Ukraine recover from drought, erasing the premium paid for
Paris-traded futures over the global benchmark in  Chicago .  Milling-wheat on NYSE Liffe that cost $17 a metric ton  more 
than Chicago futures last month will swing to a $10 discount by
July, said Chris Gadd, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
London. Wheat output across the former Soviet Union will surge
39 percent and Russian shipments will advance 68 percent, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.  The resurgence in Black Sea wheat output mirrors a global
expansion in supply that the USDA anticipates will reach a
record this year. The 27-nation European Union’s exports surged
30 percent last season as lower sales from Russia and Ukraine
drove consumers to seek grain from France. The bloc’s shipments
probably will retreat 21 percent in the 12 months starting July
1 even as production reaches a four-year high, the USDA says.  “With the former  Soviet Union  back in the market, Europe
is not going to have anywhere near the export program it had
last year,” Gadd said. “France is going to have to fight to
find demand, so prices are going to have to come under pressure
to become competitive.”  Milling-wheat futures jumped 27 percent in Paris last year,
outpacing the 19 percent gain in Chicago. Liffe’s November
contract, representing crops from the next harvest, traded at a
premium of $2.52 a ton to December wheat on the Chicago Board of
Trade today. Paris grain was last at a discount on Jan. 28.  Chicago Futures  Paris wheat fell 8.3 percent to 206.75 euros ($267) a ton
this year as Chicago futures retreated 12 percent to $7.2175 a
bushel. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
dropped 3.6 percent as the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities advanced 9.7 percent. Treasuries lost 0.6 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The EU may sell as much as 4 million tons less wheat this
season, Gadd said. The harvest usually starts in July across
most of  Europe , Ukraine and Russia. The USDA expects production
in the 12-nation former Soviet Union to gain 39 percent to 107.1
million tons as EU production expands 5.1 percent to 138.8
million tons. Russian exports will advance to 18 million tons,
compared with a retreat in EU sales to 17 million tons.  Russian milling wheat for delivery during the harvest is
selling for about $270 a ton on the  spot market , said Matt
Ammermann, a commodity risk manager for INTL FCStone in London.
U.S. hard, red winter-wheat for August shipment costs $327 a
ton, he said. Combined exports from Russia and Ukraine may reach
22.25 million tons, he said.  Grains Council  France  will have shipped 18.5 million tons from the 2012-13
season by the end of the marketing year June 30, according to
FranceAgriMer, the national crop office. That would rank it as
the world’s fourth-largest exporter, after the U.S., Australia
and  Canada , according to International Grains Council data.
Russia’s exports of 10.6 million tons ranks it fifth.  Heavier-than-average rain and below-normal temperatures in
parts of northwest Europe may limit grain output and curb the
drop in prices. Crop development in France was about two weeks
behind schedule by May 15, according to FranceAgriMer. In the
U.K., the EU’s third-biggest wheat grower, about 25 percent of
winter wheat crops weren’t planted because fields were too wet,
the country’s Agriculture & Horticulture Development Board says.  “We’re not off to a very auspicious start,” said Mark Dordery, the Rotterdam-based head of European grains and
oilseeds at Nidera BV, an agricultural product trader. “It’s
been a very mixed picture, with some countries, particularly in
northwest Europe, having difficult planting  conditions  in the
autumn followed by a very cold and late spring.”  Behind Normal  The EU’s crop-monitoring unit cut its forecast for soft-wheat yields May 21 as rain hurt grains in the U.K. and Ireland.
In  Germany , the second-biggest wheat grower, plant development
is still 10 days behind normal, it said. The agency also cut its
yield prediction for Ukraine because of dry weather. While some
parts of Russia lack soil moisture, yields are still likely to
be “above average,” the crop body said.  Russia will also face less competition from the U.S., the
biggest shipper, with the USDA anticipating a drop in output to
55.98 million tons from 61.76 million tons.  Almost all of  Kansas , the top winter-wheat growing state,
had “abnormally dry” to “exceptional” drought conditions on
May 14, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. Fields in
 Oklahoma  were hurt by freezing weather from March to early May,
so that production in the state may be 45 percent smaller than
last year, according to the Oklahoma Wheat Commission.  Alternative Feeds  Production is declining as demand increases from livestock
producers looking for alternative feeds after a drop in corn
inventories. That will help boost Chicago prices, Macquarie’s
Gadd said. July wheat futures on CBOT are 37.5 cents a bushel
more expensive than the equivalent corn contract, compared with
an average premium of about $1.43 since 2010.  Rising  Black Sea  wheat output also diminishes the risk of
countries in the region banning exports. A ban on shipments by
Russia in 2010 after drought damaged its crop contributed to a
doubling in the price of Chicago futures in two months.  Black Sea nations are unlikely to restrict trade this
season because production will more than meet domestic demand,
said Leonid Kozachenko, the president of the Ukrainian Agrarian
Confederation in Kiev. Only about 2 percent of the country’s
winter wheat needed replanting this year, compared with an
average of 15 percent in the past decade, he said.  “We’re expecting very good crops for the current year
because we had more or less acceptable weather conditions,”
Kozachenko said. “Black Sea region countries like Ukraine and
Russia will be more competitive this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  