-- German Stocks Drop on U.S. Stimulus Concerns, China Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-05-23T15:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/german-stocks-drop-on-u-s-stimulus-concerns-china-data.html
German stocks  fell the most in more
than a month amid investor concern that the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce its stimulus measures if the  U.S. economy  improves and as
data showed Chinese manufacturing is contracting.  Volkswagen AG and Continental AG lost more than 2 percent
as a gauge of automakers posted the second-biggest drop on the
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Aixtron SE declined 2.6 percent after
saying it will cut 20 percent of its German workforce.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slumped 2.1 percent to 8,351.98 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt, its biggest drop since April 17. The
benchmark gauge has still rallied 9.7 percent this year as
central banks around the world maintained monetary stimulus. The
broader HDAX Index also fell 2.1 percent today.  “After almost all major global indexes recently reached
all-time highs, maybe now is the time to say sell at the end of
May and go away,” Daniel Kukalj, an equity analyst at Close
Brothers Seydler Research in Frankfurt, wrote in a note. “The
expectations on corporate earnings are immensely high and a
disappointment is likely if the economic environment does not
change dramatically. Furthermore,  China ’s growth is faltering.”  European markets gained late yesterday after Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in a testimony to the Joint Economic
Committee of Congress in  Washington  that reducing stimulus
measures too soon would endanger economic recovery.  U.S. stocks , which had rallied on those comments, later
fell after Bernanke indicated that the central bank will scale
back stimulus if economic conditions improve. He said the flow
of purchases could be reduced “in the next few meetings” if
the Fed is confident gains in the economy can be sustained.  Chinese Manufacturing  In China, a report showed  manufacturing  is contracting in
May for the first time in seven months. The preliminary reading
of a purchasing managers’ index for Chinese manufacturing
declined to 49.6 in May from 50.4 the previous month, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today. That missed the
50.4 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading below
50 signals contraction.  Japan ’s  Topix index  tumbled almost 7 percent, the most
since the aftermath of the March 2011 tsunami and nuclear
disaster, as financial firms slid amid rising bond yields. The
rout triggered a halt in index futures in  Osaka . The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index slid 3.3 percent.  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest carmaker, lost 2.6 percent to
168 euros. Continental, Europe’s second-largest auto-parts
supplier, retreated 2.2 percent to 100.15 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the biggest maker of luxury
cars, fell 2.6 percent to 71.48 euros. Daimler AG, the third-biggest, slid 3.3 percent to 48.05 euros.  Banks Decline  Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s largest
lenders, fell 3.4 percent to 35.94 euros and 6.1 percent to 7.86
euros, respectively.  Deutsche bank co-CEO Juergen Fitschen said in a speech to
shareholders in  Frankfurt  today that some investors may be
underestimating the ramifications of the euro area’s debt crisis
and a political stalemate over the U.S. debt ceiling.  Aixtron lost 2.6 percent to 12.55 euros. Chief Executive
Officer Martin Goetzeler said the technology company that
manufactures equipment for the semiconductor industry will cut
jobs in Germany as part of a program to return to profit.  Celesio AG retreated 4.6 percent to 15.99 euros. UBS AG
downgraded the drug wholesaler to sell from buy. The brokerage
said that government austerity measures have pressured
manufacturers and pharmacies, squeezing prices for Celesio.  The volume of shares changing hands on DAX-listed companies
was 11 percent greater than the average of the past 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  