-- Germany Survey Shows Export Risks Are Companies’ Biggest Concern
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-05-23T08:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/germany-survey-shows-export-risks-are-companies-biggest-concern.html
German companies see sluggish foreign
demand for their goods as one of the biggest economic concerns
over the next 12 months, a survey of more than 24,000 companies
in  Europe ’s biggest economy showed.  Forty-one percent of companies polled by the industry and
trade chambers’ DIHK umbrella organization said they worry most
about export demand. While 30 percent of the companies expect
their sales abroad to grow, 13 percent of respondents expect
exports to decline.  “Burgeoning hopes for a revival of foreign business from
the beginning of the year haven’t materialized so far,” the
DIHK said today in an e-mailed report. “In the coming months,
exports aren’t likely to grow very dynamically.”  The German economy will grow 0.3 percent this year and more
than 1 percent in 2014, the DIHK said. Export growth in 2013
will slow to 2 percent from 3.7 percent in 2012, it said.  At 0.1 percent, German  gross domestic product  expanded less
in the first quarter than the 0.3 percent forecast by economists
in a Bloomberg News  survey . The economy contracted 0.7 percent
in the fourth quarter.  Exports (GRBTEXMM) , adjusted for working days and seasonal changes,
rebounded 0.5 percent in March from a 1.2 percent drop in
February, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said May
10. With unemployment near a two-decade low, the German economy
can still rely on domestic demand.  “The poor economic conditions prevailing in many parts of
the euro area and the current problems associated with the
sovereign debt crisis mean that macroeconomic risks remain
high,” the Bundesbank said on May 21 in its monthly report.  The euro-area economy contracted in the first three months
of 2013, extending the region’s recession to a record sixth
quarter. Italy’s gross domestic product shrank 0.5 percent in
the three months through March, compared with the 0.4 percent
drop forecast by economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  