-- German Ifo Sentiment Probabaly Remains Unchanged
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-05-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/german-ifo-sentiment-probabaly-remains-unchanged.html
German business confidence was
probably unchanged in May after two monthly declines amid doubts
over the economic recovery.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will remain at 104.4, according to
the median of 44 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey . Ifo
releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  The German economy, Europe’s largest, grew just 0.1 percent
in the first quarter after a 0.7 percent contraction in the
final three months of 2012 as an unusually long winter damped
construction and investment. The Bundesbank said this week that
while risks stemming from Europe’s debt crisis remain high, the
economy will gather pace in the current quarter. Factory orders
surged for a second month in March and exports increased.  “The economy is expanding very slowly but at least it’s
expanding again,” said Andreas Moeller, an analyst at WGZ Bank
in Dusseldorf, who predicts the Ifo index will drop to 103.7.
“Compared to the rest of the euro area,  Germany  is doing pretty
well.”  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation currency bloc,
Germany’s biggest export market, fell 0.2 percent in the first
three months this year. It was the sixth straight contraction,
making the current recession the longest in the euro’s 14-year
history.  ECB Action  The European Central Bank cut its  benchmark interest rate 
to a record low of 0.5 percent on May 2 and President Mario Draghi said he stands ready to act again if the economic outlook
deteriorates.  The Frankfurt-based central bank forecasts the euro-area
economy will shrink 0.5 percent this year before growing 1
percent in 2014. That compares with the Bundesbank’s prediction
of 0.4 percent growth in Germany this year.  Puma SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-largest maker of sporting goods,
on May 14 cut its revenue and profit forecasts for this year
after reporting first-quarter earnings that trailed analysts’
estimates. The “business climate in Europe remains
challenging,” the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company said in
a statement.  Some German companies are compensating for weaker demand in
Europe with sales to faster growing markets abroad.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , Europe’s largest postal service, on May
14 reported profit that beat analysts’ predictions because of
growth at express-delivery businesses in  emerging markets .  “We’ve gotten off to a very solid start for the year in
what is a very difficult macroeconomic environment,” Chief
Financial Officer Larry Rosen said.  “The German economy will expand for the rest of the year
but we should get ready for very low growth numbers,” said
Anatoli Annenkov, an economist at Societe Generale SA in  London ,
who predicts the Ifo index will ease to 104 this month.
“Uncertainty will continue to weigh on exports to the euro
area,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  