-- Goldman Committed to China After ICBC Sale, CEO Blankfein Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-05-23T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/goldman-sachs-committed-to-china-after-icbc-sale-blankfein-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein said his company is
committed to growing in  China  even after it ended a seven-year
investment in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.   Goldman Sachs this week sold a $1.1 billion stake in ICBC,
the world’s largest lender by market value, a person familiar
with the matter said. The firm reaped about $12 billion in sales
proceeds and dividends from its $2.58 billion investment in
ICBC, calculations by Macquarie Capital Securities Ltd. show.  “ICBC is not the key to our interest in China, or the big
reflection of it,” Blankfein, 58, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with  Erik Schatzker . “We’re investing in
China because China -- I was going to say it’s the future, but
it’s a big part of the present as well.”  Blankfein said earlier this month that this will probably
be China’s century, even if it struggles in certain years.
China’s  economic growth  slowed to 7.7 percent in the first
quarter, and a report yesterday showed manufacturing is
contracting in May for the first time in seven months.  Goldman Sachs served as a “quasi-strategic” partner for
ICBC as the Chinese government took its banking industry public,
Blankfein said in the interview.  “Through that investment, we became very close with
important people in the banking system, and we maintain that
relationship today,” he said.  Utah Expansion  Blankfein spoke from Salt Lake City, which is Goldman
Sachs’s second-largest location in the U.S. and where it is
having its annual shareholder meeting. The bank has tripled the
size of its workforce in  Utah ’s capital over the past five
years, and Blankfein said at a May 22 event that it expects to
have 1,700 employees in Salt Lake City by the end of 2013.  The bank has shifted more of its staff to what it calls
high-value locations in an effort to cut costs. About 22 percent
of Goldman Sachs employees work in such places, which also
include Dallas and  Singapore , up from 10 percent in 2007. That
figure may rise to 30 percent, Blankfein said.  “It started out that we talked about what the savings
were,” Blankfein said. “This really morphed into where can you
get talent. If you look at here, we have almost every division
of the firm represented here.”  Investment banks will have to raise prices for some
products or services to account for the greater amount of equity
capital regulators are requiring to support the business,
Blankfein said. While the financing business is currently going
“very well” and the world economy appears “growthier,” he
said he was surprised by the lack of mergers and acquisitions.  “In the big transaction and M&A set, it’s still a very
quiet, surprisingly quiet market,” Blankfein said. “For a
market in which interest rates are fairly low, rising equity
prices, and as much liquidity as we know exists, deal flow is
unusually low for the part of the cycle that we’re in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  