-- Gold Advances as Signs of China Slowdown Fuel Demand for Hedge
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-05-23T18:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/gold-drops-for-third-day-as-bernanke-hints-at-curbing-stimulus.html
Gold capped the biggest gain in
almost a month on signs that Chinese manufacturing will slow in
May for the first time in seven months, sparking a drop in
global equities and increased demand for bullion as a protection
of wealth.  The preliminary reading for a Chinese purchasing managers’
index missed analysts’ estimates and came in below the level of
50, indicating a contraction. Commodities and stocks retreated,
with Japanese equities falling the most since the aftermath of
the Fukushima disaster two years ago. Bullion also gained as the
dollar declined the most in more than a month against a basket
of currencies.  “Nervous investors are turning to gold as everything else
looks very bleak today,” Carlos Perez-Santalla, a broker at
Marex North America LLC, said in a telephone interview from  New
York . “The weakness in the dollar is supportive for gold.”  Gold futures for June delivery climbed 1.8 percent to
settle at $1,391.80 an ounce at 1:45 p.m. on the Comex in New
York, the biggest gain since April 25.  Yesterday, futures rose as much as 2.6 percent before
dropping 0.7 percent as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
testified before Congress.  Uncertain Direction  “The bullion market has no real direction whatsoever at
the moment,” David Govett, head of precious metals at Marex
Spectron Group in  London , wrote in a report today. “Moves are
massively over-exaggerated due to the type of trading involved,
and once these moves are done, the market generally comes back
to where it started.”  Gold has tumbled 17 percent this year as some investors
lost faith in the metal as a store of value and amid concern
that the Fed may scale back economic stimulus measures.  Assets in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest bullion-backed
exchange-traded product, dropped to 1,020.07 metric tons
yesterday, the lowest since February 2009, according to data on
the company’s website.  Silver futures for July delivery rose 0.2 percent to
$22.508 an ounce in New York. Earlier, prices had fallen as much
as 2.5 percent.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , palladium futures for
June delivery retreated 1.8 percent to $738.65 an ounce.  Platinum futures for July delivery slid 0.8 percent to
$1,457.20 an ounce, the second drop in three days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  