-- Goldman Sachs Links Bonuses to Protecting Firm Reputation
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-05-23T15:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/goldman-sachs-links-bonuses-to-protecting-firm-reputation.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  linked
bonuses and promotions to employees’ success in protecting the
firm’s reputation and put new restrictions on some client
transactions to avoid a repeat of the damage to its standing in
the wake of the financial crisis.  A “new-activity committee” will evaluate and approve
suitability when clients undertake transactions that carry new
risks, New York-based Goldman Sachs said today in a report. When
setting year-end pay, the firm is reviewing employees’ efforts
to protect its reputation and win clients’ trust, according to
the report.  Goldman Sachs, which is holding its annual  shareholders’
meeting  today in  Salt Lake City , created a business-standards
committee in May 2010 as it faced a lawsuit from the Securities
and Exchange Commission over a mortgage-related security called
Abacus 2007-AC1. The firm settled that suit by agreeing to pay
$550 million, and said it made a mistake in omitting disclosures
to investors in the product.  “If an Abacus transaction came today, it would encounter a
completely different framework of processes, practices,
procedures, transaction approval and review than what we had
before,” said J. Michael Evans, a Goldman Sachs partner who led
the business-standards committee with E. Gerald Corrigan. “It
might have the same name, but it would look a lot different.”  Blankfein Sessions  Today’s report was titled the “Business Standards
Committee Impact Report” and detailed actions taken following a
January 2011 paper that laid out 39 recommendations. Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, led 23 three-hour
sessions in 2011 and 2012 with partners and managing directors
that stressed personal accountability and included a case study
about communications within the firm and with clients, according
to the report.  “The work underlying the BSC is part of a much larger,
ongoing commitment to be open to change and to learn the right
lessons from recent experiences,” Blankfein said in a statement
today.  Evans, 55, is a vice chairman and oversees Goldman Sachs’s
emerging-markets businesses. Corrigan, 71, is chairman of
Goldman Sachs’s deposit-taking bank and joined the firm in 1994
after a 25-year career at the  Federal Reserve , culminating as
president of the New York Fed.  Goldman Sachs already had policies in place that would claw
back compensation based on individual misconduct that caused
legal or reputational harm. The firm has increased the emphasis
on protecting its reputation in performance reviews, Evans said.  “We will look at the way they deal with clients and we
will look at the way they protect the firm’s reputation when
thinking about promotions and compensation,” Evans said.  The requirements go beyond an employee’s own behavior, he
said. “If he’s a desk manager or division head or project
manager or investment-banking professional, is he enforcing that
through his team?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  