-- Microsoft’s Xbox Not Blocked From Import in Google Loss
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-05-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/google-loses-bid-to-block-u-s-imports-of-microsoft-xbox.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox video-gaming
system won’t be blocked from entering the U.S. after a trade
panel found it doesn’t infringe a patent owned by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Motorola Mobility unit.  The U.S. International Trade Commission yesterday in
Washington  found  the Xbox doesn’t infringe Motorola’s patent for
a way to establish communication between the gaming-system and
accessories, such as the controllers, ending a case filed in
November 2010. The agency upheld a March ruling that cleared the
Xbox, which is made in  China , of the infringement claim.  The case is part of a global dispute between the companies
over who is using whose patented inventions. Microsoft wants
Motorola Mobility to pay royalties on smartphones running on
Google’s Android operating system. Google claims Microsoft owes
Motorola Mobility royalties on the Xbox and Windows operating
system.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, has argued that,
even if it violates the Motorola patent, banning the Xbox would
be an extreme remedy that would reduce consumer choice and hurt
game developers.  “This is a win for Xbox customers and confirms our view
that Google had no grounds to block our products,” Microsoft
Deputy General Counsel  David Howard  said in a statement.  Matt Kallman, a spokesman for Google, said the company was
disappointed and evaluating its next steps. The case can be
appealed to a court that specializes in  patent law .  Top Seller  The Xbox has been the top-selling U.S. game console for
more than two years. Microsoft’s entertainment unit, which
includes the Xbox, generated $9.6 billion in sales last year, or
13 percent of the company’s revenue, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Microsoft unveiled a new version, called Xbox One, earlier
this week that employs voice commands and motion sensing to
recognize users and let them switch seamlessly between games,
live television and Skype video calling.  The system is scheduled to go on sale later this year as
part of Microsoft’s strategy to fend off competition from  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Co.’s Wii U, as well as new
devices from Apple Inc., Facebook Inc. and Amazon.com Inc.  Microsoft won a trade commission case last year limiting
Motorola Mobility’s ability to include on its phones a feature
called ActiveSync, which lets users coordinate schedules between
their phones and personal computers.  Patent Disputes  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , and Microsoft
also have patent disputes in Germany and  Seattle . Microsoft and
Apple have also filed complaints in the U.S. and  Europe  accusing
Motorola Mobility of demanding unfair royalty rates for some
patents that relate to widely used technology like Wi-Fi
connections or video transmission.  Other patents that originally were part of the Xbox case
fell into that category. Two patents that were part of the
original complaint were on standard technology for video
decoding, and led to accusations by Microsoft and regulators
that Motorola Mobility was misusing patents to thwart
competition.  Motorola Mobility dropped those two after Google reached an
agreement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission over the use of
standard-essential patents. Two other patents were dropped
because they are expiring this year.  The agreement with the FTC also covered a review of the
company’s search business. Google is facing a new antitrust
probe by the FTC into whether the company is using its
leadership in the online display-advertising market to illegally
curb competition, people familiar with the matter said.  The case is In the Matter of Gaming and Entertainment
Consoles, Related Software and Components Thereof, 337-752, U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  