-- Ibovespa Snaps Four-Day Advance as Vale Sinks on China Decline
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-05-23T21:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/ibovespa-futures-decline-after-brazil-unemployment-china-data.html
The Ibovespa  fell  for the first time
in five days as a report that showed manufacturing unexpectedly
contracted in  China , Brazil’s top trading partner, dimmed the
outlook for commodity exporters.  Raw-material producers led declines as nine of 10 industry
groups on the MSCI Brazil index dropped.  Metalurgica Gerdau SA (GOAU3) ,
the parent of Latin America’s biggest steelmaker, fell the most
on the benchmark. Iron-ore producer Vale SA sank the most in a
week. Meatpacker  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  slid after Moody’s
Investors Service placed the company’s rating under review for a
possible reduction.  The Ibovespa lost 0.1 percent to 56,349.91 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. Thirty-seven of the 71 stocks on the
measure declined. The real gained 0.3 percent to 2.0440 per
dollar, snapping a seven-session drop. The Bloomberg Base Metals
3-Month Price Commodity Index sank 1.7 percent.  “The problem in China is that data showed not only slower
growth, but a contraction in manufacturing,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a
partner at Orama Asset Management, said by phone from Rio de
Janeiro. “Investors will react badly to these figures in the
short term, and Brazil suffers because of its links with
China.”  A preliminary May reading of 49.6 for a China Purchasing
Managers’ Index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics compared with a final 50.4 for April and the 50.4
median estimate among economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Vale Sinks  Commodities producers account for about 42 percent of the
Ibovespa’s  weighting , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Vale dropped 1.8 percent to 30.38 reais as metals declined and
after a report from Folha de S.Paulo saying that  Brazil  may
delay the submission of a new mining code to Congress. The Sao
Paulo-based newspaper didn’t say where it got the information.  A delay in the passage of the mining code would be
“slightly negative” for Vale, Bank of America Corp. analysts
including Felipe Hirai wrote in a note to clients. Investors may
avoid the stock until the new industry rules are disclosed, the
analysts wrote.  Metalurgica Gerdau tumbled 3.3 percent to 17.39 reais.
Marfrig retreated 1.6 percent to 7.35 reais.  OGX Jumps  Oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA jumped 4.5
percent to 1.87 reais, helping the Ibovespa  pare losses  of as
much as 1.9 percent today.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge has declined 7.6 percent
this year, underperforming  emerging markets  including China,
Russia and  India , amid concern that quickening inflation will
curb the nation’s economic recovery. The Ibovespa  trades  at 12.8
times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with a multiple of 10.8 for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.95 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.74 billion reais this year
through May 20, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  