-- IMF Staff Suggests Tighter Debt Rules to Improve Restructuring
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-05-23T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/imf-staff-suggests-tighter-debt-rules-to-improve-restructuring.html
The  International Monetary Fund  may
have been too optimistic in assessing the debt sustainability of
some borrowing countries and could toughen loan conditions in an
effort to make debt restructuring more successful, according to
the fund’s staff.  Sovereign debt restructuring cases in recent years have
often come “too little and too late,” IMF economists and legal
experts wrote in a report published today. The Washington-based
fund came under pressure at times from other public-sector
creditors to accept delays in restructuring and should consider
changes to its assessment rules, they wrote.  “In hindsight, the fund’s assessments of debt
sustainability and market access may sometimes have been too
sanguine,” according to the report, which the IMF board
reviewed on May 20. The board, in a separate statement, asked
staff to continue its analysis.  Delays in restructuring “were also sometimes facilitated
by parallel incentives on the part of official creditors, who
accordingly may have an interest in accepting, and pressuring
the fund to accept, sanguine assessments of debt sustainability
and market reaccess.”  Greece , which last year pushed through the largest
sovereign restructuring in history and has received two bailouts
from the IMF and European nations, is among the cases that
motivated the fund to review its policy on the matter. Staff
will continue exploring potential changes to its own guidelines,
with a potential decision in a year, according to the IMF.  Tougher Rules  “There is scope for increasing the rigor of debt
sustainability and market access assessments and tightening
lending policy requirements,” IMF staff wrote.  The report also said that “there may be a case for
exploring additional ways to limit the risk that fund resources
will simply be used to bail out private creditors.” It
suggested some form of creditor “bail-in” measure as a
condition for fund lending in cases where it’s not clear that
debt is sustainable and member nations have lost  market access .  In the report, the staff said market-based approaches to
restructurings including so-called collective-action clauses
have worked “reasonably well.” Those arrangements aren’t a
always effective, the report said, citing litigation involving
 Argentina . The South American country and some holders of its
defaulted debt have been in U.S. courts trying to resolve a
dispute over the nation’s record $95 billion default in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  