-- IMF’s Lagarde Heard by Court in Sarkozy-Ally Arbitration Probe
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-05-23T09:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/imf-s-lagarde-heard-by-court-in-sarkozy-ally-arbitration-probe.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Christine Lagarde is testifying this morning at a Paris
court investigating her decision to allow an arbitration that
benefited a supporter of former President Nicolas Sarkozy.  Lagarde, who was finance minister under Sarkozy and has
denied any wrongdoing, arrived for the questioning at 8:15 a.m.
local time in a silver-gray Ford Mondeo. The Cour de Justice de
la Republique, which focuses on ministers’ actions in office, is
looking into whether she erred in agreeing to an arbitration to
end a dispute involving business tycoon Bernard Tapie that
awarded him about $500 million.  After the interrogation, Lagarde, a lawyer by training,
could be placed under formal investigation, the French
equivalent of being charged, or under a lesser status. It’ll be
up to the IMF board to reaffirm its support for her at a time
when the fund is grappling with a recession in the euro area,
four bailouts in the region, drawn-out Egyptian aid talks and
emerging countries’ plans to create their own development banks.  “This is the worst possible time for Lagarde to have to
cope with events back home,” said Martin Edwards, an associate
professor at Seton Hall University’s John C. Whitehead School of
Diplomacy and International Relations in South Orange, New
Jersey. “She needs to be out front now more than ever.”  Lagarde isn’t the first IMF chief to face legal
difficulties. She took over the Washington-based fund as the
institution was reeling from the arrest of  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  on charges including the alleged rape of a hotel maid in
New York. The charges were later dropped and he settled the
maid’s lawsuit last year.  Spanish Investigation  His predecessor, Rodrigo Rato, was last year named an
official suspect in the Spanish national court’s investigation
of alleged fraud related to the collapse of  Bankia SA (BKIA) , where the
former IMF head resigned as chairman a year ago. Rato has denied
the allegations.  Meanwhile, under French law, none of the outcomes of the
Lagarde hearings that began today presumes that she will stand
trial when the investigation ends.  Businessman Tapie, who has also dabbled in politics and
acting, in 2008 won a 385 million-euro ($495 million)
arbitration award to settle a dispute over his company’s sale of
German sportswear brand  Adidas AG. (ADS)  He contended that Credit
Lyonnais mishandled the 1993 sale and pursued a claim against
the formerly state-owned bank’s liquidator.  Lagarde’s Stand  Tapie, a minister for less than a year under former
Socialist President Francois Mitterrand in the 1990s, endorsed
Sarkozy’s successful presidential effort in 2007 and failed re-election bid in 2012.  The arbitration court awarded Tapie 45 million euros in
damages on top of 240 million euros for his creditors and about
100 million euros in interest. Lagarde refused to appeal the
decision, saying “a very large majority” of the money would
return to the state through the creditors’ claims.  The court opened its investigation into whether there was
“complicity in forgery” or “complicity in misuse of public
funds” in the case in 2011, soon after Lagarde became IMF head.  “There is nothing new under the sun,” Lagarde told
journalists last month in  Washington . “Ever since 2011 I have
known very well that I would be heard by the investigating
commission of the Cour de Justice.”  Tapie sought to distance himself from Lagarde and her
hearing, saying this morning in a Europe 1 radio interview that
she “wasn’t very nice to me” and that the case against her
“doesn’t concern me at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  