-- Putin’s Frustration Grows as Russia’s Economy Slumps
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-05-23T14:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/imprisoned-entrepreneurs-and-russia-s-economic-slump.html
President Vladimir Putin’s popularity
throughout much of  Russia  is founded on an implicit social
compact: People have given up some freedom in return for
economic prosperity.  Now, Putin’s authoritarian ways could be killing the
economic growth that has helped keep him in power.  Time and time again, Russia’s leaders have pledged to
restructure the country’s economy, making it less dependent on
oil and gas. In an interview this week to mark the first
anniversary of his move to the prime minister’s job from the
presidency, Dmitri Medvedev effectively admitted failure. “We
must change the structure of our economy,” he  told  the popular
daily Komsomolskaya Pravda. “In the past 13 to 14 years we just
did not have enough time to do it.”  Medvedev might not get another chance: A sharp economic
deceleration has put his government on the defensive. Official
statistics show growth declining to an annualized rate of 1.6
percent in the first three months of 2013, the slowest pace
since the 2009 crisis. Eduard Baranov, an economist at the
Higher School of Economics, has even  suggested  that Russia might
already be in recession: An indicator measuring the output of
the economy’s eight largest sectors has been declining since
October. The price of Russia’s export oil blend, Urals, was down
14 percent in April from a year earlier, according to the
Finance Ministry. Capital flight reached $25.8 billion in the
first three months of 2013, up from only $7.9 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2012, according to the central bank.  Putin’s response has been to demand a solution from the
government. The relevant minister, Igor Shuvalov,  promised  to
deliver a plan to speed up growth by May 15, but none has so far
been made public. At a meeting to formulate a strategy,
government officials reached no common ground except on some
general points such as stepping up investment in railroad and
highway construction and offering more backing for small and
medium businesses,  according  to the newspaper Vedomosti. The
Economics Ministry suggested that the central bank take the lead
by loosening monetary policy and setting up a system of
indicative loan rates for private banks.  The problems of Russia’s economy, though, go far deeper
than a lack of stimulus. In an opinion piece for Vedomosti, the
economists Sergei Guriev of the Russian Economic School and Aleh
Tsyvinski of Yale University identified corruption and a poor
investment climate as major structural factors holding the
country back. “Further growth would require new sources such as
productivity growth and new investment,” they  wrote . “That, in
turn, requires the protection of property rights, an effective
and independent judiciary and fair competition.”  Putin has expressed his frustration in bizarre ways. On May
20, security guards at the president’s residence in the resort
city of Sochi tried to keep Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich , a long-standing Medvedev ally, from entering because
he was not on the list of invitees. Reporters from the pro-Putin
website Life.ru were conveniently on hand to record the
humiliating incident. Earlier, Dmitri Kiselev, who hosts a news
program on the state-controlled Rossia 2 television station,
 characterized  Putin as a displeased parent: “He is like a father
who sees his kids all muddy and has to decide whether to give
these ones a proper washing or make new ones.”  Although Putin might not fire Medvedev, who paid his dues
by keeping the presidential seat warm until Putin’s return last
year, he clearly wants the cabinet to take the blame for any
malaise to come. Many Russian analysts and businesspeople,
however, see the culprit elsewhere.  “The problem is purely political,” Oleg Zamulin, an
economist at the Higher School of Economics,  told  the website
banki.ru. “I would start by bringing back the freedom of speech,
electoral freedoms, a working parliament, local self-government.”  Pragmatic businesspeople would settle for smaller steps.
Boris Titov, Russia’s business ombudsman, is pushing for a
sweeping amnesty of 13,000 entrepreneurs convicted of various
economic crimes. Many of them end up in jail because their
competitors or former partners pay off someone in law
enforcement to get them out of the picture.  “Most of them are in prison for larceny,” Titov  told  the
Russian News Service. “Entrepreneurs have even been charged with
it for breach of contract.”  Titov’s supporters in the business community and in
parliament believe an amnesty would improve the economic climate
and demonstrate the Kremlin’s goodwill toward investors. If
Putin agrees, it could do more for the economy than easy
monetary policy and infrastructure projects combined.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 