-- India Nifty Futures Drop, Signaling Indexes May Fall for 4th Day
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-05-23T02:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/india-nifty-futures-drop-signaling-indexes-may-fall-for-4th-day.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures dropped,
signaling benchmark indexes may decline for a fourth day, the
longest losing streak in more than a month.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for May delivery fell 0.6
percent to 6,076.5 at 10:42 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying
CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index lost 0.3 percent to 6,094.50 yesterday. The S&P
BSE Sensex slid 0.3 percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India 
ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares fell 1 percent.  Asian stocks outside of Japan declined today after U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled monetary
stimulus may be scaled back if the U.S. labor market continues
to improve. Monetary easing by central banks from  Europe  to the
U.S. and Japan has stoked inflows into  emerging markets , helping
prompt record purchases of Indian stocks by foreign funds this
year. The Indian rupee dropped to its lowest level since
November yesterday.  “There are no immediate triggers for stocks,” Jitendra Panda, head of broking at Capital First Ltd. in Mumbai, said by
phone yesterday. “The currency weakness is causing some
nervousness and caution.”  Overseas funds bought a net $487 million of Indian stocks
on May 21, the biggest daily inflow since Feb. 7, according to
data yesterday from the market regulator. The funds bought a net
$883 million worth of equities last week, the most since the
period ended Feb. 8.  State Bank  The Sensex has rebounded 10 percent since falling to a
seven-month low on April 9, as foreign funds boosted  equity
purchases  amid easing by global central banks. The gauge trades
at 13.8 times  projected 12-month profits , compared with the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index’s 10.6 times.  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest lender, may
report today fourth-quarter profit of 37.4 billion rupees ($674
million), according to the median of 41 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. That compares with 50.4 billion rupees a year
earlier.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s biggest producer of the alloy, may
post a group profit of 3.07 billion rupees for the three months
ended March, compared with 4.33 billion last year, the median
forecast of 21 analysts in a Bloomberg survey shows.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the largest Indian maker of
power equipment, may report net income of 27.2 billion rupees,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 25 analysts.  Profit at just three of the 18 Sensex companies that have
reported March-quarter results so far has  trailed  analyst
 estimates , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Net income at about
43 percent of the 30 index companies missed forecasts in the
three months ended Dec. 31, compared with 40 percent in the
previous two quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  