-- India’s Economic Recovery Seen Subdued as Risks Persist
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-05-23T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/india-s-economic-recovery-seen-subdued-as-policy-risk-persists.html
India ’s economy probably expanded
less than 5 percent for a second quarter as political gridlock
that threatens Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s growth agenda
tempered gains from farm output and lower interest rates.  Gross domestic product  rose 4.8 percent in January to March
from a year earlier, compared with an almost four-year low of
4.5 percent in the previous quarter, the median of 21 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey shows before data due May 31. The
annual average pace in the past decade is about 8 percent.  Graft scandals have roiled Singh’s coalition and disrupted
parliament, hurting his efforts to extend an eighth-month policy
push that seeks to revive investment. Bills to simplify taxes
and liberalize the pensions and insurance industries have
stalled, as a record current-account deficit and inflation risks
limit the magnitude of monetary stimulus from the central bank.  “It’s going to be a very slow pick up in growth,” said
 Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai.
“External demand still remains weak and I don’t think there’s
any revival so far in the investment cycle. At the margin,
interest rates are being cut and the government is announcing
some clearance in projects, but these things take time to have
an effect.”  The  S&P BSE Sensex index  slid 1.9 percent yesterday as
Asian stocks tumbled on disappointing Chinese manufacturing data
and concern that the U.S. Federal Reserve may scale back bond
purchases. The rupee depreciated 0.2 percent versus the dollar
to 55.585, the weakest level since Nov. 26. The yield on the
8.15 percent government bond due June 2022 rose to 7.38 percent
from 7.37 percent on May 22.  Farming, Rates  Farm output helped expansion last quarter, according to Yes
Bank Ltd. and Bank of Baroda, as cooler weather and winter rains
aided crops.  The Reserve Bank of India reduced interest rates in
January, March and May by a combined 75 basis points to 7.25
percent as the government pared the budget deficit to tackle
inflation. Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  signaled after the May 3
cut that the nation has almost no space left to ease monetary
policy further.  Wholesale prices  rose 4.89 percent in April from a year
earlier, a 41-month low, while the consumer-inflation  index 
climbed 9.39 percent.  “Regaining the lost glory of 8 percent growth remains a
tall order,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, an economist at Bank of
Baroda. “Inflation won’t come down if you don’t improve
supplies and infrastructure. Interest rates won’t come down if
inflation remains high.”  Global Slowdown  Central banks from  Australia  to South Korea and Europe have
cut borrowing costs recently amid signs global growth is
slowing.  Advisers to India’s Finance Ministry forecast GDP will
advance 6.1 percent to 6.7 percent in 2013-2014, weathering
risks. The statistics agency estimates last fiscal year’s
 expansion  at 5 percent, a decade low. The latest assessment for
2012-2013 is also due May 31.  India’s estimated 4.8 percent growth last quarter leaves it
trailing  China ’s 7.7 percent pace, 6.02 percent in  Indonesia  and
5.3 percent in  Thailand .  Singapore  yesterday reported GDP rose
an annualized 1.8 percent in the three months through March from
the previous quarter.  Singh is grappling with renewed allegations that he has
allowed corruption to fester after separate probes led to the
dismissal of the law and railways ministers this month.  Parliament ended two days early in May as opposition
parties demanding the men’s resignation blocked proceedings.
Bills to open up the country’s pension and insurance industries
to companies abroad are among those that are stalled.  The scandals threaten to undermine Singh’s efforts since
September to spur expansion, lure capital inflows and avert a
credit-rating downgrade ahead of an election due by May 2014.  Investment Caps  The steps included allowing more foreign investment in the
retail and aviation industries, speeding up approvals for
infrastructure projects and reducing a levy on overseas
investors in local bonds.  Etihad Airways PJSC agreed in April to buy a 24 percent
stake in Mumbai-based Jet Airways (India) Ltd. for 20.6 billion
rupees ($370 million), taking advantage of the liberalization.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram has said proposals
to remove or relax caps on foreign investment in other
industries may be ready in June, as he strives to woo funds to
finance the current-account deficit.  The shortfall  swelled  to $32.6 billion in the quarter ended
Dec. 31, or 6.7 percent of GDP, stoked by gold and oil imports
and subdued exports.  The imbalance is “by far the biggest risk” to the
economy, according to the Reserve Bank, with Subbarao saying May
4 that any unwinding of “extraordinary quantitative easing” in
advanced nations may affect capital flows to India.  “With the global recovery still expected to be sluggish,
the pressure is on Indian policy makers to continue with reforms
and address infrastructure bottlenecks and governance,” said
Suvodeep Rakshit, an economist at Kotak Securities Ltd. in
Mumbai. “It won’t happen overnight, it will take time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  