-- Indonesia Bonds Drop as ‘Tightening Bias’ Signaled; Rupiah Falls
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-05-23T04:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/indonesia-10-year-bond-yield-at-highest-since-october-on-supply.html
Indonesia ’s government bonds fell,
driving the 10-year yield to a seven-month high, after the
central bank signaled the next move in interest rates is likely
to be an increase. The rupiah fell for a fourth day.  “We already changed to neutral since February last year
and now we’re even moving toward a tightening bias,” Deputy
Governor Perry Warjiyo said in an interview yesterday in Jakarta.
A planned fuel price increase threatens to boost  inflation  to as
much as 7.7 percent this year, compared with a 5.5 percent pace
should fuel rates remain unchanged, reducing the central bank’s
scope to contain borrowing costs and support economic growth, he
said. Bank Indonesia kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged
since February last year.  “We are expecting Bank Indonesia to raise its reference
rate after the fuel price hike, which will see a further
correction in bonds,” said Dini Anggraeni, a Jakarta-based
fixed-income analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, a unit of the
nation’s largest lender by assets. She predicts the benchmark
interest rate will be raised by as much as 50 basis points to
6.25 percent by year-end and the 10-year bond yield will climb
to 6.1 percent.  The yield on the May 2023 notes rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 5.73 percent as of 10:34 a.m. in
Jakarta, the highest level since October, prices from the Inter
Dealer Market Association show.  Rupiah Support  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,780 per dollar, according
to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The decline
compared with slides of 0.5 percent or more for currencies in
 Malaysia ,  Thailand  and the  Philippines , which dropped after
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled a possible
tapering of monthly bond purchases that boost the supply of
dollars.  Bank Indonesia’s readiness to raise interest rates “will
help support the rupiah,” Anggraeni said. One-month non-deliverable forwards on the rupiah declined 0.7 percent to 9,882
per dollar, the biggest drop since January, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That is 1 percent weaker than the spot rate.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.74 percent.  “The rupiah is relatively stable compared with other Asian
currencies,” said Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank
CIMB Niaga in Jakarta. ”Bank Indonesia is always present in the
market to smooth out volatility.”  Bond Sales  Indonesia’s bonds fell yesterday, pushing the 10-year yield
up six basis points, as the government announced plans to boost
debt sales to fund a widening budget deficit.  Net issuance would rise to 241.3 trillion rupiah ($24.7
billion) under new 2013 budget proposals, up from a previous
target of 180.4 trillion rupiah, Finance Minister Chatib Basri
said yesterday. The government seeks to revise its  fiscal
deficit  plan to 2.48 percent of gross domestic product, from 1.6
percent, Vice Finance Minister Anny Ratnawati said on May 20.  “The higher debt burden will make Indonesian bonds less
attractive,” said I Made Adi Saputra, a fixed-income analyst at
PT Nusantara Capital Securities in Jakarta. “The government
will have less clout to demand lower yields at auctions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  