-- Intuitive Wins Trial, Defeats Negligent Training Claims
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   G u t h r i e   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/intuitive-wins-trial-defeats-negligent-training-claims.html
Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG)  convinced a
 Washington  state jury that it wasn’t negligent in its training
of a doctor who performed a robot-assisted surgery on a patient
who later died.  Jurors in Port Orchard, Washington, reached their verdict
yesterday by a 10-2 vote after a five-week trial. Intuitive owes
no damages based on claims that the patient, Fred Taylor, and
his family suffered due to the company’s inadequate training of
the doctor who removed his prostate gland in 2008, according to
the verdict.  The case was the first to go to trial of at least 26
lawsuits against Intuitive alleging injuries tied to its da
Vinci robotic system, which was used in more than 300,000 U.S.
operations last year.  Robots and related products generated most of Intuitive’s
$2.2 billion in revenue in 2012. The robots, which are in more
than 1,300 U.S. hospitals, cost $1.5 million each and were used
in 367,000 U.S. procedures in 2012. Operations done using the
robot include prostate cancer surgery, hysterectomy and gall
bladder removals.  “A win is a clear net positive as it may eliminate some of
the overhang associated with pending litigation,” Andrew S. Zamfotis, an analyst at evaDimensions in  New York , said in an e-mail. “The market’s expectations for future profit are very low
and perhaps partially due to legal risks but there have been
ongoing concerns for a while with respect to margin
sustainability.”  Stock Jump  Intuitive jumped as much as 5.5 percent after the close of
trading yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Shares had closed
at $478.46 in New York before the verdict was announced.  Richard Friedman, who represented the plaintiffs in the
case, said there are “thousands of good cases out there”
against Intuitive, and that “plaintiffs’ lawyers are going to
win some of those.”  Evidence revealed at trial shows how Intuitive encourages
sales representatives to “manipulate surgeons” by
“insinuating themselves into the operating room” and
“overcoming physicians’ resistance” to traditional surgery to
convert them into robotic procedures, Friedman said.  ‘Steer Clear’  Patients contemplating robotic surgery need to ask their
surgeons: “How many operations have you done?” Friedman said.
“If it’s not in the hundreds, steer clear.” Friedman said he
hasn’t decided if he’ll appeal the verdict.  Friedman argued at trial that Intuitive’s most egregious
negligence was its recommendation that surgeons are prepared to
perform robotic procedures alone after just two supervised
robotic surgeries following a one-day session at company
headquarters in Sunnyvale,  California .  That recommendation, which appears in company documents
describing “best practices,” was the idea of Gene Nagel, who
was an executive in charge of training and development and “a
former wine salesman with no prior training” in medicine or
medical devices, Friedman said in his closing arguments.  Morbidly Obese  Intuitive’s lawyer, Allen Ruby, told jurors that Taylor was
morbidly obese, and that his urologist, Scott Bildsten, ignored
specific instructions that for his first several procedures with
the da Vinci, he should choose simple cases and patients with a
low body-mass index.  Taylor was five-feet, 11-inches tall (180 centimeters), and
weighed 280 pounds (127 kilograms), giving him a body mass index
of 39 -- a measurement that should have precluded robotic
surgery, Ruby argued.  Taylor experienced multiple medical complications following
the surgery and died last year. Friedman sought $8.45 million in
damages based on claims that Intuitive streamlined and
compromised its training in a push to sell its robots.  Bildsten settled claims against him by Taylor’s estate,
according to court documents, which didn’t provide specifics.  Bildsten had performed 100 successful prostatectomies using
traditional methods. Taylor was his first patient using the da
Vinci unassisted. After seven hours of difficulty, Bildsten and
other doctors turned to traditional surgery and then emergency
care to repair a rectal laceration.  ‘Highest Standards’  “We are pleased with the jury’s verdict,” Angela Wonson,
a spokeswoman for Intuitive, said in an e-mail statement.
“Intuitive Surgical’s technologies have extended the benefits
of minimally invasive surgery to over 1.5 million patients
around the world. We will continue our commitment to patients,
surgeons and hospitals to uphold the highest standards of
safety.”  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at a console several feet
from the patient and peers into a high-definition display. Foot
pedals and hand controls maneuver mechanical arms equipped with
surgical tools, guided by a 3D camera that shows the work as it
is done inside a patient.  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive Surgical
Inc., 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of Washington, Kitsap
County (Port Orchard).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net 
Patricia Guthrie in state court in Port Orchard, Washington, at
 paddysuewho@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  