-- IPhone Urinalysis Draws First FDA Inquiry of Medical Apps
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/iphone-urinalysis-draws-first-fda-inquiry-of-medical-apps.html
An iPhone application that lets users
check levels of blood, protein and other substances in their
urine is the first target of U.S. regulators seeking boundaries
in a burgeoning industry for medical diagnosis on-the-go.  Biosense Technologies Private Ltd.’s uChek system isn’t
cleared by the Food and Drug Administration and the agency said
it wants to know why not, in a first-of-its-kind letter to a
maker of a mobile-device application. The app relies on users,
such as diabetics checking their glucose, to dip test strips in
urine and use the smartphone’s camera to allow the system to
processes and generate automated results.  UChek works with test strips made by  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Bayer
AG (BAYN) , which are only approved for visual reading and require new
clearance for automated analysis, the FDA said in the letter.
The agency has said it wants stricter rules for apps that
directly diagnose or treat conditions, proposing in 2011 to
apply similar quality standards as for heart stents, ultrasound
machines and other medical devices.  “We intend to finalize the guidance this year,” Synim
Rivers, an agency spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail.
“The FDA has proposed a regulatory approach that limits its
immediate oversight to a specific, small subset of mobile
medical applications that are medical devices and present the
greatest risk to patient safety if they don’t work as
intended.”  The app needed to run the $40 automated system became
available in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s  App Store  earlier this year after
being touted at the technology conference TED2013 at the end of
February in  California . The FDA told Biosense the company may
need to gain agency clearance for the entire system, including
the strips.  Biosense Response  “We intend to work very closely with the U.S. FDA over the
coming months to ensure that we continue to deliver accurate,
affordable and convenient diagnostics across the world,”
Abhishek Sen, co-founder of Thane, India-based Biosense, wrote
in an e-mail.  Biosense declined to comment further on their communication
with the FDA other than to say it received the letter May 22.
Representatives from Siemens and Bayer, both based in  Germany ,
didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  The FDA for the first time sent a letter to an app maker
notifying them of the agency’s concerns about providing an
opportunity for Biosense to meet and discuss the issue.  Depending on how a company responds, the FDA may follow up
with a warning letter that sets out specific violations of the
law that must be addressed immediately, Rivers said.  The FDA letter points to data submitted for a urine
analyzer made by Acon Laboratories Inc. as an example of the
information sought from Biosense. Acon, based in San Diego,
submitted a 510(k) application, which is the least stringent of
FDA device approval pathways that doesn’t typically warrant
clinical trials and only requires a company prove their product
is similar to one on the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  