-- Biosev’s IPO Money-Back Option Soars: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-05-23T23:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/ipo-s-money-back-option-soars-as-biosev-slumps-corporate-brazil.html
(Corrects IPO amount in first paragraph.)  Biosev SA (BSEV3) , the Brazilian sugar mill
controlled by Louis Dreyfus Holding BV, is posting an unusual
kind of stock market rally after last month’s $347 million
initial public offering.  The value of  options contracts  that Biosev gave investors
as a money-back guarantee in the IPO has soared more than eight-fold to 2.04 reais. The puts, which give holders the right to
sell the shares back to the company in 15 months at the IPO
price plus accrued interest, are rallying as the stock sinks.
Biosev has fallen 8 percent to 13.80 reais from 15 reais at the
April 19 sale.  The rally in the options signals investor concern that the
stock will keep falling after a 48 percent plunge in the price
of sugar, which accounts for 66 percent of Biosev’s revenue, and
a 10 percent decline in ethanol. Biosev, the most indebted among
publicly listed Brazilian sugar mills, revived the IPO a year
after a first attempt failed by offering the money-back
guarantee and by getting parent company Louis Dreyfus to buy 12
percent of the deal.  “It was a very unusual structure,” Luiz Carvalho, a
managing partner at Tree Capital, who participated in the
offering, said by phone from New York. “I’d never seen it. We
spent a lot of time understanding it. You have a large number of
put holders, so it will take a while for the stock to start
trading more in line with the market.”  Trading Debut  Marco Modesti, Biosev’s director of  investor relations ,
said the performance should be evaluated by taking into account
both the drop in the stock and the gain in the puts, as 90
percent of investors in the IPO purchased them in combination.
By that measure, Biosev has gained 5.6 percent from the starting
price.  “The shares’ performance should not be separated from that
of the  put option ,” Fabio Nazari, a partner at Grupo BTG
Pactual responsible for the equity capital management area, said
in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The investor who acquired
the ’combo’ is gaining.”  The shares sank 14 percent in their debut, the biggest
first-day drop in Brazil since 2008. The puts, sold for 25
centavos apiece, soared to 2.70 reais in the first day of
trading. The Ibovespa equity  benchmark , which has fallen 8.2
percent this year, gained 1.4 percent that day.  Biosev’s net debt equals 5.2 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average ratio among its four
publicly traded peers in Brazil is 3.8 times.  IPO Deadline  The company  shelved  an IPO last year citing “economic
uncertainties” in the financial markets, according to a July
regulatory filing. Biosev was trying to raise as much as 1.14
billion reais at the time by selling the shares for as much as
20.50 reais each.  “With the embedded put options, they’re just borrowing
money for a year,” Salim Morsy, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  Sao Paulo , said in a phone interview. “The
general bad mood for Brazilian equities, compounded by the fact
that the Brazilian sugar cane industry hasn’t been doing well in
the past two years, tells me no one would willfully IPO at a
time like this.”  Biosev had an August 2014 deadline to do an IPO, Modesti
said. Under the terms of an agreement with controlling
shareholders, it had to sell a minimum 25 percent stake for at
least $300 million, according to a statement attached to the
prospectus  filed  with securities regulators.  ‘Additional Comfort’  “The fact that the investor had the option to buy the put,
giving some assurance of a return, brought additional comfort
and was one of the reasons behind the success of the offering,”
Modesti said by phone. “The company didn’t do this just to
repurchase shares in 15 months. We’re working to deliver on our
plans.”  Biosev and its investment bankers chose to structure the
offering with the money-back guarantee because they thought
investors didn’t have enough information about the company and
the biofuel industry, according to BTG Pactual.  “It was an innovative operation, but perfectly
understandable,” Nazari said. “Selling put options together
with the shares actually shows the strong commitment that the
controlling shareholder has to its new partners in the
business.”  The six Brazilian IPOs this year show the market for new
offerings is rebounding after last year brought just three
deals, the scarcest since 2003. BB Seguridade Participacoes SA,
the insurance unit of lender Banco do Brasil SA, was the world’s
biggest initial public offering in 2013.  ‘Greater Confidence’  “The fact that you’ve had six IPOs this year means there’s
some greater confidence in the stability of the market,” Andres Calderon, a portfolio manager at Hansberger Global Investors,
which oversees $6.2 billion in assets, said in a telephone
interview. “And you don’t need a brand name or large event in
order to get a deal completed. Good companies of medium sizes
are coming to market and having successful debuts.”  Shares in four of the five other companies that did IPOs
this year have risen from their initial prices. Technology
company Linx SA has jumped 32 percent. Smiles SA, the frequent-flier unit of Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA, has  advanced  15
percent and BB Seguridade has climbed 7.4 percent. Alupar
Investimento SA has gained 1.1 percent, while Senior Solution SA
is trading  unchanged .  Record Harvest  The success of Biosev’s IPO will depend on how the company
manages its operations and production costs, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s Morsy. While  Brazil  has
implemented tax breaks and other measures to boost ethanol
output, they won’t be enough to counter biofuel producers’
falling profit margins after a 48 percent slump in sugar prices
since early 2011, Antonio de Padua Rodrigues, technical director
at industry association Unica, said on April 29. Prices of
hydrated ethanol used as fuel retreated 10 percent over the same
period, according to  data  compiled by Unica.  This year’s record harvest and productivity improvements
should help dilute fixed costs, Biosev’s Modesti said. The
company’s capital expenditures totaled 938.6 million reais in
the nine months ended in December, a 4 percent reduction from
the previous year, while net debt rose 10 percent, according to
a Feb. 14 regulatory filing.  “It’s probably going to be a much better year for
producers than last year,” Morsy said. “But not enough to
justify $300 million or $400 million of investments in new
assets. The market finds itself now where it’s not losing any
money, but certainly not doing well enough to expand more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  