-- IRS Hearings Show Lawmakers’ Outrage With Little Revealed
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-23T22:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/irs-hearings-show-lawmakers-outrage-with-little-revealed.html
Republican lawmakers are seeking
answers after the first round of congressional hearings on the
 Internal Revenue Service ’s scrutiny of small-government groups
failed to show why the practice started and who was behind it.  So far, intense questioning by lawmakers on three separate
committees directed at the IRS hasn’t revealed who decided to
give extra attention to “Tea Party” and “patriot” groups
applying for tax-exempt status based on their names. It hasn’t
explained why the agency kept using what an inspector general
called “inappropriate” criteria even after IRS officials tried
to stop it in 2011.  “What people want to know is who is going to be held
accountable and how they’re going to be held accountable,” said
Representative Scott DesJarlais, a Tennessee Republican.  Even as the White House has changed its timeline about who
was informed in 2013, lawmakers also haven’t proven that anyone
outside the IRS knew of the practice until after the 2012
election. Former IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  testified
under oath again yesterday that he kept the information inside
the agency, and Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin said he
didn’t know any of the details until May 10, 2013.  Lawmakers asked for the names of low-level employees and
received none. They sought explanations for the IRS actions and
got mostly generalities.  Lerner Replaced  Today the IRS said it replaced Lois Lerner, who oversaw
tax-exempt organizations, on an acting basis. She was placed on
paid administrative leave, said a Democratic aide who was
informed of the decision.  A day earlier, Lerner refused to testify before the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, citing her
constitutional right not to incriminate herself and insisting
she did nothing wrong. Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona 
and Democrat  Carl Levin  of  Michigan  asked acting IRS
Commissioner Danny Werfel earlier today to suspend Lerner.  At least six separate inquiries continue: four from
congressional committees, a Justice Department criminal probe
and further review by the inspector general who oversees the IRS
that could result in referrals to prosecutors.  Steven Miller ,
the acting IRS commissioner, lost his job, and Joseph Grant, who
oversaw tax-exempt groups, is retiring early.  At two House hearings and one in the Senate, lawmakers
expressed frustration and outrage with the lack of clarity from
Shulman and senior IRS officials. They criticized the agency’s
breach of trust and pledged to keep investigating.  ‘Obscure’ Rest  “You’re really good at certain parts of detail and you
obscure the rest,” Republican Representative Paul Gosar of
Arizona told Shulman, who left the IRS in November 2012.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said today that it “stretched credulity” that
lower-level employees began the practice.  “Why did Lois Lerner and other senior and former IRS
officials refuse to address questions that they had previously
misled Congress?” he said. “We’ll look forward to hearing more
from them, and we’ll look forward to hearing from whoever
actually made the decisions that led to these abuses, since no
one we’ve heard from yet is able to take responsibility for what
went on.”  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
chairman of the House oversight committee, said he may recall
Lerner to testify and suggested that by giving an opening
statement yesterday, she may have waived her constitutional
rights. Some criminal-procedure experts questioned whether
Lerner said enough to give up her right against self-incrimination.  ‘Puffing’ Statement  Lerner’s opening statement was “puffing,” said Washington
criminal defense attorney Stanley Brand, who was House general
counsel from 1976 to 1983. “She’s not answering questions, and
she’s not giving an account of what happened. She’s saying, ‘I’m
innocent.’”  As a practical matter, congressional Republicans can test
Lerner’s assertion only by holding her in contempt and referring
her case to the  Justice Department  for prosecution -- a process
that could take two years, Brand said.  Lawmakers could call Lerner to testify again and require
her to answer questions that aren’t incriminating, said Gabriel
Chin, who teaches criminal procedure at the University of
California Davis School of Law. Still, he said, “if it gets
anywhere near the issue, she’s allowed not to say.”  Tea Party  The IRS has insisted that lower-level employees in the
agency’s Cincinnati office, which handles applications for tax-exempt status, came up with the idea of using “Tea Party” as a
shorthand for a batch of cases that raised concerns of
impermissible political activity. The IRS maintains that it was
attempting to apply consistent procedures to similar cases and
not trying to target groups based on their views.  So-called social welfare groups organized under section
501(c)(4) of the  tax code  can engage in politics as long as it
isn’t their primary purpose. Hundreds of groups had their
applications delayed because of the extra scrutiny, and some
received extensive questionnaires that asked for lists of
donors. Social-welfare groups don’t have to disclose donors.  “We have had some difficulty in terms of getting clarity
from some of the employees we’ve interviewed,” Russell George,
the inspector general who issued a May 14 report on the issue,
said at yesterday’s hearing.  Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican, said
more than a few employees had come up with the questions.  ‘Someone Knew’  “This is a pretty large list of people that are involved
in creating this,” he said. “Someone knew. In fact a lot of
someones knew.”  Lawmakers from both parties criticized George’s process,
particularly allowing managers to sit in during interviews of
lower-level employees.  The House oversight committee yesterday released internal
IRS e-mails that back up part of the tax agency’s story while
leaving some questions unanswered.  In one e-mail on June 2, 2011, Cindy Thomas of the tax-exempt division wrote to Holly Paz, who supervised legal
guidance on issues involving the groups.  Thomas described the screening criteria, which captured
“ tea party ” groups, as something the “screening group came up
with based on cases they were seeing” as applications came in.  ‘Doesn’t Matter’  “If we don’t want the screening group to include all of
these type issues as ‘tea party cases,’ they would have no
problem including or excluding certain cases,” Thomas wrote in
a plea for a consistent rule. “What I am trying to say is that
it doesn’t matter what the cases are called or how they are
grouped.”  The chain of e-mails occurred before a June 29, 2011,
meeting at which Lerner ordered that the use of “Tea Party” as
a screening criterion be stopped.  It bolsters the point in the inspector general’s report
that ineffective management and training left employees in
Cincinnati without adequate rules.  The committee also released written answers to questions
that Lerner submitted to the inspector general. A section on the
origin of the employees’ interest in political cases is blacked
out.  In her written statement, Lerner said after the June
meeting employees changed the criteria again, “unbeknownst to
me,” to include groups “educating on the Constitution and Bill
of Rights.” She made them change it again, according to her
statement.  Staff members from the oversight panel, the Senate Finance
Committee, the House Ways and Means Committee and a Senate
investigative subcommittee are pursuing the issue. Oversight
staff members interviewed Paz this week and are seeking to speak
with four other IRS employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  