-- ISS Agrees to Pay $300,000 Over Confidentiality Breach, SEC Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-05-23T16:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/iss-agrees-to-pay-300-000-over-confidentiality-breach-sec-says.html
Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc., which helps large investors make voting choices in proxy
contests, will pay $300,000 to resolve U.S. regulatory claims
that it failed to safeguard confidential information.  ISS didn’t establish or enforce written policies or
procedures to prevent the misuse of information by its
employees, the Securities and Exchange Commission said today in
an  administrative order . The Rockville, Maryland-based firm also
lacked sufficient controls over employee access to databases of
confidential client-vote information, the SEC said.  An ISS employee from 2007 through early 2012 gave a proxy
solicitor material, nonpublic information about how more than
100 clients intended to vote in exchange for meals, an airline
ticket and entry to concerts and sporting events, the SEC said.  “Proxy advisers must tailor their controls based on the
risks of their particular business in order to protect the
integrity of the proxy voting process,” Julie Riewe, deputy
chief of the SEC enforcement division’s asset management unit,
said in a statement.  ISS, which settled the claims without admitting or denying
wrongdoing, agreed to hire an independent compliance consultant
to review its supervisory and compliance policies, the SEC said.  “From the beginning, ISS took swift action of its own and
also fully cooperated with the SEC to investigate and promptly
resolve this matter,” Cheryl Gustitus, an ISS spokeswoman, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The confidentiality of our clients’
information is essential and is of the highest priority to us.”  ISS, a registered  investment adviser , is a subsidiary of
 MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , a New York-based company that provides support tools
to investment institutions.  Earlier this month, ISS helped lead a failed investor push
to split  Jamie Dimon ’s dual roles as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
chief executive officer and chairman. The bank’s shareholders
voted 32 percent in favor of naming an independent chairman,
according to preliminary results released by the lender May 21,
down from 40 percent a year earlier. ISS had urged its clients
to back the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  