-- J&J Sees 10 Products Submitted for Approval by 2017
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-23T20:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/j-j-sees-10-products-submitted-for-approval-by-2017.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest maker of health-care products, anticipates submitting
more than 10 new medicines for approval by regulators worldwide
by 2017, including a modified version of a decades-old
anesthetic that has been misused as a date-rape drug.  There also are plans to improve more than 25 current drugs
during the same period, the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
company said today in a statement. The wave of new therapies
developed in-house and acquired from outside may keep J&J in its
position as the fastest growing drugmaker in 2012 among the
largest pharmaceutical companies.  J&J’s drug unit, which accounts for 38 percent of the
company’s annual sales, was the main driver of growth in 2011
and 2012, said  Michael Weinstein , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  New York . J&J has started selling eight new products
since 2011 that generated $4.4 billion in sales last year,
including the prostate cancer drug Zytiga, the diabetes medicine
Invokana and the blood thinner Xarelto.  “By focusing on transformational innovation we can make a
difference in the world and also build a sustainable, growing
business for the future,” said Paul Stoffels, J&J’s chief
scientific officer and worldwide chairman of pharmaceuticals.
“With a steadfast focus on the most serious unmet medical
needs, our approach is to identify the best science, internal
and external, to deliver new options and solutions to
patients.”  J&J, which released its pharmaceutical plans today at a
meeting with analysts at its headquarters, fell less than 1
percent to $87.21 at the close in New York. The shares gained 38
percent in the past 12 months.  Emerging Markets  J&J is targeting some of the biggest markets and diseases
that currently have few treatment options in its growth plan.
The company plans to file for approval by 2017 of medicines
including simeprevir for hepatitis C, ibrutinib and daratumumab
for blood cancers, sirukumab and guselkumab for diseases of the
immune system and vaccines for influenza, rabies and polio.  The company is also studying for depression an altered
formulation of the human and animal anesthetic called  ketamine ,
which the  Department of Health  and Human Services says is one of
the most commonly used drugs in date rape. J&J said its altered
formulation, called esketamine, is designed to be safer than the
older drug, which can cause hallucination and delirium, and
would be less prone to abuse.  Lower Dose  J&J’s drug is one-twelfth the dosage used in anesthesia and
would be administered nasally, said Husseini Manji, head of
neuroscience at J&J. The company said the product is in the
second of three stages of testing required to get U.S.
regulatory approval and didn’t provide an estimated time for
when it may reach the market.  For patients with major depression, J&J hopes the drug will
be more effective than current treatments while providing faster
results, Manji said. Existing depression drugs can take weeks to
start working, requiring suicidal patients to be
institutionalized, sometimes for months, until the drugs take
affect. In a study, patients taking ketamine saw a benefit in a
few hours, Manji said.  The pharmaceutical market is expected to grow about 4.5
percent each year to $1.2 trillion by 2017, the company said,
citing statistics from industry-data tracker IMS Health. J&J
said it’s focused on expanding business in  emerging markets  such
as China, Brazil and  India , which accounted for almost 20
percent of  sales  in the first quarter.  “The outlook for J&J’s pharma business appears bright,”
Weinstein wrote in a May 13 note to clients that estimated sales
growth of 7.5 percent in 2013 and 5 percent to 7 percent through
2016. “It’s a combination of base business products that
continue to perform well coupled with new product launches
layering on additional growth.”  New medicines are expected to account for almost half of
the company’s pharmaceutical sales by 2017.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  