-- Jain Halts Speech as Deutsche Bank Protestors Vent Anger
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-05-23T16:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/jain-halts-speech-as-deutsche-bank-protestors-vent-anger.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain was forced to halt a speech in Frankfurt as a
group of shareholders vented their anger at the company’s
policies.  Jain paused as the group jeered, booed and threw fliers
into the air at the annual general meeting today. The
shareholders, screaming slogans such as “crisis-profiteers,”
were escorted out of the event in the west of  Germany ’s
financial capital.  German banks have become a focus for people protesting the
financial crisis as the nation prepares for parliamentary
elections in September. Jain riled some shareholders in April by
asking them to contribute to a 2.96 billion-euro ($3.8 billion)
capital increase three months after saying it wouldn’t be in
their interests. Deutsche Bank is boosting reserves amid tighter
 capital requirements  and legal probes, including the alleged
manipulation of benchmark  interest rates .  Entrance to the  shareholders’ meeting  was allowed for
people who hold one or more shares in the bank. Jain, 50,
earlier received applause as he took to the podium and made a
speech in German for the first time since he was appointed co-CEO alongside Juergen Fitschen last June.  “Mistakes were made in the past” that “undermined our
good name,” Fitschen told the meeting. “We realize that we
have to win back the trust of our clients and society.”  ‘Cleanup’  As well as being a subject of probes into manipulation of
Libor, Deutsche Bank is a defendant in civil suits as an issuer
or underwriter of U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities.
In December, about 500 police and investigators raided its
headquarters over  tax evasion  in carbon markets. It denies any
wrongdoing. A Milan judge convicted the bank and three other
firms that month of fraud in the sale of derivatives to hedge
the city’s interest-rate risk.  “The cleanup efforts have started at the construction site
that is Deutsche Bank, but it will probably take a long time to
deal with all the legacy issues and restore trust,”  Ingo Speich , a  fund manager  at Union Investment GmbH, which owns
about 1 percent of the company, said in a speech. “Trust is
what Deutsche Bank needs most.”  Pay Increase  A group of about two dozen people protesting capitalism and
funding of the arms industry set up stalls and held up banners
outside the meeting hall.  Deutsche Bank’s shares fell 3.4 percent to 35.94 euros at
the close of trading in Frankfurt. Gains over the past 12 months
were 25 percent compared with 45 percent for the  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index . The index fell 3.1
percent today.  Shareholders are expected to approve the appointment of
three new members to Deutsche Bank’s supervisory board, as well
as changes to the bank’s compensation system that will cap pay
for Jain and Fitschen at 9.85 million euros this year. They
received 4.89 million euros in 2012.  Thousands of people will attempt to blockade  Frankfurt ’s
financial district on May 31 to protest capitalism and the
banking industry’s role.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  