-- Japan Economy Chief Warns Against Panic Over Stock Sell-Off
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e ,   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-05-23T09:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/japan-economy-chief-warns-against-panic-over-stock-sell-off.html
Japan ’s economy minister said there’s
no reason to be perturbed by today’s sell-off in the nation’s
stocks, as the recent surge in equities was faster than expected
and the economy is steadily recovering.  “There’s no need to be perturbed as the Japanese economy
is recovering soundly,” Akira Amari told reporters in Tokyo
today. “We will closely watch market movements.”  Amari spoke after Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX)  of equities tumbled
6.9 percent, the most since the aftermath of the earthquake and
tsunami in March 2011. Volatility also hit the  bond market 
today, with a surge in 10-year government-debt yields to the
highest level in more than a year prompting the central bank to
inject liquidity. Bonds later rose, sending yields down, as
stocks plunged, while the yen strengthened.  “Stock prices and the  exchange rate  are correlated, so
it’s natural that such a big fall in stocks brings about a swing
to a stronger yen,” Amari said. “We will continue to calmly
proceed with pragmatic policies.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 7.3 percent today and the
yen strengthened 1.8 percent to 101.36 per dollar at 6:09 p.m.
in Tokyo, the strongest since May 10.  The  Bank of Japan  continues to be in close communication
with financial markets, Amari said. The BOJ will hold a meeting
with investors and market participants on May 29 to discuss
recent market movements, the central bank said yesterday.  Chinese Contraction  Japanese Cabinet members highlighted a decline in a Chinese
manufacturing gauge today as a potential trigger for the drop in
shares. The preliminary reading of 49.6 in May for a  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index for  China  released today by HSBC Holdings Plc
and  Markit Economics  indicated the first contraction in seven
months in Asia’s largest economy.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters
earlier that Japanese stocks were reacting partly to worsening
Chinese data, and that recent stock-price gains had been
unprecedented. The Topix index remains up 52 percent for the
past six months. Amari also said today’s drop could be related
to Chinese figures.  Vice Finance Minister Shunichi Yamaguchi told reporters
that the central bank is responding as needed.  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said yesterday the BOJ will
adjust the central bank’s stimulus program as needed. He said
that he doesn’t expect yields to jump a lot and bond market
volatility wasn’t affecting Japan’s economy yet. The BOJ’s
injection of 2 trillion yen ($19.7 billion) at its offices
around the country was a response to excessive volatility in
long-term yields, according to an official who asked not to be
named due to the central bank’s policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  