-- Japan’s Bond Yields Touch 1% as BOJ Injects Funds to Stem Swings
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-05-23T03:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/japan-s-bonds-fall-on-fed-comments-as-10-year-yield-rises-to-1-.html
Japanese  government bonds  fell, with
10-year rates touching 1 percent for the first time in a year,
on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will curb stimulus and the
 Bank of Japan  will tolerate an increase in yields.  Japan ’s five-year note rate matched the highest in two
years after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the
central bank may trim bond purchases if policy makers see
indications of sustained economic growth. The BOJ injected 2
trillion yen ($19.4 billion) into the financial system to stem
volatility following a circuit breaker in JGB futures trading.  “It was a kind of shock for bond holders,” Genzo Kimura,
a Tokyo-based investor at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management
Co., which oversees the equivalent of $41.2 billion, said of
Bernanke’s comments. “We expected that he was not ready for
tapering.”  Japan’s 10-year yield increased seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 0.955 percent as of 12:24 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
according to Japan Bond Trading Co. The yield was as high as 1
percent earlier, a level unseen since April 5, 2012. The  five-year rate  rose three basis points to 0.425 percent and reached
0.455 percent, matching a level earlier this month that was the
most since May 2011.  U.S. 10-year rates climbed to 2.07 percent today, the
highest level since March.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt
a month in its quantitative easing policy that aims to spur the
economy by putting downward pressure on borrowing costs.  Bond Purchases  “We’re trying to make an assessment of whether or not we
have seen real and sustainable progress in the labor market
outlook,” Bernanke said in testimony to Congress. “If we see
continued improvement and we have confidence that that is going
to be sustained, then we could in -- in the next few meetings --
we could take a step down in our pace of purchases.”  In Japan, the central bank announced last month it would
double monthly bond buying to more than 7 trillion yen to defeat
deflation. Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said yesterday the BOJ will
adjust the program as needed. He said he’s not expecting yields
to jump a lot and volatility in the  bond market  isn’t affecting
Japan’s economy yet.  “BOJ Governor Kuroda’s press conference yesterday was
disappointing to JGB market participants because he didn’t
repeat his commitment in April when he said that the BOJ’s
easing was intended to lower the yield curve,” said Naomi Muguruma, a Tokyo-based senior fixed-income strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Co. “He didn’t sound so concerned
about the level of JGB yields.”  The BOJ’s injection of 2 trillion yen at all offices today
was done in response to excessive volatility in long-term
yields, according to an official who asked not to be named due
to the central bank’s policy.  Futures on 10-year JGBs slid 0.73 to 141.17. They earlier
slid as much as 1.2, triggering circuit breaker on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange.  “The level of benchmark yields is still in a low range
historically, however, the pace of the rise in yields is too
rapid,” said  Soichi Okuda , chief economist at Sumitomo Shoji
Research Institute in Tokyo. “Given the recent gains in bond
yields, market participants are interpreting that the BOJ is
accepting a rise in bond yields to some extent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  