-- JPMorgan to Sell Bonds Backed by $443 Million of Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-23T19:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/jpmorgan-to-sell-bonds-backed-by-443-million-of-mortgages-1-.html
JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. is planning its
second sale of U.S. home-loan securities without government
backing since the financial crisis the debt helped to trigger.  The bonds will be backed by $443 million of “high-quality” so-called jumbo mortgages, according to statements e-mailed today by Kroll Bond Rating Agency and DBRS Ltd., which
expect to grant top grades to most of the notes.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to immediately
comment.  The deal, like a $616.3 million transaction in March by the
New York-based bank, contains relatively weak contractual
promises that lenders or the issuer will repurchase loans that
fail to match their promised quality, DBRS said. Sellers have
begun taking different approaches to those terms as issuance in
the so-called non-agency mortgage-bond market revives.  Still, “the representations and warranties framework in
this transaction does show some improvements” from JPMorgan’s
last deal, including how fraud is defined, DBRS analysts
including Claire J. Mezzanotte and Quincy Tang said in the
statement.  DBRS and Kroll said that they took the weaker provisions
into account in assigning grades to the securities. Fitch
Ratings, which will also rate most of the notes, said in a
report that it was not asked to rank a $13.7 million slice
granted AAA ratings by those two firms. The risk of
the debt means it deserves an AA grade, two levels lower, Fitch
said.  Slow Acceleration  Issuance of non-agency bonds has been tied to about $6
billion of new loans this year, increasing from about $3.5
billion in all of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Barclays Plc analysts said in a May 21 report that the expansion
will be slow to accelerate and maintained a 2013 forecast of $12
billion to $15 billion. Sales peaked at about $1.2 trillion in
each of 2005 and 2006.  The relative yields buyers demand on the bonds have been
widening as issuance increases and amid investor concern that
government-backed housing debt offered better value and that the
mortgages will prepay slower than expected if interest rates
rise or faster if they fall.  A May 17 offering by  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  included $299
million of top-rated bonds that priced to yield 2.82 percent, or
1.90 percentage points more than benchmark swap rates. That
compared with spreads of 1.75 percentage points on similar
securities sold last month by the Mill Valley, California-based
firm and as low as 0.97 percentage point in January.  Jumbo home loans are larger than allowed in government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for single-family properties in high-cost areas. For Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac loans with the lowest costs for borrowers using 20 percent
down payments, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  