-- JPMorgan Names Sommers for Consumer Bank as McInerney Joins Visa
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-05-23T14:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/jpmorgan-promotes-barry-sommers-to-oversee-chase-consumer-bank.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. lender, named Barry Sommers chief executive officer of its
consumer bank, replacing Ryan McInerney, who’s leaving to become
president of  Visa Inc. (V)   Sommers will continue overseeing Chase Wealth Management
and reporting to  Gordon Smith , CEO of consumer and community
banking, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
McInerney will be responsible for Foster City, California-based
Visa’s global client organization, product management and new
solutions group, according to a separate statement.  JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon  shook up the consumer bank’s top
management two years ago, removing former retail chief  Charlie Scharf  from his position and ousting former mortgage head David
Lowman after the lender came under fire for abusive foreclosure
practices, which it spent more than $8.6 billion to settle.
Scharf left to become CEO of Visa, the world’s largest
electronic-payments network, in November.  “Barry and Ryan have been close partners and friends for
several years, and we expect a seamless transition as we bring
these businesses under Barry’s leadership,” Smith said in the
statement.  McInerney succeeds John Partridge, who retired as Visa’s
president in March. Partridge, 63, who is staying with the
company to work on special projects, will receive a base salary
of $50,000 a month and be paid $562,000 in November as a pro-rated bonus for his work this year as president, according to a
filing last month.  McInerney worked at JPMorgan for eight years and was head
of the consumer bank since 2009, according to JPMorgan’s
statement. Sommers joined Bear Stearns Cos. in 1996 and came to
JPMorgan when it acquired the firm in 2008, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  