-- JPMorgan to Daiwa See Rate Rise Amid Slower Growth: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-23T02:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/jpmorgan-to-daiwa-see-rate-rise-amid-slower-growth-china-credit.html
Economists are forecasting that the
People’s Bank of  China  is more likely to raise interest rates
than cut them in the coming year, even as they slash growth
projections for the world’s second-largest economy.  Eight of 15 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  this month
project an increase in the benchmark deposit rate by the end of
June 2014, compared with two who see a reduction. The survey
showed economists cut their forecast for the 10-year bond yield
by 30 basis points in the past month to 3.5 percent, while
keeping their two-year yield forecast at 3.08 percent, based on
median estimates.  The government “seems to have become more tolerant” of
weaker growth, UBS AG says, as Premier Li Keqiang grapples with
credit expansion and price gains seen approaching the official
target. The  gap  between two- and 10-year yields has narrowed to
an 18-month low of 38 basis points, suggesting the market is
anticipating a slowdown without stimulus. The similar gap in
 India , which is expanding at its slowest pace in a decade, is 11
basis points.  “As long as growth is within the range of 7 to 7.5
percent, there’s no need to stimulate growth with interest-rate
cuts,” said  Li Wei , a Shanghai-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc, which is forecasting a deposit-rate increase to
3.75 percent through the second quarter of 2014 from the current
3 percent. “Concerns still exist on local-government debt risks
and property-price rebounds.”  Standard Chartered this month lowered its growth forecast
to 7.7 percent for 2013 from 8.3 percent.  Growth Outlook  Other respondents forecasting an interest-rate increase
include JPMorgan Chase & Co., Daiwa  Capital Markets , BNP Paribas
SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. Analysts at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. and Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale
projected a reduction.  Economists made their biggest cuts to growth projections
since September, trimming the 2013 and 2014 outlooks each by 0.2
percentage point to 7.8 percent, based on median estimates. The
monthly Bloomberg News survey was conducted from May 16 to May
21. The economy expanded 7.8 percent in 2012, the slowest pace
in 13 years.  The reductions follow an unexpected deceleration in first-quarter growth to 7.7 percent and April data on investment and
factory output that missed forecasts. A preliminary  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed a drop this month to 49.6, less than the final
50.4 for April and the 50.4 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. It signals the first contraction in seven months.  Bond Yields  The yield on 10-year  government bonds  has dropped one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.42 percent in the past
month, according to the National Interbank Funding Center. The
 rate  on two-year debt climbed four basis points to 3.03 percent.  The weaker growth outlook is having little effect on
projections for  inflation . While the median estimate fell for
consumer-price index gains in the second and third quarters, it
was unchanged at 3.4 percent in the fourth period, at 3 percent
for 2013 and 3.5 percent for next year. The government in March
set an inflation target of 3.5 percent for 2013, down from 4
percent last year, and a growth goal of 7.5 percent, the same as
in 2012.  “Inflation will become a big concern for the Chinese
government” later this year as pork prices rebound, said Sun Chi, Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa. The central bank may
increase benchmark lending rates twice by 0.25 percentage point
in the fourth quarter if China’s CPI rises more than 4 percent,
she said. “There are no grounds for the PBOC to cut  interest
rates  for growth purposes.”  Property Prices  At the same time, such a move can’t be ruled out, Sun said.
China surprised economists last year by cutting benchmark
interest rates in June and July to counter a slowdown. The PBOC
also lowered the reserve-requirement  ratio  for banks three times
from November 2011 to May 2012.  Property-price gains defying government efforts to cool the
market may help keep policy makers reluctant to add any more
monetary stimulus. China’s new home prices rose in April from a
year earlier in 68 of the 70 cities the government tracks,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  “The government’s patience with housing-price gains is
running out, and a hike in benchmark interest rates is an
obvious policy choice,” said Dong Xian’an, chief economist at
Peking First Advisory Co. in Beijing, an investment consultant.
“It doesn’t make sense to cut interest rates when growth is
still above the target.”  Dong expects the PBOC to increase the benchmark deposit
rate to 3.5 percent by the end of 2013 and the one-year lending
rate to 6.25 percent.  Bond Risk  The  cost  of insuring China’s sovereign debt is climbing as
the economic outlook deteriorates. The prices of credit-default
swaps protecting the notes for five years against non-payment
has averaged 72 basis points this quarter, up from 65 in the
previous three months, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  Mizuho’s Shen Jianguang said China has “clear” reasons to
cut interest rates, including high corporate borrowing costs and
the need to reduce pressures from hot-money inflows. Weak growth
and subdued inflation will add to forces spurring the central
bank to help the economy, said Shen, chief Asia economist in
 Hong Kong .  “The PBOC should cut interest rates and it will cut
interest rates,” said Shen, who forecasts 0.25 percentage point
reductions in the lending and deposit rates in the fourth
quarter.  Yuan Threat  The  yuan  fell 0.07 percent to 6.1353 per dollar in  Shanghai 
at 10:17 a.m., paring its annual advance to 1.6 percent. The
economy will enter a consolidation period that will last for two
years, and currency appreciation pressure is one of the
challenges that China faces, former central bank adviser  Li Daokui  told reporters in Hong Kong May 21.  Most analysts don’t foresee any interest-rate changes this
year, with five of 21 respondents forecasting a deposit-rate
increase and two seeing a cut by the end of December.  “The government has made it very clear that it has no
intention to stimulate growth,” said  Standard Chartered ’s Li.
While China’s central bank surprised markets by cutting interest
rates last year, “the new government will not follow suit.”  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Cynthia Li in Hong Kong.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  