-- Justice Department to Review Journalist Probe Rules
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-05-23T21:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/justice-department-to-conduct-review-of-journalist-probe-rules.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
will conduct a review of the rules that guide prosecutors in
investigations that include journalists.  President  Barack Obama  announced the review today less than
two weeks after the Associated Press was informed by the Justice
Department that its telephone records had been seized in a
national security leak investigation. Holder will report back
his findings by July 12, Obama said.  “I am troubled by the possibility that leak investigations
may chill the investigative journalism that holds government
accountable,” Obama said during a speech today about
counterterrorism policy at the National Defense University.  The Justice Department, led by Holder, has faced a backlash
from U.S. lawmakers and media organizations for its decision to
subpoena the AP’s telephone records as part of its investigation
into the release of information about an active intelligence
operation.  Holder “will consult a diverse and representative group of
media organizations,” the Justice Department said in statement.
“In the coming days, he looks forward to meaningful engagement
with these media representatives as well as other experts inside
and outside of government.”  Justice Investigation  Holder has recused himself from the department’s
investigation into leaks to the AP because he was interviewed by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation as part of the probe. He has
said he is confident that Justice Department prosecutors made
the proper decision. Deputy Attorney General James Cole has
supervised the probe in Holder’s absence and signed off on the
subpoenas.  Fourteen Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee sent
a  letter  to Cole yesterday requesting details of the decision to
seize the AP’s telephone records, including questions about the
size and scope of the subpoena, which covered more than 20 phone
lines over portions of a two-month period.  Bipartisan groups of House and Senate lawmakers have
introduced “media shield” legislation designed to protect
media source material from government investigators. The bills
include national security exemptions. Obama said he supports a
media shield law in today’s speech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  