-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for May (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-05-23T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-may-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Tenth District manufacturing activity improved somewhat, rising
above zero for the first time in seven months, and producers’
expectations for future activity also increased. Most price
indexes recorded little changes from the previous month. Several
contacts cited various strategies to combat potential cost
increases, including increased selling prices, labor force
reductions, and leveraging available technologies.  The month-over-month composite index was 2 in May, up from -5 in
April and March. The composite index is an average of the
production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery time, and
raw materials inventory indexes. The rise in production came
from both durable and non-durable goods-producing plants, with
the biggest increase coming from machinery and metals
manufacturing. Other month-over-month indexes were mixed. The
production index edged up from 1 to 5, and the shipments, new
orders, and new orders for export indexes also rose. In
contrast, the employment index fell from -3 to -7, while the
order backlog index was unchanged. The raw materials inventory
index jumped from -17 to 0, and the finished goods inventory
index moved slightly higher.  The majority of year-over-year factory indexes improved somewhat
in May. The composite year-over-year index increased from -6 to
0, and the production, shipments, and new orders indexes also
rose. The capital expenditures index rebounded from 7 to 11
after falling last month, while the order backlog and employment
indexes were basically unchanged. The new orders for exports
index climbed higher after reaching its lowest level in nearly
four years last month. Both inventory indexes improved modestly.  Most future factory indexes rebounded after falling last month.
The future composite index increased from 4 to 11, and the
future production, shipments, and new order indexes improved
markedly after posting four-year lows last month. The future
order backlog index edged up, and the future capital expenditure
index posted considerable gains. In contrast, the future
employment index was unchanged, while the future new orders for
exports indexes eased slightly. The raw materials inventory
index rose from -7 to 1, and the finished goods inventory index
also moved higher.  Most price indexes remained stable from the previous month. The
month-over-month raw materials price index was unchanged at 7,
while the finished goods price index posted its lowest level
since July 2010. The year-over-year raw materials and finished
goods price indexes moved slightly lower. The future raw
materials price index inched higher from 38 to 41, while the
future finished goods price index eased somewhat, indicating
fewer firms plan to pass recent cost increases through to
customers.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 