-- Kerry Meets Netanyahu, Abbas in Bid to Reignite Peace Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-05-23T15:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/kerry-meets-netanyahu-abbas-to-exhaust-possibilities-of-peace-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
arrived in Israel from Jordan signaling he hopes to prepare the
ground for a “surprise” revival of peace talks with
Palestinians.  The top U.S. diplomat said he aims to “lay on a path ahead
that can conceivably surprise people and certainly exhaust the
possibilities of peace.” He spoke in Jerusalem before meeting
with Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who said that “above
all, what we want to do is to restart the peace talks.”  Kerry, who also met Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  in
Ramallah, has said he is pursuing a “quiet strategy” to ease
the distrust between Israelis and Palestinians that has
prevented Netanyahu and Abbas from meeting in more than two
years. President  Barack Obama  held talks with both leaders
during a visit to the region in March.  Kerry is on his fourth trip to the  Middle East  since
succeeding  Hillary Clinton  in February. He met with foreign
ministers from Arab and European allies in Amman yesterday to
discuss the U.S.-Russian effort to promote negotiations between
Syria’s government and rebels.  Kerry mentioned Russia’s planned sale of its S-300 missile-defense system to Syria, which Israeli military commanders have
cited as a heightened threat to their country.  “The incredible destabilization of Syria is spilling over
into Lebanon, Jordan and has an impact obviously on Israel,”
Kerry said in Jerusalem before the meeting. “The United States
is committed, not only in its defense of  Israel  but in its
concerns for the region, to try to address this issue.”  In Ramallah, Kerry provided Abbas “with a detailed update
on ideas to strengthen the Palestinian economy,” while
reaffirming “that this initiative would not take the place of a
political track,” said a State Department official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because of diplomatic protocol.  Negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians have been
stalled since 2010, after Netanyahu declined to extend a partial
freeze on construction of Israeli settlements in the West Bank.
Abbas has said such building must stop, and the U.S. has called
it detrimental to the  peace process .  “Let’s put the blame game aside and let’s enter the
negotiations room, the sooner the better,” said Israeli Justice
Minister  Tzipi Livni , who is leading her country’s negotiations
with the Palestinians and met Kerry together with Netanyahu.
“The next days and weeks are critical, and it’s important
everyone stays focused,” Livni said, according to an e-mailed
statement from her office.  After meeting Abbas, Kerry stopped for a shwarma sandwich
lunch at a Ramallah restaurant, and then sampled the baklava at
a nearby pastry shop while discussing politics with locals, an
unusual move for a senior U.S. official.  Kerry will meet Netanyahu again tomorrow morning, the State
Department official said. He is also scheduled to meet with
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  