-- Kimco Venture to Sell Mexican Properties for $600 Million
-- B y   K a r a   W e t z e l
-- 2013-05-23T15:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/kimco-venture-to-sell-mexican-properties-for-600-million.html
Kimco Realty Corp. (KIM) , the largest U.S.
shopping-center owner, and a joint-venture partner agreed to
sell their stakes in 87 Mexican industrial properties to a local
real estate investment trust in a $600 million deal.  Kimco and American Industries will sell their interests in
trusts that hold the buildings to Terrafina, a  Mexico  City-based
REIT advised by Prudential Real Estate Investors, the companies
said in a statement today. The trusts are valued at about $294
million, with mortgage debt of $306 million.  The portfolio comprises about 11 million square feet (1
million square meters) of space used mainly for manufacturing in
the automotive, aerospace and consumer-goods industries. The
deal will make Terrafina the largest owner of industrial assets
in Mexico, with more than 30 million square feet and 233
buildings, the company said in a separate statement.  “The addition of these assets contributes to the
diversification of Terrafina’s portfolio in terms of industry
location and tenants,” Chief Executive Officer Alberto Chretin
said in the statement.  Kimco, based in  New Hyde Park , New York, has been selling
non-retail properties to focus on its neighborhood shopping
center portfolio. The REIT also earlier this week said it sold
nine Mexican shopping centers to a local real estate operator
for 3.35 billion pesos ($268 million).  “The real estate capital markets in Mexico have surged and
we are taking advantage of sharply higher prices to sell some of
our assets,” David Henry, Kimco’s CEO, said on the company’s
earnings conference call on May 2. “We anticipate additional
sales, if the markets remain strong.”  Kimco holds a 50.7 percent interest in the industrial
buildings, with American Industries owning the remainder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kara Wetzel in  New York  at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  