-- New York Fed Sees Joblessness at 6.5% Threshold by Late 2014
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-23T16:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/new-york-fed-sees-joblessness-at-6-5-threshold-by-late-2014.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
researchers forecast the U.S.  unemployment rate  will decline in
the fourth quarter of 2014 to the central bank’s threshold for
considering an increase in the benchmark  interest rate .  The staff sees the unemployment rate falling to 6.5 percent
at the end of next year, faster than most Fed policy makers did
when they published their March forecasts. In those forecasts,
released March 20, central bankers saw unemployment of 6.7
percent to 7 percent at the end of 2014, according to their so-called central tendency forecasts, which omit the highest and
lowest estimates.  Economic growth will accelerate to 3.25 percent next year
from 2.5 percent in 2013, New York Fed economists Jonathan McCarthy and Richard Peach wrote today in the regional bank’s
 Liberty Street Economics blog .  “As stronger growth is anticipated for 2014, we project a
more substantial decline in unemployment,” they wrote.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  in December specified 6.5
percent as the level for the jobless rate that would prompt
consideration of raising the Fed’s  target rate , which has been
near zero since December 2008. Prior to specifying the
unemployment threshold, the FOMC said the rate would be near
zero through mid-2015.  The New York Fed’s staff produces research and forecasts
that help inform the views of the regional bank’s president,
William C. Dudley, who is a permanent voting member of the FOMC
and serves as the panel’s vice chairman.  Consensus Forecasts  The blog said the forecast also foresees lower unemployment
than the consensus private sector economists. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey, for example, see unemployment of 6.9 percent
in the fourth quarter of 2014.  The discrepancy “probably reflects our expectation of more
receding of the headwinds and greater improvement in
fundamentals than in the consensus forecast of the surveys,”
McCarthy and Peach wrote.  Growth is likely to pick up next year due to “a smaller
fiscal drag, an expected further lessening of other headwinds --
for example, the European sovereign debt crisis and the
deleveraging of household balance sheets -- and further
improvement in labor-market and financial conditions,” they
wrote.  Inflation will continue to slow this year before
accelerated again toward the Fed’s 2 percent goal in 2014, they
forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  