-- NHL’s Colorado Avalanche Will Make Patrick Roy Next Head Coach
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-05-24T04:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/nhl-s-colorado-avalanche-will-make-patrick-roy-next-head-coach.html
The  Colorado  Avalanche reached an
agreement in principle with Patrick Roy to become the
franchise’s next coach and vice president of hockey operations,
the National Hockey League team said.  The Avalanche will hold a news conference next week in
Denver to formally introduce Roy, the team said on its website.  “This is an unbelievable day for me,” Roy said yesterday
in a statement on the team’s website. “It’s a new and exciting
challenge that I am really looking forward to. Almost 10 years
to the day that I announced my retirement as a player, I am back
in Denver and hope the fans are as excited as I am.”  Roy, 47, was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 2006
after retiring with the most regular-season wins in NHL history
(551). He is a four-time Stanley Cup champion and the winningest
goaltender in NHL playoff history with 151 postseason wins. He
also is the only player in league history to win three Conn
Smythe trophies as the Most Valuable Player of the playoffs, in
1986, 1993 and 2001.  For the last eight seasons, Roy has been coach and general
manager of the Quebec Remparts of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey
League. He guided the Remparts to a 348-196-0 record in 544
regular-season games.  “Patrick’s passion for the game of hockey both as a player
and as a coach defines who he is as a person,” Avalanche
President Josh Kroenke said in a statement. “He is a winner and
is coming back to Denver where he created numerous special
moments on and off the ice while helping lead us to two Stanley
Cup championships.”  ‘Winning Attitude’  Roy, the only goaltender in NHL history to win 200 or more
games with two different teams, was goalie for the Montreal
Canadiens when they won Stanley Cup championships in his rookie
year of 1986 and again in 1993. He was traded to the Avalanche
on Dec. 6, 1995, and led the team to the Stanley Cup in 1996 and
2001. He was an 11-time All-Star.  “Patrick has a great hockey mind, is a tremendous coach
and there is no one more passionate about this game,” said Joe Sakic, Colorado’s executive vice president of hockey operations.
“He will bring that winning attitude to our dressing room to
help this young team grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  