-- Nigerian Writer Chinua Achebe Buried as President Pays Tribute
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2013-05-23T17:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/nigerian-writer-chinua-achebe-buried-as-president-pays-tribute.html
Nigerian writer Chinua Achebe, whose
novel “Things Fall Apart” is one of the most-read books by an
African author, was buried today in his hometown of Ogidi in the
country’s southeast.  Achebe, who died in  Boston  on March 21 at the age of 82,
was lowered into his grave with tens of thousands in attendance,
including fellow writers, academics, citizens and politicians,
whom he often criticized in his works.  Nigeria  President
Goodluck Jonathan and  Ghana ’s President John Mahama were among
the guests.  Born in 1930, Achebe published “Things Fall Apart” at the
age of 28. He said he had written the book in response to
portrayals of Africans by European writers such as Joseph Conrad
and Joyce Cary. The book has sold more than 12 million copies
and been translated into more than 50 languages, according to
 Brown University  in Providence,  Rhode Island  where Achebe most
recently taught as professor of Africana studies.  The writer had rejected two national honors in his
lifetime, including one by Jonathan, citing widespread
corruption and misrule among the political leadership in
 Africa ’s most populous country. Jonathan at the funeral read an
excerpt about political corruption in Nigeria in the 1960s from
Achebe’s final book, “There Was a Country,” published last
year.  “For those of us holding political office, we should ask
ourselves: Have we changed?” Jonathan said to applause at the
end of the passage.  Achebe is “an icon of African literature who helped shape
my formative years” with his writing, Mahama said.  The two West African leaders pledged to jointly rebuild the
local elementary school in Ogidi, now in disrepair, where Achebe
had his early education.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  