-- Niger Attacks Leave 23 Dead as Areva Staff Injured
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y ,   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h   a n d   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u
-- 2013-05-23T16:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/niger-attacks-leave-23-dead-as-areva-staff-injured.html
At least 23 people were reported dead
in attacks on a Niger military base and a  Areva SA (AREVA)  uranium mine
as one of the Islamist groups that prompted French strikes on
neighboring  Mali  claimed responsibility.  Radio France International cited government officials it
didn’t identify for the death toll. Interior Minister Abdou Labo
told reporters in Niamey, the capital, that at least 19 people
are confirmed dead, including 18 soldiers. Four of the attackers
were killed, he said, and a fifth was holding hostages at the
Agadez base.  Areva, the French maker of nuclear fuel and reactors, said
one of its workers died and 14 were injured at the site near
Arlit, 240 kilometers (149 miles) north of Agadez.  Forces in Niger have stepped up “security on all of our
sites” following the assault at about 5:30 a.m. local time at
the Somair uranium  mine  near Arlit in the north, Areva said in a
statement. The injured people were transferred to the Somair
hospital, Areva said.  Areva, which produced more than 4,500 metric tons of
uranium in Niger last year out of total production of 9,760
tons, increased security measures at its sites in the West
African nation after seven workers employed by the company and a
unit of  Vinci SA (DG)  were kidnapped in 2010, and again as French
military forces intervened to oust rebels in Mali earlier this
year.  Responsibility for the attacks was claimed by the Movement
for Unity and Jihad in West Africa, known by their French
acronym Mujao, according to RFI. The group is among Islamist
insurgents, including al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, who took
over most of northern Mali until the French campaign to push
them out.  Sahara Desert  Areva owns 63.6 percent of Somair, the company that
operates the mine, and the government of  Niger  owns the rest.
The site produced 3,000 tons of uranium last year, the company
said in December.  The French company also owns 34 percent of Cominak, another
uranium mine in  Niger , and is in talks to sell part of its
majority  stake  in Imouraren SA, a third production site being
developed in the country, to China National Nuclear Corp.  Niger, which started oil production in the south in 2011,
has previously battled insurgencies led by ethnic Touaregs in
the remote north along the edge of the Sahara, where tourists
once visited ancient carvings and mosques on desert journeys.  While Touaregs were early drivers of the rebellion in
neighboring Mali that started in late 2011, they were later
largely overpowered by the al-Qaeda-linked groups, cedeing much
of their territory until the French campaign.  A group of terrorists killed at least 38 hostages in an
attack on a gas complex in  Algeria , which neighbors Mali and
Niger, earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
Djibril Saidou in Niamey at 
 dsaidou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  