-- Nigeria to Release Detained Boko Haram Members in Phases
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-05-23T16:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/nigeria-to-release-detained-boko-haram-members-in-phases.html
Nigeria  will release suspects held in
connection with activities by the Boko Haram Islamist group in
phases, starting with women and children, President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s office said.  The release of other detainees “will be treated on their
individual merits by the defense authorities and security
agencies,” Doyin Okupe, the president’s public affairs
spokesman, said in a statement e-mailed today. The move shows
the government “has not foreclosed dialogue as a viable option
in its bid to put an end to insurgency and terrorist activities
in the northern part of the country.”  The decision to free some suspects is in response to
recommendations made by a panel that Jonathan set up in April to
assess the possibility of granting amnesty to the Boko Haram
group and disarming its members, according to Okupe.  Jonathan imposed emergency rule in the northeastern states
of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa on May 14 to step up the fight
against Islamist militants, whom he said were taking over parts
of the region. The military of  Africa ’s largest oil producer
began last week an air and ground offensive against Boko Haram
militants after Jonathan imposed emergency rule.  Residents of Borno state have reported that “mass
arrests” increased in recent weeks in Maiduguri, the state
capital,  Amnesty International  said today. Military vehicles
have been transporting corpses daily to mortuaries, it said.  Human Rights  Security forces have been accused of committing “grave
 human rights  violations” in their fight against Boko Haram over
the past three years, the London-based rights group said.  Nigerian authorities shouldn’t use emergency rule “as an
excuse to commit human rights violations,” the group said.  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the local Hausa language, has carried out gun and bomb
attacks across Nigeria’s north and Abuja, the capital, since
police killed its founder,  Mohammed Yusuf , while in custody for
his role in clashes with the security forces in 2009. The group
says it wants Islamic rule in Africa’s most populous country,
almost evenly split between a mainly Muslim north and a
predominantly Christian south.  Jonathan’s emergency rule declaration followed violence in
Baga, a fishing town on the shores of Lake Chad, in which as
many as 228 people were killed after security forces responded
to an attack by militants on April 16, according to local
officials.  About 2,400 people have fled violence in northern Nigeria
into southeastern Niger, the International Committee of the Red
Cross said on May 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  