-- TNK-BP Tumbles as Sechin Spurs Zero Dividend Woes: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-05-23T10:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/tnk-bp-tumbles-as-sechin-spurs-zero-dividend-woes-moscow-mover.html
OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP)  headed for the
lowest level in more than a month after  Igor Sechin , chief
executive officer of the oil company’s new owner, stoked concern
shareholders won’t get a payout for last year.  The stock dropped 3 percent to 40.98 rubles by 1:03 p.m. in
Moscow, falling for a third day. The number of shares traded was
166,800, equivalent to about 25 percent of the three-month
average. TNK-BP has declined 30 percent this year.  Sechin proposed that state-controlled OAO Rosneft will be
accountable for TNK-BP dividends from March 21, the date when it
took control of the company, Rosneft’s press service said today
by phone. Sechin also suggested setting dividends at a level
similar to that of Rosneft, which pays out 25 percent of profit.  “The chances of getting a dividend for last year have
sharply decreased,” Stanislav Kopylov, who helps manage about
$3 billion at UralSib Asset Management in Moscow and holds TNK-BP shares, said by phone. “Dividends might be zero.”  Rosneft became the world’s largest publicly traded oil
producer by output in March when it closed its $55 billion
acquisition of TNK-BP from  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of billionaires.
TNK-BP Holding is the traded unit of TNK-BP. Rosneft’s decision
not to buy out minority stakes, followed by a move to borrow
money from the company and end its dividend policy, sent TNK-BP
Holding’s shares tumbling the most on record March 26.  Investors including Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group and
Prosperity Capital Management Ltd., which manages about $4
billion of Russian assets, said at the time Rosneft was putting
 Russia ’s reputation at risk.  “Sechin’s statement sounds negative for the minorities,”
Ildar Davletshin, an analyst at  Renaissance Capital , said by
phone from Moscow. “Most likely, last year’s profit won’t be
distributed among minority shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  