-- Nobel Laureate Phelps Warns Against EU as Iceland Drops Bid
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-05-23T17:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/nobel-laureate-phelps-warns-against-eu-as-iceland-drops-bid-2-.html
Nobel Laureate Edmund Phelps warned
against the dangers of European Union membership as Iceland
became the latest nation to question the sense of affiliation
with a bloc mired in economic crisis.  Iceland’s new government said yesterday it will halt its EU
bid and drop the previous coalition’s goal of euro adoption.
Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, whose Progressives won
last month’s vote together with the Independence Party, said he
doesn’t want to join a bloc in crisis as his own economy
recovers. According to Phelps, the decision is likely to spare
Iceland many of the risks plaguing the EU.  “We’re still learning about the European experiment and to
what extent it’s going to succeed,” Phelps, 79, said in a
telephone interview. “The possibility is not foreclosed that
the experiment is going to prove unworkable, unsuccessful.”  The appeal the EU once held to nations seeking economic
stability and access to free trade is crumbling as the region
fails to emerge from its crisis. The U.K. is now openly
questioning its allegiance with the EU while other members like
Denmark have distanced themselves from the goal of euro adoption
to protect their economies. Iceland, which in 2008 became the
first nation to succumb to the global financial crisis, now
enjoys faster economic growth than the EU average.  “I can’t believe that anybody’s serious about joining the
EU right now,” Phelps said. “It’s like saying: ‘it’s a
beautiful house -- it happens to be on fire at the moment -- we
should buy it!’”  Gunnlaugsson formally took over as premier after a meeting
in the island’s state council today.  Nobel Prize  Phelps, who won the Nobel Economics Prize in 2006 for his
theories on the interplay between inflation expectations and
unemployment, questions the future of the euro -- and the larger
EU -- after three years of debt crisis have left five nations
relying on bailouts.  Since emerging from its 2008 banking meltdown, Iceland’s
$14 billion economy has outpaced the euro zone’s and the
government has tapped international debt markets twice.
Unemployment in the Atlantic island is less than half the
average in the euro area and  credit derivatives  show a smaller
likelihood of default than in Italy or  Spain , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Nationalistic Extremists’  Iceland froze EU accession talks in January as parliament
awaited the outcome of parliamentary elections. Foreign Minister
Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson wrote an opinion piece for the
Frettabladid newspaper in February in which he criticized the EU
for characterizing as “nationalistic extremists” those who
reject its premise.  Though the winners of April 27 elections say Iceland will
survive better on its own, the central bank has argued a free
floating krona will be difficult to maintain once capital
controls are lifted.  One of Iceland’s main economic hurdles now is to exit its
currency controls, according to Bjarni Benediktsson, the leader
of the Independence Party and the country’s new finance
minister. Euro membership would offer no protection from the
kind of capital flight currency restrictions are designed to
stem, Phelps said.  “It’s clear that there are huge blanks, huge gaps, in what
they’ve done so far” in the euro area, Phelps said in the May
16 interview. “We’re seeing now that each country is subject to
a flight of capital, currency flight; flight out of the
currency, flight out of  bank deposits  into other countries.”  Cyprus Lessons  Cyprus in March resorted to the first ever  capital controls 
inside the euro area in an effort to stem a run on its banks. In
Iceland, similar controls intended to be temporary following a
krona sell-off have now been in place for almost five years.  While any steps closer to the EU and the euro would be ill-advised, Iceland would be better off considering exchange rate
regimes that link it to other currencies, including the Canadian
dollar or the Norwegian krone, Phelps said.  “It’s certainly worth a look,” he said. “Of course, once
you ask that question it leads naturally to other possibilities.
What about Australia or  Switzerland ? Or, by the way, what about
the U.S. dollar? I’ve seen worse currencies in the world.”  Iceland should ask itself whether linking its krona to
 Canada ’s dollar would be any better than tracking the  U.S.
dollar , he said. “Has America grown so unpopular that the
dollar is dismissed out of hand?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  