-- Norton Says May Seize on Gold’s Slump to Make Acquisitions
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-05-23T03:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/norton-says-may-seize-on-gold-s-slump-to-make-acquisitions.html
Norton Gold Fields Ltd. (NGF) , the
Australian producer controlled by China’s  Zijin Mining Group (2899)  Co.,
said it may seize on the metal’s price slump to make more
acquisitions.  “When the good opportunities come up, we will have a good
look and take advantage of the current low gold price and the
low market to grow our business further,” Chief Executive
Officer Dianmin Chen said today in an interview.  Gold fell into a  bear market  in April as some investors
lost faith in the metal as a store of value and investment
holdings contracted. Zijin, China’s biggest gold miner by market
value, said last year it’s targeting spending of as much as 10
billion  yuan  ($1.6 billion) annually on acquisitions and
expanding mines.  “We have not set up a time frame for when we need to get
one done, but our strategy is to keep looking,” Chen said.
Zijin will support Norton in making further acquisitions in
Australia, he said.  Norton, which last month made a takeover offer for
Kalgoorlie Mining Co., was unchanged at 16.5 cents in Sydney
trading. The stock has dropped 20 percent this year.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the biggest producer by sales, is
working with Bank of America Corp. and UBS AG on a possible sale
of three  gold mines  in Australia, two people with knowledge of
the matter said April 20.  Chen, who managed one of the three mines during a 10-year
career with Barrick until 2007, declined to say whether Norton
had, or planned, to bid for the mines.  “Barrick is a good company, and the assets must have a
good value as well,” he said. “We have got a desire to grow in
Australia, our strategy is to increase gold production and to
cut production costs. We are looking at any opportunities which
can help us to achieve this strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  