-- Nowotny Says ECB’s June Forecasts Will Help Define Future Rates
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-05-23T11:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/nowotny-says-ecb-s-june-forecasts-will-help-define-future-rates.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said economic forecasts due next
month will be decisive in determining the future path of
 interest rates .  “We will publish new projections in June and they will
help decide about questions of interest-rate policy,” Nowotny,
who heads  Austria ’s central bank, told journalists in Vienna
today. “From my personal perspective, I currently don’t have
any indication that there will be a significant improvement in
the economic situation in the short term, which speaks for the
fact that there also won’t be any changes on the monetary-policy
front.”  The ECB lowered its  benchmark interest rate  to a record low
of 0.5 percent this month and President  Mario Draghi  indicated
he’s ready to reduce borrowing costs further if the economic
outlook deteriorates. The central bank will refrain from cutting
its interest rate again until at least 2015, according to the
median of 18 forecasts in the monthly Bloomberg survey of
economists published on May 9.  The ECB in March predicted an economic contraction of 0.5
percent for this year and growth of 1 percent in 2014. The
European Commission this month forecast the 17-nation economy
will contract 0.4 percent this year before growing 1.2 percent
in 2014.  “I fear that we may see worse numbers in the course of the
year,” Nowotny said. “Some people expect a certain trend for
an upswing in the second half of the year, but we’ll have to see
that first. We don’t yet have solid proof for that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  