-- Obama’s Drone Changes Change Very Little
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-23T19:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/obama-s-drone-changes-change-very-little.html
President  Barack Obama  made a number
of smart changes to the U.S. drone war and detention policies
today, and they should leave all Americans deeply unsatisfied.  Why? Because refining individual elements of America’s
global fight against Islamic terrorists will always come up
short if the foundation -- Congress’s post-Sept. 11
authorization of the use of force against al-Qaeda -- is
crumbling.  In addition to finally acknowledging that four U.S.
citizens have been killed in drone strikes, Obama announced a
new “policy guidance” that raises the bar for such attacks in
Pakistan,  Somalia , Yemen and other places where the U.S. isn’t
overtly at war. Targets will be limited to those who “pose a
continuing, imminent threat to Americans” and are deemed too
difficult or dangerous to capture alive. This would seem to end
so-called signature strikes, in which targets’ identities are
unknown and they are chosen based on observations of suspicious
behavior.  The president, when he was able to get a word in edgewise
of a surprisingly persistent heckler at the National Defense
University, also said he was renewing his effort to close the
prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He will push to release more
detainees to their home countries, including Yemen, to which he
stopped transfers in 2010. Laudable initiatives, but they don’t
clarify the futures of prisoners still deemed a threat to the
U.S. or those whose homelands refuse their repatriation. (And,
as long as Congress blocks the use of federal money to relocate
them to the U.S., of course, Gitmo will stay open.)  Justifying Action  All in all, this is progress. Yet nobody should consider
this a redefining moment in the war against terrorism, or a real
attempt, as Obama put it, to “define the nature and scope of our
struggle.” In fact, the entire speech raises the question of
whether, 12 years after the Sept. 11 attacks, we can continue to
use that murderous assault to justify military action stretching
from  Pakistan  to North Africa.  While Obama occasionally invokes his authority under
Article II of the Constitution to protect American lives, the
true constitutional basis for U.S. military action against
terrorists remains Congress’s Sept. 14, 2001, authorization for
the president to use all “necessary and appropriate force”
against those who carried out the Sept. 11 attacks or who aided
and harbored al-Qaeda.  That authorization made sense when it came to invading
 Afghanistan  to hunt down  Osama bin Laden  and depose his Taliban
protectors in the winter of 2002. It is a laughable predicate
for launching missiles at al-Shabaab militants in Somalia today
(even if you read into it, as the Obama administration has since
2009, an implicit right to target al-Qaeda’s “associated
forces”). And its shakiness hurts the legitimacy of every other
aspect of U.S. counterterrorism efforts, from drone strikes to
Guantanamo to aiding the government of  Mali .  Many in Congress think the same way: At last week’s lively
Senate Armed Services Committee hearings, Senator  John McCain ,
hardly a dove on Islamic extremism, questioned whether the
authorization was still relevant, given the “dramatically
changed landscape that we have in this war on Muslim extremism
and al-Qaeda and others.”  Certainly, the large-scale troop pullout from Afghanistan
next year should compel the Obama administration to present a
new underpinning for the war on terrorism. “The Afghan War is
coming to an end,” Obama said today. “I look forward to engaging
Congress and the American people in efforts to refine, and
ultimately repeal, the AUMF’s mandate.”  Two Choices  There are two real choices: The White House and Congress
can pre-emptively establish a new legislative framework that
allows the executive branch to broaden or shift its military
efforts as it sees necessary, while still respecting the
separation of powers. Or the U.S. can go back to the pre-Sept.
11 status quo, with the president relying on Article II
authority for limited counterterrorism efforts and trusting that
Congress can react quickly to authorize greater force in the
event of another major event.  Attempts at forging a new framework are under way, drawing
on a  paper published  by the  Hoover Institution  and written by
several leading academics, including  Harvard Law School ’s Jack Goldsmith, who led the  Justice Department ’s Office of Legal
Counsel under President  George W. Bush .  In a nutshell, the proposal would let the executive branch
add people and groups to a list of targets for military actions,
similar to the State Department’s list of state sponsors of
terrorism. The statute would have to define such terms as
“imminent threat” and “belligerent act,” and the president would
have to keep Congress (and, within national-security bounds, the
public) informed, with all relevant intelligence documentation,
every time it added a group or carried out a military mission.
Equally important, the statute would be based on settled
international law of national self-defense, and it would expire
in, say, two years.  This proposal offers much to like: It would increase
executive branch transparency and congressional oversight over
military actions, further raise the evident-threat bar for drone
strikes, and prevent us entering the state of “perpetual war”
that remains a worrisome possibility under the non-expiring 2001
authorization.  That said, we can’t recommend it -- at least in its current
form. Only Congress can declare war, and that includes naming
who, exactly, we are declaring war against. Allowing the
executive branch full discretion to add names to the list of
enemy combatants undermines that constitutional principle, no
matter how many hoops you make it jump through. Given the choice
of replacing the current authorization with either the Hoover
plan or the pre-2001 status quo, we would choose to turn back
the clock.  Fortunately, we don’t have to make that choice now -- we
have at least a year before the Afghan pullout renders the 2001
congressional measure completely moot. This is plenty of time to
come up with more proposals and to better define the nature of
the future threat.  The steps Obama announced today are improvements for that
interim, but they leave us a long way from answering the
question of whether we are, in fact, still at war.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 