-- Lockheed F-35 Cost Declines 1.1%, Pentagon Estimates
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/lockheed-f-35-cost-declines-4-5-billion-pentagon-says.html
The development and production cost
of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter, the Pentagon’s most
expensive weapons program, has decreased by 1.1 percent,
primarily because of reduced labor rates, according to the
Pentagon’s latest cost estimates.  The $4.5 billion decrease, to $391.2 billion from $395.7
billion, includes the aircraft and the engines produced by
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit for an eventual
fleet of 2,443 planes.  The latest F-35 projection is included among reports on
cost estimates for major weapons that the Pentagon sent to
Congress yesterday. The reports cover a portfolio of 78 weapons
that the Pentagon now projects will cost a combined $1.66
trillion, an increase of $39.6 billion, or 2.4 percent, over a
report published in March 2012.  Even with the improvement for the F-35 reported yesterday,
the projected cost has increased 68 percent since the Pentagon
signed its initial contract for the fighter with Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed in 2001. The revised estimate bolsters
findings by government analysts that the military and the
contractor are making progress in managing the jet’s
simultaneous development and production.  “My immediate reaction is that it reflects the
improvements that we found in manufacturing last year,” said
 Michael Sullivan , who is in charge of producing an annual report
on the F-35 for the independent Government Accountability
Office.  ‘Right Direction’  In March, the GAO reported that “overall, the F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter program is moving in the right direction after a
long, expensive and arduous learning period. It still has
tremendous challenges ahead.”  A summary issued by the Pentagon attributed the improved
projection for the F-35 primarily to “decreases in the prime
contractor and subcontractor labor rates and revised airframe
and subcontractor estimates that incorporate the latest actual
costs” from early production contracts instead of computer-model estimates.  The F-35 program “continues to make slow but steady
progress and is moving forward in a disciplined manner,”
according to the 92-page Pentagon report on the fighter. “There
were many successes as well as challenges in 2012.”  Progress in holding down the F-35’s costs risks being
reversed if Lockheed’s  labor  and overhead rates grow and the
program encounters additional delays as it progresses into its
most complicated phase of software testing.  ‘Software Risk’  “Software risk remains the top development issue,”
according to the F-35 report.  Pentagon analysts still estimate the potential 56-year cost
of operations and support for the F-35 fleet at $1.1 trillion,
according to the report yesterday. Officials said that estimate
could decline as improved data accumulate on aircraft
reliability, maintenance and flying hours.  The 2.4 percent increase projected for the $1.66 trillion
portfolio of weapons is “relatively modest cost growth” that
can be seen “as a good sign,” Moshe Schwartz, a weapons-cost
analyst for the nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service , said
in an e-mailed statement.  “The question is whether this is a single data point, a
temporary lull, or whether this is the beginning of a trend in
improved cost estimating and cost management,” he said. “If
cost growth over the next two years for the entire portfolio
stays under 3 percent or even under 5 percent than this may be
good news.”  Budget Cuts  Some of the weapons may face cutbacks if the automatic
budget reductions called sequestration remain in place. Pentagon
officials, who worked to lock in contracts for the F-35 before
the cuts took effect in March, say reducing the number of
weapons purchased would only increase the cost for each one
purchased.  The new Pentagon cost projections are largely consistent
with the GAO’s most recent annual weapons report. Both
appraisals are free of criticism such as that in a report by the
GAO in March 2009, when the agency said cost growth for what was
then the top 96 weapons programs was “staggering.”  The 2.4 percent increase stems primarily from revised
inflation estimates and higher costs to the Pentagon’s primary
rocket program because of a projected increase in launches.  The projected cost of the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship,
produced in competing designs by Lockheed and  Austal Ltd. (ASB) , has
decreased $3.4 billion, or 9 percent, to $33.9 billion because
the service has cut three ships from what was a 55-ship program,
according to the new data.  Acquisition Law  The documents indicate that, for the first time in years.
no weapons program has experienced increases significant enough
to trigger a 1982 law that mandates certification to Congress
that it’s vital to national security, according to Pentagon
officials.  The progress can in attributed in part to a 2009 weapons
acquisition law, officials said.  “I can’t prove it but my belief is that they are” doing a
better job because new procedures in the law “have kicked in,”
Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin  of  Michigan ,
a cosponsor of the legislation, said today at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast.  The 2009 law prevents the “add-on of additional bells and
whistles,” said Levin, who hadn’t yet seen the new Pentagon
estimates.  Separately from the portfolio of 78 weapons systems for
which previous estimates were offered, the Pentagon offered
first-time projections for four newer projects.  The largest is $31 billion for the Army-Marine Corps Joint
Light Tactical Vehicle.  The Pentagon also offered projections for three Air Force
programs: $3.4 billion for the Global Positioning System’s
newest ground operational control station; $2.75 billion for the
AWACS Block 40 Upgrade program; and $1.45 billion for the tail
kit assembly for the extension of the B61 nuclear weapon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  