-- Oil Revolt Generates $35 Billion as Icahn-Singer Agitate
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-05-23T17:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/oil-revolt-generates-35-billion-as-icahn-singer-agitate.html
Apache Corp. (APA)  isn’t waiting for  Carl Icahn  to tell the energy company how to reverse a two-year
decline that’s erased $14 billion from its market value.  The Houston-based oil and natural gas producer said it will
sell $4 billion in properties, buy back shares and cut the
target compensation for Chief Executive Officer Steve Farris by
18 percent. He received $17.1 million last year, a 7.1 percent
increase from 2011, even as Apache’s stock fell 13 percent.  Farris, 65, is taking the medicine before an activist
investor demands it, as Icahn did at  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and
 Paul Singer  at  Hess Corp. (HES)  Those two are among eight energy
companies with shareholder revolts whose average gain after
activism commenced was quadruple the return on the Russell 3000
Energy Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
added $35 billion to their combined market value.  “Energy is ripe for this,” Tim Beranek, a money manager
at Cambiar Investors LLC in Denver, said in a phone interview.
“Whether there’s activism or the fear of it, it’s causing
management to change course and look for ways to create value. I
don’t think it’s over.” Cambiar oversees about $8 billion,
including shares in  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)   Apache, Devon and  Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX) , the  worst-performing  U.S. producers in the past year, are making changes
to escape an unprecedented wave of shareholder rebellions that’s
forced out chairmen and CEOs, slashed pay and perks and
overhauled boards with hand-picked members.  Doubling Dividends  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , the worst performer in the
Philadelphia Oil Service Sector Index this year, said May 20 it
would double its regular dividend to $1.04 a year. Prior to
that, the annual dividend had increased to 52 cents from 40
cents in 2009.  Investors see opportunities for big returns at laggards
whose shares fell last year even as U.S. crude output grew the
most since the first U.S. oil well was drilled in 1859.  The companies under pressure have announced plans to sell
as much as $30 billion in assets since the start of 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors of all stripes are no longer willing to sit
back and accept the status quo,” said  Ted Harper , a portfolio
manager at Frost Investment Advisors LLC who helps manage more
than $8 billion and holds Apache shares. “The companies are
owned by the shareholders and we have the ultimate say. If the
board and senior managers can’t deliver, you’ll see changes.”  Shareholder Talks  Apache began evaluating its assets last fall, and recent
governance changes were part of a “long-term dialogue” with
investors that’s covered a number of issues, Robert Dye, senior
vice president of global communications, said in a telephone
interview May 21. “We’ve talked to a number of investors and we
welcome their opinions. They really made a difference.”  The eight companies that have been publicly targeted more
than doubled the gain, on average, of the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index after each saw activist intervention. They are Hess,
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , Chesapeake,  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) ,  CVR
Energy Inc. (CVI) ,  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) ,  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD)  and
 Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR)  Of them, SandRidge and Transocean trailed the
Russell 3000, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shareholder ire played a role in the ouster of former
Occidental Chairman Ray Irani and Chesapeake CEO Aubrey McClendon, led to breakup or restructuring at CVR, Marathon and
Murphy and forced a reconstituted board at SandRidge.  Energy Shake-up  “Activism for better governance has really shaken up the
energy space this year,” said  James Post , a management
professor at Boston University. “That’s why folks in the
industry may feel like they’re walking around with a bull’s-eye
on their backs.”  Hess and Transocean last week joined the litany of
companies forced to accept change amid rising investor unrest.
To settle a proxy fight with shareholders including Singer’s
Elliott Management Corp., John Hess stepped down as chairman at
the company his father founded 80 years ago, and agreed to sell
assets worth $3.5 billion this year alongside a near-complete
overhaul of the board.  Transocean saw Chairman Michael Talbert depart, reinstated
its dividend and planned cost cuts of $300 million and an
additional $1 billion in debt repayments after it was announced
in January that Icahn had taken a stake that eventually grew to
represent 5.6 percent of outstanding shares.  Singer’s Elliott now has three directors on Hess’s board,
and one of Icahn’s nominees was installed by Transocean
shareholders.  Activist Victories  Oil States International Inc., a provider of housing at
oilfields, saw hedge fund Jana Partners LLC take a 9.1 percent
stake in the company last month.  Barry Rosenstein ’s Jana has
advocated for the Houston-based company to create a real estate
investment trust for its housing business.  “It sounds like Jana folks might be on to something,”
 David Einhorn , president and co-founder of Greenlight Capital
Inc., said May 8. “We wish them luck for making this happen.”  Activists’ string of victories is likely to continue as oil
and gas companies underperform compared to  oil prices , Cambiar’s
Beranek said. Cambiar’s funds own about 2.9 million Devon
shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Devon, which Beranek suggests may be the next to face
activist pressure, has promised to decide by June 30 whether to
raise cash by forming a master-limited partnership that would
buy its gas-gathering and processing assets, a step it has
resisted since 2007. The company also is considering joint
ventures and asset sales to boost its share price, David Hager,
an executive vice president, said at a conference on May 21.  Highlighting Value  There are a “number of different ways” to highlight the
value of assets in the company’s stock price, he said. Devon was
the second-worst performer on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Oil &
Gas Exploration & Production Index in the past year.  “It’s notable that Devon Energy has not been the subject
of the kinds of governance criticism that tends to precipitate
activist pressure,” Chief Executive Officer John Richels said
today in an e-mailed statement. “Rather than speculate on
activist matters, our focus continues to be on optimizing long-term value for shareholders.”  Apache rose less than 1 percent in the past 12 months
through yesterday, compared to a 26 percent gain on the  S&P 500 ,
making it the third-worst performer on the S&P exploration and
production index in that period. Shares declined amid the
company’s $16 billion acquisition spree in 2010 through 2012.  Shareholder Rebuff  The company has climbed 7.2 percent since May 8, the day
before it said it’s expanding asset sales to $4 billion from $2
billion and would buy back as many as 30 million shares.  Shareholders rejected Apache’s executive compensation plan
in a non-binding vote at its May 16 annual meeting. The next
day, the company announced an 18 percent cut in the target
compensation for CEO Farris compared with his 2012 pay.  The company said director compensation also is being
reduced to $300,000 from $350,000, with a cut in the equity
component of the pay package. Apache also put in a mandatory
retirement age of 75 years for all future directors first
elected at or after the 2013 annual meeting.  Apache has drawn the attention of T. Boone Pickens’ Dallas-based BP Capital Management LP, which bought almost 125,000
shares valued at $9.6 million in the three months ended March
31, according to a May 15 filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Newfield Performance  Newfield, the worst-performing U.S. producer in the past
year, has fallen 16 percent while U.S. crude prices have surged
2.9 percent. The company’s earnings have missed the average of
analysts’ estimates in at least five quarters since the
beginning of 2011 as Newfield sought to boost its production of
oil and liquids,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Obviously, our share price has underperformed our peer
group and I think we have made some very positive steps in terms
of strategic direction,” Steve Campbell, vice president of
investor relations, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Newfield lacks the money to fund both U.S. onshore growth
and international exploration and development, Campbell said. So
The Woodlands, Texas-based company is refocusing on what it
calls its “assets of the future” -- its onshore U.S.
properties, he said. Newfield said in February it planned to
explore a sale of its international assets off the coast of
Malaysia and China.  Greater Certainty  Developing onshore projects has more certainty than
overseas work, Chairman and CEO Lee Boothby said in a March
interview. The company has estimated domestic production may
rise from the equivalent of as much as 40 million barrels of oil
this year to 57 million barrels in 2015.  National Oilwell Varco, based in Houston, boosted its
backlog for rig technology orders to a record $12.9 billion
while reporting cash of $2.4 billion at the end of the first
quarter.  The world’s largest maker of oilfield equipment has seen
shares rise 3.7 percent in the past year, about a seventh of the
return on the 15-member Philadelphia Oil Service Sector Index.
Clay Williams, chief operating officer at National Oilwell
Varco, did not immediately return phone and e-mail messages
seeking comment.  The steps at Devon, Apache and Newfield, while positive for
shareholders, may not be dramatic enough to ward off an activist
push, said David Neuhauser, a managing director of Livermore
Partners Inc., which owns shares in Devon and Apache.  “There are a lot of levers to pull in energy and they’re
going to continue to be explored,” Neuhauser said in a
telephone interview. “A lot of those management teams in oil
have been around for a long time and they’re used to doing
things one way. Now somebody is coming in from outside to help
them see another way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  