-- Oil Search Seen Tempting Asia’s Top Energy Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-23T07:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/oil-search-seen-tempting-asia-s-top-energy-deal-real-m-a.html
The fastest revenue growth in the oil
industry is putting Papua New Guinea’s  Oil Search Ltd. (OSH)  in line
for another record --  Asia ’s largest energy takeover.  The company’s liquefied natural gas venture with  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  -- called  PNG LNG  -- starts shipments to Asia next
year. The project will help Port Moresby-based Oil Search
increase revenue by 234 percent through 2015, outpacing every
other oil and gas explorer with a market value of more than $10
billion, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. While
it’s pushed Oil Search’s shares to a record in Sydney, the stock
still isn’t reflecting the potential for the project’s likely
expansion, said  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  Exxon, the world’s largest oil company, and Paris-based
 Total SA (FP) , which is exploring for more gas supplies with Oil
Search, are potential acquirers, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
said.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,  Australia ’s second-biggest oil
producer, could pay as much as $13.1 billion for Oil Search to
help boost production while its own LNG projects face delays,
CIMB Securities said. That’s 24 percent more than the company’s
current  market value  and would be the biggest energy deal in
Asia on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It would make an attractive takeover target,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based oil and gas analyst at Bernstein,
said in a telephone interview. “You’ve got the PNG LNG project
starting up next year, which will spin off a lot of cash for the
company, and you’ve still got an exciting exploration
portfolio.”  Asian Customers  Oil Search Managing Director Peter Botten wasn’t available
to comment on a potential sale, Ann Diamant, the company’s
investor relations manager in Sydney, said in an e-mail.  The $19 billion  PNG LNG project , operated by Exxon, is one
of eight ventures being built in Australia and Papua New Guinea
aimed at feeding Asia’s rising demand for natural gas. Expected
to produce 6.9 million metric tons of LNG annually from two so-called trains, or processing units, the project will more than
double  Papua New Guinea ’s gross domestic product, Oil Search
 says .  The output is already contracted to customers including
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. and  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)   The venture is on track to start the deliveries in 2014,
Exxon said in March. Oil Search, operating in Papua New Guinea
for more than eight decades, owns 29 percent of the project,
while Exxon holds 33.2 percent.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , JX Nippon Oil & Gas
Exploration, and the Papua New Guinea government are also among
the partners.  Hurdles Overcome  Companies may be interested in buying Oil Search since the
project has overcome hurdles to any development in Papua New
Guinea, including winning support from the government and local
communities, and is more than 80 percent complete, said Chris Cahill, a manager at Quest Asset Partners in Sydney, which
oversees  A$1.8 billion  ($1.8 billion) and has owned Oil Search
shares for about four years.  “This is a high-capex, long-term project that’s about to
start delivering its first cash flows,” Cahill said by phone.
“There are plenty of parties that could be interested.”  Today, shares of Oil Search were unchanged at A$8.09 after
earlier rising as much as 1.5 percent. Australia’s benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 2 percent.  Global LNG demand is forecast to rise as much as five times
to 500 million tons a year in 2025 from 2000, according to Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s largest oil company. That has
suppliers in Australia and Papua New Guinea facing increasing
competition from countries including the U.S.,  Canada  and
 Mozambique .  Quadrupling Output  Osaka Gas Co. today reached a $204 million partnership deal
with  Horizon Oil Ltd. (HZN)  to develop fields for a potential LNG
project in Papua New Guinea, according to a statement.  Still, with the PNG LNG project online, Oil Search’s output
will quadruple to 25.6 million barrels of oil equivalent in 2015
from  6.4 million  this year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated
in a report last month. Production may reach 35.6 million
barrels in 2020, according to Goldman.  Revenue is projected to rise  234 percent  to $2.42 billion
by 2015, from $725 million in 2012, faster growth than any of
the 33 other exploration and production companies with a market
value of over $10 billion for which estimates are available,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The group, on average, is
projected for 49 percent sales growth, the data show.  ‘Very Attractive’  The potential has helped drive Oil Search’s Sydney-traded
shares to a  record  close of A$8.09 yesterday, giving the company
a market value of A$10.8 billion. Still, investors aren’t
considering the potential for expansion of the PNG LNG project,
according to Commonwealth Bank’s Luke Smith and Lachlan Cuskelly.  Oil Search’s existing operations and the stake in the PNG
LNG project are worth A$8.07 a share, which doesn’t include the
potential for expansion to a third and fourth train, the Sydney-based analysts wrote in an April 23 report. The shares are worth
more than A$10 each if Oil Search and its partners find
sufficient gas to expand the project to a fourth train, they
wrote.  “It’s a very attractive asset and there aren’t many LNG
assets in the world with the kind of economics that PNG LNG has,
with the scope for further expansion,” Mark Samter, a Sydney-based analyst at CIMB, said by phone.  One potential acquirer of Oil Search is Perth, Australia-based Woodside, which could use its shares to make a A$10-per-share bid for Oil Search and gain “near-term production and
near-term cash flows,” Samter said.  Largest Takeover  That would value the company’s equity at A$13.4 billion,
making a takeover the largest purchase of an energy asset in the
Asia Pacific region, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Laura Lunt, a Woodside spokeswoman, declined to comment.
The company’s Chief Executive Officer  Peter Coleman  joined in
2011 after 27 years at Exxon, where he was responsible for
projects including PNG LNG.  Woodside, which abandoned a plan last month to develop an
LNG project on the Western Australia coast because its estimated
$45 billion cost is too expensive, will probably seek
acquisitions to add production, said  Andrew Williams , a
Melbourne-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  “Does Woodside need it?” Williams said in a phone
interview when asked about potential purchases. “If you look at
the production profile out to 2018 -- yeah, the cupboard is
bare.”  PNG Entry  Irving, Texas-based Exxon may choose to preempt a bid for
its partner in Papua New Guinea, according to CIMB’s Samter.
Exxon said in December it expects Papua New Guinea to supply
more than 10 million tons of LNG annually by 2025 and that the
Asia-Pacific region will account for 29 percent of worldwide gas
demand in 2040.  There’s also Papua New Guinea, which owns about  15 percent 
of Oil Search shares. The country’s government has issued bonds
to Abu Dhabi’s International Petroleum Investment Co. that are
exchangeable for its Oil Search stake.  “It would require a very significant premium and a price
of well over A$10 to have any credibility,” said Cahill, the
Quest partner. “The next issue after that would be Exxon’s
reaction, and whether Exxon sees fit to respond.”  Rebecca Arnold, a spokeswoman for Exxon in Papua New
Guinea, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Another possible buyer is Total,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil
company, said Bernstein’s Beveridge. Total reached a deal with
Oil Search in October to explore for gas in Papua New Guinea.
CEO Christophe de Margerie has pledged to raise production from
new fields and explore more aggressively for reserves to revive
output growth.  Total spokesman Charles-Etienne Lebatard declined to
comment.  Exxon’s management of the PNG project gives investors a
“degree of comfort” in Oil Search, said Tony Regan, Singapore-based consultant at Tri-Zen International Pte.  Oil Search “will shortly be earning quite significant sums
from PNG LNG and seem to have a plan to go to the next stage,”
he said by phone. “So they’re looking attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  