-- Tokyo’s Sell-Off Isn’t a Repudiation of Abenomics
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-23T22:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/tokyo-s-stock-sel-off-isn-t-a-repudiation-of-abenomics.html
Sounding more the cheerleader than
the economy minister,  Japan ’s Akira Amari told investors that
this week’s equities  sell-off  was no great cause for concern.
The 7.3 percent drop in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average on May 23
was the steepest one-day decline since the earthquake in the
spring of 2011.  Amari is right: Japanese policy has changed for the better,
and the drop in stock prices isn’t a repudiation. But it is a
reminder that nervous markets are always capable of springing
surprises and that strengthening the global financial system is
still urgently needed.  Analysts pointed to two triggers for the sell-off in  Tokyo 
-- neither directly related to developments in Japan. First,  Ben S. Bernanke , chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, riled
investors on May 22 when he  told  Congress that the Fed might
curb its program of quantitative easing if the economy keeps
improving.  Newly released  minutes  from the Fed’s most recent policy
meeting showed that some officials think the central bank could
start tapering its purchases as soon as next month. When the
brakes are applied, investors will see this as the end of an era
of very cheap money and a signal to be more cautious about
buying stocks and other risky assets -- and perhaps as the
moment to pile out of those investments.  Japanese Exporters  Second, intimations of costlier global borrowing coincided
with  bad news  about flagging growth in  China . A preliminary
estimate of China’s closely watched  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
gave a reading of 49.6 -- lower than expected and a sign of the
first manufacturing contraction in seven months. A slowdown in
China will hurt Japanese exporters, helping to explain the
plummet in Japanese shares.  Bear in mind, though, that the Nikkei had risen by more
than 50 percent since the start of this year. This week’s
setback eliminated about two weeks’ worth of that increase,
leaving stock prices higher than they were at the start of May.
Tokyo has been on a tear, and abrupt corrections shouldn’t come
as a surprise. It is telling that hints of tighter money and
news of slower growth in China were greeted calmly in  London  and
 New York .  The main lesson from the sell-off is banal, but worth
emphasizing because it is so often forgotten by investors and
governments: Financial shocks happen. Policy can’t eliminate
them, but it can mitigate them -- and it must do everything
possible to prepare for them.  Japanese policy has moved decisively in the right direction
under the new leadership of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and  Bank
of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda. The central bank has raised
its inflation target and committed itself to a bold program of
monetary stimulus. This is the right remedy for an economy
trapped in deflation. The signs are that it is working -- higher
bank lending and consumption caused growth to accelerate in the
first quarter. This week’s stock sell-off doesn’t change that
judgment.  Yet Abenomics is a work in progress. The government has
talked of far-reaching supply-side reform -- including energy-supply deregulation and trade liberalization -- as the essential
complement to the new macroeconomic policy. Japan’s over-managed
economy needs this badly. It is necessary in its own right, and
there is a further benefit: greater resilience. The more
confident investors are about the country’s long-term growth
prospects, the easier it will be to combine sustained monetary
stimulus with financial stability.  Markets’ Anxiety  There is unfinished business in other economies as well.
The markets’ anxiety over Bernanke’s position on asset purchases
is a reminder that the Fed’s exit from QE could be difficult,
and not just for the U.S. Bernanke’s admirable commitment to
 transparency  doesn’t make his task any easier, because Fed
policy makers aren’t united on exactly what the policy should
be.  With the recovery only slowly gaining momentum,
unemployment still high and inflation suppressed, it is too
early for the Fed to pull back on QE. But it isn’t too early for
regulators to strengthen their financial systems against the
stresses that unwinding monetary stimulus is certain to cause.  Reform of financial regulation is moving far too slowly,
especially in  Europe . Banks are inadequately capitalized and
still fragile. Reaching for yield is exposing investors and
their creditors to new risks.  Money has to stay cheap for now, but it won’t stay cheap
forever. That is a promise of turbulence to come. Let’s make
sure our financial systems are ready for it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 