-- Hollande Lauds German SPD’s Courage for Welfare-Cutting Agenda
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-05-23T13:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/hollande-lauds-german-spd-s-courage-for-welfare-cutting-agenda.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
lauded the “courage” of  Germany ’s Social Democrats to cut
benefits and scale back job protection a decade ago, crediting
the policies for buoying the country’s labor market.  Speaking at a gala to mark the SPD’s 150th anniversary in
the eastern German city of Leipzig, Hollande praised former
German Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder ’s decade-old Agenda 2010
reforms for adapting traditional socialist values of workers’
rights and protections to “modernize the welfare state.”  “Progress also meant that courageous decisions can be
taken in difficult times to preserve jobs and to anticipate
industrial changes,” Hollande told a crowd of more than 300
invited guests, including  Chancellor Angela Merkel . “Therefore,
your country has an edge over other countries today.”  Stung by plummeting poll numbers as he tries to overhaul
 France ’s labor rules to spur growth, Hollande pointed to the
measures passed by Schroeder’s government in 2003 as embracing
the “reality” of struggling economies.  In doing so, the French president touted an agenda from
which the SPD has distanced itself as it struggles to retrieve
voters alienated by the same policies and unseat Merkel in
national elections four months away.  SPD chancellor candidate  Peer Steinbrueck  has defended
Agenda 2010 as breaking with a cumbersome welfare state and
breathing life into Germany’s job market. Still, this month he
appointed as his chief social-policy adviser a labor leader,
Klaus Wiesehuegel, who has criticized the policies for placing
an unnecessary burden on low-income earners.  SPD Drops  Steinbrueck’s party ceded a percentage point yesterday in a
weekly Forsa poll, garnering 23 percent, compared with 41
percent, one point more than last week, scored by Merkel’s
Christian Democratic bloc. Merkel is seeking a third term in
Sept. 22 elections.  Schroeder, Germany’s last SPD chancellor who was ousted by
Merkel in 2005, was in the audience as his fellow party members
also praised his legacy while stressing his refusal to
contribute to the U.S.-led invasion of  Iraq .  Schroeder “found the courage to lead Germany out of its
agony and kept the country out of a disastrous war-adventure in
Iraq,” SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  told the audience.  The Agenda 2010 package made it easier to fire staff,
forced those out of work for more than a year to accept any
reasonable job offer and reduced long-term welfare benefits.  As it took effect, the jobless rate declined from a postwar
high of 12.1 percent in March 2005 to 6.8 percent in December
2011, the lowest since reunification in 1990. Unemployment held
at 6.9 percent this April.  In France last month, the jobless tally rose for a 23rd
month to the highest at 3.32 million or 11.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Leipzig at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Leipzig at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  