-- Home Capital CEO Sees Mortgages Book Doubling
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-23T13:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/home-capital-ceo-sees-mortgages-book-doubling-corporate-canada.html
Home Capital Group Inc. (HCG) , the Canadian
mortgage lender targeted by short sellers, plans to double its
loan portfolio by adding customers turned away by the country’s
biggest banks.  Canada’s largest non-bank mortgage lender aims to boost
assets under administration to C$40 billion ($40 billion) in the
next four years from C$20.4 billion in the first quarter of
2013, Chief Executive Officer Gerald Soloway said.  “There are a lot of situations where people would have
been qualified with the banks and they have been shifted to
us,” Soloway, 74, said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s
Toronto office. “With the mortgage tightening, it’s not
economical for a thousand-branch bank to do what we do. We’re
small and quite centralized so it works for us to put the skill
and time into each loan.”  Home Capital can pick up “high quality” customers from
banks, which are becoming more selective after Finance Minister
Jim Flaherty tightened mortgage rules four times in the last
five years, he said. The company is also expanding in St.
John’s, Newfoundland, and  Montreal , Soloway said.  The company will flourish by concentrating on the  self-employed and new-immigrant markets and expanding its geographic
footprint, Phil Hardie, analyst at Scotia Capital Markets, said
in a May 9 note to clients.  Short Target  “We expect lenders focused on underserved markets are
likely to continue to outpace industry growth,” Hardie wrote.  Home Capital dropped 10 percent this year as short interest
rose to a record 28 percent of outstanding shares on May 15,
data compiled by London-based Markit show.  Steve Eisman, the Emrys Partners LP founder who rose to
fame betting against U.S. subprime mortgages, shorted Home
Capital stock, he said at the Ira Sohn conference in New York on
May 8. Short sellers profit from price declines by selling
borrowed securities and replacing them with stock bought at
cheaper levels.  “Home Capital is a stock that investors view as a good way
to play the housing market in  Canada ,” Bryan Brown, analyst at
Macquarie Capital Markets, said in a phone interview May 15 from
Toronto. “If people were looking to short the housing sector,
that is the stock they would go for. With the stock being
shorted this much, it looks like investors are expecting a major
correction in the Canadian housing market.”  Home Capital rose 0.7 percent to C$52.78 at 9:40 a.m. in
Toronto. The stock has gained 35 percent in the five years
through yesterday  compared  with a 6 percent rise in the 44-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Financials index and a 14 percent
drop in the broad S&P/TSX Composite index.  Significant Focus  Investors shorting Home Capital are betting on a collapse
in the Canadian housing market after the average residential
price  climbed  about 140 percent over the past 13 years,
according to the Canadian Real Estate Association.  Economists such as David Madani at Capital Economics Ltd.
forecast home prices may decline as much as 25 percent over the
next two years, and the government forecasts housing investment
will be a drag on economic growth over the same period.  The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions
is reviewing its guidance to banks on mortgages of more than 25
years. The effect of low interest rates on banks has become a
“significant area of focus” for the regulator, said Julie
Dickson, OSFI superintendent, at the Bloomberg Canada Economic
Summit May 21.  Not Risky  Home Capital isn’t a risky investment as only 7 percent of
its total mortgage portfolio is in the condominium market and
the delinquency rate of the mortgage portfolio is 0.3 percent,
Soloway said. Royal Bank of Canada, Canada’s largest lender, had
total gross impaired loans of 0.36 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2012. Toronto-Dominion Bank, the second largest, had 0.33
percent.  “We lend to what the market perceives as a riskier
customer base but we do it in a very conservative way,”
President Martin Reid said. “That’s where we think a lot of the
people out of the U.S. who are shorting us don’t pay attention
to, they’re just looking at the macro play.”  “I don’t think people who are shorting have done their
homework,” Jason Donville, CEO of Donville Kent Asset
Management, said from Toronto. “You’re not sitting with a
balance sheet that has a bunch of junk on it.’”  Donville was chief investment officer of Home Capital in
2007.  Market Meltdown  “Will the Canadian real estate market melt down and if it
does, who’s going to get hurt the most?” Donville said. “The
probability of a big meltdown is low. And Home Capital is the
best capitalized of the lenders so they won’t get hurt.”  Home Capital’s profit rose 14 percent to C$59.7 million in
the first quarter of 2013 from the same period a year ago.  Eight analysts  rate  the shares a buy and three rate them a
hold, according to Bloomberg data. The 12-month price target of
nine analysts is C$68.70, or 29 percent more than the closing
price yesterday.  Home Capital is also seeking approval from the bank
regulator to sell the interest portion of its mortgages to
improve capital capacity. The additional revenue may lead to a
dividend increase, said Fred Westra, an analyst at Industrial
Alliance, in a May 16 note to clients. Westra rates the stock a
top pick.  Bank Regulation  Soloway said he “is hopeful” that the company will get
the approval in the next few months.  Stephen Boland, analyst at GMP Securities, said in a May 9
note to clients that he’s not convinced OSFI will approve Home
Capital’s request.  “Home Capital is a smart lender,” said Robert Gill, fund
manager at  Aston Hill Financial Inc. (AHF)  which manages C$6.7
billion, including Home Capital. “They don’t care about a
person’s history. They care about the real estate value. They
know the value of every house on every street they lend to in
detail.”  Gill is overweight Home Capital stock. “They’re taking
over market share from competitors,” he said in Toronto. “And
they can easily grow it further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  