-- Home Supply Limited by Americans Lacking Equity to Sell
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-05-23T13:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/home-supply-limited-by-americans-lacking-equity-to-sell.html
About 22 million Americans may lack
enough home equity to move, keeping property listings tight and
limiting sales as the housing market recovers,  Zillow Inc. (Z)  said.  Forty-four percent of homeowners with mortgages owed more
than their properties are worth or had less than 20 percent
equity in the first quarter, the Seattle-based real estate data
company said in a report today. Those people probably are locked
in to their residences, because listing a house and purchasing a
new one generally requires equity of at least 20 percent to meet
costs such as a down payment and broker fees, Zillow said.  The people who cannot sell are contributing to a dearth of
home inventory on the market, which is restraining deals in the
key U.S. spring selling season. There were 2.16 million  homes 
available last month, the fewest for any April since 2001, the
National Association of Realtors reported yesterday. While the
low supply is helping to fuel  price  gains and lift home equity,
values have to climb further to ease the shortage, Zillow said.  “Looking at the effective negative-equity rate could
explain why recent, healthy declines in the number of underwater
borrowers haven’t yet translated into more homes for sale,”
Zillow Chief Economist Stan Humphries said in the report.
“Things like real estate agents’ fees and a down payment for
the next home traditionally come out of the proceeds from the
prior home’s sale. Without enough equity, these costs will
instead have to come out of a homeowner’s pocket, leaving many
still stuck.”  Underwater Owners  More than 13 million homeowners were underwater in the
first quarter, equal to about 25.4 percent of those with a
mortgage, down from 13.8 million at the end of 2012, Zillow
said. Another 9 million people had less than 20 percent equity.
Las Vegas and Atlanta lead major metropolitan areas with the
highest rates of so-called effective negative equity.  On a house valued at $200,000, the owner would have to owe
$160,000 or less to have at least 20 percent equity.  While some homeowners will keep properties off the market
because they have low equity, it doesn’t necessarily mean they
can’t sell. People may be able to use funds from friends,
relatives and savings to cover the difference, said  Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
 Massachusetts .  “People could always buy a smaller house or find a few
thousand dollars here or there,” he said.  Rising values will allow more homeowners to sell. House
 prices  jumped 7.2 percent in March from a year earlier, capping
a 6.7 percent increase for the quarter, the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  reported today. Gains were led by the Pacific
area, which includes California and  Washington , and the Mountain
region, which includes  Arizona  and  Nevada .  About 1.4 million homeowners will regain positive equity by
the first quarter of 2014, according to a Zillow projection. Of
the 30 largest metro areas, the majority of the newly freed
homeowners will come from Los Angeles; Riverside,  California ;
and Phoenix, Zillow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  