-- London Terror Suspects’ Bedside Questions Limited
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-05-24T08:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/london-terror-suspects-bedside-questions-limited.html
In Boston and  London , injured
suspects in recent terror attacks were taken to hospitals to
recover under armed guard. Their bedside treatment by
authorities won’t be the same.  While Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was
questioned by federal investigators in his hospital room during
a 48-hour period after his capture last month, police in the
U.K. may be more cautious with two men suspected of killing a
British soldier on a South London street on May 22. Any
information they glean risks being barred from a trial due to
U.K. rules limiting such bedside interrogations.  Unlike in the U.S., Britain’s police code of conduct
prohibits officers from interviewing suspects about offenses
anywhere other than a police station or another authorized place
of detention, unless a delay could harm others or lead to a loss
of evidence.  “Sometimes we have clients interviewed in hospital and we
could argue that the evidence is inadmissible,” Ruth Hamann, a
lawyer at law firm Hodge, Jones & Allan LLP in London, said in a
telephone interview. “The police would probably be cautious
about asking questions while the suspects are in hospital. It’s
a gray area.”  Armed Guard  Two men attacked a soldier, identified by the Ministry of
Defence as Lee Rigby, outside military barracks in Woolwich,
southeast London, with knives and meat-cleavers. When officers
arrived at the scene, they shot, wounded and arrested the men
before taking them to the hospital, where they remain under
armed guard.  A 14-second video on the website of  The Mirror , a U.K.
tabloid, shows how one of the men sprinted at armed officers,
coming within a few feet of a stationary police vehicle before
being felled by two shots.  A second assailant can be seen holding a weapon and moving
in the direction of the officers. Six more shots ring out amid
screams.  Tsarnaev, 19, accused of carrying out the Boston Marathon
bombing on April 15 that killed three people and wounded more
than 260, was also injured when he was captured. He was later
charged with violations related to the use of weapons of mass
destruction. If convicted, he may face the death penalty if the
U.S. decides to seek it.  Miranda Ruling  In the U.S., there are no specific laws barring
investigators from interviewing injured suspects in a hospital,
though police are required to read a Miranda warning established
in the U.S. Supreme Court ruling Miranda v.  Arizona . The warning
alerts suspects to their right to not answer questions and to
have an attorney present if they decide to talk.  “You don’t get special status if you’re lying in a
hospital bed” in the U.S., said  Gerald Shargel , a New York-based criminal defense lawyer who has practiced for 43 years.
“Obviously the efficacy of the questioning will rely on the
suspect’s condition.”  If a dispute arises over the information obtained from an
injured suspect in a hospital, a judge will hold a hearing to
determine if he or she was competent to answer the questions,
according to Shargel. Factors discussed in court may include how
much pain they were in or how much medication they were on, as
well as how much information was provided, he said.  Prosecution Evidence  A U.K. judge may allow prosecution evidence from a suspect
not questioned at a police station if they make a significant
statement after being made aware that the information may be
used in the case against them, Hamann said. Like the Miranda
warning, the U.K. requires authorities to tell suspects they
have the right to an attorney and that statements they make may
be used by prosecutors.  The  BBC  and other U.K. media identified one of the suspects
as Michael Adebolajo. The  Independent newspaper reported 
yesterday that Adebolajo was familiar to a banned Islamist
organization, Al Muhajiroun, which favors sharia law and
publicly celebrated the Sept. 11, 2001, bombings in the U.S.  He went by the name of Mujahid -- a Muslim engaged in holy
war -- up until two years ago, Anjem Choudary, the former leader
of the group, was cited as saying by the newspaper. No charges
have been filed by police. It’s unclear whether the two suspects
have hired or been assigned lawyers. Police declined to comment.  7/7  Police said yesterday they arrested two more people, a man
and a woman, both 29, on suspicion of conspiracy to murder.  It’s the first actual, rather than planned, attack in
Britain investigated as a possible act of terrorism since July
7, 2005. Fifty-two people were killed when four Islamist suicide
bombers set off explosions on underground trains and a bus in
central London during the morning rush hour.  Tsarnaev’s case is unusual because the  Miranda warning 
wasn’t read during that time under a 48-hour public safety
exception. Federal investigators cited the exception because
there was sufficient reason to believe the public was still in
danger. U.S. Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler later gave
Tsarnaev the warning during the suspect’s bedside hearing.  Tsarnaev’s defense team has indicated it may seek to
challenge statements the suspect gave investigators during his
bedside interview. Tsarnaev’s lawyer, federal public defender
Miriam Conrad, declined to comment on her client’s hospital
interview.  Lawmakers briefed by U.S. law-enforcement officials have
said Tsarnaev and his brother, Tamerlan, the suspected
mastermind behind the attack who was killed after a shootout
with police, were motivated by radical Islam they learned about
mostly over the Internet. The brothers were ethnic Chechens who
came to the U.S. with their parents as refugees from  Russia ’s
Caucasus region.  Mental State  The lawyers requested to have photographs taken of Tsarnaev
in prison to record his “injuries over time” and “his
evolving mental and physical state” -- evidence they may seek
to use in arguments about the “voluntariness” of his earlier
statements, Bowler said in a ruling on May 17. The photographs
will be taken by prison officials instead of by the defense
lawyers, Bowler said.  U.K. investigators may be careful to avoid similar
complications in their case, opting to question their suspects
in a police station with a lawyer present and record it on tape.  It would be “much easier for them to use this information
at a later stage,” Hamann said.  The Tsarnaev case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net 
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  