-- Moody’s Defied as Local Bond Risk Falls to 2010 Low: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/moody-s-defied-as-local-bond-risk-falls-to-2010-low-muni-credit.html
Investor confidence in U.S. municipal
debt is the highest in three years even as Moody’s Investors
Service warns that local-government credit quality is set to
weaken for the 18th straight quarter.  It cost the annual equivalent of as little as $133,000 this
month to protect $10 million of local bonds for 10 years through
credit-default swaps, according to Markit Group Ltd. data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the cheapest since April 2010. The
municipal market isn’t alone in benefiting from bets on economic
growth. The cost of  contracts  linked to U.S. corporate debt is
close to the lowest since 2007, and for Western European
sovereign obligations it’s the  cheapest  since 2010.  For munis, the declining price shows investors in the $3.7
trillion market view a record $311 billion of Moody’s public-finance downgrades last year as failing to capture the improving
fiscal health of states and cities. The fewest issuers since
2009 have defaulted this year as states are seeing tax
collections exceed prerecession peaks.  Rating downgrades “don’t overshadow the fact that there’s
a bullish outlook on state and local credits,” said Vikram Rai,
a fixed-income strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.
“There’s an improving economy, an improving housing market and
higher state tax revenues.”  Market Reflection  While non-traditional muni investors such as hedge funds
are among the biggest users of the swaps, the contracts reflect
improving sentiment across the broader market as the economy
recovers from the recession that ended in 2009. Tax revenue in
the 50 states this year will surpass the record of $670 billion
from 2008, according to Todd Haggerty, who tracks budget issues
for the Denver-based  National Conference of State Legislatures .  The swaps also reflect declining interest rates on local
debt as investors gain confidence in municipalities’ fiscal
prospects and as the  Federal Reserve  holds its target overnight
 interest rate  near zero. Yields remain close to a generational
low as individuals have added about $4.7 billion to muni mutual
funds this year, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Twenty municipal issuers have defaulted in 2013 as of May
8, according to Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors. That’s the fewest
since at least 2009, when he began tracking failures to pay.  Protection Payment  The swaps are contracts in which an investor or bank pays a
fee for protection against a missed debt payment. The Markit
MCDX index consists of 50 contracts of muni issuers, excluding
tobacco and health-care. In the case of  California , the  expense 
of covering the state’s debt fell this month to the lowest since
2008.  “If the cost of protection is falling, it probably means
 hedge funds  perceive a lower chance of negative headlines,”
Fabian said. “Credit quality is at worst stabilizing, and
perhaps even improving.”  The swap prices jumped 14 percent in the three weeks after
banking analyst Meredith Whitney forecast “hundreds of billions
of dollars” of defaults in 2011. The remarks in a December 2010
appearance on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” helped push investors
to withdraw the most money in two decades from muni funds.  Though widespread failures never occurred, the number of
defaults from U.S. municipal issuers rated by Moody’s has more
than tripled to an annual average of 4.6 since 2007, the company
said in a report this month. That’s about three times the rate
from 1970 to 2007.  Default Dimension  Moody’s “wouldn’t be surprised to see five to 10
defaults” of issuers it rates in 2013, Anne Van Praagh, an
analyst at the New York-based company, said in an interview.
Speculative-grade municipalities may also increase, she said.  The company had 157 so-called superdowngrades of three or
more levels in 2012, the most since at least 2007.  About 87 percent of Moody’s rating changes in the first
quarter of 2013 were downgrades, the company said in an April 29
report. It marked the 17th straight quarter that rating cuts
exceeded upgrades.  “While the economy is recovering, the growth is really
sluggish, and it’s not robust enough to lift muni issuers as a
whole out of the slump they’ve been in for several years,” said
Naomi Richman, a Moody’s analyst, in a telephone interview.  Economy Ripple  Citigroup’s Rai disagreed about the impact of a growing
economy.  The  U.S. budget deficit  will drop to $378 billion in 2015
from a record $1.4 trillion in 2009, according to Congressional
Budget Office data. The federal government will post a $642
billion deficit this year, the first time in five years that the
shortfall has been less than $1 trillion.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose in April to the
highest level in more than three years, while the nation’s
 unemployment rate  is the lowest since December 2008. U.S. gross
domestic product will grow 2.7 percent in 2014, accelerating
from a 2 percent clip this year, according to the median
forecast of analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “Try making up that amount with budget cuts -- it’s almost
impossible to do that,” Rai said. “Whenever macro factors
improve, it has a very large waterfall effect on our credits.”  Localities led by  New York City  are issuing $6.7 billion in
debt this week, Bloomberg data show. That’s set to plunge to
$1.1 billion next week, the  least  since January, as U.S.
financial markets shut May 27 for the Memorial Day holiday. The
slowdown comes after investors added the most money to muni
mutual funds since February.  At  1.87 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  2.04 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two interest rates, a gauge of relative
value, is about 92 percent. It has been below 100 percent for 10
straight sessions, the longest streak since February. The lower
the figure, the more expensive munis are compared with federal
securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  