-- Orban Raises Stakes in EU Budget Fight With Bank Threat
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-05-23T11:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/orban-raises-stakes-in-eu-budget-fight-with-bank-threat.html
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban
said he’s ready to boost Europe’s highest bank levy further to
escape the European Union’s excessive-deficit procedure, risking
reopening a dispute with the European Commission which has
opposed the tax for stifling growth.  Orban will receive draft laws today on raising taxes on
banks, financial transactions and energy as well as on the
introduction of a new advertisement levy, the prime minister
said in Brussels yesterday after an EU summit, according to the
government’s  website .  Orban, who faces re-election next year, has made an exit
from the EU’s monitoring for budget offenders a priority to
remove the threat of cuts in funding from the bloc, which
accounts for 95 percent of outlays on infrastructure
development. The Cabinet’s reliance on extraordinary industry
taxes contributed to a recession last year and has been opposed
by the EU’s executive arm for damaging growth prospects.  “Orban’s proposal to raise the bank tax does little to
ease the commission’s concerns that the government is relying on
one-off measures to reduce the budget deficit,” Neil Shearing,
chief emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London , said by phone. “Raising the bank tax risks hardening
the positions of both sides and delaying an exit from the EDP.”  The forint dropped 0.7 percent against the euro, the most
since May 6, to trade at 291.7 by 1:18 p.m. in Budapest. That
pared the currency’s gains to 2.8 percent in the past month, the
biggest increase among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, dropped 0.9
percent to 5,030 forint.  Talks Threatened?  Orban said there was a debate within the Cabinet over the
necessity of the tax increases, with him backing them to ensure
the exit from budget monitoring. Orban will meet Economy
Minister  Mihaly Varga  tomorrow to assess the measures to be
taken, government spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz told reporters
today, according to MTI state news service.  Increasing the bank tax risks undermining the government’s
ongoing negotiations with lenders on how to reduce their burden
and boost economic growth. The talks include a multiyear
proposal that would allow banks to write off the extraordinary
levy in exchange for boosting credit, Economy Ministry State
Secretary Gabor Orban said, MTI news service reported on May 13.  The government last year backtracked on a pledge to cut the
levy in half. The EU and the International Monetary Fund had
urged the country to ease the bank burden to boost growth after
relying on a policy of squeezing lenders to cover budget holes.  Orban’s Steps  Since coming to power in 2010, Orban has relied on the
nationalization of private pension funds and extraordinary
levies on energy, retail and telecommunications companies as
well as the bank tax to close budget holes. The government has
said lobbying by companies hurt by taxes and energy-price cuts
are responsible for the EU’s concerns about budget policy.  The government announced on May 10 that it would freeze
92.9 billion forint ($410 million) of budget expenditures this
year and next and said it was ready to save another 80 billion
forint in 2014 after the European Commission forecast  Hungary 
would breach the EU’s fiscal gap limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year, endangering the country’s exit from
budget monitoring. Raising the bank tax was floated as a last
resort, to be taken only if necessary.  Hungary can keep the budget deficit below 3 percent of GDP
in 2013 and 2014 without raising the bank tax if the government
delivers on spending cuts, Orsolya Nyeste, a Budapest-based
economist at Erste Bank AG, said by phone today.  ‘New Measures’  Hungary implementing “new measures” would ensure that the
budget gap stays within the EU limit this year and next and may
allow the country to exit the excessive-deficit procedure, EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said on May
3. The shortfall may be 3 percent this year and 3.3 percent next
year, the commission said.  Orban has said he disagreed with the EU’s forecast and
criticized the EU executive of double-standards on how it deals
with member states, a charge the commission has rejected. The
European body will make a recommendation on whether Hungary
should be allowed to exit the so-called EDP process on May 29.
An EU summit on June 22 may take a decision.  Orban, who sacrificed growth in 2012 to keep the budget gap
at less than 3 percent of GDP, has argued that the economy will
expand more than the European Commission’s 0.2 percent forecast
for this year, allowing him to keep the shortfall within the
bloc’s limit.  The economy posted quarterly growth in the first quarter
for the first time since 2011, rising 0.7 percent from the
previous three months. The Cabinet forecasts 0.7 percent growth
this year, with Orban predicting an expansion of as much as 1
percent in 2013.  Hungary passed multiple rounds of fiscal cuts last year to
prevent the loss of EU funds, reducing the deficit to 1.9
percent of gross domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  