-- Toronto-Dominion Profit Rises on U.S. Lending Business
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-23T20:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/toronto-dominion-profit-rises-on-u-s-lending-business.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the first
Canadian lender to report second-quarter results, said profit
rose 1.8 percent on record earnings from U.S. consumer lending.  Net income for the period ended April 30 climbed to C$1.72
billion ($1.67 billion), or C$1.78 a share, from C$1.69 billion,
or C$1.78, a year earlier, the Toronto-based bank said today in
a statement. Revenue rose 4.3 percent to C$6 billion.  U.S. consumer banking profit jumped 12 percent as lending
growth there topped domestic gains, Toronto-Dominion said. The
firm now has more bank branches in the U.S. than in Canada.
Earnings from investment banking also rose, boosted by trading.  “We’ve had consistently strong volume growth in the United
States and for some time now the U.S. has outpaced  Canada ,”
Chief Financial Officer Colleen Johnston said in a telephone
interview. “We’re seeing fundamentals strengthen in the United
States versus our expectations.”  Adjusted earnings, which exclude some items, were C$1.90 a
share, missing the C$1.91 average  estimate  of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “A solid quarter, but little to get excited about in terms
of a step-up in valuation or drastically improved outlook,”
John Aiken, a Barclays Plc analyst, said today in a note.  Toronto-Dominion, Canada’s second-largest lender by assets,
fell 0.5 percent to close at C$83.65 in Toronto. The shares have
declined 0.1 percent this year, trailing the 2.5 percent gain of
the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Banks Index.  Low Expectations  “Expectations in my view are relatively low for the
Canadian banks,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at
MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages
about C$4 billion including bank stocks. “The housing market
continues to weigh on investors’ expectations.”  Toronto-Dominion said it plans to buy back as many as 12
million shares, or 1.3 percent of its outstanding stock,
starting in June. It’s the first buyback for the bank in almost
seven years.  “We’re now in the position where we can start thinking
about capital deployment,” Johnston said.  The lender set aside C$417 million for bad loans, up from
C$388 million a year earlier.  U.S. Earnings  U.S. consumer banking earnings jumped to C$398 million and
domestic banking profit rose 4.8 percent to C$847 million,
Toronto-Dominion said. Wholesale banking increased 12 percent to
C$220 million. Profit from wealth management and insurance was
C$364 million, compared with C$365 million a year earlier.  Toronto-Dominion still expects Canadian personal and
commercial banking earnings to grow 7 percent to 10 percent this
year, even with slowing loan growth and low interest rates,
Johnston said.  “We continue to face headwinds from slower loan growth in
Canada and lower interest rates globally,” Chief Executive
Officer Ed Clark said today in a conference call.  Government efforts to cool housing are helping reduce risks
of a major drop in prices, he said.  “Given the structure of Canadian lending, Canadians do not
need to worry that we will see the type of meltdown that has
occurred in other countries,” Clark said. “We may see a
softening of prices, but this would be a good thing, not a
prelude to a major correction.”  Cost Cutting  Toronto-Dominion is “reviewing all opportunities” to cut
costs across the bank, Clark said. The bank said it seeks to
keep expense growth below 3 percent this year.  “Finding current-year cost savings is not enough,” Clark
said. “We continue to focus on more permanent cost
reductions.”  The eight biggest Canadian banks are expected to report a 7
percent increase in adjusted per-share earnings for the quarter
from a year earlier, Sumit Malhotra, an analyst with Macquarie
Capital Markets in Toronto, said in a May 21 note.  National Bank of Canada (NA)  reports results tomorrow, followed
by  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  on May 28 and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  on May 29.
Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s largest lender, and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, the fifth-biggest, report on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  