-- OTP Drops as Orban Supports Bank Tax Increase: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-23T15:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/otp-set-for-biggest-drop-in-month-on-tax-plan-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, dropped after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said he
supported raising taxes on financial transactions and banks.  The shares fell as much as 2.4 percent and closed 0.3
percent lower at 5,058 forint in Budapest. The stock surpassed
5,000 forint for the first time since August 2011 yesterday.
Hungary’s benchmark BUX stock  index  slipped 0.5 percent today.  Orban is in favor of increasing a special tax on banks and
levies on transactions such as cash withdrawals and transfers,
the government’s website quoted the premier as saying in
Brussels yesterday. Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said on May 10
the cabinet is ready to raise taxes if other measures including
spending cuts are insufficient to meet budget goals. Orban’s
statement showed all the steps mentioned by Varga may be taken
at once, putting pressure on OTP’s stock, according to broker
Equilor Befektetesi Zrt.  The comments may contribute to OTP falling as low as 4,900
forint, analysts at Equilor including Gergely Gabler wrote in a
research report today.  Orban’s cabinet has levied  Europe ’s highest bank tax and
imposed extraordinary taxes on energy, retail and
telecommunication industries since taking office in 2010. While
the measures helped cut the  budget deficit  to below the European
Union’s 3 percent of gross domestic product level for the first
time since Hungary joined the bloc in 2004, the taxes damaged
lending and investments.  Bad loans at Hungarian banks may increase to a new record,
a “credit negative” event for the lenders, Simone Zampa and
Kateryna Plinska, analysts at Moody’s Investors Service, wrote
in a report today. More bad loans will probably hit lenders’
earnings and capital buffers, the analysts wrote.  Emerging-market stocks tumbled the most in 10 months as
disappointing Chinese manufacturing data and speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back stimulus cut demand for riskier
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  