-- House Group to Draft U.S. Immigration Legislation by June
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-05-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/house-group-to-draft-u-s-immigration-legislation-by-june.html
A bipartisan House group agreed to
start preparing legislation to revise U.S. immigration law and
present it “as soon as possible,” said Representative Raul Labrador, one of the lawmakers.  The group tentatively resolved a dispute over what health
benefits would be available to undocumented immigrants seeking
citizenship, Labrador told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.
The Idaho Republican said the group will craft legislative
language “to make sure that we have a meeting of the minds.”  “We are all positive that we can move forward,” Labrador
said. A Democrat in the eight-member group, Representative Luis Gutierrez of  Illinois , said, “We’re going to get there. There’s
going to be justice done to our immigrant community.”  The House negotiating group reached an agreement in
principle on other aspects of a proposal May 16. Like
legislation approved this week by the Senate Judiciary
Committee, the House group would offer a path to citizenship for
many of the 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.,
according to a House aide who asked not to be identified.  The immigrants would be eligible for citizenship after 15
years under the House plan, the aide said. The Senate proposal
would allow citizenship after 13 years.  House Speaker John Boehner and other Republican leaders
said in a statement yesterday that the House “will not simply
take up and accept” the Senate measure. “The House will work
its will and produce its own legislation,” they said.  Health Care  On health care, Republicans have said they don’t want U.S.
taxpayers to subsidize benefits for undocumented immigrants,
while Democrats are concerned about blocking their access to
subsidized coverage in case of emergencies, congressional aides
from both parties said on condition of anonymity.  Labrador said the group agreed that undocumented immigrants
in provisional status must pay for their own health care or buy
health insurance. Failing to pay health-care bills would trigger
deportation, he said.  The group also clarified that “the law already requires
that in an emergency situation no one can be denied health
care,” he said.  “There are legitimate issues to be discussed” about
implementing the Republican demand of not increasing government
spending by legalizing the undocumented immigrants, Democratic
Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland  told reporters earlier
this week.  Labrador cautioned that legislative language has to be
written and that disagreements could still arise. He said it
would take one to two weeks to draft a bill. Lawmakers are
heading to their home states for a one-week Memorial Day recess.  Senate Proposal  The Senate Judiciary panel approved that chamber’s proposal
this week and the full Senate will debate the measure, S.744, in
June.  “While we applaud the progress made by our Senate
colleagues, there are numerous ways in which the House will
approach the issue differently,” Boehner and the other House
Republican leaders said.  Gutierrez said in a statement yesterday that the House must
produce its own bipartisan bill because that “has the best
chance of passing the House and the best chance of producing a
good immigration reform proposal” in a conference committee
with a Senate bill.  “A bipartisan process in the House allows Republicans and
Democrats to have their input and arrive at a workable solution
to fixing our broken immigration system,” Gutierrez said.  The House negotiators are Republicans Mario Diaz-Balart of
 Florida , John Carter and Sam Johnson of  Texas , and Labrador,
along with Democrats Zoe Lofgren and Xavier Becerra of
 California , John Yarmuth of Kentucky and Gutierrez.  Separately, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, has begun introducing a series
of measures with the goal of changing the immigration system
through a piecemeal approach, instead of one comprehensive plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  