-- How Beetle Overcame Nazi Past to Become Americans’ Car
-- B y   B e r n h a r d   R i e g e r
-- 2013-05-23T20:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/how-beetle-overcame-nazi-past-to-become-americans-car.html
“Owning a VW is Like Being in
Love,” Popular Mechanics announced after polling its readers in
1956. “These owners have actually fallen in love with a car.”  Popular Mechanics wasn’t alone in marveling at the U.S.
reception of the small “made in  Germany ” car. The  New York 
Times Magazine, Fortune, Business Week, Road and Track and the
Nation added to a buzz that was vastly disproportionate to the
vehicle’s market share at the time. Of the 7.9 million new
automobiles sold in the U.S. in 1955,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  had
accounted for just 28,907.  Nonetheless, the excitement elicited by the “Volks” in
the mid-1950s foreshadowed the car’s subsequent success. Annual
U.S. sales rose to 120,422 in 1959 and peaked at 563,522 in
1968. The affectionately nicknamed “Beetle” or “Bug” became
a lasting fixture of the cultural landscape.  For a product that started out as an initiative of  Adolf Hitler ’s National Socialist dictatorship, this is a surprising
trajectory. Commissioned in 1934 as the Nazi “people’s car,”
the vehicle owed its rounded shape and defining engineering
traits -- most notably its robust air-cooled rear engine -- to
 Ferdinand Porsche , who oversaw its development. Even so, the
car’s historical lineage did little to dampen its budding
reputation in the U.S. during the 1950s, partly because the
Nazis never mass produced it.  ‘Klein Amerika’  In the early years of the  Cold War ,  West Germany  came to be
seen as a political ally. Scores of U.S. journalists visited the
VW plant in Wolfsburg, and portrayed the thriving company as a
“Klein Amerika” (Little America), emblematic of West Germany’s
postwar transformation. As they assured the American public that
the VW was made by a company run in accordance with U.S.
business principles, they erased the cultural barrier presented
by the car’s Nazi past.  When Volkswagen expanded its export business, it profited
from the booming U.S. economy of the 1950s. Rapid
suburbanization fueled demand for a dependable and modestly
priced second family car. The VW cost just $1,495 in 1955, and
soon gained a commercial foothold.  Frustration with the  Detroit  automakers also prompted
Americans to acquire a VW. In the first half of the 1950s, the
average price of a car rose to $2,900 from $2,200. Eight-cylinder engines generating more than 150 horsepower, automatic
transmissions, air conditioners and lavish designs (most
famously the tail fin) defined the American automobile. For some
drivers, adopting the mechanically simple, ultra-reliable VW was
a form of consumer protest.  Detroit’s baroque creations made the diminutive “Volks,”
with its 36 horsepower rear engine, distinctive. Some buyers --
and women in particular -- were attracted to its shape, its
unthreatening air and its size. For some, buying a VW signaled a
rejection of the status games that energized the car market. The
VW emerged as a marker of individualism by the late 1950s.  Updated repeatedly, the car maintained its commercial
appeal and cultural salience in the 1960s. In part, it owed its
good fortunes to irreverent advertising campaigns orchestrated
by  Doyle Dane Bernbach . The agency played fast and loose with
Madison Avenue’s rules, presenting the Bug as an amusing,
lovable and curious vehicle whose owner had chosen a reasonable
product in a materialistic society abounding with false
promises. The agency once produced a full-page ad that didn’t
feature the car, and stated that the VW model that year simply
had nothing new to show.  Dune Buggies  The vehicle increasingly became part of  U.S. culture .
Beginning in the early 1960s, thousands of American owners
acquired engineering kits that allowed them to turn their Bugs
into inexpensive racing cars and competed in “Formula Vee”
contests. The emergence of Dune Buggies placed the VW in
 California ’s surfer scene and its youth culture.  And while suburbanites continued to drive Beetles, members
of the counterculture were also drawn to the car. They often
enhanced its unconventional appearance by adding psychedelic
swirls and daisies.  The Americanization of the VW reached a pinnacle with its
starring role in  Walt Disney ’s “ The Love Bug ” in 1969. The
movie features a Beetle named Herbie, a small, lovable outsider
who beats superior automotive opponents.  Hitler’s erstwhile mass-produced “people’s car” had
become an icon of unconventionality and individualism. It was
taken off the market in 1980. “As the Beetle chugs its way out
of our lives,” the CBS Evening News nostalgically commented,
“a part of our lives goes with it.”  That obituary proved premature. Volkswagen introduced the
New Beetle in 1998, a nostalgia-fueled retrocar.  ( Bernhard Rieger  teaches modern and contemporary history at
 University College London . He is the author of “The People’s
Car: A Global History of the Volkswagen Beetle.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this article:
Bernhard Rieger at  b.rieger@ucl.ac.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  