-- Packer’s Crown Said to Sell Echo Stake for A$264 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-23T09:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/packer-s-crown-said-to-sell-echo-stake-for-a-264-million.html
Crown Ltd. (CWN) , the casino company
controlled by billionaire James Packer, hired UBS AG to sell its
10 percent stake in rival  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) ,
according to three people familiar with the situation.  UBS underwrote the sale of about 82.6 million shares owned
by Crown and was marketing them at a fixed price of A$3.20 a
share, two of the people said, speaking anonymously as the
transaction wasn’t complete. That’s a 7 percent discount to
Echo’s close today of A$3.44 a  share , and values the stake at
A$264 million ($256 million).  Crown and Echo submitted rival plans to the New South Wales
state government to invest in casinos on the shores of Sydney
Harbor to attract high-spending Asian gamblers to  Australia ’s
largest city, with the government yet to decide which proposal
it will allow to proceed. Packer on May 16 unveiled designs for
a A$1 billion tower concept by Wilkinson Eyre Architects, who
worked on  Singapore ’s Gardens by the Bay.  Packer and Karl Bitar, a spokesman for Melbourne-based
Crown, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.
Peter Brookes, an external spokesman for Echo at Citadel
Communications, declined to comment. The transaction was first
reported by the Australian Financial Review newspaper.  Barangaroo Tower  Crown first took an interest in Echo last February through
a derivative transaction arranged by Deutsche Bank AG. It paid
about A$254 million to the bank on completion of the
transaction, giving it control of the stake the following month.  Crown  rose  0.8 percent to A$13.06 in Sydney trading today
and has climbed 22 percent this year,  beating  the 8.9 percent
gain of the S&P/ASX 200 Index. Echo is unchanged this year at
A$3.44.  Packer initially sought changes to Echo’s  management  and
discussed having his planned tower at the Barangaroo development
site west of Sydney’s main business district covered by an
exclusive casino license held by the company.  He’s disparaged the performance of Echo’s Star casino since
New South Wales state last October agreed to study his plans to
build his casino under a separate license.  Crown this month won approval from state gaming regulators
to lift its stake in Echo beyond the current 10 percent level to
23 percent.  Genting Hong Kong Ltd. (678) , the cruise ship company
controlled by Lim Kok Thay, in October also applied to raise its
stake in Echo to 25 percent.  Echo plans to spend an unspecified amount upgrading its
Star casino, which sits on an adjacent stretch of shore to the
Barangaroo site, and has sought an extension to a New South
Wales license that prevents other casinos operating in the state
until 2019.  Echo’s former owner,  Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH) , paid A$100
million to the state government in 2007 in return for the
exclusive rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  