-- Penguins Win 7-3 to Leave Senators on Brink of NHL Elimination
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-05-23T04:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/penguins-win-7-3-to-leave-senators-on-brink-of-nhl-elimination.html
The  Pittsburgh Penguins  twice rallied
from one-goal deficits and scored six unanswered goals to beat
the host Ottawa Senators 7-3 and move one victory away from
clinching their National Hockey League playoff series.  The Penguins lead the Eastern Conference semifinal series
by three games to one and can advance to the conference finals
with a home win tomorrow in Game 5.  “I think everything’s right here,” Senators coach Paul MacLean said as he held up the score sheet in a 13-second
televised news conference. “It’s 7-3. See you in Pittsburgh.
We’re going to Pittsburgh and we’re coming to play. Have a good
night.”  The series winner will play the  Boston Bruins  or the New
York Rangers for a place in the Stanley Cup finals. Boston can
sweep the Rangers with a win in New York tonight.  Milan Michalek opened the scoring for the Senators last
night at Scotiabank Place in Ottawa. James Neal tied it for
Pittsburgh and Kyle Turris restored the home team’s lead after
16 minutes, 15 seconds of the first period.  Pittsburgh’s  Chris Kunitz  tied it again 1:08 into the
second period and Jarome Iginla gave the Penguins the lead for
good 40 seconds later.  Neal,  Pascal Dupuis ,  Sidney Crosby  and Iginla scored in the
third period to make it 7-2 before  Daniel Alfredsson  got one
back for the Senators. Two of the four Pittsburgh goals in the
final period came on power plays, and one was scored while the
Penguins were shorthanded.  “It’s the best (power play) I’ve played on, and been a
part of, and been on the bench to watch,” Iginla said in a
televised interview. “It’s not just a talent thing, they take
it very seriously, and not just about goals but momentum, and
it’s been good for us in these playoffs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  