-- Pennon Full-Year Profit Drops as Waste-Recycling Sales Decline
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-05-23T08:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/pennon-full-year-profit-drops-as-waste-recycling-sales-decline.html
Pennon Group Plc (PNN) , a U.K. water
company, said fiscal full-year profit dropped 1.1 percent as
sales shrank at its Viridor waste-management unit.  Pretax profit for the year through March fell to 198.2
million pounds ($298 million) from 200.5 million pounds a year
earlier, the Exeter, England-based company said today in a
statement. That beat the 192.5 million-pound median estimate of
12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Viridor suffered a decline in prices for waste paper and
recyclate, the material it produces at waste-recycling plants. A
7.5 percent slump in revenue at the unit followed decisions to
scale back operations, including cutting staff and mothballing
sites, as Europe’s economy stagnated and Chinese growth slowed.  “Trading in Viridor is significantly down on last year
with declines in recycling and landfill,” Chairman Ken Harvey
said in the statement.  Energy-from-waste plants planned by Viridor in Glasgow,
London, Peterborough and  Wales  will make a “significant
contribution” to profit growth, the company said. The U.K. has
promoted such projects to meet power demand while reducing
imports of fossil fuels.  Pennon fell as much as 3.7 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since Feb. 14, and traded down 0.5 percent at 701 pence
as of 8:40 a.m. local time.  Dividend Payout  Capital spending  jumped 61 percent over the year to 439
million pounds. The final dividend rose by 7.7 percent to 19.70
pence, resulting in a full-year payout of 28.46 pence.  U.K. water utilities have been the subject of takeover
talk. Abu Dhabi Investment Authority was reported last month by
the  Daily Mail  to be studying a bid for Pennon, while the Sunday
Times said  United Utilities Group Plc (UU/)  had hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. amid speculation of a possible purchase.  Severn Trent
Plc (SVT)  on May 15 rejected a takeover approach from Kuwait’s
sovereign wealth fund and a Canadian infrastructure investor.  Growth at Pennon’s South West Water unit helped to counter
the slump at Viridor, reporting full-year profit before tax and
exceptional items of 152.1 million pounds, a gain of 7.5
percent, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  