-- Philippine Peso Drops Most Since 2010 on Capital Outflow Concern
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-05-23T06:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/philippine-peso-drops-most-since-2010-on-capital-outflow-concern.html
The Philippine peso dropped the most
since 2010 on speculation an improving U.S. economy will prompt
the  Federal Reserve  to scale back asset purchases that have
spurred fund flows into  emerging markets . Bonds and stocks fell.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against
currencies of six U.S. trading partners, touched the highest in
almost three years after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday the central bank may taper monthly bond buying if it’s
confident of sustained economic gains. Philippine gross domestic
product probably expanded close to 6 percent in the first
quarter, International Monetary Fund Resident Representative
Shanaka Peiris said on May 21.  “A recovering U.S. economy and prospects of the Fed
starting to tighten raise the possibility of some of the funds
moving out of emerging markets like the Philippines,” said
Rolando Avante, president of  Philippine Business Bank (PBB)  in Manila.
“The fundamental strength of the peso, supported by growth
prospects and remittances, will keep the exchange rate in a
range in the meantime.”  The peso dropped 1 percent to 41.575 per dollar at the noon
trading break in Manila, set for its biggest decline since
November 2010. The local currency traded at the lowest since
Oct. 11. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose nine
basis points to 4.53 percent.  U.S. retail sales unexpectedly advanced in April and
jobless claims dropped to the lowest level since January 2008,
according to data released this month.  Bonds, Stocks  The yield on the 8 percent notes due July 2031 rose 10
basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 3.82 percent, the
highest since May 7, according to Tradition Financial Services.
The  Philippine Stock Exchange (PCOMP)  Index halted two days of gains.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, in a memo dated May 17 posted
on its website this week, banned so-called investment management
activities, a type of account handled by trust entities, from
the special deposit accounts. The central bank ordered trust
entities to reduce their holdings of the accounts by at least 30
percent by end-July and totally phase out by end-November,
according to the memo.  Bangko Sentral reduced the  interest rate  on $45 billion in
 special accounts  three times this year to 2 percent while
keeping its  benchmark overnight  rate at a record low 3.5
percent.  “The central bank’s actions are also geared towards
supporting growth by prompting these funds to go back to the
banking system and for the banks to lend,” Avante said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  