-- Poland Minister Says 29% Return Reflects Trend
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 2013-05-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/poland-minister-says-29-return-reflects-trend.html
Polish Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said the premium his government pays on debt relative
to the neighboring Czech Republic may disappear over the next
four years as he strives to keep the economy out of recession in
the face of monetary policy that he deems too strict.  “There is no reason why we should be paying a penny more
on our bonds than the Czechs,” he said in a May 22 interview in
Warsaw. “It’s not so long ago that  Poland  was considered less
trustworthy than  Hungary , not to speak of the number of some
other countries. Today, we’re seen as very much stronger. I
think that process will continue until we reach more or less
parity, or maybe a little bit better, than the  Czech Republic .”  Rostowski, 62, is trying to preserve Poland’s status as the
only European Union member to avoid a recession since the global
financial crisis was unleashed in 2008. While the country
currently pays 3.45 percent to borrow for 10 years, that
compares with the 1.67 percent paid by the Czech Republic even
after the Polish economy has grown faster every year since 2007.  Polish  government bonds  returned 29 percent in the past
three years, compared with 17 percent for German debt and 13.5
percent for  U.S. debt , according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. They earned 14.6 percent in the past 12 months and
3.2 percent this year, beating both German and U.S. bonds, the
indexes showed.  Courtside Seat  London-born Rostowski, a former dean of the economics
department at Central European University in Budapest, has
controlled the country’s finances since 2007. As an adviser to
ex-Finance Minister Leszek Balcerowicz and the Russian
government in the early 1990s, he had a courtside seat as the
former communist countries set out to transform their centrally
planned economies.  He was able to draw on that experience to guide Poland to
uninterrupted growth, which helped push unemployment to 10.7
percent, compared with the euro-region average of 12.1 percent,
from a peak of 20.3 percent in 2002.  As the longest-serving Polish finance minister since the
end of communism in 1989, Rostowski is now facing pressure to
keep the economy out of recession as two opinion polls this
month showed Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s Civic Platform party
behind the opposition Law and Justice for the first time since
2007, with elections scheduled for 2015.  The government cut the  budget deficit  to 3.9 percent of
economic output last year from 7.9 percent, which gives the
central bank room to move its main interest rate closer to the
 European Central Bank ’s benchmark of 0.5 percent from the
current level of 3 percent, Rostowski said.  ‘Gone Wrong’  “One thing that has gone wrong is monetary policy, which
has been dramatically behind the curve compared with other
countries.” he said. “This fiscal-deficit tightening has put a
lot of downward pressure on inflation, leaving a great deal of
space for the Monetary Policy Council to reduce real  interest
rates  appropriately. They haven’t done it.”  Poland’s  real interest rate , which adjusts for inflation,
is 2.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Czech Republic’s  real rate  is minus 1.65 percent and  Germany (EURR002W) ’s
is minus 0.6 percent.  The Narodowy Bank Polski has cut the  main interest rate  by
175 basis points since November to a record-low 3 percent as the
European Union’s largest eastern economy heads into its deepest
slowdown in more than a decade. The reductions started six
months after the bank became the only one in the EU to raise
borrowing costs last year.  ‘Without Delay’  The  International Monetary Fund  last week urged policy
makers led by Governor  Marek Belka  to lower borrowing costs
further “without delay” as the euro area’s longest-ever
recession curbs demand for Polish exports. They also predicted
 growth  will slow to 1.2 percent this year, matching the weakest
pace since 2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Unlike their Polish counterparts, Czech central bankers cut
the main rate to 0.05 percent last year and are considering
other tools such as currency sales to revive growth. So far
they’ve failed to lift the economy from its longest  recession 
since at least 1996.  The urgency of rate cuts was more muted in Poland, where
the economy hasn’t contracted in a  single quarter  since the last
three months of 2008. That also helped the government curb the
 budget deficit  by half in relation to economic output in three
years. Rostowski is now banking on 105 billion-euro ($136
billion) in EU funds over the next seven years to help
accelerate growth.  ‘Way Ahead’  “We’ve managed to tighten the structural deficit by almost
six percentage points of GDP through growth,” he said. “I’m
sure public investment will help economic growth as we go into
the new EU budget perspective next year. We’re way ahead of the
curve in preparations for that and expect the money to start
flowing on the similar scale to 2009.”  The government is also planning to heed the IMF’s advice to
tolerate budget revenue falling short of its target as a result
of a slower economy instead of trying to squeeze the deficit
further and risk stifling growth.  “Our policy over the last two-three years has been to
reduce the structural fiscal deficit and take advantage of
growth to reduce the actual fiscal deficit,” Rostowski said.
“In the current situation we may actually want to carry on
reducing the structural balance while allowing automatic
stabilizers to work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in  New York  at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  