-- Poland Should Cut Rates More as GDP Bottoms Out, Bratkowski Says
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2013-05-23T11:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/poland-should-cut-rates-more-as-gdp-bottoms-out-bratkowski-says.html
Poland’s central bank should reduce
its benchmark  interest rate  by as much as 1 percentage point
from a record-low 3 percent as prospects for a quick recovery
wither, policy maker Andrzej Bratkowski said late yesterday.  The following are selected comments from Bratkowski, a
member of the Narodowy Bank Polski’s Monetary Policy Council, in
an interview in Warsaw.  On the economy:  “The downturn is worse than we thought and the start of
the recovery keeps getting moved back. I see some signs we’ve
reached the bottom and it won’t get worse. Export growth has
stabilized and isn’t slowing any more. Thanks to low inflation,
consumption is also stabilizing. Now it’s a question of taking
baby steps forward.  “The second quarter will be the weakest; after that,
annualized growth should improve because the base effect of
year-earlier growth will be in our favor.  “There’s no way we’re going to get a quick bounce given
the scope of the European Union’s debt crisis.  “Domestic demand has been falling since the second quarter
of last year, so de facto, we’re in a recession. The only reason
we’re growing is net exports - in other words, declining imports
have become our growth engine. Conventional monetary policy
should take this into account.  “What we should be trying to do is prop up domestic
demand. If it works, monetary easing will encourage more
consumption and make companies less inclined to cut back
investments and jobs.”  On the need for rate cuts:  “ With the sluggish economic activity we’ve had for the
past few quarters and the bleak outlook for a rapid recovery, we
should be thinking about 2 percent to 2.5 percent as the optimal
level for interest rates.  “Another 50 basis-point rate cut is completely justified
and I expect that will be my position at the June policy
meeting, unless I encounter some new arguments that change my
thinking. Let’s cut to 2.5 percent and then we’ll see. If
there’s no data showing obvious improvement next month, then I
don’t see any obstacles to making another move in July. We might
want to slow the pace at that stage and cut by 25 basis points,
pause for a month and then do another 25.  “It’s obvious the rates we have now are above any sensible
level. That’s why we need to get them down quickly to 2.5
percent, which may not be exactly optimal in my view, but which
is at the top end of what could be described as the optimal
range. After that we can be more cautious about whether to do
another two, smaller cuts. If nothing dramatic happens, then we
can afford to take smaller steps.  “We need to get down to this 2 percent-2.5 percent range
quickly because we’re clearly behind the curve. We should
already have been there a while ago, so there’s no reason to
wait and no time to lose.  “That’s my vision of a ‘correction’ in monetary policy.”  On inflation:  “For the time being, I don’t see any risk of a quick
uptick in inflation.  “If there are no negative surprises on food and energy
prices, and the EU economy remains weak in the second half, it’s
possible we could get a month or two of below-zero inflation.
That’s no tragedy, because it’s nonsense to think a country like
 Poland  can get sucked into a deflationary spiral. That shouldn’t
happen.”  On conventional monetary policy:  “I’m a proponent of conventional monetary policy because
conventional monetary policy is supposed to be anti-cyclical.
Maybe I have a different understanding of what ‘conventional’
means.  “Real interest rates don’t always have to be positive
during a recession, especially when inflation is being fueled by
supply shocks. Policy should be forward-looking and based on
forecasts. Conventional monetary policy allows deviation from
the target. It’s anti-cyclical.  “The situation in Poland isn’t so dire that we need to
jettison conventional policy and adopt an anti-inflation
orthodoxy that conflicts with direct inflation targeting. We
also need to remember that the external environment has changed.
The balance of risks is different from the early 2000s, when the
global economy was expanding at 4 percent and all you needed to
do was cut rates to trigger a rebound.”  On unconventional monetary instruments:  “It’s hard to say what the central bank can do when we
have 100 billion zloty ($30.7 billion) of excess liquidity in
the banking sector and real interest rates at 2 percent. I think
we should use conventional methods to clean this up. If that
doesn’t work, then we can consider other means, although I
personally don’t see any instruments that could boost lending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  