-- Police Arrest Two More in London Terror Probe
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n ,   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-05-24T15:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/police-arrest-two-more-in-london-terror-probe.html
Police released two women arrested as
part of the terror probe into the killing of a 25-year-old
soldier in London as searches continued at six homes across
 England .  A 31-year-old woman and a 29-year-old woman who were
arrested yesterday on suspicion of conspiracy to murder were
both freed without charges today, the  Metropolitan Police
Service  said in a statement. Two men, ages 22 and 28, were
arrested at the scene on May 22 after being shot by officers and
are suspected of killing the soldier and remain in hospitals.  London police are investigating the death of Lee Rigby, who
was stabbed with knives and cleavers in the London neighborhood
of Woolwich across the street from an army barracks. The probe
comes as further questions are raised about security and Islamic
extremism in a city that suffered its second fatal terror attack
in eight years.  “It’s caused so much concern because the individuals
dressed, spoke, appeared so much like other young Londoners,”
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  told a meeting of religious
leaders in north London today. ‘It’s shown once again how
unbeatable London is in the face of this attempt to sow fear and
suspicion in our country.”  A fifth suspect, a 29-year-old man, also remains in
custody, the MPS said.  Police are continuing to search five homes throughout
London and a sixth in in Lincolnshire, in the eastern part of
England.  Video Footage  Video footage  broadcast by ITV News showed a man, his hands
covered in blood and holding a cleaver and a knife, speaking
after the attack. “We must fight them as they fight us,” he
said in a London accent. “An eye for an eye, a tooth for a
tooth. Your people will never be safe. Remove your government,
they don’t care about you.”  A 14-second  video on the website of the Daily Mirror 
newspaper shows how one of the men sprinted at officers
responding to the attack, coming within a few feet of a
stationary police vehicle before being felled by two shots.  The second assailant can be seen holding a weapon and
moving in the direction of the police. Six more shots ring out
amid screams.  Rigby, a fan of the Manchester United soccer team, served
as a machine gunner in Cyprus and then in 2009 as a member of a
fire support group in Helmand province,  Afghanistan .  ‘Love Lee’  Rigby, who had a 2-year-old son, was attacked just after 2
p.m. two days ago outside the barracks in Woolwich, southeast
London.  “I just want to say I love Lee, and always will,” Rigby’s
widow, Rebecca, said at a televised news conference today. “I
am proud to be his wife and he was due to come up this weekend
so we could continue our future together as a family.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  warned yesterday against
“knee-jerk responses” to the attack, following unrest in the
Woolwich area sparked by members of the English Defence League,
which campaigns against what it calls “militant Islam.”  The attackers yelled “Allahu akbar,” meaning “God is
great” in Arabic, Sky News television and the  BBC  reported.  The BBC and other U.K. media identified the murder suspects
as Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale. The  Independent
newspaper reported  that Adebolajo was known to belong to a
banned Islamist organization, Al Muhajiroun, which favors sharia
law and publicly celebrated the Sept. 11 bombings in the U.S. He
went by the name of Mujahid -- a Muslim engaged in holy war --up
until two years ago, Anjem Choudary, the former leader of the
group, was cited as saying by the newspaper. No charges have
been filed by police.  No Justification  “There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly
dreadful act,” said Cameron, who went to visit the barracks
yesterday afternoon. The blame “lies purely with the sickening
individuals who carried out this attack.”  It’s the first actual, rather than planned, attack in
Britain investigated as a possible act of terrorism since July
7, 2005. Fifty-two people were killed when four Islamist suicide
bombers set off explosions on underground trains and a bus in
central  London  during the morning rush hour.  Security was tightened at Woolwich and other London
barracks. There was no change to the terror threat level in the
U.K. from “substantial,” meaning an attack is a “strong
possibility,” following the incident, the Cabinet Office said.  “We’re not going to change our behavior, we’re not going
to disrupt normal life,” Clegg said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  