-- Porn Makers Fight California Proposal Pushing Protection
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-05-23T00:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/porn-makers-fight-california-proposal-pushing-protection.html
Ela Darling quit her job as a
reference librarian south of  Boston  three years ago for a fresh
start in Los Angeles starring in such movies as “Lesbian
Slumber Party.” Her new career, she says, is under threat from
the California legislature, which soon may require pornographic
actors to wear condoms and other protective gear.  The adult-film industry, which says it  employs  10,000
people in the state and adds more than $1 billion to the local
economy, is threatening to move production out of California if
the bill becomes law.  “I love my work and I love the people that I work with,”
the 26-year-old Darling said in a telephone interview. “It
feels like they are punishing porn for having the audacity to
make porn. But it takes more than a porn star to make a porno.
It’s not just the porn stars that are going to suffer from this.
It’s a lot of people, people with families.”  It’s a business that by some accounts produces 11,000 films
a year, 90 percent shot in  California  by 200 production
companies. Golden State porn generates $9 billion to $13 billion
a year in gross revenue nationwide, according to a legislative
analysis of the bill.  Pornographers say the condom rule violates their First
Amendment right to express themselves and would destroy the
aesthetics of an industry built on fantasy and writhing flesh.
Proponents argue the law is needed to protect workers, who some
studies suggest suffer a higher rate of sexually transmitted
diseases than legal prostitutes in  Nevada .  Protective Barriers  The bill, which a committee will consider tomorrow, would
require studios to ensure that performers are safe from sexually
transmitted diseases by wearing condoms or other protective
barriers during filming. Studios also would have to pay for
hepatitis B vaccines and testing for other illnesses for any
worker involved in the production.  Larry Flynt said all the latex will wreck the mood.  “People don’t want to see adult films where people are
wearing condoms,” Flynt, the porn mogul and publisher of
Hustler magazine, said in a telephone interview from  Los
Angeles . “It’s that simple. They are trying to put the industry
out of business through legislation but it’s not going to
work.”  Some porn makers, such as Wicked Pictures, the Canoga Park,
California-based producer of titles such as “The Booty
Pageant,” require actors to wear condoms. That hasn’t pushed
them out of business.  Public-health advocates such as the AIDS Healthcare
Foundation, the sponsor of the bill, have long pushed for
tougher statewide workplace safety regulations in the adult-film
industry. The group, whose U.S. headquarters is in Los Angeles,
points to HIV scares in the last three decades, including one in
2004 that left four people infected after engaging in on-set
unprotected sex.  Safe Sex  “Part of our effort is about promoting safe sex and we
think that this is a bad influence,” foundation President
 Michael Weinstein  said in a telephone interview. “We can’t and
don’t want to control the content of the films in terms of any
speech, but as a public-health entity, we are promoting safer
sex and we’ve gotten more publicity about condoms from this
campaign around porn than anything else we could have ever
done.”  In response to those HIV scares, the industry set about
requiring regular testing for performers and a database was
built of available actors who test negative. The industry also
has been quick to shut down production altogether during such
scares, including a 30 day moratorium in 2004 and smaller-scale
hiatuses in 2010 and 2011.  Medical Scenarios  Still, producers have resisted requiring actors to wear
condoms, saying the protocols already in place work.  “You’re more likely to pick up someone in a bar in
suburbia and catch HIV than you would in the adult-film
industry,” Flynt said. “All the actors are tested. It’s the
safest sex you can have.”  Opponents have keyed in on one phrase in the bill that
states that the companies would have to protect employees from
blood-borne pathogens and other potentially infectious materials
in accordance with current regulations. They say that would
require actors to follow the same rules about bodily fluids that
emergency-room nurses do.  “If you follow the bill to the letter, nothing short of a
hazardous-material suit will do,” said Lydia Lee, a former porn
star under the screen name Julie Meadows and spokeswoman for
Adult Performers Coalition For Choice, a group opposed to the
legislation.  Measure B  The bill mirrors a  ballot measure  that voters in Los
Angeles County approved in 2012 requiring condoms for acts of
anal or vaginal sex during the production of adult films. The
law was supported by groups including the  American Medical
Association  and the American Public Health Association. Studios
that want to shoot in Los Angeles must pay a fee and prove that
management and crews have completed a training course about
blood-borne pathogens.  Before passage of that measure, many in the business said
they would shoot outside Los Angeles County rather than comply.
According to Paul Audley, president of Film LA, which issues
permits for movies in the city, said adult-film studios have
applied for just two this year when typically the agency
receives 450 to 500 requests a year.  Neighboring Counties  “They could be just not getting permits,” Audley said.
“It would be very hard for us to discover if it was still going
on without permits. But we are hearing from neighboring counties
and even other states that the industry is filming there and
they are getting complaints.”  Location scouts quickly began exploring neighborhoods in
nearby Ventura County looking for suitable residential
properties. A homeowner can earn $100 to $200 or more an hour to
let a house become a temporary sexual gymnasium.  “I am in need of homes for filming in your area. The needs
are for very small 4-8 person crews that shoot 4-5 hours or
10-12 hours. It can be frequent if they like your house and if
its conducive to the owner,” reads one location scout’s
pamphlet found in Ventura County.  Linda Parks, an elected supervisor in Ventura County, said
she began receiving complaints this year from constituents
seeing and hearing naked people and sex acts.  ‘Fine With Me’  That prompted her to propose an ordinance requiring safe
sex during production of adult films in unincorporated areas.
The board approved the measure earlier this month and several
local cities have done the same.  “I don’t have a problem if it’s going to force them to go
somewhere else,” Parks said in a telephone interview. “If it
turns out that they can’t film in these residential
neighborhoods, that’s fine with me.”  Vivid Entertainment LLC, with titles such  “Sweet and
Natural” and “Sex Angeles,” filed a federal lawsuit in
January against Measure B, saying it violates the U.S.
Constitution’s First Amendment right to free speech. A judge is
expected to hear arguments in June.  The Los Angeles-based company says that the industry has
since the 1990s enforced a program that requires HIV tests and
that “‘high volume’’ producers mandate them every 14 days.  ‘‘No law-abiding adult-film producer would allow a
performer to participate in the production of an adult film
without a current negative-test confirmation, and no performer
would agree to film without confirming his or her co-performers’
negative test status,’’ Matthew Peterson, an attorney for Vivid
at Davis Wright Tremaine LLP, said in court filings.  Vivid President Steve Hirsch declined to comment while the
lawsuit is pending. He told a Ventura magazine in February that
sales dropped 30 percent after the company temporarily required
condoms in the wake of the 1998 outbreak.  ‘‘If you take a step back from the ickiness factor, of
course, there is a reason you don’t want to drive one of the few
really successful parts of the entertainment industry outside of
California,’’ said Jeffrey Douglas, chairman of the Free Speech
Coalition, the trade group for porn producers. ‘‘This is a very
good industry for the state of California and has been for a
very long time.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  