-- Primary Dealers Saw Fed’s Confusing Strategy Reducing QE Impact
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-23T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/primary-dealers-saw-fed-s-confusing-strategy-reducing-qe-impact.html
The 21 primary dealers that trade
securities directly with the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York ,
said that confusion about the central bank’s intentions for its
bond-buying program is reducing the policy’s effectiveness.  The dealers’ views were shared with the  New York  Fed in a
survey of primary dealers that the  Federal Open Market Committee 
reviewed at their April 30-May 1 meeting. A diversity of Fed
speakers expressing different views has left the primary dealers
unsure of the central bank’s intentions, according to the survey
results released today by the New York Fed.  “Some dealers noted that the dispersion of views expressed
by FOMC participants as to how the FOMC would make decisions
regarding the future pace of asset purchases has decreased
clarity around the program,” the survey said. “Of these
dealers, several suggested that the differing views on monetary
policy may reduce the policy’s effectiveness.”  Fed officials have yet to reach consensus on when or how to
dial back their $85 billion monthly bond-purchase program
designed to spur growth and lower unemployment. Officials have
publicly aired varying views on when the purchases should be
dialed back and ended.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  has called for
reducing the pace of stimulus as soon as the Fed’s next meeting
in June, while St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said
earlier this week the purchases should continue. The New York
Fed’s William C. Dudley said he needs three to four months to
assess if the economy is weathering  federal budget  cuts.  Rate Effectiveness  Asked to rate the effectiveness of the Fed’s communication
on a scale of 1 to 5, with 5 being very effective, four primary
dealers gave the Fed a mark of 2 and 10 gave the Fed a mark of
3. Only one institution said communications had been very
effective.  The primary dealers include divisions of some of the
world’s most sophisticated financial institutions such as
Goldman, Sachs & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and UBS
Securities LLC. The survey does not identify which respondent
provided which answer. As recently as December, 16 of the 21
institutions gave the Fed a score of 4 or 5 on the clarity of
their communications.  The median respondent to the survey said the central bank’s
$85 billion monthly purchase program will end in the second
quarter of 2014. The program is aimed at lowering the 7.5
percent unemployment rate until the labor market has “improved
substantially.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  