-- Princeton Expecting 24,000 at Reunion Amid Meningitis Outbreak
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-05-23T18:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/princeton-expecting-24-000-at-reunion-amid-meningitis-outbreak.html
Princeton University  is moving
forward with its annual alumni reunion at the end of the month,
and the New Jersey school is urging as many as 24,000 attendees
to take added precautions in light of a meningitis outbreak.  The most recent case is a Princeton student who traveled to
his home state and was receiving treatment in a hospital there
after he was diagnosed with meningitis on May 20, according to a
 statement  from the Ivy League school. No campus events have been
canceled, Martin Mbugua, a spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  While many colleges hold reunions for classes every five
years, Princeton draws thousands back annually. The May 30 to
June 2 gathering includes alumni-faculty forums with prominent
graduates. The school will also introduce its president-elect,
Provost Christopher L. Eisgruber, a member of the class of 1983.  The university urges attendees to pay “increased
attention” to personal hygienic practices during reunion events
in light of the diagnoses of three students and one campus
visitor over the past few months, according to a statement on a
 reunion website .  The first case was a student who developed symptoms of
bacterial meningitis after returning to campus from spring
recess in March, according to a  statement  from the New Jersey
Department of Health. A visitor to campus was diagnosed after
returning to another state in April. Another student was
diagnosed on May 7.  Bacterial meningitis is generally transmitted through
direct exchange of respiratory and throat secretions by close
personal contact, such as coughing, sharing drinks, kissing
and being in close proximity for an extended period.  More than 4,000 people in the U.S. are diagnosed with
 bacterial meningitis  each year, and the damage can be severe,
with 500 dying from it annually, according to the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention. Most cases can be treated
with antibiotics. Timing is critical, though, and many patients
don’t realize symptoms like nausea, vomiting and sensitivity to
light suggest they need immediate medical attention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  