-- LPS Deal Would Finish Round Trip With Shares at No Gain
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-05-23T22:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/lps-deal-would-finish-round-trip-with-shares-at-no-gain.html
Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) , the
company said to be in talks to sell itself to its former owner,
could leave shareholders where they started in 2008 if the
mortgage-services provider completes its round-trip journey.  Title insurer  Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF)  is in talks
to buy 80 percent of LPS in a $2.9 billion deal that values the
target at $33 a share, a person familiar with the matter said.
Thomas H. Lee Partners would take a 20 percent stake, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the talks aren’t
public.  Fidelity National reorganized in 2006, splitting off a
business called  Fidelity National Information Services Inc. (FIS)  In
July 2008, that business gave investors half a share of LPS
common stock for each Fidelity National Information share they
owned. The shares closed at $33 on July 2, 2008, the day of the
spinoff. All three companies are located at the same address in
Jacksonville,  Florida .  “Do the businesses make sense together? I think you can
make the case,” Brett Horn, an analyst at Morningstar Inc.,
said yesterday by phone. “But if the businesses make sense
together, why did you separate them in the first place?”  LPS rose 13 percent yesterday to $32.88, the highest close
in more than two years. Fidelity National Financial advanced 5.7
percent to $25.75, the biggest gain since August 2011.  LPS would operate as a subsidiary of Fidelity National
Financial, the person said. LPS has technology that’s used by
lenders throughout the mortgage process, from origination to
foreclosure, and may benefit from helping banks cut expenses
tied to home loans, said Mark Palmer, an analyst at BTIG LLC.  LPS Technology  “Instead of paper and people, which historically had been
the way the mortgage business was conducted, LPS provides a
technological solution that can help the banks save money,”
Palmer said by phone. “LPS looks to me like a very attractive
buyout candidate, if not a textbook LBO, given the company’s
consistently strong free cash flow” and low debt levels.  The company can benefit from an improving housing market,
Palmer said. LPS says its technology is used by lenders to
handle about 50 percent of all U.S. mortgages by dollar value.  The firm’s biggest customer is Wells Fargo & Co., the No. 1
U.S. mortgage lender, which accounted for 21 percent of revenue
last year, according to an LPS regulatory filing. JPMorgan Chase
& Co., the biggest U.S. bank, was the second-largest customer
and accounted for 15 percent of revenue.  Still, LPS may face headwinds because much of its growth
has been tied to a surge in delinquent home loans after the
housing bubble burst, Horn said. He estimates LPS shares have a
fair value of $28, excluding the effect of a potential deal.  Crisis Impact  “During the crisis they actually were doing very, very
well,” he said. “They lost on the origination side, but they
gained a lot on the default side. It’s tough, because default
got so big for them during the crisis.”  Title insurers like Fidelity National Financial and First
American Financial Corp. use their records and public
documents to verify a seller is a property’s true owner and that
it is free from liens. The companies collect a premium at the
closing of the purchase and pay costs that may arise if someone
disputes the new owner’s right to the property.  Fidelity National Financial Chief Executive Officer George Scanlon said in an interview last year that his company was
expanding in new directions after selling some insurance
operations at a profit. The company divested stakes in units
including a flood insurer and a property-casualty business.  “We’re taking that capital, keeping it as dry powder,”
Scanlon said then.  The insurer has invested in businesses ranging from
restaurants to auto parts. It announced an agreement in 2012 to
buy J. Alexander’s Corp. and take its dining unit public in a
deal valued at $72 million. It also agreed to buy restaurant
chain O’Charley’s Inc., valuing the target company at more than
$200 million.  Thomas H. Lee has been involved with the companies before.
In 2005, an investment group led by Thomas H. Lee and Texas
Pacific Group purchased a 25 percent stake in Fidelity National
Information, according to a  statement  on Thomas H. Lee’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  