-- PSG Willing to Pay $60 Million for Wayne Rooney: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-23T06:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/psg-willing-to-pay-60-million-for-wayne-rooney-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  $60 Million Man  Paris Saint-Germain is willing to pay Manchester United as
much as 40 million pounds ($60.1 million) to sign  Wayne Rooney 
and give him a salary of 15 million pounds a year after tax, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  The French champion has made Rooney its No. 1 off-season
target and will offer the England forward a four-year contract
that would put him on the same wages as Swedish striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic, its top-scorer this season, the newspaper added.  Moyes Considers Thiago  Incoming Manchester United manager  David Moyes  is
considering a 15 million-pound bid for Barcelona’s Thiago
Alcantara, the  Sun reported .  Moyes sees the 22-year-old Spanish international midfielder
as a possible replacement for the retired  Paul Scholes , the
newspaper added. Borussia Dortmund and Manchester City are also
monitoring the player, the Sun said.  18 Million-Pound Loss?  Aston Villa faces an 18 million-pound loss on its record
signing  Darren Bent , who has been told by manager  Paul Lambert 
that he can leave the club, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The value of striker Bent, who joined Villa from Sunderland
for 24 million pounds in January 2011, has decreased rapidly
because of his limited playing time this season and Villa’s
chances of recouping any more than 6 million pounds appear
remote, the Telegraph said.  Open to Offers  Arsenal will listen to offers of 5 million pounds for club
captain  Thomas Vermaelen , the  Sun reported .  The Belgian defender, whom Arsenal signed from Ajax for 10
million pounds four years ago, has lost his starting place to
Per Mertesacker and Laurent Koscielny and the Gunners are also
keen to sign Swansea’s Ashley Williams, the newspaper added.  Spurs Target Strikers  Tottenham is renewing its efforts to sign Brazilian forward
Leandro Damiao from Internacional and is seeking to pair him
with Valencia striker  Roberto Soldado , the  Guardian reported .  Midfielders Scott Parker and Tom Huddlestone, as well as
striker Emmanuel Adebayor, are among the senior Spurs players
available for transfer, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  