-- Passenger Trains Bump Along With Fixes Outrunning Funding
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-05-23T15:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/trains-bump-along-with-repair-needs-outrunning-finances.html
U.S. investigators looking into the
May 17  Connecticut  commuter-rail crash haven’t yet found a clear
cause.  The fact a broken rail became the most immediate suspect
speaks to years of deferred maintenance that have left trouble
spots throughout a Washington- Boston  network that carries more
than  700,000 people a day  and dates to the 1800s.  “We are eating our assets alive,” Joseph Boardman, chief
executive officer of  Amtrak , said in an interview May 21 after
testifying at a congressional hearing.  Tracks maintained by the intercity passenger railroad and
states along the most densely populated part of the U.S. carry
half of U.S. rail traffic. Amtrak now accounts for 76 percent of
the air and rail trips between New York and  Washington , up from
37 percent in 2000, according to the  Northeast Corridor
Commission , a body Congress created in 2008 to assess the
system’s most critical infrastructure needs.  Between New York and Boston, the share has increased from
20 percent to 54 percent.  “One cracked rail is making it extremely inconvenient for
thousands and thousands of commuters,” said Robert Puentes,
senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution ’s Metropolitan Policy
Program in Washington. “That has a drag on the overall
metropolitan region. This is an infrastructure that needs to be
brought up to a state of good repair.”  Ownership Hodgepodge  Unlike with highways, which count almost all Americans as a
constituency, and aviation, which is backed by the  airline
industry  and a powerful trade group, Amtrak -- the biggest
player along the 457-mile Northeast Corridor -- has stood almost
alone as it asks Congress for money to cover operating
shortfalls and maintain its tracks.  Formed by Congress in the early 1970s to take over
unprofitable passenger operations from freight railroads, Amtrak
owns the track between Washington and  New Rochelle , New York,
and from  New Haven , Connecticut, to the  Massachusetts  border.
Metro North Railroad and the state of Massachusetts own the
other sections.  The corridor hosts  commuter lines  in  Maryland ,  Delaware ,
 Pennsylvania ,  New Jersey , New York, Connecticut,  Rhode Island 
and Massachusetts as well as slower freight trains that add to
the wear and tear on rails.  1889 Bridge  Hundreds of bridges and tunnels are more than 100 years
old, according to the corridor commission. Five bridges in
Connecticut built between 1889 and 1907 need to be replaced,
with costs exceeding $1.6 billion, the commission said.  Portions of the electrical system date to the 1930s,
including Connecticut substations that rely on oil-filled
circuit breakers.  As service demands in and around New York increase, Amtrak
has less opportunity to spend time doing maintenance in the
area, Boardman said. The railroad can only take the six tunnels
under  New York  out of service for a total of 55 hours each week
to maintain them, he said.  Because Amtrak and commuter rail lines share tracks, delays
on one can cascade through the system, Connecticut state
transportation commissioner James Redeker testified at an April
Senate hearing. All major segments of the system are at or close
to capacity, making service increasingly susceptible to
disruptions, he said.  In last week’s wreck, a section of the eastbound track
“fractured at a rail joint” and is “of interest” to NTSB
investigators, the board said in Twitter postings May 18.  ‘Deteriorated, Decrepit’  “The NTSB routinely looks at what, if any impact
infrastructure may have had in the accident,”  Kelly Nantel , a
board spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “This is something we are
looking at in this case as well.”  The accident occurred in an area where a set of double
tracks had been taken out of service for upgrades, Boardman said
in the interview.  “What that collision or accident shows is our rail lines
are deteriorated or decrepit or outdated,” Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat, said yesterday at a
confirmation hearing for Anthony Foxx, Obama’s nominee to become
secretary of transportation.  The national railroad lost $5 million in revenue from the
time of the Connecticut crash during the evening rush hour May
17 through the morning of May 21, Boardman said.  6 Miles  “Amtrak in the Northeast can’t afford for this to occur,”
Boardman said about the bottleneck that resulted from the crash.
“It would be the same in the tunnels, it would be the same in
Penn Station, because we haven’t made the investments over the
years.”  Amtrak, according to a company fact sheet, spent almost
nothing on capital improvements in the 1990s, a period in which
it battled Congress over aid for a number of years. Starting in
2003, the railroad shifted from doing emergency repairs into an
organized plan to replace ties, rail, track beds, signal cables
and overhead wires.  An average of 43 miles of rail a year must be replaced to
keep the corridor in good repair, Amtrak estimates. For seven
years before 2003, it replaced 6 miles a year. It made up for
the deferrals by rebuilding 240 miles in 2004, then addressed an
average of 34 miles in the five years ending in 2010.  Amtrak, which is supposed to be self-sufficient while never
being so, asked for $2.1 billion in U.S. funds for its  capital
budget  next year and $212 million for debt service, up from $905
million combined in fiscal 2013, according to a March 27 letter
to Vice President  Joe Biden  and House Speaker  John Boehner .  Long-Distance Trains  Boardman has described it as a down payment on a $151
billion, three-decade effort that would lead to 220-miles-per-hour trains between Washington and Boston and create enough
additional passenger demand to make the Northeast operations
self-supporting.  Before that plan was unveiled, Amtrak wrote a $52 billion
Northeast Corridor master plan geared toward upgrading tracks
and infrastructure.  Congress over the years has focused on the causes of
Amtrak’s operating losses, whether to continue using taxpayer
money to offset them and whether to jettison Amtrak’s money-losing cross-country routes. A May 20 House hearing called
“Understanding the Cost Drivers of Passenger Rail” focused on
widening losses on long-distance trains since 2008.  Amtrak said today it was extended Boardman’s contract for
another two years, citing his good performance. Boardman, 65,
has headed the railroad since 2008 after serving as head of the
Federal Railroad Administration.  ‘Death Spiral’  Lawmakers may be operating under a mistaken impression that
dropping long-distance trains would enable a Northeast-centered
Amtrak to pay for itself, said Ross Capon of the National
Association of Railroad Passengers, an advocacy group.  “The NEC requires considerable investments just to stay in
place,” Capon said at the May 21 House hearing. “Without
federal capital support, the NEC’s downward drift would
accelerate into a death spiral.”  Representative Corrine Brown, a Florida Democrat, told the
House Railroads, Pipelines and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee
that airlines wouldn’t make money if they had to build their own
infrastructure the way Amtrak does.  Congressional underfunding has made a once-vibrant system a
liability, she said.  “We used to be the leaders in rail,” Brown said. “Now we
are the caboose, and we don’t use cabooses anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  