-- Rally Ends at U.S. Border as Mexico, Canada Trail
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g ,   E r i c   L a m   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/rally-ends-at-u-s-border-as-mexico-canada-trail-most-since-98.html
Mexican and Canadian stocks are
returning the least in 14 years versus the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, a break from a history of matching or beating the
benchmark gauge since the countries formed a free-trade
agreement in 1994.  Mexico ’s IPC Index has dropped 8.2 percent in 2013 and
 Canada ’s  S&P/TSX Composite (SPTSX)  is up 2.6 percent, compared with the
16 percent advance in the  S&P 500 . They’re lagging behind the
U.S. after two decades in which annual gains in Latin America’s
second-biggest economy were 12 percentage points higher and
shares in Toronto tripled.  Adoption of the  North American Free Trade Agreement  has
proved a boon for investors, tightening ties in Mexico and
Canada to U.S. markets and linking their economies. Money
managers from USAA Investments’ Wasif Latif to Franklin
Resources Inc.’s Stephen Lingard say the disparity is temporary
and that this year’s divergence will close as valuations return
to their historical norms.  “Over the long run, these markets tend to move fairly
close with each other and in tandem, so this recent divergence
will revert back to that long-term relationship,” Latif, the
San Antonio-based vice president of equity investments for USAA,
which oversees $54 billion, said by telephone. “The U.S. market
has done well, but when you think of the valuation and outlook
that’s priced in in terms of continuing growth in earnings and
margins, we think it’ll be under pressure.”  Commodity Shares  A  gauge of commodity shares  in Canada such as Teck
Resources Ltd. and Goldcorp Inc. has fallen 23 percent this year
for the market’s biggest decrease.  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, the
 largest company  in Mexico’s IPC, has tumbled 16 percent. While
record profits and Federal Reserve stimulus have driven U.S.
shares to records this year, stocks in Mexico have gained about
17-fold and Canadian equities have tripled since 1994, compared
with a 260 percent rally in the S&P 500, the data show.  The nations are part of Nafta, the trade accord passed
during the administration of U.S. President  Bill Clinton  that
reduced barriers to investment and commerce. Creation of the
world’s largest duty-free bloc  lifted tariffs  on the majority of
goods produced by members and gradually eliminated remaining
obstacles to investment over 15 years, according to a joint
government website.  While opposed by American labor unions, benefits of the
agreement have included a larger pool of workers for U.S.
companies and greater access to natural resources. Mexico and
Canada were bound more tightly to the world’s largest economy as
impediments to trade were eliminated.  U.S. Confidence  “You’d expect these two countries to follow more with the
U.S., but each one has its own issues,” Paul Christopher, the
St. Louis-based chief international strategist at Wells Fargo
Advisors, said by telephone. His firm oversees about $1.3
trillion. “Monetary easing has really helped regain some level
of confidence in the U.S.”  Canada and Mexico accounted for 16 percent and 13 percent
of all  U.S. trade  last year, according to Census Bureau data.
Trade to those two markets totaled $1.11 trillion, double the
amount with  China  and more than five times Japan, the data show.  For Canada, about 75 percent of  total exports  went to the
U.S. last year, government figures show. The U.S. bought about
80 percent of Mexico’s exports last year, led by oil, cars, auto
parts and flat-screen televisions.  Correlated Expansion  The three economies have expanded and contracted together
in 16 of the 19 years since Nafta was enacted, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Annual growth  averaged 2.5 percent in the U.S.
and 2.7 percent in both Canada and Mexico since 1994.  The same is failing to hold in stocks. While the S&P 500
reached new highs this week, in Canada, where commodity
companies make up almost  40 percent  of the market, equities are
little changed after gold and copper tumbled.  Mexican (MEXBOL)  equities,
where  America Movil ’s influence is almost twice as great as any
other stock, are at an eight-month low after programs to foster
business competition and bolster growth by President Enrique Pena Nieto hurt phone companies and builders.  Detour Gold Corp. and Iamgold Corp. helped lead declines in
Canada as gold and silver mining companies made up nine of 10
biggest losses in the S&P/TSX  this year , tumbling more than 49
percent. Bullion futures have dropped 19 percent in 2013, poised
for the first annual decline since 2000, after some investors
lost faith in the metal as a store of value.  China Slowdown  The slowdown in China, the world’s largest consumer of raw
materials, has caused a  bear market  in commodities from copper
to silver and iron ore.  Gross domestic product  will probably
expand 7.6 percent this year, down from an earlier forecast of
7.8 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report this month,
citing weak domestic demand. China producer prices slid 2.6
percent in April from a year earlier, government data showed
this month.  “If we see a strong revival in China,  Brazil , those areas
of the world that give a lift to resources, we could see gold
rebound and this divergence could be over in a heartbeat,”
 Andrew Pyle ,  fund manager  with ScotiaMcLeod Inc. in
Peterborough, Ontario, said by telephone. He manages about C$210
million ($208.6 million). “A lot of it depends on the outlook
for  emerging markets .”  In Mexico, the 16 percent slump in America Movil, which is
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , has accounted for about
40 percent of the IPC’s decline this year. The shares retreated
as lawmakers last month passed measures to boost competition
among phone companies to increase investment and reduce prices.  Government Subsidies  Homebuilders have posted the biggest losses in the IPC
after the government shifted subsidies to promote capital-intensive apartment buildings in urban areas over single-family
houses in commuter towns or the countryside. Desarrolladora
Homex SAB, Corp. Geo SAB and Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB, the
largest homebuilders, plunged at least 67 percent this year.  “There are several stocks that have a high weight in the
index that have underperformed because they could be hit by
reforms,” Luis Rodriguez, the director of research at Casa de
Bolsa Finamex SAB in Guadalajara, Mexico, said by phone.
“America Movil is having a rough time because their dominance
in the market will probably be challenged by regulators.
Homebuilders are having a terrible performance.”  U.S. profit growth is slowing after a four-year expansion.
 S&P 500 earnings  are projected to increase 9.2 percent in 2013,
compared with 35 percent and 15 percent in 2010 and 2011,
respectively. About 71 percent of companies exceeded analysts’
income estimates in the first quarter, while 52 percent missed
sales projections, based on data compiled  by Bloomberg  of
companies that have reported quarterly results.  Cheapest Level  The S&P 500’s valuation relative to estimated operating
earnings in the next year has risen 37 percent since October
2011, more than the multiple for the IPC and S&P/TSX, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Canadian stocks are trading at
14.5 times forecast profits, the  cheapest level  relative to the
U.S. in four years.  “People are paying a lot for safety,” said Lingard, who
helps manage $27 billion as research director and fund manager
with Franklin Resources’ Franklin Templeton Multi-Asset
Strategies group in Toronto. “In the next 12 months, if global
growth comes in stronger, then some areas where Canada is
exposed to a greater extent than the U.S. are just too cheap.”  The rout in Canadian materials companies has overshadowed
gains by nine out of 10 groups in the S&P/TSX. Technology
companies have led the advance in 2013, rallying 29 percent as
investors made bets that  BlackBerry (BB)  will be successful in its
turnaround with a new lineup of smartphones.  Merger Speculation  Health-care stocks posted the second-biggest increase, led
by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. The Montreal-based
maker of Zovirax cold-sore cream and Kinerase skin conditioner
has jumped 31 percent this year amid speculation it will merge
with Actavis Inc.  Mexico saw its first credit upgrade since 2007 this month.
 Fitch Ratings  boosted the country’s credit rating to BBB+, the
third-lowest investment grade level, from BBB on May 8. Pena
Nieto, the Mexican president who took office in December, has
pledged to push through legal changes to boost tax collection
and open the state-controlled  energy industry  to more private
investment.  “The reality is that the trickle down from the U.S.
probably takes a little longer,” James Dunigan, who helps
oversee $112 billion as chief investment officer in Philadelphia
for PNC Wealth Management, said by phone. “It’s still a weak
recovery compared with past recoveries but nonetheless, it’s
much stronger than the rest of the globe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  