-- Ranbaxy Slumps After Daiichi Seeks ’Legal Remedy’: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-05-23T06:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/ranbaxy-slumps-after-daiichi-seeks-legal-remedy-mumbai-mover.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , India’s
biggest drugmaker, fell the most in two years in Mumbai trading
after Japanese parent Daiichi Sankyo Co. said it was pursuing
“legal remedies” against former shareholders for hiding
information relating to U.S. investigations of the company.  Shares of Ranbaxy slumped 8.6 percent to 393.8 rupees as of
11:46 a.m., their biggest drop since May 2011. The benchmark S&P
BSE Sensex Index declined 1.6 percent.  “Daiichi Sankyo believes that certain former shareholders
of Ranbaxy concealed and misrepresented critical information
concerning the U.S. DOJ and FDA investigations,” the Tokyo-based company said in a statement yesterday. “Daiichi Sankyo is
currently pursuing its available legal remedies.”  The Japanese drugmaker agreed to  buy  a controlling stake in
Ranbaxy for $4.6 billion three months before the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration said in September 2008 that it would block
more than 30 generic drugs made at two of the Indian company’s
plants because of manufacturing and testing defects. Daiichi
Sankyo said it had made significant changes to Ranbaxy’s
management, culture, operations and compliance to correct the
past conduct which led to the probes in the U.S.  “The Daiichi issue adds to Ranbaxy’s legal woes and to the
uncertainty around the business,” Sarabjit Kour Nangra, vice-president for research at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai, said by
phone. “There will be some overhang on the stock.”  India ’s health ministry has asked the nation’s drug
regulator to review U.S. court documents that alleged Ranbaxy
sold adulterated drugs, a ministry official familiar with the
matter said yesterday. India’s biggest drugmaker on May 13
agreed to pay $500 million to resolve the U.S. fraud
allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  