-- Rand’s Nosedive Foils Prospects for Rate Cut
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-05-23T12:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/rand-s-nosedive-foils-prospects-for-rate-cut.html
The rand’s drop in the past two
weeks, the world’s steepest after  Syria ’s pound, is foiling
prospects for an interest-rate cut by  South Africa ’s central
bank amid mounting concern  inflation (SACPIYOY)  will accelerate.  The rand has plunged 7.2 percent against the dollar since
reaching a four-month high on May 3, surpassed only by the
Syrian pound’s 28 percent drop in the period among more than 160
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Forward-rate  agreements  due as
soon as three months rose 19 basis points this week to 5.07
percent, signaling the chances for a rate reduction this year
are diminishing. Similar contracts in  Turkey  have risen 6 basis
points and were unchanged in  Poland .  South African Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus is set to
keep the benchmark repurchase rate at 5 percent today, according
to all but one of 20 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg, as the
rand stymies efforts to spur an economy threatened again by
mining strikes. A government report yesterday showed consumer
prices rose 5.9 percent in April, more than economists forecast,
limiting Marcus’s room to follow policy makers from  Australia  to
Turkey in lowering borrowing costs.  “The rand usually ends up being a potential game changer
and this time is no different,” Carmen Nel, an economist with
Rand Merchant Bank in  Cape Town , said by phone yesterday. The
rand “changed the market’s perception quite rapidly on the
possibility of a rate cut.”  Wage Talks  As recently as May 3, investors were predicting an 80
percent chance of a rate cut within 12 months, compared with
less than 30 percent now. Marcus is due to announce the decision
after 3 p.m. in  Pretoria .  Wage negotiations in the  mining industry  have increased the
risk of strikes, threatening the economic outlook after
stoppages last year cut output by about 15 billion rand ($1.6
billion). Credit default swaps, which increase when risk
perception deteriorates, have risen 22 basis points in the past
two weeks, while the yield on rand debt due in 2026 rose 35
basis points, or 0.35 percentage point, in the period.  The rand weakened 0.3 percent to 9.5969 per dollar as of
2:12 p.m. in Johannesburg, extending its decline this year to 12
percent. The inflation rate rises as much as 0.2 percentage
point for every 1 percent fall in the rand, according to
estimates from Johannesburg-based  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,
Africa’s biggest lender.  Inflation Risks  “The balance of inflation risks has become more negative
over the past week as the rand has weakened significantly and
the annual wage round got off to a worrisome start,” Matthew Sharratt, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Cape
Town, said in a note to clients yesterday. “Inflation
expectations have yet to fully adjust to these negative
developments, implying upside medium-term risks for inflation.”  Inflation was unchanged in April from the previous month,
close to the top of the central bank’s target of 3 percent to 6
percent and above the 5.7 percent median estimate of 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Monetary Policy Committee
forecast in March the inflation rate will peak at an average 6.3
percent in the third quarter, before slowing to 5.2 percent in
the final three months of 2014.  The yield gap between the fixed-rate bond due in 2017 and
similar-maturity debt tied to inflation widened to 6.32
percentage points, the most in about a month, signaling
investors are predicting average inflation will exceed the
target over the period.  Growth Outlook  Marcus may be persuaded to overlook the rand’s effect on
inflation, given the weak outlook for exports and a slump in
 consumer confidence , said  Charles Robertson , global chief
economist at  Renaissance Capital  in  London . He predicted a 25
basis point reduction today.  “The weaker rand will offer some benefit to the economy
and an interest rate cut would offer some benefit to the
economy,” Robertson said in a phone interview yesterday. “This
is an economy that needs both.”  The government is forecasting economic expansion of 2.7
percent this year, less than half the 7 percent annual growth
that’s needed to reduce the jobless rate to 14 percent by 2020
from 25.2 percent currently.  The cost to protect South African dollar-denominated
sovereign debt against non-payment for five years using credit
default swaps climbed to 167 basis points yesterday since
reaching a four-month low of 145 on May 10. The swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent if a borrower breaks debt agreements.  The rand’s depreciation will limit the room the  Reserve
Bank  has to cut rates going forward, Stanislava Pravdova, an
economist at Copenhagen-based  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said by phone
yesterday.  “The domestic environment became a lot more negative,”
she said. “When the rand is under pressure there are
expectations that inflation could also accelerate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  