-- Housing Less Affordable in Vancouver, Toronto, RBC Says
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-23T13:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/rbc-says-housing-less-affordable-in-vancouver-toronto.html
Vancouver  remains the least
affordable city to buy a house in  Canada  while home ownership in
Toronto is becoming more difficult,  Royal Bank of Canada 
Economics Research said.  The costs of owning a detached bungalow in Vancouver take
up 82.3 percent of a typical household’s income, up 0.1
percentage points from the previous quarter. In Toronto, the
largest city in Canada, that figure is 53.8 percent, up 0.8
points, according to a housing affordability report for the
first quarter produced by Canada’s largest lender.  “The Canadian housing market cooled significantly in the
past year,” Craig Wright, chief economist at Royal Bank of
Canada, said in a statement. “There is mounting evidence that
activity is no longer weakening.”  A “significant nationwide price correction” isn’t
imminent as long as affordability stays within the current
range, Wright said.  Exceptionally low mortgage  rate s have been the chief factor
in keeping homeownership costs relatively affordable, RBC said.  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty tightened mortgage rules four
times in the last five years amid concern that overbuilding in
some markets could lead to a sharp drop in prices. The Bank of
Canada forecasts housing investment will be a drag on economic
growth this year and next.  “While affordability levels are manageable at this point,
we’d be humming a very different tune if interest rates were to
suddenly rise substantially,” Wright said. “Fortunately, the
likelihood of a surge in rates is slim at this stage.”  Across Canada, the costs of owning a standard two-story
home take up 48 percent of a typical household’s monthly pretax
income, while condominiums eat up 28.1 percent, according to the
index. Both figures are unchanged from the previous quarter.  The RBC housing affordability  index , compiled since 1985,
measures how much of pretax household income is needed to own a
home, including mortgage payments, utilities and property taxes.
A rise in the measure shows a deterioration in affordability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  