-- Real Gold Mining Says Unit Made ‘Irregular’ Loan Pledges
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-05-23T17:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/real-gold-mining-says-unit-made-irregular-loan-pledges.html
Real Gold Mining Ltd. (246) , suspended from
Hong Kong trading for two years after a report it filed two sets
of accounts, said its Rich Vision Holdings Ltd. unit made 18
“irregular” pledges of bank deposits to back loans.  The former sole director of Rich Vision had the unit pledge
as much as HK$317.3 million ($40.9 million) to Ping An Bank Co.
as security for borrowing by Huizhou Qiaoxing Telecom Industry
Co. in 2012 and 2013 without informing Real Gold’s board,
according to a filing to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange yesterday.  Real Gold discovered the pledges in March and hired
JunZeJun Law Offices to investigate the companies involved and
determine if the actions were legal. All the pledges have since
been released, according to the statement. Real Gold said it
appointed new directors to Rich Vision and removed the former
sole director.  The company’s shares will remain suspended from trading
until further notice, according to the statement.  Real Gold halted trading on May 27, 2011, after Hong Kong’s
South China Morning Post newspaper said the company may have
filed two different sets of accounts. Real Gold is required to
conduct an independent forensic-accounting investigation and
publish all outstanding earnings before it can resume trading,
the Hong Kong stock exchange said in a letter to the company in
March 2012.  In March this year, Real Gold said in a Hong Kong exchange
statement that 2012 earnings will be delayed until further
notice pending the conclusion of forensic accounting
investigation by FTI Consulting Hong Kong Ltd. Last month, the
company said FTI expects the probe to be finished by Sept. 30.
.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  