-- Four SAC Executives Are Said to Receive U.S. Subpoenas
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/three-sac-executives-are-said-to-receive-u-s-subpoenas.html
Four senior executives at  Steven Cohen ’s SAC Capital Advisors LP received subpoenas as part of
the U.S. multiyear probe into  insider trading  at the hedge fund
firm, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Subpoenas were sent to Tom Conheeney, president of SAC;
Steve Kessler, head of compliance; and Phillipp Villhauer, head
trader, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
information is private. A fourth executive, Chief Operating
Officer Solomon Kumin, also received a subpoena, the person said
later.  A spokesman for the  Stamford , Connecticut-based firm
declined to comment yesterday on the subpoenas.  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, also
declined to comment, as did Adrienne Senatore, a spokeswoman for
the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s  New York  office.  Cohen, SAC’s billionaire founder, was sent a subpoena last
week to appear before a federal grand jury, a person with
knowledge of the matter said earlier this week. After Cohen was
summoned, SAC Capital told clients in a May 17 letter that it
was no longer cooperating unconditionally with the government
and it would no longer be updating clients on the matter. The
firm expects “substantially more clarity” in coming months,
according to the letter, portions of which were provided to
 Bloomberg News .  The Wall Street Journal reported the executive subpoenas
earlier yesterday. Conheeney joined SAC in 1999 and was made
president in 2008, while Kessler started in 2005, according to
fund documents.  $276 Million Benefit  Villhauer helped SAC make or avoid losses of $276 million
on trades that led to the arrest of former portfolio manager
Mathew Martoma for alleged insider trading, two people familiar
with the matter said in November. Martoma has denied wrongdoing.  The U.S. has already linked at least nine current or former
employees to allegations of insider trading while at SAC
Capital.  The subpoenas appear to show the government is putting
renewed pressure on Cohen and hasn’t given up on attempting to
collect information about his trading from top executives at the
fund, said  Anthony Sabino , a law professor at the Tobin School
of Business at  St. John’s University  in New York.  “This collection of SAC people subpoenaed, especially the
head of compliance, would have to be brought in if the
government is doing their job to know what happened on these
trades,” Sabino said in a phone interview. “Cohen has got to
be fretting as to who are his friends and enemies.”  Deal Discussion  Cohen has discussed with the U.S. an agreement under which
SAC would admit wrongdoing without being prosecuted unless it
broke the law again, said a person familiar with his thinking
who asked not to be named because the talks were private. As
part of the deal, known as a deferred prosecution agreement,
Cohen would close his firm to outside investors and make it a
family office that manages his personal fortune. SAC Capital
probably would also pay a fine.  “The government is squeezing  Steve Cohen , they’re cutting
off all of his avenues of escape,” Sabino said of the new
subpoenas. “It appears to be a big show of force to Cohen to
tell him in no uncertain terms, ‘We’ve got you in a corner,
we’re now dotting our Is and crossing our Ts, and if you want a
deferred prosecution agreement, well we know more and this is
our deal.’”  Martoma was indicted in December in what prosecutors called
a record-setting insider-trading scheme that netted as much as
$276 million in illicit profits for the hedge fund firm. No
trial date has been set for Martoma, who has pleaded not guilty
to the charges.  Government Witness  In March, Michael Steinberg, a  fund manager  who works at an
SAC unit was indicted by Bharara’s office, accused of earning
more than $1.4 million based on illicit tips provided by his
former analyst, Jon Horvath. Horvath pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges and is cooperating with the U.S. He will testify
for the government against Steinberg, prosecutors said.  Steinberg, 41, who has pleaded not guilty, worked at SAC’s
Sigma Capital Management unit and is the most senior SAC
official to be charged in the government’s probe of insider
trading at the $15 billion firm.  On March 15, SAC agreed to pay a record $616 million to
settle U.S. regulatory claims that two of its units, including
one involving Martoma and the second involving Horvath, engaged
in insider trading.  CR Intrinsic  SAC and its affiliates settled the Securities and Exchange
Commission claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing. SAC’s
CR Intrinsic Investors LLC unit agreed to pay almost $602
million and Sigma Capital agreed to forfeit about $14 million,
the SEC said. They settled for a penalty about equal to the
disgorgement amount.  Settlement of the civil allegations against the units
doesn’t preclude the SEC from pursuing Cohen himself in the
future, George Canellos, the agency’s acting enforcement
director, said the day the accord was announced.  Four current or former SAC employees, including Horvath,
have pleaded guilty to criminal insider-trading charges,
including Noah Freeman, Donald Longueuil and Wesley Wang.  The Steinberg case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-00121, and the
Martoma case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  