-- Reporting Leases, China Bond, Consumer Bureau: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/reporting-leases-china-bond-consumer-bureau-compliance.html
Accounting changes that would require
companies to report more of their leases as assets and
liabilities may encourage businesses to structure shorter-term
rental agreements that could hamper the ability of lessors to
predict cash flows, according to  Fitch Ratings .  The  International Accounting Standards Board  and the
Financial Accounting Standards Board last week proposed rule
changes in an effort to improve transparency for a company’s
leverage, assets and risks to which it is exposed from entering
into leasing transactions. Most leases aren’t currently reported
on a lessee’s balance sheet, a system that has been criticized
for not fully reflecting a company’s finances.  The new standard, which is open for public comment until
Sept. 13, would require a lessee to recognize assets and
liabilities for leases of more than 12 months, IASB and FASB
said in the May 16 statement.  Compliance Policy  China to Tighten Bond Sale Rules on Local Governments, Companies  China will tighten rules on bond sales by polluters, local
government financing vehicles with higher debt levels and
companies in industries with overcapacity as the government
seeks to redirect the economy.  The National Development and Reform Commission, which
approves bond sales by entities that local governments set up to
finance projects, ordered greater scrutiny for bond sale
applications from LGFVs with asset-liability ratios above 65
percent and credit ratings below AA+, according to a  statement 
on the website of the nation’s top economic planner May 21.  China has been seeking to control borrowing by local
governments while stabilizing growth, on concerns that a
slowdown may trigger defaults and saddle banks with bad loans.
Local governments may have more than 20 trillion  yuan  ($3.26
trillion) of debt, former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said
in April, almost double the level disclosed in a 2011 report by
the National Audit Office.  The NDRC will also tighten its examination of bond sales by
companies with debt-to-asset ratios exceeding 75 percent and
credit ratings below AA+, according to the statement.  The agency will accelerate and simplify the approval
process for major state-level infrastructure projects and
industries given priority for development, such as alternative
energy, environmental protection and affordable housing. Bond
sales by companies with AAA credit ratings will be supported, as
will sales of debt backed by collateral from issuers with
ratings of AA+ and above, according to the statement.  The NDRC is responsible for approving bond sales by
companies that aren’t publicly traded, sharing supervision of
China’s debt markets with the People’s Bank of China and the
 China Securities Regulatory Commission .  Sanders Offers Bill Banning Bankers From Fed Boards  Senator  Bernie Sanders , an Independent from Vermont, has
offered a bill that would ban bankers from sitting on 12
regional Federal Reserve boards, according to an e-mailed
statement from the senator.  One purpose of the bill is “to restrict conflicts of
interest on the boards of directors” of Federal Reserve banks,
according to a copy of the  proposed legislation  on Senator
Sander’s website. The bill would also end the practice of giving
bankers a say in the selection of the Federal Reserve directors
who regulate them.  The bill is co-sponsored by Senators  Barbara Boxer , a
Democrat from California, and  Mark Begich , a Democrat from
Alaska. A companion bill was introduced in the House by
Representative Peter DeFazio, a Democrat from Oregon.  EU Leaders Tackle Tax Evasion as Luxembourg Resists Haste  EU leaders vowed to investigate “aggressive” tax planning
as Luxembourg continued to object to speedy action on an updated
information-sharing accord.  At a one-day summit in Brussels, the 27-nation bloc sought
to find common ground on hunting down tax dodgers and collecting
revenue to offset the recession. At the same time, they hedged
their bets on a long-delayed update to the EU’s savings tax
accord, which governs how nations share data on earnings from
cross-border accounts.  Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said Luxembourg was
“under pressure” to allow the EU to move ahead.  EU leaders gathered to discuss taxes and energy markets
against the backdrop of a struggling economy and lingering debt
crisis. Conclusions for the meeting sought to acknowledge the
EU’s many efforts to improve conditions in both areas.  “Negotiations will begin as soon as possible” on tax
deals with Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, San Marino and
Monaco now that finance ministers have signed off on a
negotiating mandate, the summit conclusions said.  BoE Wants U.K. Banks to Use Alternatives to CoCos, Sky Says  The U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority, the new
regulatory arm of the  Bank of England , has privately told the
biggest British banks it prefers they use methods other than
contingent convertible bonds to raise capital, Sky said, citing
unidentified people close to the Authority. This marks a change
from earlier support for instruments, Sky said.  Deputy Bank of England Governor  Paul Tucker  expressed
concerns, saying the trigger point at which “CoCos” would
convert into equity wasn’t being set high enough, Sky reported.  Bankers said setting the trigger too high will discourage
potential investors, Sky said.  The Prudential Regulation Authority declined to comment,
the newspaper said.  Compliance Action  Direct Edge Selects Finra to Provide Stock Exchange Surveillance  Direct Edge Holdings LLC has selected the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority to provide market surveillance
services on behalf of the Jersey City,  New Jersey  firm’s two
licensed stock exchanges.  The agreement announced yesterday in a joint statement will
give Finra, the brokerage industry self-regulator, surveillance
oversight of more than 90 percent of U.S. equities trading
volume.  Direct Edge is the 3rd biggest U.S. stock exchange
operator.  “This nearly complete view of market activity will allow
Finra to expand its role as an investor guardian by identifying
abusive activity across multiple markets,” they said in the
statement.  Court Ruling Puts Cloud Over Consumer Agency as Work Slows  A court ruling that cast doubt on the authority of its
director has hampered the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, slowing some enforcement, impeding recruitment of a
second-in-command and delaying joint ventures with the states,
people briefed on the agency’s work said.  President Barack Obama last year appointed Richard Cordray
director when the Senate wasn’t in session, the same day he made
appointments to the  National Labor Relations Board . The  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Washington on Jan. 25 concluded the NLRB
moves were unconstitutional, which could also affect Cordray.  The Obama administration has appealed to the  Supreme Court .  House Republicans  have said they won’t take testimony from
Cordray in the meantime. A Native American tribe has refused to
supply information about its online lending business, claiming
Cordray isn’t a legitimate director, according to three people
with knowledge of the matter. Candidates to be Cordray’s deputy
won’t pursue the job while his fate is unclear, two people
familiar with the search said. The court case has hampered
Cordray’s ability to find a permanent replacement for Raj Date,
the agency’s first deputy who left to start a consulting firm,
two people briefed on the search said.  The people all spoke on condition of anonymity because the
matters aren’t public.  The headwinds haven’t stopped the bureau’s work. Since it
was established by Dodd-Frank, the agency has obtained $425
million in restitution for consumers and has imposed fines
including $15 million on mortgage insurers over kickbacks. The
bureau warned banks about the consequences of discriminatory
auto lending, released data on consumer complaints and published
a study of payday lending.  Moira Vahey, a spokeswoman for the bureau, declined to
comment on specific enforcement cases. She said the agency has
“a broad range” of matters under way. Vahey also said the
court case “has not impacted” the search for Date’s
replacement.  She said the agency has “already joined state attorneys
general in taking enforcement action,” including one that
involved five states and led to a Dec. 21 court order against a
firm that unlawfully charged advance fees for debt-relief
services.  “The bureau is committed to rooting out practices that
harm consumers,” Vahey said. “We have forged and will continue
to build close partnerships with state and local law enforcement
agencies to further our mission of protecting consumers.”  For more, click here.  Interviews  Bernanke Testimony on Fed Exit Strategy, Economy  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testified about
the central bank’s exit strategy from its asset purchase
program, the U.S. economy and labor market, and the impact of
budget cuts on growth.  He appeared before the Joint Economic Committee in
Washington.  For the video, click here.  Merkel Says EU Sends Clear Signal on Tax Evasion, Fraud  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  spoke in Brussels about
European Union energy policies and tax evasion rules.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Pritzker Understated Income in Disclosure, Files Updated Form  Chicago billionaire  Penny Pritzker  substantially
understated a portion of her income in a disclosure form
required as part of her nomination to be U.S. Commerce Secretary
and has amended the document.  Forms released online on the evening of May 21 by the
Office of Government Ethics show that Pritzker earned additional
income for consulting work on hundreds of trusts, including
family trusts, beyond what she disclosed last week. The
omission, discovered by Pritzker’s financial advisers, was due
to a clerical error, according to Susan Anderson, a spokeswoman
for the nominee.  “It is a substantial amount and we moved to correct the
mistake as soon as it was discovered,” according to an e-mailed
statement by Anderson.  For more, click here.  Gensler’s Recusal Criticized in CFTC Watchdog’s MF Global Report  Chairman  Gary Gensler ’s recusal from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s investigation into the collapse of
 MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  was unnecessary and wasn’t required by
ethics rules, according to the agency’s internal watchdog.  Gensler decided not to participate after the brokerage
filed for bankruptcy in October 2011 even after spending days
leading up to the collapse monitoring the situation including
through personal e-mail, the inspector general said in a report
released in Washington yesterday.  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
report.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 