-- Rubber Declines Most in 3 Weeks as Drop in Oil Reduces Appeal
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-05-23T01:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/rubber-declines-most-in-3-weeks-as-drop-in-oil-reduces-appeal.html
Rubber declined the most in three
weeks as a slump in oil reduced the appeal of the commodity as
an alternative to synthetic products used in tires.  The contract for delivery in October lost as much as 2.7
percent, the most since May 2, to 282.5 a kilogram ($2,732 a
metric ton). Futures traded at 283.8 yen on the  Tokyo  Commodity
Exchange at 10:28 a.m., extending losses for the most-active
contract to 6.2 percent this year.  Oil in  New York  fell for a third day after the biggest
decline in three weeks as U.S. gasoline supplies unexpectedly
gained and crude stockpiles dropped less than expected.
Commodities came under pressure amid concern the  Federal Reserve 
will scale back stimulus efforts if the labor market improves.  “Rubber tracked losses in oil and metals as speculation
strengthened for a change in the U.S. monetary policy,”
 Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo, said
by phone today.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers the flow of
bond purchases will slow as the jobs outlook improves in a real
and sustainable way. He also said a premature end to its bond
buying would put the economic recovery at risk.  Thai rubber free-on-board rose 0.9 percent to 91.15 baht
($3.06) a kilogram yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 22,
according to the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand.  Demand for both natural and synthetic rubber will rise
about four percent each year over the next decade, Robert
Simmons, the head of rubber and tire research at LMC
International, said at an industry conference yesterday.  Rubber for delivery in September on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange fell 3 percent to 19,840  yuan  ($3,236) a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 