-- Russian Retail Sales Probably Grew in April as Unemployment Fell
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-05-23T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/russian-retail-sales-probably-grew-in-april-as-unemployment-fell.html
Russian consumer spending probably
continued to recover in April as the labor market improves and
wages rise, a sign the biggest part of the economy is helping
withstand the sharpest slowdown since a 2009 contraction.  Retail sales  probably grew 4.5 percent from a year earlier,
after 4.4 percent in March, according to the median estimate of
18 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Unemployment probably fell
for a third month, a second poll showed. The Federal Statistics
Service may report the data today or May 27.  Job gains and increasing wages are underpinning consumer
spending, which accounts for about half of the economy, and
benefiting retailers including  OAO Magnit (MGNT)  and  X5 Retail Group (FIVE) ,
the country’s largest grocery chains by revenue. A European
recession that extended to a record sixth quarter is pushing
 Russia  to become more dependent on domestic demand, with a
robust labor market and sustained growth in wages cushioning the
impact of faster inflation on purchasing power.  “Consumer demand will likely remain resilient, supported
by unemployment being very low,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief
economist for Russia at Bank of America Corp. in Moscow and the
top forecaster on the country’s retail sales and investment,
said in a phone interview. “The first quarter will actually be
the weakest point of the year.”  Russian stocks have suffered this year, lagging behind
emerging-market peers. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks had its
worst drop in more than a year yesterday, taking its 2013 slide
to 5.3 percent, compared with a 2.9 percent loss for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index.  Economy Slows  Gross domestic product expanded at the weakest pace in the
first quarter since the economy began growing again at the start
of 2010. Consumer-price growth accelerated to 7.2 percent in
April, more than a percentage point above the central bank’s
target range. That has kept policy makers from easing their main
lending rates.  GDP grew 2.3 percent in March from a year earlier, the
 Economy Ministry  estimated last month. Expansion in the first
quarter was 1.6 percent from a year earlier, according to the
statistics service, higher than the ministry’s forecast for a
1.1 percent advance.  The consumer and investment data will be a major factor in
shaping the Economy Ministry’s estimate for April’s GDP growth,
according to Clemens Grafe, chief economist for Russia at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Moscow.  ‘Calm Down’  “If April confirms March, then things calm down,” Grafe
said in a telephone interview. Pressure on the central bank to
reduce rates “significantly declined” after the estimate for
growth in March, he said.  Unemployment (RUUER)  probably fell to 5.5 percent in April from 5.7
percent the previous month, according to the median estimate of
16 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Real wages  probably
advanced 4.1 percent from a year ago, compared with 4.2 percent
in March, another survey found.  Fixed-capital investment probably expanded 2 percent from a
year earlier, following a 0.8 percent contraction in March,
according to the median of 16 forecasts.  “The data won’t be bad, and on the whole probably no worse
than what we saw in March,” Alexei Devyatov, chief economist at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by phone. “We’re
expecting the situation to improve gradually in the second half
of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  