-- MS Patients Choose Death Risk With Potent Drug Treatment
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-23T20:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/ms-patients-choose-death-risk-with-potent-drug-treatment.html
Kari Antin, a 40-year-old financial
analyst in Minneapolis, knows she’s taking a life-or-death risk
with every monthly infusion of  Biogen (BIIB)  Idec Inc.’s Tysabri.  She is among the 55 percent of multiple sclerosis patients
who harbor a potentially lethal  virus  that can be reactivated by
the drug, allowing it to creep from the kidneys to the brain,
where it destroys nerve-protecting cells. The risk soars after
two years of treatment. Still, Antin insists on sticking with
the drug she credits with restoring her health.  It’s a dilemma faced by almost 60,000 multiple sclerosis
patients worldwide who continued on Tysabri beyond the
recommended two years. It’s also new territory for Biogen, as
the number of patients pushing the time limit increases, and a
concern for prescribing doctors who increasingly find patients
resolute about staying on the potent medicine that reduces the
risk of relapse by 68 percent.  “I dread the thought of being in a wheelchair,” said
Antin, who has had only one relapse on Tysabri and just returned
from sailing a 50-foot catamaran with a group of friends in the
British Virgin Islands. “If the alternative is that I die, I
would rather that than lose the quality of life. To me, it all
comes down to personal choice and what you’re willing to risk.”  Most Effective  Tysabri is the most effective MS  medicine  available,
 generating  $1.1 billion annually for Weston, Massachusetts-based
Biogen. The company dominates the market for MS and its latest
treatment, Tecfidera, helped push up  shares  31 percent since its
March approval. That’s outpaced the 17 percent increase in the
Nasdaq Biotechnology Index and the 5.5 percent gain in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)  Biogen fell less than 1 percent to
$232.62 at the close in  New York .  While Tecfidera has shown none of the same risks of
Tysabri, it may also not control the disease as well. Yet with
Tysabri’s greater efficacy comes the chance of disability or
death caused by a brain infection. The two-year warning was
added to the drug’s prescribing  label  in 2011.  More than 2.1 million people worldwide have  multiple
sclerosis . The chronic disease develops when a person’s immune
system inexplicably attacks the brain, spinal cord or optic
nerves. Symptoms range from mild numbness or loss of
coordination to paralysis and blindness. The most common form is
marked by terrifying relapses were symptoms surge, followed by
quiet periods of remission. There is no cure.  Stopping the Descent  The goal of treatment is to stop the relentless descent
into disability.  “That’s something only the patient can understand,” said
Al Sandrock, Biogen’s chief medical officer. “They knew what it
was like before they were on Tysabri, and how they did on the
drug. We don’t have any good ways of repairing the brain right
now. All we can do is prevent MS lesions from forming and
Tysabri is very good for that.”  Uncertainty has surrounded Tysabri since its beginning. The
drug was pulled off the market after just three months of sales
in 2005 when three patients developed the brain disorder, called
 progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy . Two of the three
subsequently died. The drug’s effectiveness, however, drew
passionate appeals from patients and doctors that led regulators
to allow sales to resume the following year with strict rules
governing its use.  Now regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  recommend taking
Tysabri for no longer than two years. It is approved only after
other treatments fail and for patients with highly active
disease. All must enroll in a registry and are closely
monitored.  MS Relapse  As of April 2013, 347 people have contracted PML while
taking Tysabri, designed to block the abnormal immune response
that causes MS. The virus targets the cells that make myelin to
protect the nerves. PML also occurs in people with conditions
that suppress the immune system and make it harder to fight
infection, such as cancer and HIV. In those cases, it is almost
always fatal.  For MS patients, however, about 20 percent die from the
condition, with the remainder suffering from a range of
 disabilities  that have been likened to the worst possible
multiple sclerosis relapse. Intense MRI monitoring to catch and
treat the virus early seems to help limit the damage.  James Stankiewicz, a neurologist at Brigham and Women’s
Hospital in  Boston , always advises his Tysabri patients to come
off the drug after two years if they have antibodies to the
germ, known as JC virus. While he’s never run into a situation
where he and a patient can’t agree on continued Tysabri use, he
said he might have to recommend another physician if a
particularly high-risk patient insists on staying on the drug.  Increased Risk  “If they are positive, I’m not thrilled with them
remaining on the drug,” Stankiewicz said. “The risk is real.
In general, especially after two years, you get more and more
concerned with them being positive.”  Now that more patients have taken Tysabri for longer
periods of time, Biogen’s  statistics  point out the drug’s
increased risk over time. While PML was originally thought to
develop in 1 in 1,000 patients, the data shows a risk of getting
the PML infection in the first year of 0.05 in 1,000, jumping to
4 in 1,000 after one year or more of monthly infusions.  New medicines will eventually cut into Tysabri’s revenue
growth, including Biogen’s own entrants, said Marko Kozul, an
analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in  San Francisco . In March,
Biogen won U.S. approval of its first pill for MS, Tecfidera,
and sales have exceeded analysts’ initial  estimates . It is also
developing MS medicines with  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) 
that are more potent without the same dangers of PML.  ‘Great Problem’  “There are other drugs that are coming to the market that
might start to fill the void of alternatives after Tysabri,”
said Kozul. “As Tecfidera launches and starts to gain legs, we
have decelerating revenues for Tysabri.”  Biogen’s Sandrock said he considers that “a great problem
to have.” Just 20 years ago, there were no medicines for
multiple sclerosis. “To have multiple options, not just ours,
is a great place to be,” he said.  All PML cases have occurred in patients who test positive
for the JC virus, and Biogen introduced a test for it in January
2012. Still, about 2 percent to 3 percent of people can have a
false negative report, said  J. William Lindsey , a professor of
neurology at the University of Texas Medical School at Houston.
Another 1 percent may contract the virus each year, he said.  Indefinite Treatment  Patients who are negative can remain on the drug
“indefinitely,” as long as regular tests show they remain
unexposed, he said. In some cases, taking patients off Tysabri
can trigger a  worsening  of MS symptoms, he said. There is no way
to know which patients are most likely to suffer relapses after
they go off the drug, Lindsey said.  Some evidence, however, suggests the risk of PML doesn’t
climb with successive years of use, said David Clifford, a
professor of neuropharmacology at Washington University School
in  St. Louis .  The risk appears to peak after 24 infusions, when there
were 5.13 infections for every 1,000 patients. The number of
cases fell over each subsequent six infusion, until there were
2.54 cases for every 1,000 patients on Tysabri for five years.
Still, the data aren’t definitive since the number of patients
who have taken the drug for more than four years is small, and
the difficult choice for patients remains.  “I might have a greater chance of dying in an  airplane
crash  than dying from PML,” said Antin, whose doctor is running
MRI scans on her every three months. “I have nothing to lose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  