-- SABMiller Forecasts Improved Margin After Profit Rises 14%
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-05-23T08:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/sabmiller-profit-rises-boosted-by-emerging-market-expansion.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-largest brewer, forecast profitability to improve after full-year profit rose 14 percent as it sold more beer in  Africa  and
Latin America.  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization in the
year to March 31 rose to $6.42 billion, the London-based company
said  today . The median estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  was $6.46 billion. On an organic basis, which
excludes the effects of acquisitions and currency shifts, profit
rose 9 percent, matching analysts’ estimates.  The maker of Grolsch and Peroni expects Ebita margin, a
measure of profitability, to increase 20 to 50 basis points this
year, aided by new products and cost-reduction measures such as
more efficient purchasing, Chief Financial Officer Jamie Wilson
said. The company also plans to invest about $1.7 billion this
year, focusing on increasing capacity in Africa and  Latin
America .  “Trading conditions are expected to be broadly unchanged,
affording opportunities to grow our categories further,
particularly in developing markets,” the company said, adding
that it will raise prices selectively as unit input costs climb
in low to mid-single digits in constant-currency terms.  Largest Exposure  Brewers are tapping growth in  developing countries  to
offset tougher conditions in Europe and the U.S. SABMiller,
originally founded in South Africa, has the largest exposure to
 emerging markets  of its peers. Alan Clark, the company’s chief
executive officer, said today he was confident growth in those
regions will continue.  SABMiller  shares  fell 1.9 percent to 3,469 pence at 9:35
a.m. in London as the benchmark FTSE 100 Index declined 1.9
percent. The company has a price to earnings ratio of 25, higher
than European-based competitors Anheuser-Busch InBev NV,
 Carlsberg A/S (CARLB)  and  Heineken NV. (HEIA)   “Longer-term, SABMiller has major attractions thanks to
its high emerging market exposure, strong market positions and
strong management, but we think these are now reflected in the
share price,” Eddy Hargreaves, an analyst at Canaccord in
London, wrote today.  Annual group revenue increased to $35.5 billion from $31.4
billion. On an organic basis, sales rose 7 percent, exceeding
volume growth, as the company made “selective” price increases
and broadened its price range.  Pricier Beer  Ebita rose on an organic basis across all regions. It
gained 11 percent in Latin America even as softening economic
growth in  Colombia  weighed on volume. The company is seeking to
improve profitability across the region as well as to make beer
more affordable for lower-income consumers.  Organic Ebita rose 1 percent in Europe as sales of more
“brand and pack innovations” helped offset price cuts and
increased trading down by consumers in  Poland , where it sells
the Tyskie brand, SABMiller said. Competitor Heineken reined
back its forecast for annual growth in April after reporting
tough conditions in Europe as consumers cut spending.  Heineken also reported lower volume growth in emerging
economies including central and eastern Europe, the Asia-Pacific
market and the Americas.  AB InBev (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer,
missed first-quarter profit estimates and cut its predictions
for growth in  Brazil , one of its biggest markets.  SABMiller CEO Clark said today that growth across Europe
was boosted by innovation, though difficult conditions would
remain there for some time.  Latin America  “The fundamentals of economic growth remain strong” in
Latin America, he said, and he sees “good ongoing strong growth
in Africa.”  Organic Ebita grew 20 percent in Africa and 7 percent in
Asia Pacific.  SABMiller accelerated the appointment of Alan Clark as
chief executive officer in April after his predecessor Graham
Mackay was treated for a brain tumor. Mackay, who was due to
take up the role of chairman, is on medical leave as he
undergoes further treatment, and a decision will be made on his
role at the company once his medical condition becomes clearer,
Clark said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  