-- New U.S. Home Sales Rose to Second-Highest Level Since 2008
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-05-23T14:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/sales-of-new-homes-in-u-s-climbed-to-454-000-pace-in-april.html
Sales of new U.S. homes climbed in
April to the second-highest level in almost five years as lower
borrowing costs and job gains drew more buyers into the market.  Purchases (ETSLTOTL)  rose 2.3 percent to an annualized pace of 454,000
homes from 444,000 in March that was faster than first
estimated, the Commerce Department said today in  Washington . The
median estimate of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a gain to 425,000. The data included revisions back to
January 2011. The median selling price rose to a record on sales
of more expensive properties.  Demand for new and previously owned homes is sustaining
progress in residential construction that is poised to keep
fueling the economic expansion. Builders such as  PulteGroup
Inc. (PHM) , home-improvement retailers like Lowe’s Cos. and lenders
are benefiting from higher property values, lower  mortgage rates 
and a pickup in household formation.  “We’re moving in the right direction,” said Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , who projected a sales pace of 440,000. “It’s
pretty much consistent with an improvement we’ve seen in the
labor market and income.”  Stocks held losses after the figures as data showed Chinese
manufacturing unexpectedly shrank. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 0.7 percent to 1,644.18 at 10:16 a.m. in  New York .  The April pace of home sales was second only to January’s
458,000 that was the highest since July 2008. Economists’
estimates ranged from 406,000 to 440,000 after a previously
reported 417,000 pace in March.  Median Price  The  median selling  price increased 14.9 percent in April
from the same month last year to a record $271,600, today’s
report showed. The gain reflected increases in sales of homes
costing $400,000 or more.  Purchases (NHSLTOT)  of homes priced less than
$300,000 decreased.  Purchases rose in two of four U.S. regions, led by a 10.8
percent jump in the West. Sales in the South rose, while
purchases dropped in the Northeast and Midwest.  The supply of homes at the current sales rate held at 4.1
months. There were 156,000 new houses on the market at the end
of the month, the most since October 2011.  Sales of new properties, which are tallied when purchase
contracts are signed, are considered a more timely measure of
the market than sales of previously owned dwellings, which are
counted when a sale is final. New-home sales accounted for about
7 percent of the residential market in 2012.  Existing Homes  Purchases of previously owned homes climbed in April to the
highest level in more than three years, to an annual rate of
4.97 million, the National Association of Realtors reported
yesterday. The median price of a property rose 11 percent, to
$192,800, from a year earlier. It was the fifth consecutive
month that property values advanced more than 10 percent year
over year, the data show.  Demographic shifts are helping fuel growing demand. More
young people are forming households and retirees are moving into
new homes, according to Robert O’Shaughnessy, chief financial
officer at  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based PulteGroup, the
largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue.  “There is a limited number of units on the ground,”
O’Shaughnessy said at a May 21 conference. “In many markets
you’ve got below three months’ supply of actual housing
available for sale. So when folks are actually out shopping, new
becomes an even better alternative, being it’s one of the only
things around.”  Confidence (USHBMIDX)  among homebuilders improved in May as
prospective buyer traffic picked up along with sales, a report
showed last week. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder confidence rose to 44 from
a revised 41 in April, the Washington-based group said.  Mortgage Rates  The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage was 3.59
percent this week, down from 3.78 percent a year earlier,
according for data from  Freddie Mac . The rate reached a record
low of 3.31 percent in November.  Record monetary stimulus from the  Federal Reserve  is
helping keep borrowing costs low. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
yesterday signaled little appetite for paring the central bank’s
bond purchase program.  “A premature tightening of monetary policy could lead
 interest rates  to rise temporarily but would also carry a
substantial risk of slowing or ending the economic recovery and
causing inflation to fall further,” Bernanke told the Joint
Economic Committee of Congress in Washington.  Payroll Tax  Further progress in housing may be gradual as as Americans
begin to feel the effects of higher taxes that took effect in
January at the same time government budget cuts take hold,
Lowe’s Chairman and Chief Executive Office  Robert Niblock  said.  “The housing market continues to show convincing signs of
life,” Niblock said on a May 22 earnings call. “However,
growth in other key indicators, particularly employment, slowed
in the first quarter. We expect growth to remain modest through
mid-year as consumers adjust to higher taxes and the fiscal drag
intensifies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  