-- Sao Paulo Mayor Haddad to Triple Investment with Rousseff Money
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-05-23T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/sao-paulo-mayor-haddad-to-triple-investment-with-rousseff-money.html
Sao Paulo Mayor Fernando Haddad is
lobbying for federal aid to triple investment in Latin America’s
largest city to 6 billion reais ($2.9 billion) a year by 2016.  Haddad, former education minister under President Dilma
Rousseff and her predecessor, said the funds will accelerate
investments to unlock gridlocked traffic, reduce commuting time
and expand health and education. The mayor said he’s working on
adding bus-only lanes and smart traffic lights that adjust to
vehicle flow, and has a plan to build hospitals, day-care
centers and add low-income homes near the city center. To
prevent flooding, Haddad plans to restore buffers for rivers
that regularly overflow into main thruways in the rainy season.  Sao Paulo signed up for federal financing for 22.9 billion
reais of infrastructure projects under a $886 billion investment
plan Rousseff designed to spur growth in an economy that grew
less than 1 percent last year. Haddad said he’s building a team
to manage the projects. Additional funding may come from
refinancing the city’s debt with the federal treasury.  “My dream is to transform Sao Paulo into a city capable of
promoting development,” Haddad, who next month will host the
New Cities Summit on urbanization, said in an interview at his
city hall office overlooking the Vale do Anhangabau, a manicured
park once the province of colonial barons. “There are state
resources, there are federal resources, but we lack the capacity
to execute, and this is not easy to do.”  The New Cities Conference on June 4 to 6 will bring mayors
and urban planners from around the world to Sao Paulo, as well
as executives from General Electric Co. and Cisco Systems Inc.  Gasoline Tax  Investment in fixed assets in  Brazil  fell to 18.1 percent
of gross domestic product in 2012 from 19.3 percent in 2011,
according to the national statistics agency.  Sao Paulo currently spends 3 billion reais annually to
service its 52 billion reais of debt with the federal government
following a 1997 bailout. Haddad declined to say how much money
he expects to save from such a refinancing.  Haddad, a member of Rousseff’s Workers’ Party, also has a
longer-term plan to tax gasoline to subsidize public
transportation. The measure, which would require approval by the
congress and the president, aims to encourage more motorists to
abandon their cars in favor of subways and buses during daily
commutes.  “It would have an impact through better distribution of
income, and it has a deflationary impact,” Haddad said. “The
bus fares have a bigger weight in inflation than a single event
of increasing gas prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  