-- Scots Defying Osborne on Union Still Want His Rates: U.K. Credit
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-24T13:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/scots-defying-osborne-on-union-still-want-his-rates-u-k-credit.html
Scottish politicians pursuing
independence are determined to defy Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  by keeping the pound. They also want his
borrowing costs, which are near record lows.  “I would be expecting to be borrowing at the same kind of
rates,” Scottish Finance Secretary John Swinney said in an
interview in Edinburgh two days ago. “That assists in the
judgment that’s made about Scotland as a place to invest or a
place that would be a source of bond finance.”  Winning independence is the cornerstone policy of the
 Scottish National Party , which dominates the semi-autonomous
legislature in Edinburgh and is holding a referendum on Sept. 18
next year. The two governments are embroiled in public
disagreements about whether Scotland would be able to enter a
formal currency union with the rest of the U.K.  Yields on U.K. 10-year government bonds dropped to a record
1.41 percent 10 months ago as the  European debt crisis  worsened
and investors turned to places perceived as havens. While yields
have increased 48 basis points since then to 1.89 percent today,
that’s still about two percentage points less than the average
of the past decade and 46 basis points more than benchmark
German bunds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “That is wishful thinking,”  Stuart Thomson , chief
economist and a  fund manager  at Ignis Asset Management in
Glasgow, which oversees 68 billion pounds ($103 billion), said
by telephone yesterday. “In the unlikely event of independence
the reality would be very different.”  Currency Union  The prospect of the rest of the U.K. agreeing to a currency
union to enable an independent Scotland to keep the pound was
“highly unlikely,” Osborne said in Glasgow on April 23 when he
published a Treasury paper on the issue. The study said that a
joint currency wouldn’t work well without political union.  An independent Scotland can expect to be able to sell bonds
at rates similar to the rest of the U.K. because of the sound
financial management since the Scottish Parliament was re-established in 1999, according to Swinney.  That credibility would also appeal to ratings companies,
Swinney said at his office in the parliament, which legislates
on matters such as transport, health, justice and education,
while the U.K. government controls the purse strings.  In a report published in October,  Fitch Ratings  said it was
impossible to make any judgment on a possible rating because of
the lack of information about the terms of any potential
independence agreement.  David Riley , the author of the report,
declined to comment further when contacted this week.  Rarity Value  New sovereign borrowers in the  capital markets  can often be
attractive to investors, Jim Leaviss, a bond manager at
 Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s  M&G unit , which oversees 228 billion pounds,
said in a telephone interview two days ago.  “Rare names often trade at a premium,” Leaviss said.
“You should not automatically assume it would have to pay more
than existing borrowers with a similar  credit rating .”  Ten-year yields are lower than they were three months ago
when the U.K. lost its AAA credit rating at Moody’s Investors
Service, which lowered the country one level to Aa1. Fitch
stripped Britain of its top grade on April 19.  Economic Levers  The Scottish government wants independence to gain control
of all the economic levers to spend more money on projects to
revive growth. Swinney has control over a  budget  of 28.5 billion
pounds this year, mainly financed by a grant from the U.K.
Treasury. Total public spending in  Scotland  in the fiscal year
through the end of March 2012, the latest available figure, was
64.5 billion pounds, government figures show.  So far the SNP’s arguments haven’t found favour with
voters. Opinion polls show a consistent lead of 20 percentage
points for those wanting to retain the status quo and stay in
the U.K. The debate has centred on issues such as North Sea oil,
Britain’s Trident nuclear deterrent as well as the economy,
taxes, debt and the currency.  The devolved administration in Edinburgh is responsible for
about half of public spending in Scotland.  In 2011-12 Scotland’s budget deficit, including a
geographic share of North Sea oil and gas revenue, would have
been 2.3 percent of gross domestic product, according to the
Government Expenditure & Revenue Scotland published in March.
The U.K.’s deficit was 6 percent of GDP, the  report  said.  Borrowing Power  New powers approved by the U.K. government, which will come
into effect in 2015, will allow Scotland to borrow 200 million
pounds a year up to a maximum of 2.2 billion pounds.  “You could see a relatively stronger financial position
giving us choices about what we would do with our relative
strength and one option would be to borrow less,” Swinney said.  The Scottish government accepts that in the event of a
formal currency union that the  Bank of England , as the monetary
authority, would be able to impose limits on how much an
independent Scotland could borrow in a single year or how much
total debt it could have, Swinney said.  The pound has fallen 3.2 percent against nine developed-market peers this year, the worst performer after the yen,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  “Those are entirely legitimate and understandable issues
for an independent monetary authority,” he said. “Yes we would
have a limitation on our level of debt, yes I would envisage us
having a limitation on the level of our borrowing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  