-- Serena’s Paris Failure Sparked Run Back to Top at 31
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-24T13:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/serena-s-paris-failure-sparked-run-back-to-top-at-31.html
Serena Williams was in tears and at
one of the lowest points in her career, her earliest Grand Slam
defeat.  Beaten in the first round of the French Open by Virginie Razzano, the American said she knew she needed help to regain
her Wimbledon title. She had entered Roland Garros unbeaten on
clay for the season and was two points away from victory before
losing 4-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3 to the French player ranked 106
places below her on the WTA tour.  Three days later, Williams sought out coach  Patrick
Mouratoglou  at his tennis academy not far from her Paris
apartment. Since then, the 31-year-old has gone 67-3 and returns
to the French Open starting May 26 as the tournament favorite,
again ranked No. 1.  “I didn’t want to go home,” Williams said in an interview
last week in  Rome  regarding her decision to hire Mouratoglou as
a coaching consultant alongside her parents. “I needed a place
to train in Paris and I’d known him a little bit before, so I
asked him if I could train at his academy.”  With Mouratoglou, the 42-year-old son of former EDF
Energies Nouvelles Chairman Paris Mouratoglou, by her side, the
then fifth-ranked Williams lost just once more in 2012. She
raised her Grand Slam single championship count to 15 by winning
Wimbledon and the U.S. Open, added the season-ending WTA
Championships, and took gold medals in singles and doubles at
the London Olympics.  Wimbledon Struggle  Her loss to the then 29-year-old Razzano, when she
squandered a 5-1 lead in the second-set tiebreak, was her first
in the opening round of a major in 47 Grand Slam tournaments and
left her “really upset,” Williams said at the Italian Open in
Rome.  “I barely was able to get through my first three, four
matches at Wimbledon,” said Williams, who was today drawn
against 83rd-ranked Anna Tatishvili of  Georgia  in the opening
round of the French Open, which starts in two days. “I really,
really struggled in those matches. After that, I just had to let
things go, had to emotionally let things go and just play
tennis.”  Now the oldest woman to hold the top spot in the rankings,
Williams heads to Roland Garros on a career-best winning streak
of 24 matches after beating Australian Open champion Victoria Azarenka, a 23-year-old from Belarus, 6-1, 6-3 in Rome for her
51st WTA title. She’s the 5-4 favorite to win her second French
Open title, according to U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc. (WMH)  That
means a successful $4 bet will return $5 plus the original
wager.  Defending French Open champion Maria Sharapova, 26, of
 Russia  and world No. 3 Azarenka are both at 7-2. Williams
snapped the second-ranked Sharapova’s 21-match clay court run in
the finals of  Madrid  earlier this month.  If Healthy  Williams said she doesn’t feel she has a point to prove at
Roland Garros, where her only championship came in 2002, making
it her least successful major. She has adapted her game on clay
by sliding into her shots more and playing more angles.  “Hopefully, I can win a round,” Williams said. “If not,
I’ll just have a vacation in Paris.”  Mary Jo Fernandez, a former player and now the U.S. Fed Cup
captain, said Williams could surpass Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova’s totals of 18 Grand Slam single crowns and become
the most successful U.S. player of all time.  Fernandez said Williams is as eager to win titles as when
they first played Fed Cup together in 1999. Whether Williams can
surpass Evert and Navratilova and even tie Steffi Graf’s Open
Era record of 22 Grand Slam singles titles will depend on her
fitness, according to Fernandez.  “If she’s healthy, look out,” she said.  The French Open’s slow, high-bouncing red clay surface has
been the most difficult to crack for Williams because it
“negates her power a bit,” Fernandez, who is also an ESPN
tennis analyst, said in a phone interview last week.  Frustrated, Uptight  “More players are able to get in rallies with her and be
patient,” Fernandez said. “She wants everything to be going
perfect. On clay, there are going to be a few more swings, where
it’s not going your way all the time. When she gets a bit
frustrated, or someone stays with her, she can get uptight. And
she got really uptight in that match last year.”  Williams also may be affected by how long her 32-year-old
sister, Venus, remains on the women’s tour. The five-time
Wimbledon champion, ranked 30th, was diagnosed with the energy-sapping Sjogren’s syndrome in 2011 and has struggled during some
matches.  “She has some good moments, and whenever she feels great
physically, it’s not very easy to play her,” Serena said.  Fernandez said Venus’s condition must affect her younger
sister and frequent travel companion on tour. Venus Williams
wasn’t available to comment.  Retirement?  “They’ve done so much through the years together, and
they’ve had each other right by their sides,” Fernandez said.
“But when you talk to the both of them, there is no inclination
of retiring, even from Venus. Even if Venus retires, I still
think Serena will keep on playing away because she loves it.”  Serena said she’s surprised to still be on the circuit
herself.  “I didn’t think I’d be playing at this age,” she said.
“I thought I would be long gone, forgotten about.”  The key to her longevity and success has been to pace her
career, she said. Both sisters have tailored their tennis
schedules to give them time for interests including acting or
design.  “I feel really fit right now,” Serena said. “I’ve never
played 20 to 30 tournaments a year like some players. I always
played like 16, 17 or at the most 18, maybe. Throughout years
and years, slow and steady wins the race.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Rome through the London sports desk at +44-   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  