-- Seyfarth, McKenna Long, Duane Morris: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/seyfarth-mckenna-long-duane-morris-business-of-law.html
Seyfarth Shaw LLP hired Steven R.
Meier for its corporate department in  Chicago . Meier joins
Seyfarth from Jenner & Block LLP, where he was the co-chairman
of the real-estate securities practice and a member of its tax
department, the firm said in a statement.  Meier’s practice focuses on federal taxation. He counsels
clients on the design, implementation and disposition of real-estate investment programs, the firm said. He has worked with
public companies, private equity firms and entrepreneurs on the
tax aspects of mergers and acquisitions transactions. He also
advises clients on tax and business planning for tax-exempt
organizations and advises on tax controversy matters.  Seyfarth Shaw has more than 800 attorneys at 12 offices in
the U.S., London and Shanghai.  McKenna Long Hires Partner to Head Public Finance Group  Jon Ballan joined McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP in  New York 
as a partner. Ballan will head the firm’s New York public
finance group and will be co-chairman of the firm’s global
infrastructure and public-private partnerships practice. He was
previously a member of Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and
Popeo PC, where he led and developed the New York public finance
group, McKenna said in a statement. He is joined by an
additional attorney.  Ballan’s experience includes municipal and infrastructure
finance, public authority finance, stadium finance, economic
development, housing finance, project finance, government
relations, and privatization and securitization of public
assets.  “Jon’s addition demonstrates the firm’s commitment to
expanding our public finance group, as well as the New York
office,” New York executive partner, Gordon Giffin, said. “His
deep experience in varied areas of public finance is an
exceptional complement to our firm’s focus on the intersection
of government and business.”  McKenna Long has more than 575 attorneys and public policy
advisers at 16 offices in 13 markets.  Duane Morris Adds New York Corporate Partner Bruce Czachor  Duane Morris LLP said Bruce Czachor joined the corporate
practice group as a partner in the New York office. He joins the
firm from Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP.  Czachor focuses on representing investment banks and
corporate clients in capital markets transactions, as well as
advising clients with respect to securities law matters, the
firm said. He also advises clients on mergers and acquisitions.  Prior to joining Orrick in 2011, Czachor was a partner at
Shearman & Sterling LLP for more than 23 years, resident in its
New York, Silicon Valley and Toronto offices.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys at 24 offices in
the U.S.,  London  and  Asia .  McCarter & English Expands Corporate Practice in New York  McCarter & English LLP added Joseph W. Bartlett as special
counsel in the firm’s corporate, securities and financial
institutions practice in New York. He was previously in Sullivan
& Worcester LLP’s corporate department in New York, the firm
said in a statement.  Bartlett’s practice includes serving as counsel to asset
managers, including those of public and private equity funds,
with a focus on technology companies. His venture fund work
began with the first Greylock fund, and he has drafted documents
for several of the largest and most successful LBO funds,
according to a firm statement.  “Joe is the preeminent authority on private equity and
venture capital law, and we are honored to have him on board,”
McCarter managing partner Stephen M. Vajtay Jr. said in a
statement.  McCarter & English has 400 attorneys at seven U.S.
offices.  Baker Botts Adds Partner to Tax Department in Dallas  David I. Schiller, formerly a partner at Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP, joined  Baker Botts  LLP’s tax department in  Dallas .  Schiller’s practice includes advising on the tax, ERISA,
and securities law ramifications of executive compensation,
including stock based compensation, nonqualified deferred
compensation and employment.  “David’s comprehensive knowledge will expand our ability
to provide sophisticated employee benefits counsel on M&A
transactions and on executive compensation matters generally,”
Richard Husseini, chairman of Baker Botts’ tax department, said
in a statement.  Baker Botts has about 700 lawyers at 14 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe ,  China  and the  Middle East .  Winston & Strawn Hires Real Estate Partner in New York  Winston & Strawn LLP announced that William X. Lang has
joined the firm’s New York office as a partner in the real
estate practice. Lang was formerly a partner at Nixon Peabody
LLP, where he focused his practice on commercial real estate
transactions and financing matters.  “Bill brings a broad skill set and extensive experience in
commercial real estate that complements our existing platform
and enhances our ability to serve our clients’ in New York,
nationally and globally.” Michael Elkin, New York office
managing partner.  Lang has experience representing clients in the acquisition
and sale of commercial and multifamily properties, leasing of
commercial and retail properties, and borrower side financing of
commercial properties, the firm said. He also represents
commercial lenders in the restructurings of distressed assets.  Winston & Strawn has 15 offices in  North America , Asia and
Europe.  Cooley Hires San Diego Litigator Ray Hartman  Litigator Ray Hartman, previously with DLA Piper LLP, has
joined Cooley LLP in the San Diego office.  Hartman has experience in environmental, toxic tort,
product liability and real estate litigation matters, the firm
said.  “Ray is an extremely talented litigator with a
particularly strong track record in environmental litigation. He
will be a great asset to our clients, particularly those who
face challenges in the environmental area,” said Mike Attanasio, chairman of Cooley’s litigation department and
partner in charge of Cooley’s San Diego office.  Cooley has 700 attorneys at 12 offices in the U.S. and
 Shanghai .  Bingham Enhances IP Practice With Silicon Valley Partner  Bingham McCutchen LLP added Sasha Rao as a partner to
its intellectual property practice group and litigation area in
Silicon Valley. She joins from Ropes & Gray LLP.  Rao’s experience includes jury and bench
trials, Markman hearings, and International Trade Commission
investigations, the firm said.  Bingham has about 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  IP Lawyer David O’Brien Joins Haynes and Boone in Austin  David O’Brien joined Haynes and Boone LLP in Austin as a
partner in the firm’s intellectual property and technology
transactions section. He joins from Zagorin O’Brien Graham LLP.  O’Brien advises clients on focused offensive and defensive
analyses of intellectual property positions, including opinions,
assertion analyses and acquisition due diligence, the firm said
in a statement.  Haynes and Boone LLP has more than 525 attorneys at 12
offices in the Americas.  Firm News  South Carolina Firm Merges With Adams and Reese  Adams and Reese LLP  will expand into  South Carolina  through
a June 1 merger with Columbia law firm Ellis Lawhorne & Sims PA.  Ellis Lawhorne’s 23 attorneys will give Adams and Reese
more than 340 attorneys and advisers at 16 offices in seven
states throughout the Southern U.S. and in  Washington .  “Our firm’s strategic plan directs selective growth in
targeted markets, and from our first meeting with the
shareholders of Ellis Lawhorne last November, we knew our firms
were a perfect fit,” Adams and Reese managing partner, Charles P. Adams Jr., said in a statement. “From the outset, we
realized that our firms shared similar values, clients, and a
complementary practice mix.”  Sixteen partners and seven associates join Adams and Reese
from Ellis Lawhorne, including managing shareholder William P.
McElveen Jr., who will be a transactions practice group leader.
Robert P. Bethea Jr. will be the partner in charge of the Adams
and Reese Columbia office.  “As the legal industry changes and the business
environment for clients becomes more competitive and complex, we
want to continue meeting our clients’ expectations. We realized
that a merger with a larger firm would enable us to provide more
resources to meet the higher levels of sophistication that our
clients are increasingly requiring,” Bethea said in the
statement.  This is Adams and Reese’s second merger in 2013. In March,
the firm expanded in  Florida  by merging with Jacksonville’s
Volpe, Bajalia, Wickes, Rogerson & Wachs. That gave the firm a
fifth Florida office to complement ones in Tampa, Tallahassee,
 St. Petersburg  and Sarasota.  Rimon Hires Transaction Attorney to Open San Diego Office  Rimon PC added international transaction attorney Juan E.
Zuniga as a partner in the new San Diego office. Zuniga, who
joins from the Cross Border Law Group PC, which he founded in
2007, is joined by an associate.  The San Diego office is the firm’s 12th office and fifth
in  California . The firm, which opened five years ago, has
offices in the U.S. and  Israel .  Zuniga’s practice is focused on a variety of business
transactions, including buying and selling real estate, mergers
and acquisitions, overseas distribution agreements,
international joint ventures, foreign trade and commerce,
workouts of distressed assets, lending and investments issues,
the firm said. He represents American clients in their
investment in overseas properties and in establishing subsidiary
operations internationally as well as foreign clients in their
investment in American properties.  “Due to its complexity, cross-border transactional work
is frequently an expensive proposition. Many companies and
individuals have to shy away from expanding and taking on
international work because of the additional legal challenges
involved,” Michael Moradzadeh, chief executive officer of
Rimon, said in a statement. “Juan has shown a deep
understanding of what businesses need to do to overcome these
hurdles.”  Video  Stealth Lawyer: Ruchi Bhowmik, Deputy Cabinet Secretary  Rachana “Ruchi” Bhowmik, former deputy assistant to the
president and deputy cabinet secretary at the White House, talks
with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about her transition from
practicing law to working for the President of the U.S.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 