-- Singapore’s Expansion Reduces Pressure to Ease Policy: Economy
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-23T05:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/singapore-economy-unexpectedly-expanded-last-quarter-on-services.html
Singapore’s economy unexpectedly
expanded last quarter as services and construction strengthened,
reducing pressure on the central bank to ease monetary policy.  Gross domestic product  rose an annualized 1.8 percent in
the three months through March from the previous quarter, when
it grew 3.3 percent, the Trade Ministry said in a statement
today, revising an earlier estimate for a 1.4 percent
contraction last quarter. The median in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 1.2 percent decline.  While a global economic slowdown has prompted central banks
from  Australia  to South Korea to mount another wave of interest-rate cuts in recent weeks, inflationary pressures in parts of
Asia mean the next move by some nations may be to tighten
monetary policy. A Bloomberg survey showed China is more likely
to raise borrowing costs than cut them in the coming year,
Indonesia signaled a “tightening bias” and  Singapore  has stuck
to its stance of allowing currency appreciation.  “There’s very little slack in most Asian economies so as
the recovery starts to take hold during the second half of the
year, this slack would very quickly evaporate and that would
begin to build up underlying inflation pressures,” said Leif Eskesen, chief economist for  India  and Southeast Asia at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Singapore. “We do expect some central bank
action on that front.”  As Premier Li Keqiang grapples with credit expansion and
price gains, eight of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
this month project an increase in China’s benchmark deposit rate
by the end of June 2014, compared with two who see a reduction.  Tightening Bias  Bank  Indonesia  Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said in an
interview yesterday that the central bank is leaning toward
tightening monetary policy as a plan to raise fuel prices shifts
the focus to stability from growth. Vietnam central bank Deputy
Governor Nguyen Dong Tien said this week that officials will
find it “difficult” to cut rates further this year.  Economic growth in developing Asia is estimated by the
International Monetary Fund to be almost six times faster than
advanced nations this year, and increasing investor appetite for
risk has spurred capital inflows into the region.  The Singapore dollar has gained about 0.8 percent in the
past year. It fell 0.5 percent to S$1.2686 against the U.S.
dollar as of 1:25 p.m. local time.  Asian stocks fell for a second day.  Japan ’s Topix index
slid about 6 percent, the most since the aftermath of the March
2011 tsunami and nuclear disaster, as financial companies
plunged amid rising bond yields.  Gradual Gains  The Monetary Authority of Singapore maintained a policy of
allowing gradual gains in its currency last month as
inflationary pressures curbed scope for monetary stimulus. The
stance remains appropriate, central bank Deputy Managing
Director Ong Chong Tee told reporters today.  Consumer-price growth  slowed in April to 1.5 percent from
3.5 percent in March on smaller gains in housing and
transportation costs, the Statistics Department said today.
Still, central bank Managing Director Ravi Menon said this week
inflation is expected to be around 1 percentage point higher
this decade compared to the last.  GDP expanded 0.2 percent last quarter from a year earlier,
better than the 0.6 percent contraction estimated previously,
today’s report showed. The Trade Ministry reiterated its
forecast for a 1 percent-to-3 percent expansion in 2013. The
government today kept its forecast for non-oil domestic exports
to climb 2 percent to 4 percent this year.  ‘Improve Gradually’  “Although Singapore’s economic growth eased in the first
quarter, it is expected to improve gradually over the course of
the year,” the Trade Ministry said today. “Externally-oriented
sectors are expected to pick up in tandem with the gradual
recovery in external demand, while construction and key services
sectors such as finance & insurance and business services will
continue to provide support to growth.”  Singapore’s industrial output rebounded more than
economists estimated in April, a separate report showed.
Elsewhere in the region, a purchasing managers’ index showed
 China ’s manufacturing is contracting for the first time in seven
months in May. Thai exports probably rose at a faster pace in
April from a year earlier, while Taiwan may say industrial
production declined for a third month, separate surveys showed.  In Europe, a composite PMI reading may show euro-area
services and manufacturing output contracted for a 16th month in
May. The U.K. will release first-quarter GDP numbers. A U.S.
government report may show fewer Americans filed for jobless
benefits last week, while a separate release may say new home
sales rose at a faster pace last month, economists predict.  Rising Wages  Singapore’s  unemployment rate  is near a five-year low amid
a labor shortage as the government tightens curbs on the hiring
of foreign workers. Wages will grow at a faster pace in 2013,
the central bank said in a report last month.  “The tight labor market is the key binding constraint to
the central bank easing,” said Michael Wan, an economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Singapore. “Even if we do see
inflation and growth coming down, what they’re worried about is
that the tight labor market will drive up wages and wage
expectations, which could lead to runaway inflation.”  Singapore’s central bank uses the exchange rate rather than
borrowing costs to conduct monetary policy, adjusting the pace
of appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed trade-weighted band of currencies.  This approach to monetary policy is still valid and a
switch to a regime of managing interest rates will be highly
destabilizing, Menon said in a May 21 speech.  Manufacturing shrank 6.8 percent from a year earlier in the
three months ended March 31, compared with an April estimate of
a 6.5 percent contraction. The services industry grew 2.7
percent last quarter from a year earlier, while construction
expanded 7.3 percent.  “Services and construction will be the main drivers of
growth,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “With a stronger-than-expected recovery
in the U.S., there’s a strong likelihood that manufacturing
could surprise on the upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  