-- Singapore Inflation Eases to 38-Month Low After Government Curbs
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-23T06:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/singapore-inflation-eases-to-38-month-low-after-government-curbs.html
Singapore’s  inflation  slowed to the
lowest in more than three years in April after the government
tightened curbs on vehicle and property purchases.  The  consumer price index  rose 1.5 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 3.5 percent in March, the Department of
Statistics said in a statement today. The median estimate of 17
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was 3 percent. Core
inflation, which excludes accommodation and private road
transport, slowed to 1.4 percent from 1.7 percent in March.  Singapore’s policy makers have sought to contain price
gains by putting restrictions on  car loans  and introducing a
series of property cooling measures. The central bank last month
maintained a policy of allowing gradual gains in the currency to
contain inflationary pressures, while a report today showed the
 economy  unexpectedly expanded last quarter.  “The sudden drop is due to the government really stepping
up efforts to control inflation since this year,” said Joey Chew,
an economist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “Monetary policy
right now is in what I would consider cruise control. Unless we
have significant shocks in growth and inflation, this stance
will remain in place for the medium term.”  Singapore controls pollution and congestion on its roads by
selling a limited number of vehicle permits every year. The cost
of vehicle permits fell by the most in more than four years at a
March 13 auction after the central bank in February limited the
amount of money banks are allowed to offer for car loans.  The government has imposed steps to cool the housing market
since 2009, with the last round in January including an increase
of as much as 7 percentage points in stamp duties. Property
prices are stabilizing, Monetary Authority of Singapore Managing
Director Ravi Menon said this week.  Transport costs rose 0.5 percent in April from a year
earlier, after climbing a previously reported 6.9 percent in
March. Housing costs rose 1.1 percent last month, from a 4.1
percent gain in March.  The central bank forecasts price gains to be between 3
percent and 4 percent this year, while  core inflation  will be at
1.5 percent to 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  