-- Slovenia to Approve Debt Ceiling as Bratusek Vows to Tackle Woes
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-05-23T09:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/slovenia-to-approve-debt-ceiling-as-bratusek-vows-to-tackle-woes.html
Slovenia is set to approve a
constitutional cap on public debt after several delays as the
nation seeks to reassure investors and the European Union that
it won’t need outside aid.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek will meet leaders of
parliamentary groups tonight, according to a statement on the
Cabinet’s website. Lawmakers will vote on the debt-ceiling
proposal tomorrow in the capital, Ljubljana, which requires a
two-thirds majority in the 90-member assembly, Karmen Uglesic, a
spokeswoman for the legislature, said by phone today.  “ Europe  will be satisfied if we will solve our problems on
our own,” Bratusek told reporters in Brussels yesterday. “We
are aware of Slovenia’s bad reputation at the moment, and we’ve
decided the first step will be privatization, which will be
concluded by the end of the year.”  The Adriatic nation, mired in its second recession since
2009, presented an overhaul program to the European Commission
that will be assessed by the EU’s executive arm by the end of
the month. Proposals include a 900 million-euro ($1.2 billion)
capital boost for banks and a state-asset sale program, with the
creation of a so-called bad bank seeking to aid the economic
recovery by cleaning up bank balance sheets  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022, which surged to a record 6.38 percent a week after
Bratusek’s Cabinet was sworn in, jumped 11 basis points to 5.43
percent at 11:55 a.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The country had its  credit rating  cut one level by  Fitch
Ratings  to BBB+ May 17 on a worsening economic outlook and a
widening budget deficit. The fiscal shortfall will grow to 7.8
percent of economic output next year, mostly as a result of
efforts to recapitalize banks. Public debt is set to surge to 71
percent of gross domestic product next year from 54 percent at
the end of 2012, according to Finance Minister Uros Cufer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  