-- Soldier’s Death Sparks Immigration Tension in London Area
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-05-23T16:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/soldier-s-death-leads-to-tension-over-immigration-in-london-area.html
Residents of the southeast  London 
neighborhood where a 25-year-old British soldier was slaughtered
in a terrorist attack yesterday reacted with unease at what the
incident meant for immigrant relations.  Prime Minister David Cameron called the killing of Lee
Rigby by two men wielding knives and meat cleavers a “betrayal
of Islam” and warned against “knee-jerk responses.” In
Woolwich, the area where the attack occurred outside an army
barracks, residents said they were concerned at the effect it
would have on a changing neighborhood.  “We are worrying so much about the problem of
radicalism,” Saeed Omer, a 44-year-old resident of Woolwich who
is Muslim and originally from Somalia, said in an interview.
“Our communities will suffer.”  Politicians including Cameron and London Mayor Boris Johnson urged calm after ITV News showed footage of one of the
suspects, a black man with his hands covered in blood and
holding a knife, saying “We must fight them as they fight us.
An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Your people will never
be safe.”  London’s Metropolitan Police, which is investigating the
attack, responded to “small incidents of minor disorder” in
Woolwich last night. No one was arrested or injured, Assistant
Commissioner Simon Byrne said. The two suspects were shot,
wounded and arrested after the attack yesterday afternoon and
remain in separate hospitals.  Boston Marathon  The attack in Woolwich is the first actual, rather than
planned, act of terrorism since the July 7, 2005, bombings on
the London transportation network. Yesterday’s incident reminds
people of the dangers that remain around the world, from  England 
to the bombings at the Boston Marathon last month in the U.S.,
Muhammad Aslam, who is Muslim, said in an interview in Woolwich.  “It puts us in a very difficult position, with my name and
my family it puts us under tremendous personal and community
pressure,” said Aslam, who works for the local council about
100 yards from where the attack happened. “These are very bad
people in all respects and they have committed a crime against
humanity and against Islam.”  Fifty-two people were killed in 2005 when four Islamist
suicide bombers set off explosions on underground trains and a
bus in central London during the morning rush hour.  A local Islamic group condemned yesterday’s attack and
asked people not to react hastily, in a statement posted on the
door of their mosque about a mile from the attacks.  Evil Acts  “We do not and will never support such evil acts, and
strongly suggest that both of these men should be severely
punished as criminal and not as so-called ‘Muslims’ for the
crime they have committed, with full force of law,” the
 Greenwich Islamic Centre  said in the statement. “Let the
response of our nation be mature and thoughtful.”  The proportion of white Britons in London fell to 45
percent and to as low as 17 percent in some parts of the city,
according to results from the 2011 census. Almost every other
ethnic grouping, except those of black Caribbean origin, make up
an increasing share of London’s population, according to the
data, released in December.  Tony Northover, the landlord of the Queens Arms pub in
Woolwich, said the English Defence League, which opposes
immigration, met there last night. Northover, 35, said he’s
lived in the area all his life and it’s “completely changed.”  “The amount of immigrants that are here, the government
expect you to just get on fine and carry on as normal, but it’s
not going to happen when there’s so many different cultures and
religions,” said Northover, who didn’t know the EDL was going
to meet at the pub. “The mosque has been there for years, it’s
got bigger because of the amount of immigrants, more and more
coming in, but we’ve never had any trouble with any of them.”  Saeed, who said he is a trustee of the Islamic Centre, said
he had never seen the suspects before in the area.  “This is not an act of terror, it is an act of crime,” he
said. “It is nothing to do with being a Muslim. They are not
Islamic. They do not represent Islam.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  