-- South Africa Keeps Interest Rate at 5% as Rand Plummets
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-05-23T14:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/south-africa-keeps-interest-rate-at-5-as-rand-plummets.html
South Africa’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest  rate  unchanged as the rand’s plunge adds to
pressure on  inflation (SACPIYOY)  and wage demands surge.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the repurchase rate at 5
percent, Governor Gill Marcus told reporters today in  Pretoria ,
the capital, matching the forecasts of 19 of 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. One of the committee’s seven members
argued for a rate cut, she said.  “The current level of the exchange rate, if sustained,
poses a significant upside risk to the inflation outlook,”
Marcus said. “The MPC assess the current stance of monetary
policy to be accommodative. Given the risks outlined above, the
scope for further monetary easing is limited at this stage.”  The rand has slumped 6.9 percent against the dollar since
reaching a four-month high on May 3, the worst performer of 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, restricting Marcus’s
ability to stimulate an economy threatened by mining strikes.  The rand weakened as much as 1.3 percent to 9.6948 against
the dollar today. It rebounded to trade at 9.5679 per dollar at
3:26 p.m. after Marcus said the rand tended to “overshoot” in
both directions and has a tendency to retrace.  Borrowing costs have been kept unchanged since a half-point
reduction in July. Marcus said it’s premature for investors to
be pricing in a rate cut and the market “shouldn’t get ahead of
itself.”  Inflation Risks  The inflation rate rises as much as 0.2 percentage point
for every 1 percent decline in the rand, according to
Johannesburg-based  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  Inflation was
unchanged at 5.9 percent in April, close to the top of the
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range.  “The MPC is once again trapped in the middle, unable to
change rates,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
Plc in  London , said in an e-mail. The bank’s concerns “seem to
be increasing both to the upside on inflation and to the
downside on growth.”  Inflation is expected to average 5.8 percent this year,
down from a previous estimate of 5.9 percent, and exceed the
bank’s target in the third quarter, when it will average 6.1
percent, Marcus said. The inflation rate will probably average
5.2 percent next year and 5 percent in 2015, she said.  The threat of mining strikes ahead of wage talks is
clouding the economic outlook. Strikes last year that shut gold
and platinum mines shaved about 0.5 percentage point off the
economy’s growth rate.  Growth Outlook  The outlook for the mining industry “remains bleak with
threats of shaft closures and retrenchments, falling commodity
prices, high wage demands and a risk of protracted periods of
industrial action and further supply disruptions,” Marcus said.
The MPC is “increasingly concerned” about above-inflation wage
settlements, she said.  The central bank today cut its forecast for growth this
year to 2.4 percent from 2.7 percent and projected  economic
expansion  of 3.5 percent in 2014, down from 3.7 percent.  “Domestic growth prospects remain fragile amid low
 consumer confidence , continued output disruptions in the mining
sector, electricity supply constraints and a weak global
environment,” Marcus said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  