-- Statoil’s Castberg Oil Project Undermined by Norway Tax Increase
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-05-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/statoil-s-castberg-oil-project-undermined-by-norway-tax-increase.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s biggest energy
company, said its plans for the Johan Castberg oilfield in the
Barents Sea are being undermined by unexpected regulatory
changes that threaten to limit development in the far north.  Castberg , consisting of the twin Skrugard and Havis
discoveries, will now “be a bit more challenging,” Oeystein Michelsen, executive vice president for development and
production in Norway, said in an interview in Bergen yesterday.
The project, located about 240 kilometers (150 miles) off the
coast of Hammerfest in northern Norway, needs new infrastructure
and was already a challenge in terms of costs, he said.  Norway, Western Europe’s largest oil and gas producer, is
trying to boost oil and gas production by expanding off its
northern coast as output falls from maturing fields in the  North
Sea . The government has drawn criticism from energy producers,
including Statoil,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , after
announcing a surprise increase in taxes on companies.  “Everything is becoming a bit more challenging, a bit more
difficult to bring onwards,” Michelsen said. The tax increase
“will definitely stop the most marginal projects,” he said.  Norway will limit the tax-deductible component of petroleum
income so that a so-called uplift on cash flow is cut to 22
percent from 30 percent, the government said on May 5. It will
also raise its special petroleum tax to 51 percent from 50
percent, keeping a top tax rate of 78 percent. The increase will
raise total oil industry taxes by about 3 billion kroner ($520
million) a year, it said.  Rekindle Interest  That decision has been criticised by Statoil CEO Helge Lund, who said a stable political and regulatory environment has
been Norway’s “most important competitive advantage” during
the past 20 years.  The changes will cut Statoil’s operating  cash flow  by less
than 500 million kroner this year and increase to “full
effect” after four to five years. It will also reduce  tax
deductions  by 38 million kroner for 1 billion kroner invested,
the Stavanger-based company has said.  Statoil, which operates about 80 percent of Norway’s oil
and natural gas production, has said it will spend more than 80
billion kroner ($13.8 billion) with Petoro AS and Eni SpA to
develop the Skrugard and Havis fields. Plans include a 280-kilometer pipeline and the region’s first oil terminal at
Veidned, which will be able to handle additional volumes.  The Castberg project, which may hold as much as 600 million
barrels of recoverable crude, has helped rekindle interest in
the  Barents Sea  after a decade of disappointing results.  Less Attractive  At least 12 wells will be drilled there this year, the same
number as the previous two years combined, as explorers seek to
unlock an estimated 6 billion barrels of oil equivalent thought
to be contained beneath its seabed.  Statoil, which operates about 80 percent of Norway’s oil
and gas production, is leading the charge into the Barents, and
has said it plans to drill nine wells in there in the space of
about 12 months.  Whether Norway’s tax plans will reduce the attractiveness
of the Barents Sea, already “a very high cost region,” will
depend on  oil prices  and the success of future exploration
there, Michelsen said.  Statoil, based in Stavanger, is Castberg’s operator with a
50 percent stake. Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  has 30 percent, and Petoro AS,
which manages Norway’s direct stakes in its oil and gas fields,
has 20 percent. Statoil plans to submit a plan for development
and operation to the government for approval next year before
starting production in 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  