-- Strained Franco-German Ties Worry Merkel Party Saarland Premier
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2013-05-23T11:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/strained-franco-german-ties-worry-merkel-party-saarland-premier.html
A regional leader of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s  Christian Democratic Union  said she’s
worried about a “problematic” relationship with  France  because
both nations remain the hub of the European Union.  “It saddens me that relations are strained,” Saarland
state Prime Minister Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, a member of the
executive committee of the CDU, said in a May 16 interview in
Saarbruecken.  French President  Francois Hollande ’s Socialists attacked
Merkel’s austerity policies in a paper last month, a move that
CDU lawmaker Andreas Schockenhoff termed “inappropriate.”
Hollande, who campaigned against Merkel-influenced austerity,
has pushed against her policies at the EU level. Germany and
France are the biggest economies in the 27-nation EU.  “All our past experience in the European Union has shown
that  Germany  and France remain the decisive axis,” Kramp-Karrenbauer, whose state borders France and Luxembourg, said in
the interview. “The better this axis functions, the better the
developments for all of  Europe . It’s not an axis that excludes
others but one that takes them in.”  Merkel and Hollande are open about the discord in their
relationship.  The German leader told a panel discussion in Berlin on May
16 that her relationship with Hollande suffers from some
differences.  Diverging Views  Hollande, in an March 28 interview with France 2
television, said: “As you know, Mrs. Merkel and I do not always
share the same views.” He said that while governments need to
be “rigorous” in controlling budget deficits, further
austerity will hurt economic growth and feed populist political
parties across Europe.  The two leaders are due to meet in Paris May 30.  Merkel, whose close ties with former French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  led the pair to be dubbed “Merkozy,” got off
to a poor start with Hollande after she backed Sarkozy in his
unsuccessful bid for a second term against Hollande. The French
leader returned the favor by hosting Merkel’s Social Democratic
challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck , for talks in Paris on April 5. It
was a public signal that she won’t get his support in German
elections on Sept. 22.  Kramp-Karrenbauer, who speaks French and said she continues
to take lessons to improve her command of the language, said
she’s worried that the current political generation may fail to
preserve “the legacy of those who under truly difficult
conditions put German-French friendship on course” after World
War II.  Saarland, which has been swapped between France and Germany
as war booty, is the birthplace of the European integration
project through the  European Coal and Steel Community  that
emerged from World War II and culminated in monetary union and
the introduction of euro bank notes in 2002.  “I really hope that things will function more smoothly
when the political situation is cleared up after the German
elections,” Kramp-Karrenbauer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  