-- Suez Environnement Protected From Hostile Bid, Mestrallet Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-05-23T16:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/suez-environnement-protected-from-hostile-bid-mestrallet-says.html
Suez Environnement (SEV)  is “sheltered”
from a hostile takeover offer even though a shareholder pact
will expire in less than two months, Chairman Gerard Mestrallet
told investors today.  “The risks of a hostile bid in this sector are quite
limited,” said Mestrallet, who also heads  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, which
owns 34 percent of Suez Environnement. GDF Suez “intends to
keep its shares.”  A five-year shareholder pact put in place for the creation
of Suez Environnement in 2008 will run out July 1. Under the
pact, a group of investors controlling about 12 percent of Suez
Environnement had first refusal on holdings offered for sale.
The group includes Areva SA, Caisse des Depots et Consignations,
Belgian billionaire  Albert Frere ’s Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA,
Group CNP Assurances and Sofina.  The “pre-emptive rights” were designed to give the deal
members “elements to strengthen their control of the company,”
Mestrallet said at the time. Under the terms, if the major Suez
shareholders wanted to sell their shares, GDF Suez had the right
to buy them and if it refused, Suez Environnement would have
been next in line to acquire them.  Public contracts for water and waste services often contain
clauses under which they can be cancelled in the event of a
change of control of a utility, Mestrallet said today.  “I think this makes the group sufficiently sheltered from
a hostile operation,” he said. “The end of the shareholders’
pact won’t put the breaks on Suez Environnement growth.”  Suez Environnement, Europe’s second-biggest water company,
reported last month first-quarter profit remained almost
unchanged because of a “particularly difficult” economic
environment.  The utility said waste-treatment revenue dropped 5.3
percent as the economic crisis in Europe continued to shrink
volumes. The utility, together with larger rival  Veolia
Environnement SA (VIE) , has seen demand for industrial waste
collection slide after manufacturers reduced factory output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 