-- Swiss Bank Sees U.S. Fine as Part of Deferred Prosecution Deal
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-05-23T12:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/swiss-bank-sees-u-s-fine-as-part-of-deferred-prosecution-deal.html
Zuercher Kantonalbank, the biggest
Swiss cantonal bank, expects to pay a fine to U.S. authorities
as part of a deferred prosecution agreement for its alleged role
in helping Americans evade taxes.  “The bank will have to negotiate a DPA separately with the
American authorities, which will also contain a fine,” Urs Ackerman, a spokesman for Zurich-based ZKB, said today in an e-mailed response to questions.  ZKB may have to pay a fine of as much as 720 million Swiss
francs ($744 million) to U.S. authorities for managing money for
Americans who dodged taxes, Tages-Anzeiger reported today
without saying where it got the information. Swiss banks may pay
the equivalent of 20 percent to 40 percent of the undeclared
assets they managed for Americans, the newspaper said.  Switzerland , the biggest haven for  offshore wealth , has
been in talks with the U.S. for more than two years to resolve a
Justice Department investigation of at least 13 financial firms
that allegedly helped Americans hide money from the  Internal
Revenue Service . Switzerland wants to prevent another Swiss bank
from being indicted after Wegelin & Co. pleaded guilty in a
Manhattan federal court in January to conspiring to help conceal
more than $1.2 billion from the IRS.  UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution in 2009 by
paying $780 million, admitting it fostered  tax evasion  and
giving the IRS data on more than 250 accounts. That deferred
prosecution agreement and the handover by UBS of a further 4,450
accounts, in the face of Swiss laws barring most disclosures of
client data, set a precedent for current negotiations.  Negotiating Settlement  Deferred prosecution agreements for individual Swiss banks
may only follow a general accord between Switzerland and the
U.S., which would provide the framework for the handover of
client account data.  Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said on May
17 that the signing of an agreement with the U.S. was imminent,
Tages-Anzeiger reported two days ago, citing comments made at a
meeting of political party heads.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank,
set aside 295 million francs for U.S. tax matters in the third
quarter of 2011.  Julius Baer , the country’s third-biggest wealth
manager, has said the cost of the investigation isn’t “reliably
assessable.” HSBC Holdings Plc’s Swiss private bank said last
year that fines and penalties relating to a tax-evasion probe by
the U.S. “could be significant.”  ZKB, which is fully owned by the canton of Zurich, has
previously said it is cooperating with U.S. authorities.  Of the 16.4 billion francs in net new money inflows in
2008, when some American clients switched from banks that were
under U.S. scrutiny, a “low-single-digit” percentage was from
U.S. clients, ZKB Chief Executive Officer Martin Scholl said in
February 2012. ZKB exited its business with American clients in
2009, the bank has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  