-- U.K. Economy Grows 0.3% on Inventories, Consumer Spending
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-23T10:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/u-k-economy-grows-0-3-on-inventories-consumer-spending-1-.html
Britain’s economy resumed growth in
the first quarter as companies built up stocks and  consumer
spending  increased, offsetting a drop in exports.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent in the period,
matching an estimate published on April 25, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in  London . Inventories increased
by 2.5 billion pounds ($3.8 billion) in the quarter, adding 0.4
percentage point to GDP. Consumer spending rose 0.1 percent,
while exports and business investment fell.  The economy’s return to growth, along with a strengthening
of some surveys, prompted  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
to say this month that a recovery is now “in sight.” Still,
retail sales dropped in April, and the International Monetary
Fund said yesterday the economy remains “a long way from a
strong and sustainable recovery.”  “The breakdown of the data is rather disappointing and not
that supportive to hopes that the economy is establishing a
firmer footing,”  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global
Insight, said in a research note. “The Bank of England will
sooner or later undertake more stimulative action to help the
economy.”  The growth in  consumer spending  in the three months through
March added 0.1 percentage point to GDP. Still, it was the
weakest since the third quarter of 2011, when it dropped 0.1
percent.  Export Weakness  Exports declined 0.8 percent, outpacing a 0.5 percent drop
in imports, and net trade subtracted 0.1 percentage point from
GDP, the statistics office said.  Government spending  was
unchanged, while gross fixed capital formation fell 0.8 percent.
Business investment fell 0.4 percent from the previous quarter
and increased 0.7 percent from a year earlier.  Today’s report also showed that production and services
were unrevised from the initial estimate published last month.
Construction fell 2.4 percent, less than the previously reported
2.5 percent.  In a separate report, the statistics office said its  index
of services  increased 0.6 percent in the first quarter from the
previous three months. In March, services grew 0.2 percent. The
ONS said there was “little evidence” that cold weather during
the month had a significant effect on  service industries .  The  median forecast  of 33 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 0.3 percent increase in GDP in the first
quarter. From a year earlier, GDP increased 0.6 percent.  The pound rose against the dollar and traded at $1.5078 as
of 11:06 a.m. London time, up 0.2 percent from yesterday.  IMF Outlook  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that Britain
should stay focused on policies to foster economic growth and
keep monetary policy loose.  The BOE said this month that the main risks to the U.K.
“continue to emanate from abroad.” In  China  today, a report
showed that  manufacturing  shrank in May for the first time in
seven months, adding to signs that growth is losing steam. Euro-area manufacturing also contracted this month.  The 17-nation euro-region economy shrank 0.2 percent in the
January-March period, extending its recession to a sixth
quarter. The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.5 percent annualized rate
in the first quarter, less than economists forecast, according
to preliminary data on April 26. The Commerce Department will
publish its second estimate on May 30.  The BOE kept its  bond-purchase program  unchanged at 375
billion pounds this month and its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent. Minutes of the May 8-9 meeting
released yesterday showed a majority of officials cautioned
against the danger of stoking inflation expectations. King, who
will retire at the end of next month, was in the minority
pushing for more stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  