-- U.S. House Prices Rose 7.2% in Year Through March
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-05-23T13:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/u-s-house-prices-rose-7-2-in-year-through-march.html
U.S. house  prices rose  7.2 percent in
the year through March, the biggest gain since May 2006, the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  said.  Prices  increased  1.3 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis
from February, the FHFA said in a report today from  Washington .
The average economist estimate was for a 0.8 percent gain,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Home prices are climbing as  job growth  and  low mortgage
rates  fuel demand for a tight  inventory  of listings.  Sales (ETSLTOTL)  of
previously owned U.S. homes rose in April to the highest level
in more than three years as the housing recovery gained
momentum, the National Association of Realtors said yesterday.  “The housing market has stabilized in many areas and
homebuilding activity has strengthened in recent quarters,”
FHFA Principal Economist Andrew Leventis said in the statement.
“That said, labor market weakness and still-elevated
foreclosure pipelines remain hindrances to a more robust
recovery.”  Prices jumped 16.1 percent from a year earlier in the
Pacific area, which includes California, Washington and  Oregon .
In the Mountain region, including  Arizona ,  Colorado  and  Nevada ,
the gain was 14.4 percent, the FHFA said. The Middle Atlantic
area -- New York, New Jersey and  Pennsylvania  -- had the
smallest increase, at 1.6 percent.  In the first quarter, U.S. prices rose 6.7 percent from a
year earlier and 1.9 percent from the previous three months.  The FHFA report is based on changes in real estate values
using purchases of properties with mortgages backed by Fannie
Mae or Freddie Mac. It doesn’t provide a specific price for
homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  