-- U.S. Midwest Gasoline Tumbles on Speculation Demand Fell
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-05-23T20:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/u-s-midwest-gasoline-tumbles-on-speculation-demand-fell.html
U.S. Midwest gasoline tumbled for a
fifth day, reaching the narrowest premium to New York futures in
two weeks, on speculation that demand is weakening as regional
shortages ease.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Group 3, which includes
areas north of Tulsa, Oklahoma, to Minnesota and  North Dakota ,
weakened 3.75 cents to 16.25 cents a barrel above futures on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:33 p.m.  The  differential , which rallied to a record premium of 64
cents on May 16, may be easing as shipments of gasoline are
closer to arriving following delays on Explorer Pipeline Co.’s
Explorer line. The pipeline, which transports oil products from
the  Gulf Coast  to the Midwest, is delayed because of larger-than-expected demand, according to the company.  “I just don’t see a lot of people looking for the barrels
here in comparison to the last five days,” Ken Malloy, a broker
with Danaher Oil Co., said by phone from Fairfield, Iowa.  Supplies of motor fuel in the U.S. Midwest, referred to as
PADD 2, are at the  lowest level for this season  since 2009,
according to U.S. Energy Information Administration data.
Stockpiles dropped 159,000 barrels to 47.6 million barrels in
the week ended May 17, a fifth consecutive week of losses, the
data show.  Maintenance at refineries including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s
Joliet, Illinois, plant,  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting, Indiana, site and
 HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC) ’s El Dorado, Kansas, refinery may have aided
the decline.  Allocation, Crack  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  implemented an allocation
program for gasoline and diesel fuel at certain terminals in the
Midwest for an undetermined amount of time, the company said
last week.  “A lot of the terminals on the north end of the system are
allocated,” said Steve Mosby, vice president of supply
consultant Admo Energy LLC in Kansas City, Missouri. “Any
relief from Explorer won’t hit Tulsa until the 28th and it will
take some time to make it out to those terminals.”  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  fuel in Group 3 strengthened 0.37
cent to a premium of 7.25 cents a gallon versus Nymex futures,
snapping a two-day decline.  The 3-2-1 crack spread in the Group, a rough measure of
refining margins for gasoline and diesel fuel based on West
Texas Intermediate in Cushing, Oklahoma, slipped 4.25 cents to
$31.6636 a barrel.  Group 3 was at a premium of 35.43 cents to the same fuel on
the Gulf Coast, 2.57 cents less than yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  