-- Tighter U.S. Rule on Imported Meat May Cost $192 Million
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-05-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/u-s-tightens-country-of-origin-meat-labeling-after-wto-ruling.html
Canada  vowed to escalate a dispute
with the U.S. over plans to impose stricter country-of-origin
labeling rules for meat that are opposed by industry groups on
both sides of the border.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday it will
tighten provisions that specify where animals are born, raised
and slaughtered, even after the  World Trade Organization  backed
complaints from Canada and  Mexico  that challenged the policy.
Canada will examine all of its options, including appeals or
retaliatory measures through the WTO, Agriculture Minister Gerry
Ritz said.  “We have no intention of backing off or backing down,”
Ritz said yesterday on a conference call with reporters. The
government in Ottawa will do “everything within our power” to
make sure the U.S. is aware Canadian and American industry
groups oppose the labeling provision, he said.  Under U.S. law in force since 2009, food processors must
identify the nations where cattle, hogs and some fresh produce
originate. The legislation was introduced in response to the
discovery of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow
disease, in a Canadian-bred animal in 2003. The government
estimates the measure will cost meatpackers including  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN)  as much as $192 million.  The labeling provision led many U.S. processors to stop
buying animals born in Canada, which cost that nation’s
livestock industry millions of dollars, according to Canadian
farmer and rancher groups. Many are losing money, according to
Gordon Cove, the chief executive officer of  Alberta ’s provincial
Livestock and Meat Agency.  ‘Negative Impact’  “It will have a negative impact on us,” Cove said during
a telephone interview from Red Deer, Alberta. “It’s more
restrictive. We’re just not being treated fairly.”  Canada and Mexico told the WTO the label program
discriminated against their products.  “USDA remains confident that these changes will improve
the overall operation of the program,” Agriculture Secretary
Tom Vilsack said yesterday in a statement. The revised rule also
will bring the labeling program “into compliance with U.S.
international trade obligations,” he said.  Canadian livestock exports to the U.S. totaled $1 billion
in 2012, up 26 percent from the previous year, Statistics Canada
data show. Five years ago, exports totaled $1.6 billion.  The rule bans the mingling of meat cuts of commodities from
different nations, according to the USDA regulation to  be
published  in tomorrow’s Federal Register.  Regulatory Uncertainty  Meatpackers including Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson, the
biggest U.S. meat processor, Cargill Inc. and hog producer
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  will face regulatory uncertainty because
of the decision, said Mark Dopp, general counsel for the
American Meat Institute, a trade group based in  Washington .  “It is incomprehensible that USDA would finalize a
controversial rule that stands to harm American agriculture,
when comments on the proposal made clear how deeply and
negatively it will impact U.S. meat companies and livestock
producers,” Dopp said in a conference call with reporters.  The rule, which “is more costly, complex and burdensome
than the earlier version, when WTO and our trading partners have
sent strong signals that this is no ‘fix,’ shows a reckless
disregard for trade relations and for companies,” Dopp said.  Canada and Mexico said the label requirement imposed unjust
costs on their exports. WTO judges agreed last year that beef
and pork from Canada and Mexico were treated less favorably than
the same U.S. products.  Press officials at Mexico’s agriculture ministry didn’t
respond to e-mail messages and phone calls requesting comment.  The National Farmers Union, a U.S. group that has supported
the labeling, in a statement welcomed the move to tighten rather
than scrap the rule, an approach the Mexican and Canadian
governments have criticized.  Union President  Roger Johnson  praised the “proactive
approach” to comply with the WTO “by providing more
information on the origins of our food, instead of simply
watering down the process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  