-- U.S. House Votes to Avert Student Loan Rate Increase
-- B y   C a i t l i n   W e b b e r
-- 2013-05-23T18:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/u-s-house-votes-to-avert-student-loan-rate-increase.html
By a vote of 221-198, the U.S. House
passed legislation that would reset interest rates on federal
student loans and avert a scheduled doubling of rates this
summer.  The bill, H.R. 1911, would peg new student-loan interest
rates to yields on the 10-year Treasury note, meaning that the
rates would fluctuate. It would also set maximum caps on those
variable rates.  The proposal faces opposition in the Democratic-controlled
Senate, where Majority Leader Harry Reid of  Nevada  has endorsed
a plan that would extend, for two years, the current fixed rate
of 3.4 percent for subsidized Stafford loans, which are
available to low-income students.  Without congressional action, the interest rate on those
loans will double to 6.8 percent on July 1 -- an action that
would affect more than 7 million students.  Under current law, Congress sets the rates for student
loans. Legislation enacted in 2007 set the interest rate on new
subsidized Stafford loans at 3.4 percent. That rate was to
expire last year, in the midst of the presidential campaign, and
Congress extended it through June 30, 2013.  A report by the Republican staff of the House Education and
the Workforce Committee said the bill passed today would stop
“politicians from the business of setting student loan interest
rates.”  Stafford, Plus  In addition to subsidized Stafford loans, on which interest
doesn’t accrue until after a student graduates, the measure
would affect rates for unsubsidized Stafford loans, which are
available regardless of financial need, and Plus loans, which
are available to graduate students and parents of
undergraduates. The current rate for unsubsidized Stafford loans
is 6.8 percent; for Plus loans, the rate is 7.9 percent.  The bill would set interest rates on both types of Stafford
loans at the 10-year Treasury yield -- currently around 2
percent -- plus 2.5 percent.  For Plus loans, 4.5 percent would be added to the 10-year
T-note yield. It would set the maximum rate on Stafford loans at
8.5 percent and on Plus loans at 10.5 percent. It also would
eliminate the cap on the interest rate of consolidated loans
that are originated on or after July 1, 2013; the current cap on
the rate for consolidated loans is 8.25 percent.  Veto Threat  The White House opposes the House measure and has
 threatened a veto , in part because the bill would allow interest
rates to fluctuate over a loan’s repayment period.  House
Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, called the  bill  a
“responsible fix” and said the House and the Senate would have
to iron out their differences in a conference committee.  The sponsor of the House bill, Minnesota Republican
Representative John Kline, was pessimistic about the possibility
of compromise between the two chambers.  “One approach has almost nothing to do with another,”
Kline said in an interview. “Senate Democrats and some
Democrats in the House are calling to kick the can down the road
for two years so Congress can get together again and have a big
political fight.”  Reid has said that “passing the House bill would be worse
than doing nothing at all,” reflecting concerns that students
could face ballooning financing costs if currently low interest
rates return to higher levels.  The Senate Democrats’ bill, S. 953, would finance a
freezing of current rates by curbing tax breaks for retirement
accounts, the oil industry and foreign companies.  In his 2014 budget request, President  Barack Obama  also
proposed pegging student-loan interest rates to the 10-year
Treasury note. Under his plan, rates would be fixed for the life
of the loan and wouldn’t be subject to maximum caps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caitlin Webber in Washington at 
 cwebber4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  