-- UBS’s CFO Naratil Said to Meet With Knight Vinke Next Week
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-05-23T16:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/ubs-s-cfo-naratil-said-to-meet-with-knight-vinke-next-week.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil will meet next week with  Knight Vinke  Asset Management
LLC, an investor that called for a spinoff of the lender’s
investment bank, two people familiar with the matter said.  Naratil talks with dozens of investors every quarter to get
feedback and discuss developments, the people said, asking not
to be identified because the matter is private. The meeting was
reported by the Wall Street Journal earlier today. Officials for
UBS and Knight Vinke declined to comment.  Knight Vinke, based in New York, said in an open letter to
shareholders before UBS’s annual general meeting earlier this
month that ownership of the investment bank, which “nearly
destroyed UBS” during the financial crisis, could be
transferred to employees and managers, while the job of reducing
investment-bank assets could be contracted out.  In 2011, a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading at
the unit led to the exit of former Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel , three years after the bank received a government
bailout to ward off a collapse. UBS, now led by CEO  Sergio Ermotti , said last year after a strategy review it would focus
on money management and exit most debt trading at the investment
bank to boost profitability and reduce risks.  UBS had considered a sale of the investment bank before
deciding on the current strategy. A sale of the assets that the
bank is cutting may prove difficult because those assets are
complex, according to the people.  Profit Rises  Knight Vinke, led by founder Eric Knight, targets large,
publicly traded companies and seeks to recruit other
institutional investors to press companies’ management to change
course. In 2007, the firm said that  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s
largest bank, misled investors about a new share plan payable in
2008 to reward management.  UBS last month posted first-quarter earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates. The investment bank reported a 92 percent
gain in pretax profit to 977 million francs ($1 billion). That
was more than triple the average analysts’ estimate of 321
million francs. The unit had a pretax return on equity of 49.5
percent for the quarter, up from 17 percent a year earlier.  Knight Vinke has said it holds about 1 percent of UBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  