-- Tudor’s Jones Apologizes for Remarks on Female Traders
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-05-24T19:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/tudor-s-jones-seeks-to-clarify-remarks-on-female-traders-birth.html
Paul Tudor Jones , the billionaire
investor who sought yesterday to clarify remarks that drew
protests, apologized for saying that women can’t compete with
men as macro traders after having children.  “Much of my adult life has been spent fighting for equal
opportunity, and the idea that I would support limiting
opportunity for any segment of society, particularly women, is
antithetical to who I am and what I have done,” Jones, founder
and president of Tudor Investment Corp., a $13 billion hedge-fund firm in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a statement today.
“My remarks offended, and I am sorry.”  A  video  posted yesterday on the Washington Post website
showed Jones at an April roundtable at the University of
Virginia saying that having a baby hurts the ability of women to
focus on macro trading, where investors seek to profit from
global equity, bond, currency and  commodities markets . Criticism
continued after Jones issued a statement yesterday saying that
all skilled, dedicated men and women can succeed in the area and
that his remarks were “off-the-cuff.”  Jones said in the video that he doesn’t believe marriage
turns women’s attention from trading as much as having children
does. It’s the deep connection that women have to their children
that endangers their trading acumen, he said.  “As soon as that baby’s lips touch that girl’s bosom,
forget it,” he said.  ‘Outrageous’ Comment  The remarks drew the ire of some women, including Jamie Zimmerman, founder of hedge-fund firm Litespeed Management LLC.  “Given Paul’s fine reputation, if the quote is accurate, I
am stunned,” New York-based Zimmerman said in an interview
yesterday. “I am laser-focused 24/7 on Litespeed’s profit and
loss and I have raised two fabulous daughters. It is outrageous
to summarily dismiss the talents and capabilities of half the
world’s population.”  Female hedge-fund managers outperformed the industry as a
whole in the first nine months of 2012, according to audit firm
Rothstein Kass. The firm said its Women in Alternatives Hedge
Index returned 9 percent last year through September, compared
with a 2.7 percent gain of Hedge Fund Research Inc.’s HFRX
Global Hedge Fund Index. Litespeed has returned an annualized 13
percent since the firm’s inception, Zimmerman said.  “You will never see as many great women investors or
traders as men, period end of story,” Jones, 58, said in the
videotaped discussion.  Mother-Child  Women often turn their focus to raising children at a
crucial time of life for learning about markets and trading,
Jones said.  “There’s nothing like that mother-child connection, and
can you imagine trying to divert yourself, particularly from
your first child in your 20s?” he said.  Yesterday, in an e-mailed statement first sent to the
Washington Post, Jones sought to clarify his comments from last
month.  “As I’ve told my three daughters, all of whom I’ve at one
time encouraged to go into macro trading, any man or woman can
do anything to which they set their heart and mind,” Jones said
in the statement.  Success ‘Obstacles’  “My off-the-cuff remarks at the  University of Virginia 
were with regard to global macro traders, who are on-call 24/7
and of whom there are likely only a few thousand successful
practitioners in the world today. Macro trading requires a high
degree of skill, focus and repetition. Life events, such as
birth, divorce, death of a loved one and other emotional highs
and lows are obstacles to success in this specific field of
finance.”  “I believe that great success is possible in any field --
from music to mathematics to macro trading -- as long as a woman
or man has the skill, passion, and repetitions to work through
the inevitable life events that arise along the way.”  Kathleen Kelley, founder of Queen Anne’s Gate Capital
Management in  New York , worked for Tudor from 1990 to 2001 while
she was raising two children. She said Jones was a “fantastic
mentor.”  “I agree with his comments on the amount of focus it takes
to be successful in this field, and without good help and
support it would be impossible to do my job,” Kelley said.  Amanda Pullinger, executive director of 100 Women in Hedge
Funds, a global association of more than 10,000 women in the
alternative investments industry, declined to comment on Jones’s
remarks.  UVA Alum  Anne Dinning, a managing director at hedge-fund firm D.E.
Shaw & Co., and Victoria Bjorklund, a partner at law firm
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, who both sit on the board of the
 Robin Hood Foundation  that Jones co-founded, didn’t return
messages left yesterday seeking comment.  Jones began his career in 1976, after graduating from UVA
with a bachelor’s degree in economics. Through his uncle Billy
Dunavant, a cotton merchandiser, he got a job as a trader on the
floor of the New York Cotton Exchange. From there, Jones became
a commodities broker at E.F. Hutton & Co., trading futures on
the cotton exchange for clients before starting Tudor in 1984.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
 Larry Edelman  at 
 Ledelman3@bloomberg.net  