-- Lufthansa-United Atlantic Venture Wins EU Antitrust Approval
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-23T15:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/lufthansa-united-trans-atlantic-pact-wins-eu-antitrust-approval.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  reached a settlement with European
Union regulators, ceding sufficient slots for a single daily
flight between Frankfurt and New York in exchange for approval
of their A++ trans-Atlantic venture also involving  Air Canada. (AC/B)   The  European Commission  said the Star Alliance members also
committed to reach agreements with competitors on ticketing and
flight connections, resolving concerns that the venture would
drive up prices for trans-Atlantic passengers. The decision
allows the A++ venture to go ahead without the risk of EU fines.  “Thanks to the commitments offered by the three airlines,
passengers on the Frankfurt-New York route will benefit from
stronger competition,” Joaquin Almunia, the EU’s antitrust
commissioner, said in a statement on the regulator’s website.
“This decision is a further milestone in our effort to create a
level playing field on trans-Atlantic aviation markets.”  Carriers are increasingly seeking accords on scheduling and
sales to cut costs and boost revenue. A pact involving Oneworld
allies British Airways and Iberia of Spain -- now merged as IAG
SA -- and American Airlines won EU approval in 2010 in return
for the surrender of seven daily slots pairs. A tie-up of
SkyTeam’s  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
Alitalia SpA remains under scrutiny, the commission said.  Frequencies Maintained  According to the agreement announced today, Lufthansa will
surrender a single daily slot to be used by a rival carrier for
Frankfurt-New York flights. While the German company may need to
modify its timetable to accommodate the change, it will retain a
service of three flights per day between the cities.  “We are pleased with the EC’s decision,” Lufthansa
spokesman Boris Ogursky said, adding that the agreement
reflected an understanding of the joint venture accord’s
benefits to customers on both sides of the Atlantic.  Lufthansa, United and  Air Canada (AC/A)  were told by the EU in
October that their accord might infringe antitrust rules by
ending competition between Lufthansa and United on Frankfurt-New
York services and between the trio for first- and business-class
passengers. The EU started probing the accord in 2009.  The approved deal will enable rivals to start as many as
seven weekly flights between Frankfurt and New York’s John F.
Kennedy or Newark Liberty airports, as submitted by the parties
in  December , the commission said today.  Lufthansa and the other A++ carriers have also agreed to
reach agreements with competitors that would make it easier for
those airlines to arrange connecting flights.  Market Test  The Star carriers will “submit data concerning their
cooperation, which will facilitate an evaluation of the
alliance’s impact on the markets over time,” the commission
said.  The commitments agreed with the airlines, including the
slot rules, are legally binding for 10 years.  Antitrust officials conducted a wider-than-usual test with
customers and rivals to gauge the venture’s possible impact on
market efficiency, the commission said.  This “broadened” exercise included an assessment of the
knock-on effects of the deal on short-haul and connecting
flights that could be taken from  Frankfurt  or New York, it said.  “This is something we could also apply in the future,”
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, told reporters.  United Airlines parent UAL Corp. and Continental merged in
2010 to form Chicago-based United Continental Holdings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  