-- Uganda Police Siege Enters Fourth Day as Forces Snub Court
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-05-23T13:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/uganda-police-siege-enters-fourth-day-as-forces-snub-court.html
Uganda ’s police continued a siege at
the offices of the Daily Monitor, the East African nation’s
biggest independent daily newspaper, for a fourth day as the
authorities snubbed a court order to remove the cordon.  The publication’s offices in the capital, Kampala, have
been blockaded since May 20 as security officers search for a
letter alleging a plot to assassinate people opposed to
President  Yoweri Museveni  being succeeded by his son, said Alex Asiimwe, the newspaper’s managing director.  “The siege is still going on,” he said by phone from
Kampala. “We got a court order, but they have not yet
vacated.” Police spokeswoman Judith Nabakooba didn’t answer her
phone when Bloomberg called her seeking comment. On May 20, she
said the siege would continue until the document is found.  Uganda has been ruled by Museveni, 69, since January 1986,
when a five-year bush war ended. He has won all four elections
held since 1996, though the last vote in 2011 was criticized by
international observers and rejected by opposition parties who
said it was marred by voter intimidation and fraud.  The police obtained a court order to search the newspaper’s
offices for a letter written by General David Sejusa on April 29
and  published  by the Monitor on May 7. The letter alleges a plot
exists to assassinate political and military leaders opposed to
Museveni being succeeded by his son, Brigadier Muhoozi Kaneirugaba.  Radio Closed  Two  radio stations  affiliated with the Daily Monitor, KFM
and Dembe FM, have been closed since May 20. The Red Pepper, a
Kampala-based tabloid newspaper, has also been shut.  The Ugandan authorities detained James Kasirivu, a radio
host, on May 8 after he reported on Sejusa’s letter, according
to the Committee to Protect Journalists, or CPJ, a New York-based advocacy group.  “Ugandan authorities are trying to censor news that is
crucial to the public interest,” CPJ East Africa Consultant Tom
Rhodes said in a statement yesterday. “Authorities should
immediately halt their efforts to silence Daily Monitor and Red
Pepper, and they must allow these publications and related news
outlets to do their jobs without further harassment.”  The government has denied there is a  succession plan 
involving Kaneirugaba, and accuses Sejusa, who left the country
after the letter was published, of trying to build his own
 political support base .  Bloomberg News  was unable to find
contact information for Sejusa to seek comment.  At least 40 to 50 police officers remained at the offices
of the Daily Monitor today, blocking the resumption of
operations for the newspaper, which hasn’t been published for
three days, Asiimwe said.  The newspaper, like KFM and Dembe FM, is owned by Nairobi-based Nation Media Group, the region’s biggest media company. In
2002, the Monitor was closed for 10 days after the state accused
it of publishing stories prejudicial to security, while NTV
Uganda, also a unit of Nation Media, was temporarily switched
off in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  