-- UNDP Rejects Glencore Exploration at Dominican Nickel Mine
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-23T21:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/united-nations-rejects-glencore-exploration-at-dominican-mine.html
The United Nations Development
Programme said an environmental study conducted by  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  at a mine in the Dominican Republic is incomplete
and ferronickel exploration at the site should be reconsidered.  Glencore’s environmental study at the Falcondo Lomo Miranda
mine failed to consider the social and environmental impact of
extraction at the mine, UNDP said in a  statement  published
today. The Dominican government requested the review last year
prior to allowing the Baar, Switzerland-based company to extract
ferronickel from the mine, located 80 kilometers (50 miles)
north of  Santo Domingo .  “The environmental impact study is, according to our
evaluation, incomplete and superficial,” Valerie Julliand,
UNDP’s representative in the Dominican Republic, said in a news
conference in Santo Domingo. The company’s study failed to
consider the mine’s impact on local communities, drinking water
and the environment, and the project “does not address
environmental and social demands” of the country, she said.  UNDP studied the possible social and environmental impacts
of the mine for four months to determine if Glencore should be
granted an environmental license for extraction. The miner owns
85 percent of the outstanding shares of Falcondo and has
operated in the  Dominican Republic  since 1971, according to the
company website.  “We will study the technical recommendations contained in
the report, evaluate them and implement action plans where
necessary,” Peter Fuchs, director of corporate affairs at
Xstrata Nickel in Toronto, said in a statement.  Extraction at the Falcondo Lomo Miranda mine is expected to
generate $5.4 billion for the Dominican Republic during the next
25 years, according to newspaper El Dia, citing comments by
Xstrata Nickel President Darren Bowden. The mine contains an
estimated reserve of 20 million tons of ferronickel, Bowden
said, according to El Dia.  Glencore Xstrata shares in the U.S. fell 3.3 percent to
$5.05 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  