-- Mutant Cockroaches Learn to Avoid Sugar to Outsmart Traps
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/mutant-cockroaches-learn-to-avoid-sugar-to-outsmart-traps.html
Roaches that have been hard to
exterminate may be a variety that have decided sugar doesn’t
taste quite so sweet as bait anymore, researchers found.  Most cockroach baits cover poison in a layer of glucose, a
sugar. Some mutant  German roaches , the most common species of
pest found in houses, apartments, restaurants and hotels, now
taste glucose as bitter, researchers said in a study released in
the journal  Science . This change in palate enables them to avoid
traps.  The scientists collected 19 roach populations, mostly from
the U.S. and  Puerto Rico , to look at how common the  glucose-spurning had become. They found seven populations that had the
taste trait,  said Coby Schal , a study author and a professor of
entomology at  North Carolina State University  in Raleigh. He
expects the numbers would have been higher had his group asked
exterminators to send sample roaches from infestations that had
been difficult to control by ordinary means.  “It’s very important, in terms of effective pest
control,” Schal said in a telephone interview. “It’s not
trivial. It’s out there.”  Glucose  is a popular ingredient in poisonous baits, the
researchers wrote in the study released yesterday. In normal
German cockroaches, the glucose creates responses in the sugar
neurons. In the mutant roaches, the glucose triggers the bitter
taste bud receptors, prompting the animals to avoid the sugar.  The mutant roaches didn’t stay away from all sugars. They
will still eat  fructose . And they paid a price for their
modified diet: they grew more slowly than glucose-chomping
brethren.  More Expensive  Using fructose as a bait has drawbacks. Regular high-fructose corn syrup is 40 to 50 percent glucose, Schal said.
Refined high-fructose corn syrup, which is 90 percent fructose,
is more expensive, he said.  Other foods cockroaches like, such as tuna fish, can be
substituted for glucose as a bait to combat the mutant taste
populations. The trade off is the smell of tuna in the house,
Schal said.  “It’s always a compromise in formulating baits,” he said.  Peanut butter has served as a good short-term bait
solution, as roaches are attracted to the food and it doesn’t
require glucose to be effective, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  