-- Vietnam Dollar Bonds Lead Region as Kokusai Sees Recovery
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n ,   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-05-23T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/vietnam-dollar-bonds-lead-region-as-kokusai-sees-recovery.html
Vietnam ’s dollar bonds are beating
their Southeast Asian peers as the region’s highest yields
attract investors confident the government can revive an economy
growing at the slowest pace in 13 years.  The notes have returned 5.5 percent in 2013, well ahead of
the next best gain of 1.3 percent in  Thailand , according to bond
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. The average extra yield
investors demand to hold Vietnamese debt over similar-maturity
Treasuries is 320 basis points, compared with 270 in  Indonesia 
and 211 in the  Philippines. (PGDYTY)   Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung this week approved the
formation of an  asset management company  to acquire non-performing loans from lenders, a move aimed at boosting credit
growth in an economy that expanded at the weakest pace since
1999 last year.  Inflation (VNCPIYOY)  slowed to 6.6 percent in April from as
high as 23 percent in August 2011, allowing the central bank to
cut borrowing costs eight times since the start of 2012.  “If you look at the fundamentals of Vietnam, the
macroeconomic conditions have improved,” Takahide Irimura, the
head of emerging-market research at Kokusai Asset Management Co.
in  Tokyo , which runs  Japan ’s biggest mutual fund, said in a May
21 interview. “The authorities acknowledge the need to improve
the banking sector and are beginning to take steps.”  Slowing Growth  The yield on Vietnam’s 6.75 percent dollar notes due
January 2020 rose three basis points to 3.65 percent yesterday
and has declined 80 basis points this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a rate of 3.08 percent
on  Indonesia (IDRAGDP) ’s 5.875 percent securities due March 2020 and 2.36
percent on the  Philippines  6.5 percent bonds due January 2020.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Vietnam’s credit rating to
its fifth-highest junk level of B2 on Sept. 28, citing an
“elevated risk” the government will have to bear the cost of
recapitalizing banks. The company rates the Philippines and
Indonesia four and five levels higher, respectively.  Vietnam’s economic growth slowed to 5 percent last year
from 5.9 percent in 2011 and 6.8 percent in 2010, trailing
expansion of 6.6 percent in the Philippines and 6.2 percent in
Indonesia in 2012, official data show. Vietnam may record a
balance-of-payments surplus of $4 billion to $5 billion this
year, the central bank forecast May 21.  The dong has weakened 0.7 percent to 21,000 per dollar this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
strengthened 0.9 percent in 2012 after losing 24 percent over
the previous four years. The Philippine peso declined 1.5
percent this year to 41.69 and Indonesia’s rupiah fell 1.4
percent to 9,772.  Bad Loans  “The story of macro improvement is still there and their
performance reflects that,” Pongtharin Sapayanon, head of
fixed income in Bangkok at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which
manages $322 billion globally, said in an interview yesterday,
referring to the Vietnamese dollar notes. “There’s been
improvement in the balance of payments, stability in the dong
and a slowdown of inflation as they benefitted from slower
growth.”  Non-performing loans reported by commercial lenders stood
at 4.51 percent at the end of March, the government said this
week, although market participants and credit-rating companies
estimate bad debt may be between 10 percent and 20 percent,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a research note last month.  The reluctance of banks to lend may result in economic
growth remaining below 6 percent this year, the  International
Monetary Fund  and World Bank forecast.  Banking Reform  The debt asset-management company being set up by the
government is expected to resolve about 100 trillion dong ($4.8
billion) of bad loans, Vu Viet Ngoan, chairman of the National
Financial Supervisory Commission, said last week.  “The banking sector reform is positive and it’s in the
right direction,” Sean Chang, Hong Kong-based head of Asian
debt at Baring Asset Management, which oversees $52 billion,
said in an interview yesterday. “A benign inflation environment
would help global bonds because it strengthens the credit and
helps growth in Vietnam,” he said, adding that the wide spread
over Treasuries is attracting investors to an extent.  The yield on  10-year U.S. Treasuries (USGG10YR)  increased 31 basis
points to 1.98 percent this month, the fastest pace since
December 2010, on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will scale
back its $85 billion of monthly bond-buying that has increased
the flow of funds to  emerging markets . Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said May 22 the monetary authority may taper purchases
if it’s confident of sustained improvement in the  U.S. economy .  ‘Bit Riskier’  The cost of insuring Vietnamese sovereign debt using five-year credit-default swaps fell nine basis points this year to
202, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That compares with a decline of 17 basis
points to 89 for Philippine debt, and an increase of six basis
points to 142 in Indonesia.  Investors may be deterred by the rising U.S. yields and the
slowing growth in Vietnam, said Rees Kam, a strategist at SJS
Markets Ltd., a Hong Kong-based financial services company that
specializes in fixed income.  “A Vietnamese dollar bond is a bit riskier,” he said.
“Fundamentally, the economy is not as stable as the Philippines
or Indonesia.”  Global investors are accelerating purchases of higher-yielding assets in  developing countries  as central banks in
advanced nations maintain borrowing costs near zero to spur
growth. Funds focused on emerging-market debt had inflows of
$2.8 billion this year through May 8, up from $724 million in
the same period in 2012, data from EPFR Global show.  “Demand for lower-rated countries’ dollar bonds has been
increasing as the monetary easing in developed nations boosts
liquidity,” Irimura at Kokusai, which manages $37 billion of
assets, said. “There is some more room for the Vietnam dollar
bond yields to go lower from here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  