-- Virginia Governor’s Gifts From Businessman Probed
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-05-23T02:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/virginia-governor-s-gifts-from-businessman-probed.html
Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell
and Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli  are being investigated by a
Richmond prosecutor over the omission of gifts from their
financial disclosure forms, according to statements from
Cuccinelli’s office.  McDonnell and Cuccinelli have acknowledged not reporting
gifts from Jonnie Williams, the chief executive officer of diet
supplements maker  Star Scientific Inc. (STSI) , on disclosure forms.  Cuccinelli today confirmed that he appointed Commonwealth’s
Attorney Michael Herring to look into McDonnell’s financial
reporting forms. Herring was named “to conduct an investigation
into possible violations of financial disclosure provisions” of
the law, Cuccinelli said in a statement.  The controversy over the omissions has affected state and
national politics because Cuccinelli is running for governor and
McDonnell, who is term-limited, has enjoyed a high national
profile as chairman of the  Republican Governors Association  in
2011 and 2012 and was seen as a potential running mate for
former Massachusetts governor  Mitt Romney  in his failed bid for
the presidency last year.  McDonnell omitted disclosing that Williams paid a $15,000
catering bill for the June 2011 wedding of the governor’s
daughter. McDonnell has said he didn’t report the payment
because it was a gift to his daughter. Virginia law allows
public officials to accept gifts, as long as they are disclosed,
while those to family members can go unreported.  He has described Williams as a family friend.  FBI Scrutiny  Gifts from Williams to McDonnell also have come under
scrutiny by the FBI, which has asked people close to the
governor whether his administration has provided assistance to
Star Scientific.  Williams has donated more than $100,000 to McDonnell’s
political funds, according to state filings.  Cuccinelli on April 26 appointed Herring to investigate his
own failure to disclose gifts from Williams, including a family
vacation worth $3,000. Cuccinelli said at the time that his
failure to disclose was inadvertent. He filed amended disclosure
forms.  Williams’s company has been fighting a $1.7 million tax
assessment from  Virginia  in court. Last month, Cuccinelli’s
office appointed an outside  law firm  to handle the case to
address concerns about a possible conflict of interest.  Star Scientific has acknowledged being under federal
investigation for 2006 securities transactions. The company also
is the subject of shareholder lawsuits involving the marketing
of a supplement called Anatabloc, which is sold as an anti-inflammatory agent.  Herring’s Appointment  Herring was appointed to investigate McDonnell’s disclosure
forms in November, according to the statement today from
Cuccinelli’s office.  The appointment didn’t come to light until it was reported
today by the Richmond Times-Dispatch, which said it learned of
the assignment through a Freedom of Information Act request.  Talhia Tuck, a spokeswoman for  Glen Allen , Virginia-based
Star Scientific, declined to comment on Herring’s involvement.  Representatives of Herring’s office didn’t immediately
respond after regular business hours to a phone message seeking
comment on the investigation.  “We are aware of the review and look forward to working
with them as this process moves forward,” Paul Shanks, a
spokesman for McDonnell, said in an e-mailed statement.  Mansion Chief  The controversy has been stoked by revelations in a
criminal case involving Todd Schneider, McDonnell’s former
executive mansion chef, who is accused of embezzling food from
the mansion.  Schneider said he told the FBI about Williams’s efforts to
ingratiate himself with McDonnell through gifts, including the
wedding catering and the use of expensive cars and a private
jet, according to a state court filing.  Schneider also has alleged that Cuccinelli had conflicts of
interest in prosecuting him because he owned stock in Star
Scientific and used Williams’s vacation home last summer,
according to the filing.  The chef’s allegations about links between McDonnell and
Williams were made to a team of investigators that included
officials from Cuccinelli’s office, Schneider’s lawyers wrote in
the filing.  The case is Virginia v. Schneider, CR13F-1960, Circuit
Court for the Commonwealth of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  