-- Volvo Said to Explore Sale of North American Rental Business
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-05-23T11:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/volvo-said-to-explore-sale-of-north-american-rental-business.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s second-largest
truckmaker, is exploring the sale of its North American
construction-equipment rental business, according to two people
familiar with the process.  The division, known as Volvo Rents, may be worth $1 billion
to $1.5 billion, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private. No final decision to
sell has been made, the person said. Kina Wileke, a spokeswoman
at Volvo, declined to comment.  The business has attracted interest from private-equity
firms as well as companies, said the person. Volvo Rents
operates more than 130 rental stores in  North America  and offers
equipment for construction, commercial and industrial markets,
according to its  website .  The Swedish company is exploring a sale of the rental unit
as it shifts its focus to profitability from sales growth. In
2011, Volvo said it aims for operating margins at the top of the
heavy-equipment industry. The company is also exiting peripheral
businesses, and in July agreed to sell its aircraft-engine unit
Volvo Aero to  GKN Plc (GKN)  for 633 million pounds ($954 million).  “The strategy that we’ve seen over the past year is that
Volvo is trying to exit unprofitable segments or areas,” said
Christer Magnergard, an analyst at  DNB ASA (DNB)  in Oslo. “This is a
part of their plan to raise profitability by 300 basis points by
the end of 2015.”  Volvo shares recovered from some of their earlier losses
after the report and were trading down 2.3 percent at 96.3
kronor at 12:08 p.m. in  Stockholm . The shares have climbed 8.4
percent this year, valuing the Gothenburg, Sweden-based
truckmaker at 205 billion kronor ($30.7 billion).  Volvo said in January that a 5.6 billion-yuan ($910
million) plan to buy a 45 percent stake in the truck unit of
Chinese manufacturer Dongfeng Motor Group Co. will help it
overtake Daimler in worldwide commercial-vehicle sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  