-- Wall Street Seeks Dodd-Frank Changes Through Trade Talks
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-05-23T21:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/wall-street-seeks-dodd-frank-changes-through-trade-talks.html
U.S. bankers and insurers are trying
to use trade deals, which can trump existing legislation, to
weaken parts of the Dodd-Frank Act designed to prevent a repeat
of the 2008 financial crisis.  While the companies say they are seeking agreements that
preserve strong regulations and encourage economic growth, their
effort is drawing fire from groups who argue that Wall Street
wants to make the trade negotiations a new front in its three-year campaign to stop or alter the law.  Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat who sits
on the Banking Committee, said in a May 7 statement that there
are “growing murmurs” about Wall Street’s efforts to “do
quietly through trade agreements what they can’t get done in
public view with the lights on and people watching.”  The U.S. has embarked on three major negotiations aimed at
reducing barriers to international commerce, one with the
European Union covering most types of trade and investment, and
a similar one with Asia-Pacific nations including Japan. A third
set of talks, covering only services, is under way at the  World
Trade Organization .  The  Coalition of Service Industries , a trade association
whose website lists  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  The Chubb Corp. (CB)  as
members, told the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative in a
May 10 letter that “more compatible regulations for services”
should be part of the EU deal.  ‘Without Prejudice’  “Such provisions can be accomplished without prejudice to
regulators’ authority to adopt or maintain regulations for
consumer protection, environmental, health, safety, or
prudential reasons,” the coalition’s president, Peter Allgeier,
wrote in the letter.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
Wall Street’s biggest lobbying group, said in a March 1 letter
that liberalization of trade in financial services “is often
incorrectly equated with deregulation.”  Stephen Pastrick, director for public policy and advocacy
at the group, wrote that it supports “strong regulation and
prudential standards. However, there is much to be gained” by
an agreement “enhancing regulatory efficiency.”  A group of  House Republicans  yesterday wrote to President
 Barack Obama  calling on him to “reduce regulatory
discrepancies” between the U.S. and EU. They cited financial
services as “one of the greatest opportunities” for change.  ‘Difficult’ Landscape  “Multiple and often conflicting post-crisis policy
initiatives have made the regulatory landscape difficult for
financial services firms to navigate,” they wrote in the May 22
letter. “Confusion caused by inconsistent and conflicting
regulations, has already spilled over into the broader
economy.”  The letter’s signers include  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas, the
chairman of the Financial Services Committee, and  Frank Lucas  of
 Oklahoma , who heads the Agriculture Committee.  In the U.S., the president starts negotiations on trade
agreements with a general mandate from Congress. After they are
signed, the agreements are converted into implementing
legislation, which can change regulations if the deal requires.  Congress then votes on the proposal, usually under special
procedures that bar amendments to the pact’s details.  “The trade talks could easily become a Trojan Horse,”
said Marcus Stanley, the policy director for Americans for
Financial Reform, a group that includes labor unions, civil
rights organizations and consumer advocates.  Crossing Borders  In separate letters on the EU and Asia-Pacific pacts, the
industry coalition said negotiators should draft rules limiting
what regulators can do in the name of protecting financial
stability. The letters also urged using the pacts to curb extra-territorial rules that can reach beyond U.S. borders, like ones
currently being considered on financial derivatives.  None of the letters specifically mention a desire to change
the Dodd-Frank law, the 2010 overhaul of U.S. financial
regulation. The law does, however, address many of the issues
raised in the letters on the trade agreements.  The coalition called for the U.S.-EU agreement to avoid
rules that reach across national boundaries and have an “extra-territorial effect.” Allgeier said that suggestion was
motivated in part by a fight over regulation of the cross-border
swaps market under Dodd-Frank.  The 27-nation EU hopes to complete talks on a broad
agreement on investment and trade in goods and services with the
U.S. within two years, EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said
on Feb. 13.  WTO Talks  The U.S. announced plans to join a WTO negotiation on trade
in services, in areas including finance, logistics and
telecommunications, on Jan. 15. Asia-Pacific nations including
the U.S. and Japan are also working on a deal for that region,
the Trans-Pacific Partnership.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News , wrote a
Feb. 26 letter to the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative
supporting the WTO agreement because it would improve the market
for financial services information.  Trade policy grew more controversial in the 1990s as pacts
such as the  North American Free Trade Agreement  and WTO deals
addressed domestic rules -- rather than only tariffs applied at
borders -- as potential barriers to commerce. Services, in
particular, face domestic regulations because companies usually
need to be physically present to provide them.  Volcker Rule  The financial services industry has already invoked
international trade rules in its bid to weaken proposed
regulations, notably the Volcker rule that would ban proprietary
trading. Named after former Federal Reserve chairman  Paul Volcker , the rule is a signature part of Dodd-Frank.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce sought a  review  of the rule by
U.S. trade authorities, arguing it violated existing agreements.  In a Feb. 26 letter on the WTO negotiation, Allgeier said
that the blanket exemptions for so-called prudential
regulations, aimed at ensuring the safety and soundness of the
banking system, should face some limits.  For example, domestic prudential regulators shouldn’t be
able to discriminate against foreign companies, and should act
in a manner that is “least trade and investment distorting,”
Allgeier wrote. Also,  capital requirements  in financial services
should not be used as “disguised barriers to entry or
competition with domestic suppliers.”  ‘Anti-American’  The complaint about capital standards echoes  Jamie Dimon ,
the chief executive officer of JPMorgan, in 2011. Dimon
criticized capital standards created by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  as “anti-American” over their additional
penalties on large banks and liquidity rules.  Allgeier said in an interview that the request was
motivated by limits on U.S. companies in other countries made in
the name of safety and soundness. To have a successful
international negotiation, the U.S. regulators such as the
Federal Reserve need to be flexible on what it’s willing to do
so that other countries will agree, he said.  “We need to find the right balance,” Allgeier said. The
prudential regulators are going to start with the most
conservative position, so can you move them to a degree that
meets their objectives?’’  Sifma, the  Wall Street  lobby, also said the EU agreement
should cover “existing and future financial services laws and
regulations that have significant transatlantic trade effects,
significant extraterritorial effects, or both” in a May 14
letter.  CFTC Guidance  Top officials from the EU, Britain, France, Germany,
Switzerland, South Africa, Russia, Brazil and Japan have called
for changes to guidance proposed by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. The guidance, which the U.S. industry has
opposed as well, would cover transactions involving overseas
offices of U.S. banks and hedge funds incorporated offshore.  A separate set of regulations, proposed by the Securities
and Exchange Commission, would cover some types of swaps. That
set has garnered more support from the industry.  Neither set of rules has been completed.  Mac Destler, a professor at the  University of Maryland  who
studies the politics of trade policy, said negotiators could opt
to include provisions in the trade agreement that do less than
simply reverse existing regulation. For example, they could
include deals to consult in the future where rules on finance
conflict, or declare that current regulations are grandfathered
into a trade pact.  ‘Harder Question’  “If you say you’re going to have a full-out big agreement,
it’s pretty hard to say you’re going to carve out the regulatory
regime entirely,” Destler said in an interview. “The harder
question is how far you go.”  Philipp Roesler, the vice chancellor of Germany, said today
during an appearance in Washington that the financial services
industry would be the “greatest challenge” for the U.S.-EU
negotiation.  The number of rules to be addressed in the wake of the 2008
crisis and differences in regulatory approach in the EU and U.S.
may make it harder to reach accords on financial rules than on
areas areas of traditional friction between the two sides, such
as agriculture, he said.  “We have very different systems,” Roesler, who is also
the economics and technology minister, said in remarks at the
 Brookings Institution . “We have much to do, a great
challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  