-- Watchdog Says ECB Role Adds Tension To Tobin Tax Debate
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-05-23T14:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/watchdog-says-ecb-role-adds-tension-to-tobin-tax-debate.html
The  European Central Bank ’s
increasingly outspoken role in the debate over a financial-transaction tax ratchets up tension between governments seeking
new revenue and bankers trying to prevent the levy, said  Richard Murphy , director of U.K.-based Tax Research LLP.  “The ECB is for these purposes just another bank with all
a bank’s prejudices about the free flow of capital -- which they
see FTTs impeding,” Murphy said today in an e-mail exchange.
“The ECB intervention increases the tension in the policy
debate -- but only by bringing its own role in imposing
austerity to support the free flow of capital into focus.”  Murphy said comments from central bank officials don’t
change the overall standoff between the proposal’s backers in
the European Union and detractors. Those who support the plan
favor its role in slowing down financial markets to “put some
grit in the motion and slow down the flow of capital which can
be destructive in so many ways,” he said.  The EU has proposed the tax for trades involving 11 willing
nations in an effort to rein in speculative trading it sees as
having exacerbated the financial crisis. The plan would charge a
0.1 percent rate for stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent for
derivatives transactions, with some exemptions for primary-market sales and trades with the ECB.  ECB Executive Board members Yves Mersch and Benoit Coeure
both questioned the tax’s design this month, and the ECB’s Bond
Market Contact Group said in a May 6 report that the proposal
would hurt banks and disrupt markets.  Negative Implications  “Attention needs to be drawn to possible negative
implications for the implementation of monetary policy and
financial stability,” Mersch said in a  May 6 speech  in
Luxembourg. He said the current proposal could distort short-term money markets and reduce bond market liquidity.  The proposed EU transaction tax would affect companies
outside the tax’s zone because of provisions that would allow
participating countries to collect revenues on worldwide trading
with ties to their financial sector. The European Banking
Federation and eight other financial-services groups said this
week that EU planners are underestimating the consequences of
the tax’s design.  “We hold serious reservations that policymakers are
persevering in putting forward a measure that can clearly
unbalance and even harm the internal market for financial
services and distort competition among operators,”  the nine tax
groups said  in a May 21 letter to EU finance ministers.  The tax’s costs could be as much as 10 times higher than
the commission’s proposed rate because of the way trades can
involve a chain of firms, the financial-services group said.
They also said nations joining the tax “would put an extremely
high pressure on these countries’ financial services operators
and will significantly increase their governments’ dependence on
financial markets outside the FTT zone and outside  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  