-- Watch Industry Consolidation Threatens Independents’ Survival
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-05-23T12:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/watch-industry-consolidation-threatens-independents-survival.html
Watch industry consolidation is
crimping creativity and making it harder for independent
watchmakers to compete, said Pascal Ravessoud, marketing and
development director of the  Fondation de la Haute Horlogerie .  Large luxury companies have more bargaining power with
subcontractors and retailers as they buy brands and component
makers, Ravessoud said in an interview last week. As demand
slows, independent watchmakers’ survival is threatened as they
face higher costs, he said.  “If you don’t today have an established brand for key
collectors, opinion leaders and geeks, and you don’t have
certain points of sale that trust you already, then you’re
really in trouble,” Ravessoud said. “It’s a big worry.”  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,  Hermes International (RMS) 
SCA and PPR SA have strengthened their Swiss timepiece units in
the last two years to meet demand as Swatch Group AG, the
biggest watchmaker, reduced shipments of components to rivals.
Swatch, which bought up component makers after an industry
crisis in the 1970s and 1980s, produced almost two-thirds of the
innards of mechanical Swiss watches in 2012, according to Jon
Cox, an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux.  FHH was founded in Geneva in 2005 by Richemont, Audemars
Piguet and Girard-Perregaux to promote fine watchmaking
internationally. It aims to inform, train professionals and act
as a think tank for the industry, according to its website.  Watch Giants  Of the top 10 brands ranked by Cox, seven belonged to three
companies: Rolex, Swatch and Richemont. Closely held Rolex is
the biggest Swiss watch brand with annual sales Kepler estimated
at 4.5 billion Swiss francs ($4.7 billion). Still, it’s smaller
than the two biggest Swiss watchmakers: Swatch, which sells
timepieces under 19 labels including Omega, and Richemont, which
has about a dozen brands for watches such as IWC.  Swiss watchmakers are bracing for a slowdown this year as
Kepler forecasts the industry’s exports may increase 5 percent,
which would be the worst performance since the 22 percent
decline in 2009. The Chinese market has been shrinking as the
administration cracks down on extravagant spending by government
officials.  LVMH acquired Italian watch and jewelry maker Bulgari SpA
as well as component makers La Fabrique du Temps and ArteCad in
2011.  PPR (PP)  increased its stake in Sowind, owner of the  Girard-Perregaux  and JeanRichard brands the same year. Hermes bought
control of case maker Joseph Erard Holding in April.  Fewer Risks  Production and distribution constraints amid slowing demand
mean independent watchmakers are taking fewer risks creatively
and are having to charge more, Ravessoud said before a May 15
conference on ultra-high net worth consumers organized by  Luxury
Society  at Bloomberg’s office in  London .  “The whole purpose of the independent is to propose an
alternative, something different,” Ravessoud said. As the big
groups get bigger and open a surfeit of stores, “don’t you lose
the spirit of luxury in the end?”  Timepieces priced between $5,000 and $10,000 are likely to
be most affected by slowing demand in  China , Ravessoud said.
Some consumers will shift to lower priced watches, while the
wealthiest will keep spending on expensive timepieces, he said.
Sales will grow at least 10 percent this year in China,
Ravessoud said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  