-- Williams Says Fed Could Step Up QE Pace Again After Tapering
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-05-23T17:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/williams-says-fed-could-increase-pace-of-qe-again-after-tapering.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco 
President  John Williams , emphasizing the need for policy
flexibility, said any move to reduce the pace of the central
bank’s bond buying could be followed by an increase should the
economy weaken again.  “Even if we do adjust downward our purchases, it doesn’t
mean we’re now in some autopilot of moving in the same
direction,” Williams, 50, said in an interview yesterday in San
Francisco. “You could even imagine a scenario where we adjust
it downward based on good data and then adjust it back” if the
economy weakened.  Fed officials are debating the economic conditions that
could prompt them to start slowing their $85 billion in monthly
purchases of Treasuries and housing debt. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday told lawmakers he wants to see “real and
sustainable progress” on unemployment, and many Fed officials
said more labor-market progress is needed before starting to
taper the program, according to minutes of their last meeting.  “We can adjust it down some, watch how things progress
from there, and then adjust it again one way or the other,”
Williams, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, said at
the San Francisco Fed. A slowing or end of the purchases also
“doesn’t mean we’re going to start tightening policy anytime
soon,” he said.  Stocks and Treasuries dropped yesterday after Bernanke,
responding to a question from Representative  Kevin Brady , a
Texas Republican, said the flow of purchases could be reduced
“in the next few meetings” if the Fed is confident gains in
the economy are durable. In his testimony to the Joint Economic
Committee, Bernanke also warned that a premature end to stimulus
would endanger the recovery.  Stocks Fall  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slid 0.8 percent yesterday
and the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield jumped 11 basis points
to 2.04 percent. Stocks extended their losses in today’s
trading, with the  S&P 500  down 0.4 percent to 1,649.07 as of
1:08 p.m. in  New York . The 10-year note yielded 2.03 percent.  Williams’s remarks yesterday underscore policy makers’
caution as they seek ways to eventually end an unprecedented
expansion of their balance sheet without undercutting their
commitment to support the recovery.  Uncharted Territory  “Because we have this freedom to adjust, how will people
interpret it?” he said. “This is uncharted territory.”  Once the Fed does decide to calibrate its bond-buying, its
challenge will be to communicate that “these are just
adjustments and not strong signals about things going forward,”
he added.  Williams was among the first to advocate an open-ended
approach to quantitative easing, in which officials specify
neither an end-date to the program nor an ultimate amount that
they intend to buy. The Fed’s previous two rounds of asset
purchases were announced with pre-determined durations and total
amounts.  The San Francisco Fed chief last week said the Fed could
begin slowing the pace of its purchases as early as this summer
and end the program late this year, a forecast that he stressed
yesterday was contingent on an economy performing as “hoped and
planned.”  “I’m seeing very good signs of improvement, and I want to
see even more to be convinced,” he said. He’s looking “for a
broad set of indicators that give me confidence that the
recovery is on a very solid footing,” he said, citing not only
the  unemployment rate  but also measures like private payroll
growth, unemployment  claims  and the rate at which people quit
their jobs.  Jobs Report  Jobless  claims  decreased by 23,000 to 340,000 in the week
ended May 18, Labor Department figures showed today. Payrolls
grew by 165,000 in April and the unemployment rate fell to a
four-year low of 7.5 percent, Labor Department figures showed
May 3. The  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1 that it will
 keep buying  $85 billion in bonds per month, adding that it’s
prepared to accelerate or slow those purchases in response to
both the labor market and inflation.  While “the more likely scenario” is for a reduction in
the pace of bond-buying, “there’s definitely space if
appropriate” to buy bonds at a rate even greater than the
current $85 billion, Williams said.  The San Francisco district bank head joined policy makers,
including the St. Louis Fed’s  James Bullard , who have said a
recent slowdown in inflation may complicate the Fed’s decision
to moderate and end the bond purchases.  Bullard ’Nervous’  Bullard, speaking in  London  today, said he is “a little
bit nervous about the fact that inflation has been low and has
been trending down. I would like to get some reassurance from
the data that it’s going to turn around and go back toward
target before we start tapering” purchases.  Williams said the recent slowdown in the cost of living
will probably be “temporary” and prices will soon rise at a
rate closer to the central bank’s 2 percent goal. Inflation was
at 1 percent in March, marking the slowest pace since 2009,
according to the personal consumption expenditures price index.  “If inflation kept staying low even though these temporary
factors played out” or if price expectations started “drifting
downward,” that would “definitely go into my thinking about
how much accommodation to have,” Williams said.  Extra Tool  Williams said that U.S. central bankers may still have “an
extra tool” to provide stimulus even after they bring their
bond-buying to a close.  “Do we want to normalize the size of the balance sheet
over just a few years or could we stretch that out?” he said.
“Holding onto the assets for longer would provide further
support. Selling them faster would provide less to the
economy.”  While the FOMC has pledged to keep its benchmark interest
 rate  near zero as long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent, it
may not begin tightening until “well after” the economy
reaches that threshold, he said.  “It’s not at all a given that we’d raise rates once we
hit” that mark, he said.  The San Francisco Fed chief was an early proponent of
releasing policy makers’ projections for the benchmark  interest
rate , which the Fed started publishing in January 2012. He
became president of the San Francisco Fed in March 2011 after
two years as the bank’s director of research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  