-- Two Najib Opponents Arrested in Malaysia as Anwar Holds Rallies
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-05-23T08:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/two-najib-opponents-arrested-in-malaysia-as-anwar-holds-rallies.html
Malaysia opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim ’s party condemned the arrest today of two government
critics for sedition less than three weeks after Prime Minister
Najib Razak’s ruling coalition won re-election.  The detention of Tian Chua, vice president of Anwar’s
People’s Justice Party, and another Najib opponent follows the
arrest last week of student activist Adam Adli, party spokesman
Nik Nazmi Nik Ahmad said in a statement. Najib’s 13-party
coalition won the May 5 election by 44 seats even after losing
the popular vote by four percentage points.  “His talk of a national reconciliation after the recent
elections also has proven to be meaningless,” Nik Nazmi, who
was charged last week for failing to provide enough notice for a
post-election protest, said in the statement, referring to
Najib.  Anwar has held rallies around the country since the
election as he pushes for changes to a voting system that he
says has helped the coalition led by Najib’s United Malays
National Organisation extend its 55-year rule. The opposition
plans to challenge the results in 27 seats, Tian Chua said today
before his arrest, according to state-run Bernama.  Police spokesman Ramli Mohamed Yoosuf said he had no
immediate information about the arrests when reached by phone.
Tengku Sariffuddin, Najib’s press secretary, confirmed the two
were charged under the Sedition Act.  ‘Inflammatory’ Words  “I don’t want to get into the politics of it,” he said by
phone. “They have been caught up because they said something
that was inflammatory under Section 4-1 of the Sedition Act.”  The  law , which dates back to 1948 when  Malaysia  was under
British control, mandates jail sentences of at least three years
for words deemed seditious, including those that “excite
dissatisfaction” against the government.  Besides Tian Chua, who was separately charged with sedition
in March, police also arrested Haris Ibrahim, who heads a group
called Anything But UMNO, according to the party statement.  Suaram , a human rights organization in Malaysia, said in a
statement today that police arrested 18 people who participated
in a candlelight vigil yesterday for Adli. They were
subsequently released after giving statements, it said.  “These forms of intimidation and harassment are highly
unwarranted and oppressive,” the group said.  Najib has yet to make good on a pledge last year to replace
the Sedition Act with new legislation that would protect free
speech while preventing incitement of religious or ethnic
hatred. He said the Sedition Act was representative of a
“bygone era.”  Former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad yesterday criticized
the opposition for holding demonstrations against the election
outcome.  “There will always be people who will not agree with the
new government, no matter if the government is democratically
elected or not,” he wrote on his  blog . “The losers in the bid
for power will always accuse the winners of cheating and frauds
of all kinds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  