-- Won Falls to One-Month Low on Fed Policy Risk; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-23T01:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/won-falls-to-one-month-low-on-fed-policy-risk-bonds-decline.html
South Korea ’s won fell to a one-month
low on concern U.S. policy makers will reduce monetary stimulus
that has fueled demand for emerging-market assets. Government
bonds fell.  The dollar strengthened against all major peers and
Treasury yields rose to the highest in two months after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the central bank
may taper monthly bond purchases if it’s confident of sustained
gains in the  U.S. economy . South Korea’s economy is still going
through a “slump” and a sliding yen is hurting the nation’s
exports, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said today.  The won dropped 0.7 percent to 1,121.71 per dollar as of
10:44 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,124.01, the lowest level since April 22. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, rose 42 basis points, or 0.42
percentage point, to 8.95 percent, the data show.  “Bernanke’s comments were a signal for investors to pull
out of riskier assets,” said Hong Seok Chan, an analyst at
Daishin Economic Research Institute in  Seoul . “The won may
trade near the 1,120 per dollar level as some exporters may sell
dollars.”  The Fed could “take a step down in our pace of purchases”
from $85 billion a month in the “next few meetings,” Bernanke
said yesterday in a testimony to the Joint Economic Committee of
Congress in  Washington . He defended the central bank’s record
stimulus program, telling lawmakers that ending it prematurely
would endanger a recovery hampered by high unemployment and
government spending cuts.  Dollar, Yen  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, added 0.1 percent to 84.438. The yen weakened 0.2
percent to 103.37 per dollar.  The won has fallen 5.1 percent versus the dollar and gained
14 percent against the yen this year. That makes it harder for
South Korean exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co. and
Hyundai Motor Co. to compete against Japanese rivals overseas.  “The fact that the won is not a key currency exposes the
Korean economy to foreign-exchange risks,” Finance Minister
Hyun said at a forum in Seoul. The yen’s slide against the
dollar has had a “considerable impact on our exports,” he
said.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent  government bonds 
due March 2018 rose four basis points to 2.74 percent, according
to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  