-- WTI Falls a Fourth Day for Biggest Weekly Drop in a Month
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-05-24T07:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/wti-crude-heads-for-biggest-weekly-decline-in-more-than-a-month.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for a fourth day, extending the biggest weekly drop in more than
a month, amid signs of rising U.S. fuel supplies and a global
economic slowdown.  WTI futures slid as much as 0.5 percent in  New York .
Manufacturing in  China  unexpectedly shrank in May, an index
showed yesterday. U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose by  3 million
barrels  last week, according to government data released May 22.
They were predicted to fall by 300,000 barrels in a Bloomberg
survey.  Brent crude  may fall below $95 a barrel should the
world’s economy weaken further, Bank of America Corp. said in a
report.  “The tone of the market remains soft,” said Ric Spooner,
a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “Growth in oil
demand has been very moderate. This week’s figures in the U.S.
were a bit disappointing with a big build-up in gasoline
inventories as we start to move into the early part of summer,
showing a well-supplied market.”  WTI for July delivery fell as much as 49 cents to $93.76 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $93.93 at 5:17 p.m. Sydney time. The volume of all
contracts traded was 44 percent below the 100-day average.
Prices are 2.3 percent lower this week, the most since the seven
days ended April 19.  Brent for July settlement fell 30 cents to $102.14 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The front-month
European benchmark was at a premium of $8.21 to WTI futures, up
from $8.19 yesterday.  China Manufacturing  WTI may decline next week amid speculation that U.S. fuel
supplies will be sufficient to meet summer demand as global
economic growth weakens, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Twenty of 32 analysts and traders, or 63 percent, forecast crude
will decrease through May 31. Seven respondents, or 22 percent,
predicted an increase. Five projected no change.  U.S. daily  gasoline production  climbed by 285,000 barrels
to 9.21 million last week, the most this year, according to data
from the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  A preliminary gauge of China’s Purchasing Managers Index
fell to 49.6 for May, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics yesterday. It was the least since October and missed
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. A reading below zero signals a
contraction. China is the world’s second-largest oil consumer,
accounting for 11 percent of global demand in 2011, according to
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S. is the
biggest user at 21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  