-- Yuan Gold Trade in Hong Kong Triples as Currency Gains Cut Risk
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-05-24T09:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/yuan-gold-trade-in-hong-kong-triples-as-currency-gains-cut-risk.html
Trading in gold using the Chinese
currency has tripled in  Hong Kong  this year as the  yuan ’s rally
to a 19-year high helps limit risks for jewelers.  Average daily volume was 6.5 billion yuan ($1.1 billion) in
the first five months of this year, compared with 1.8 billion
yuan for the same period in 2012, according to the  Chinese Gold
& Silver Exchange Society , the city’s century-old bullion house.
That exceeds the 4.9 billion yuan target set when the contracts
were introduced in October 2011.  Yuan-based markets and financial services in Hong Kong are
expanding as the city seeks to cement its status as the major
offshore trading hub for  China ’s currency. The yuan touched
6.1276 per dollar today in  Shanghai , the strongest since the
government unified the official and market rates at the end of
1993. Last week, bets against gold by  hedge funds  and other
speculators reached an unprecedented 74,432 short contracts,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “Yuan appreciation helps as jewelers who receive yuan from
clients become more willing to buy gold bars in the currency to
minimize exchange-rate risks,” Haywood Cheung, president of the
society, said in a May 15 interview in Hong Kong.  The yuan rose 0.5 percent this month, the best performance
in  Asia , as Premier  Li Keqiang  signaled China will unveil a plan
on capital-account convertibility this year. People’s Bank of
China Deputy Governor Yi Gang said in April the yuan’s trading
band will be widened “in the near future.” The central bank
sets a  daily reference rate  for the currency, which can diverge
from the fixing by a maximum 1 percent.  Yuan Band  China may double the band within a year,  Ma Jun , chief
economist for  Greater China  at Deutsche Bank AG, said at a press
conference in  Singapore  on May 22. The nation has designated the
Qianhai district of Shenzhen, a city that borders Hong Kong, as
a testing ground for freer cross-border yuan usage. The yuan
climbed as much as 0.1 percent today after the central bank
strengthened its fixing by 0.13 percent to a record 6.1867.  A wider band for the currency will spur trading and hedging
in gold denominated in it, China Gold & Silver’s Cheung said.
The society may seek cooperation with Qianhai Authority in steps
to develop yuan-based bullion trading, such as building a vault
for the precious metal, he said.  Hong Kong relaxed yuan capital rules on banks in April and
will start an interbank interest-rate fixing in the currency in
June. Yuan  savings  in the city rose to a record 668 billion yuan
in March and sales of yuan-denominated bonds amounted to 141
billion yuan this year, up from 69 billion yuan in the same
period of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Not Satisfied’  Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. began trading of yuan
futures contracts in September. Hopewell Highway Infrastructure
Ltd. raised $62 million in the city’s first additional share
sale denominated in yuan a month later. Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust held the first
yuan-denominated initial public offering in April 2011.  “Although yuan gold trading volume has exceeded targets,
I’m not satisfied,” said Cheung. “I wish the government could
put more efforts in promoting commodity products denominated in
yuan, instead of focusing so much on bonds and stocks.”  The society plans to start silver trading denominated in
Hong Kong dollars in June, after a one-month trial, he said.  Bearish on Bullion  Bearish bets on bullion have increased as investors cut
holdings of the metal from exchange-traded products at a record
pace this year. Filings this month showed  George Soros ’s Soros
Fund Management LLC reduced its stake in the SPDR Gold Trust,
the biggest bullion-backed exchange-traded product, for a second
straight quarter in the three months to March 31. Paul Singer’s
Elliott Management Corp. and  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. are
among investors standing by their bullish views even after they
lost money on the metal.  Gold slipped into a  bear market  in April as some investors
lost faith in the metal as a store of value and investment
holdings contracted. Prices are down 18 percent this year on
concern the U.S. Federal Reserve may rein in stimulus that
helped bullion cap a 12-year bull run in 2012. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. forecast prices at $1,390 an ounce in 12 months while
Credit Suisse Group AG said the metal will drop to $1,100 in a
year. The metal traded at $1,389.94 in Hong Kong today.  “At around $1,300, there’s still some room for
correction,” Cheung said. “But I see very strong support
between $1,280 and $1,300. The sentiment is still not one of
recovery, but I believe  gold prices  will start climbing again
from the fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  