-- Zambia’s State Mining Company Faces Calls for Listing
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-05-24T14:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-23/zambia-s-state-mining-company-faces-calls-for-listing.html
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc (MLZAM)  is
under pressure from minority shareholders to boost transparency
in the management of Zambia’s state-controlled mining-investment
company and list on a regulated stock market.  Private investors, who hold 12.4 percent of Lusaka-based
ZCCM-IH, are trying to install a representative on the board to
improve corporate governance, Philippe Taussac, a France-based
private investor, said in an interview in Zambia’s capital,
Lusaka. Some minority shareholders want ZCCM-IH to trade on
 London ’s Alternative Investment Market to boost liquidity,
increase the share price and force the company to meet specific
disclosure procedures, Taussac said on May 22.  The government of Zambia,  Africa ’s biggest copper producer,
owns the rest of the company that has stakes in the local units
of  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc. (VED)  Prior to
privatization of the industry in the 1990s, ZCCM owned and
operated most of the copper mines in the country.  “We must, as quickly as possible, leave this unregulated
market,” he said. “A few of us think the AIM could be the best
place at first.” London is “also the place where the biggest
mining companies are quoted and listed,” Taussac said.  The shares gained 0.8 percent to 2.52 euros by 3:53 p.m in
Paris, where they trade on NYSE Euronext’s Marche Libre, an
unregulated over-the-counter market. It is also listed on the
 Lusaka Stock Exchange , where liquidity is limited.  ZCCM-IH owns 20.6 percent of Konkola Copper Mines Plc, a
unit of Vedanta, and 20 percent of Kansanshi Mining Plc with the
rest owned by First Quantum Ltd. The company also has a 10
percent shareholding in Xstrata’s Mopani Copper Mines Plc and
Eurasia Natural Resources Company Plc’s Chambishi Metals Plc.  Mining Privatization  It was formed to hold the government’s minority interests
in Zambia’s copper mines after the state privatized the industry
between 1996 and 2001.  The company’s total  assets  increased to 3.1 trillion kwacha
($590 million) by the end of September from 2.7 trillion kwacha
a year earlier, according to ZCCM-IH’s half-year financial
statement. It has a market value of 37 million euros ($47.9
million), according to the  website  of  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   “The company is highly undervalued,” and its “real
value” is about $3.5 billion, Taussac said. “That’s why the
people are there. They’re expecting to earn money.”  Minority investors backed Taussac to represent them on the
board after ZCCM-IH last year issued a statement asking
shareholders for nominations, he said.  Rights Offer  The Zambian government agreed to convert all or some of
about 2.1 billion kwacha that ZCCM-IH owes it into equity
through a rights offer, the company said in December. The
appointment of a minority representative will only take place
once the deal is concluded, ZCCM-IH said.  The sequence of events should be the “exact opposite”
with the representative appointed before the debt-to-equity swap
to protect the interests of investors, Taussac said.  “The issue of minority shareholder representation is still
under consideration,” Chief Financial Officer Mabvuto Chipata
said in an e-mailed response to questions. The company is also
“reviewing its listings to determine the appropriate listings
to maintain.”  ZCCM-IH intends to carry out the sale of stock to existing
investors by the end of June following an asset valuation, Chief
Executive Officer Mukela Muyunda on Jan. 31.  Minority owners of ZCCM-IH want to see that the valuation
is done properly before they agree to take part in the rights
offer, said Taussac.  “The general thinking of the minority shareholders is that
they do not want to spend a penny more in the company without
visibility and clear engagement from the company,” he said.  About 85 percent of ZCCM-IH’s minority investors are based
in  France ,  Belgium  and  England , according to Taussac, who says
he has been a shareholder since 2005 and holds 250,000 shares
with his family.  Zambia produced 668,000 metric tons of copper in 2011,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  