-- Age-Related Forgetfulness Tied to Diminished Brain Protein
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-08-28T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/age-related-forgetfulness-tied-to-diminished-brain-protein.html
Age-related forgetfulness  may be due
to a deficiency in a brain protein that helps form memories, 
a study found. Targeting the gene that produces that protein 
could lead to new therapies, the researchers said.  Scientists identified the protein, called RbAp48, in human
brain cells and showed that inhibiting it in mice made the
animals forgetful while raising the protein improved their
memories. That suggests that age-related memory loss may be
reversible, researchers said.  “All of us are living longer, and we want to stay engaged
in a cognitively complex world,” said Scott Small, a study
author and neurologist at  Columbia University  in New York. The
mouse studies show that that too little of the protein is
causing  memory loss , he said.  The findings also confirm that age-related memory loss is
different from the deficits seen in  Alzheimer’s disease . The
research is published today in the journal  Science Translational
Medicine .  The researchers took the postmortem brains of eight people
ages 33 to 88 who were disease-free, and examined the function
of 17 genes in a part of the  hippocampus,  an area that is
involved in memory. That section, called the dentate gyrus, has
been shown before to change with age. The strongest changes were
found in a gene that expressed RbAp48, which declines in
function as brains age.  When the researchers suppressed that gene in healthy young
mice, the mice performed worse on object recognition and water
maze tests. When the researchers allowed the gene to go back to
normal function, the mice’s memory improved.  Older Mice  In another group of older mice, researchers used a virus to
put extra copies of the RbAp48 gene in the animals’ brains. That
led them to produce more of the associated protein in their
dentate gyruses. Their performance on cognitive tests improved
to the levels seen in young mice.  The results suggest that changes in RbAp48 in humans may be
a cause of memory loss, Small said. The mice made good models
for study because they experience the same age-related
forgetfulness naturally that other mammals do.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  