-- AGL Energy Delays Plans to Develop Power Plants on Weak Demand
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-08-28T02:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/agl-energy-delays-plans-to-develop-power-plants-on-weak-demand.html
AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) ,  Australia ’s second-biggest electricity retailer, is delaying power plants because
of lack of demand after taking a A$45.8 million ($41 million)
writedown on the assets.  “There are a number of projects we’ve been working on for
some time, and in short, we don’t see those being developed any
time soon,” Managing Director Michael Fraser said today in a
phone interview from Sydney. “There’s plenty of generation
capacity around.”  AGL wrote down the value of gas and renewable energy
projects including the Leafs Gully power station in New South
Wales and wind farms in  South Australia , as part of A$441
million in impairments announced today. Electricity demand is
weak because of a slower economy, an increase in solar power use
and lower consumption as prices increase, AGL said.  The oversupply in the  electricity market  also affects the
value of two  power plants  being sold by the New South Wales
state government, Fraser said after the company reported a more
than threefold jump in full-year net income to A$388.7 million.  AGL rose 3.1 percent to A$14.82 at 12:13 p.m. in Sydney,
outperforming the 1.2 percent drop in the benchmark index.  While AGL is looking at Macquarie Generation, which owns
the Liddell and Bayswater coal-fired plants, “there’s plenty of
supply in the market at the moment, so it’s a question of value,
and it’s a question of price,” he said. Fraser wouldn’t say
whether AGL is bidding for the Macquarie power plants, citing a
confidentiality agreement.  AGL recorded a pretax impairment of A$343.7 million for the
year for its New South Wales coal-seam gas assets after the
state government proposed restricting access to some areas for
exploration and development.  AGL in July delayed the A$550 million Silverton wind farm
in New South Wales because of uncertainty over government
policy. The company in October suspended the development of the
first stage of its 1,000-megawatt Dalton gas-fired power station
in the state.  Full-year underlying profit rose to A$598.3 million from
A$482 million a year earlier, it said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  