-- Thai Pension Fund Buying Stocks After Bear Market Plunge
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-08-28T03:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/thai-pension-fund-buying-stocks-after-bear-market-plunge.html
Thailand’s  Government Pension Fund 
is boosting holdings of local equities after a  bear market  in
the benchmark index sent valuations to the lowest levels in more
than a year.  “This is a great buying opportunity,” Yingyong Nilasena,
chief investment officer of the fund, which manages about $19
billion of assets, said by phone from Bangkok. “We have
increased positions in some stocks recently. We plan to buy some
more.” Yingyong declined to name specific companies.  The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  has fallen for 10 days, the longest
losing streak since 1998. The gauge has declined more than 20
percent from this year’s high as data this month showed the
nation entered a recession in the second quarter, while foreign
investors sold more than $1 billion of local shares. The SET
measure is valued at 11.4 times estimated profit for the next 12
months, the lowest level since July 2012, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Overseas investors are too pessimistic about Thailand,”
Yingyong said. “Many large-cap stocks are very attractive
compared with their earnings outlook.”  The SET dropped 1.8 percent to 1,271.10 at 10:40 a.m. in
Bangkok, heading for its lowest close since Sept. 13.  Advanced
Info Service Pcl (ADVANC)  and  CP All Pcl (CPALL)  were the biggest drags on the
gauge, with both stocks losing more than 3 percent.  Capital Outflows  Foreign investors sold about $1.2 billion of Thai stocks
and about the same amount of local bonds this month amid
speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce monetary
stimulus this year. Outflows from Indonesian shares totaled $464
million, while investors withdrew $219 million from Philippine
equities.  The three Southeast Asian markets led a four-year rally in
global shares through May as growing local economies sent
corporate profits to record highs and Fed stimulus spurred
international investors to seek riskier assets.  The central bank won’t hesitate to contain excessive moves
in markets if necessary, Bank of  Thailand  Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul told a conference in Bangkok today. Outflows are
“not an issue at all,” he said.  The baht weakened 0.3 percent to 32.28 per dollar, while
 yields  on 10-year government debt rose three basis points to
4.33 percent, the highest level since November 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy will probably post
a current-account deficit of $550 million in July, according to
a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Yingyong said the slowdown will have a “limited impact”
on the earnings of the companies the fund is buying.  The pension fund, which manages retirement savings for
about 1.2 million state employees, had 12.1 percent of its
assets in local equities and 2.7 percent in  emerging markets  as
of June 30, according to  data  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  