-- Alcatel-Lucent Names Ex-Goldman Banker Raby Finance Chief
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-08-28T07:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/alcatel-lucent-hires-former-goldman-banker-raby-as-finance-chief.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA named former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker Jean Raby as chief financial and
legal officer as part of the networking-equipment maker’s
reorganization under Chief Executive Officer  Michel Combes .  Raby, who was a partner and managing director at Goldman’s
investment-banking division until last year, will start in the
new role next month and move to Paris, Alcatel-Lucent said today
in a statement. The 49-year-old will take on responsibilities
left by outgoing CFO Paul Tufano.  Combes, who took over in April after predecessor Ben Verwaayen’s asset sales and firings failed to turn around the
company, is trying to keep Alcatel-Lucent’s cash from dwindling
further after seven consecutive years of declines. Raby brings
investment-banking expertise as the company tries to cut debt by
2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) by the end of 2015 by selling
shares on the stock market or through further  asset sales .  “His extensive knowledge of the industry and his deep
understanding of global financial markets in the widest sense
will be of great value as we drive ahead with the implementation
of the Shift Plan announced in June,” Combes said in the
statement.  Shares of Alcatel-Lucent  fell  1 percent to 1.90 euros at
9:51 a.m. in Paris. They had jumped 92 percent this year through
yesterday.  Loans Rate  Raby, born in  Canada  and trained as a lawyer, holds a
Bachelor of Laws from the Universite Laval in  Quebec City , a
Master of Philosophy in International Relations from the
University of Cambridge in the U.K. and a Master of Laws from
 Harvard Law School .  Alcatel-Lucent in December pledged its 39,000-strong patent
portfolio as collateral for a 2-billion-euro loan deal
underwritten by Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs.  The Paris-based equipment maker is now seeking to reduce
the rate on part of these loans, with Morgan Stanley, Credit
Suisse and Deutsche Bank AG arranging the transaction, a person
with knowledge of the matter said this month.  In the coming months, Combes will have to deal with job
cuts and asset sales as part of his bid to reorganize a company
that has lost more than $10 billion since it was created through
a 2006 merger. The Frenchman is also in talks with potential
research partners, which could become Alcatel-Lucent investors.
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  already agreed to buy a minority stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  