-- AMR Holders Lose 19 Cents on Dollar on Blocked Deal: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/amr-holders-lose-19-cents-on-dollar-on-blocked-deal-muni-credit.html
Municipal-bond investors are among
the  biggest losers  from the Justice Department’s suit to block a
planned $11.5 billion merger between  US Airways  Group Inc. and
 AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , parent of  American Airlines .  About $3.4 billion of munis backed by revenue from bankrupt
AMR and American helped finance airport construction in cities
from  Los Angeles  to  New York . The securities sank in price after
the Justice Department Aug. 13 filed a motion to halt the
merger, which would create the world’s biggest carrier.  AMR debt sold for Fort Worth Alliance Airport, near the
company’s Texas headquarters, lost as much as 17 percent of its
value the day after the motion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The bonds have also been punished as investors pulled $21.4
billion from muni mutual funds over 13 weeks through Aug. 21,
the most since 2011, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  “Some significant uncertainty has been injected into
this,” said  John Miller , who helps manage $90 billion of munis,
including about $400 million of AMR debt, as co-head of fixed-income at Nuveen Asset Management LLC in  Chicago .  Merger Hurdle  The lawsuit created an obstacle in AMR’s attempt to exit
bankruptcy through a union with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways.
The move surprised bondholders after the department had allowed
six airlines to merge in the past five years.  Combining the carriers would increase ticket prices and
reduce competition “substantially,” according to the
department’s Aug. 13 filing.  The debt, while backed by airline revenue, belongs to a
category of municipal securities called industrial development
bonds, which are sold by local authorities to help finance
projects that serve a public purpose. Some of the airline
obligations give holders a partial  tax exemption .  AMR bonds sold for Fort Worth Alliance Airport, which
serves cargo and corporate flights, and maturing in December
2029 fell by 19.3 cents on the dollar to an average price of
92.08 cents Aug. 14, the day after the suit’s filing, Bloomberg
data show. The bonds rebounded in the past week and last traded
Aug. 27 at par.  Recovery Laggard  Some securities sold for Dallas-Fort Worth International
Airport have yet to recover. Debt maturing in May 2029 last
traded Aug. 16 with an average price of 87.5 cents on the
dollar, down from 113.75 cents on the previous day they traded,
Aug. 7.  Transportation-related munis lost about 0.8 percent in the
same period, compared with a 0.7 percent decline for the rest of
the municipal market,  Standard & Poor’s  data show.  The lawsuit “made it more difficult to price those bonds
accurately, because where things are going to go is an
unknown,” said Matt Fabian, managing director at Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  Bondholders haven’t received principal and interest
payments since AMR filed for bankruptcy in November 2011. The
carrier’s finances may allow investors to regain some, if not
all, of their money even if the company emerged from bankruptcy
without US Airways, Nuveen’s Miller said.  “They have positive  cash flow  and they have positive cash
on hand,” Miller said. “And they are today operating as an
independent company.”  Par Target  While investors may have to wait longer to get repaid if
American were to operate on its own, bankruptcy should help the
carrier reduce its obligations and make it stronger, said  Jim Murphy , who oversees the $2.3 billion T. Rowe Price Tax-Free
High Yield Fund from Baltimore. Holdings include $23 million of
AMR debt.  “Investors should end up getting pretty close to par plus
accrued interest in the event that the merger doesn’t happen,”
Murphy said. “That will probably take more time, but we think
that there’s reasonable value there.”  AMR bonds, which are rated speculative grade, have been
volatile since the bankruptcy filing. The Fort Worth Alliance
debt traded at about 17 cents on the dollar on Nov. 29, 2011,
and soared to 114.13 cents May 28, the highest since their 2007
sale, Bloomberg data show.  Approval Appeal  AMR last week told a bankruptcy judge that its
reorganization plan should be approved even though the  Justice
Department  is seeking to block the merger. Waiting to resolve
the government’s objections would be “destabilizing,” AMR said
Aug. 23 in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  A hearing is set for Aug. 30 to schedule a trial date. AMR
and US Airways have said they want the case tried in November.
The U.S. said in a filing yesterday in federal court in
 Washington  that the trial shouldn’t begin before March 3.  In the market for new issues, New York City Housing
Development Corp. plans to sell about $655 million of revenue
bonds as soon as today, as localities offer a combined $4.6
billion of long-term debt sales this week, Bloomberg data show.  At  3.11 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year muni bonds are
the highest since April 2011, and compare with about  2.7 percent 
for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields is about  115 percent , the highest
since July 2012 and above the five-year average of 101 percent.
The greater the figure, the cheaper municipal securities are
relative to Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 