-- Man Shuts Vision Fund in Overhaul of Guaranteed Products
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-08-28T08:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/man-shuts-vision-fund-in-overhaul-of-guaranteed-products.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded hedge-fund manager, is shutting a range of
products that aimed to protect clients from losses after they
failed to meet performance targets.  The company decided this month to shut Man Vision Ltd., a
$40 million pool that sought to generate returns of more than 10
percent annually, according to an Aug. 12 letter sent to clients
and obtained by Bloomberg News. Man Group is also closing
similar offerings that, like Vision, were tied to the
performance of AHL Diversified, the firm’s biggest hedge fund,
said a person with knowledge of the moves who asked not to be
identified because they aren’t public.  AHL, a $14 billion hedge fund that uses computer algorithms
to try to profit from trends in asset prices, has been hurt
after the U.S. Federal Reserve roiled markets earlier this year
by indicating that it may taper its bond purchases. Guaranteed
products based on AHL and other hedge funds are Man Group’s most
profitable offerings, because they levy fees that can be more
than twice what the industry typically charges.  “They definitely have the highest margins and that’s due
to large management fees and because AHL is run by a computer
that’s not demanding a bonus at the end of the year,” said
David McCann, an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd. in  London  who
has a sell rating on Man Group. Still, “no one has wanted to
buy these products in the last three to four years” because the
returns have been lackluster.  Vision, which totaled about $160 million a year ago, fell
about 5.6 percent in the first half of 2013, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund has lost about 12 percent since
it started trading in July 2008.  Bond Offering  Vision promised clients that bought a bond issued by Man
Group and held it until maturity in 2020 that they won’t lose
their initial investment.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  provided a
guarantee to protect investors against declines in the bonds.  The pool “no longer has the potential to achieve its
performance objectives,” Man Group said in the letter, which
was obtained by  Bloomberg News . David Waller, a spokesman for
the London-based company, declined to comment on the fund.  Man Group said in a July 2012 statement that it planned to
reduce its reliance on high-margin guaranteed products, because
clients weren’t buying them.  Assets under management at the guaranteed-products division
have declined 64 percent over the past two years to $4.7
billion, less than a 10th of the company’s $52 billion of assets
under management.  Fees Charged  Man Group sold Vision as a product that could take
advantage of directional market moves through AHL and also
developing global themes, such as the growth of emerging
economies and climate change, by selecting the best outside
hedge funds. The firm planned to boost returns through leverage,
or borrowed money.  Vision charged bondholders an annual 3 percent fee for
investing in AHL and an additional 1.5 percent fee for investing
in the  funds-of-funds , according to the prospectus. Zurich-based
Credit Suisse also received a 1 percent annual fee for
guaranteeing the bonds and for entering into a swap with Man
Group, the prospectus shows. Most hedge funds charge clients a 2
percent management fee to oversee assets.  Man Group plans to pull all of Vision’s investments in AHL
and other hedge funds by Sept. 1, moving them into cash and
bonds, according to the client letter. Clients can hold their
investment until maturity, redeem and lose the guarantee
protecting their initial investment, or move their money to
another Man Group product at no charge, according to the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  