-- Manchester United Plans $46.5 Million Move for Luiz: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-28T09:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/manchester-united-plans-46-5-million-move-for-luiz-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Luiz Lined Up  Manchester United  wants to sign Chelsea’s  David Luiz  and is
prepared to pay 30 million pounds ($46.5 million) for the
Brazilian defender, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Acquiring Luiz has been a United priority for weeks, and
manager  David Moyes  suspects the 26-year-old may not be a Jose Mourinho-style player because he takes risks at the back, the
newspaper added.  Contract Extension  Wayne Rooney  will stay at United this season after deciding
not to submit a transfer request and will be offered a contract
extension if he continues to show his commitment following a
flirtation with Chelsea, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  After repelling the London club’s advances, United intends
to open negotiations with Rooney and his advisers this year
about an extension to the  England  forward’s deal that expires in
2015, the newspaper added.  Eto’o Deal  Chelsea is close to signing Cameroon striker Samuel Eto’o
on a one-year contract from Russian club Anzhi Makhachkala, the
 Daily Mail reported .  The Blues already acquired playmaker Willian from Anzhi
pending a work permit hearing today and Eto’o’s transfer will be
part of the same 32 million-pound package, the newspaper added.  Transfer Chain  Gareth Bale’s world-record 90 million-pound move to Real
Madrid is being delayed by a transfer chain as Tottenham Hotspur
doesn’t want to sell the winger until it’s recruited a
replacement, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Spurs are closing in on a 30 million-pound deal for Roma’s
Erik Lamela, whose club won’t sign off on the trade until it’s
bought Adem Ljajic from Fiorentina, the newspaper added.  Mata in Demand  Tottenham wants to sign Spanish playmaker  Juan Mata  from
Chelsea and has been told by Zenit  St. Petersburg  that Brazil
striker Hulk isn’t for sale, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger is also interested in Mata,
who may be available for transfer following his omission from
the Chelsea starting lineup at Manchester United two days ago,
the  Daily Mail reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  