-- Manziel Suspended for First Half of Season Opener Against Rice
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-29T04:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/manziel-suspended-for-first-half-of-season-opener-for-violation.html
Johnny Manziel was suspended for the
first half of  Texas A&M University ’s season-opening football
game against  Rice University  for a violation connected to his
signing of autographs.  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  was
investigating whether the 20-year-old Heisman Trophy-winning
quarterback was paid for autographs by a memorabilia dealer. The
governing body for U.S. college athletics said in a release that,
while it found no evidence of a money transaction, Manziel will
be suspended for “an inadvertent violation” related to signing.  The discipline was proposed by the school and accepted by
the NCAA, according to yesterday’s release.  “Texas A&M is committed to competing with integrity and
sportsmanship, and we will continue to ensure strict
compliance,” Athletic Director Eric Hyman said in the release.  Ranked No. 7 in the preseason  Associated Press  poll, the
Aggies host Rice on Aug. 31. As part of the punishment, Manziel
also will address the team regarding lessons learned from the
NCAA investigation and  Texas A&M  will revise its education of
student-athletes concerning autographs.  Known as “Johnny Football,” Manziel led the  Southeastern
Conference  with 1,410 yards rushing and 21 touchdowns as a
freshman last season, while passing for 3,706 yards and 26
scores. He’s the first NCAA player with more than 5,000 total
yards to rush for over 1,000 yards in a season.  Defeated Alabama  The Aggies finished last season 11-2, ranked No. 5 in the
year-end AP poll. Texas A&M handed eventual national champion
Alabama its only loss of the season on Nov. 10 and beat Oklahoma
41-13 in the Cotton Bowl on Jan. 4.  The NCAA was trying to determine whether Manziel was paid
at least $10,000 for signing photographs and sports memorabilia
while attending college football’s national championship game in
Miami in January, ESPN reported this month. Many of those items
were later sold online by a memorabilia dealer, according to
ESPN. NCAA rules state that student-athletes may not accept
money for items they sign.  “Student-athletes are often asked for autographs from fans,
but unfortunately, some individuals’ sole motivation in seeking
an autograph is for resale,” Kevin Lennon, NCAA vice president
of academic and membership affairs, said in the statement. “It
is important that schools are cognizant and educate student-athletes about situations in which there is a strong likelihood
that the autograph seeker plans to resell the items.”  Junior Matt Joeckel and freshman Kenny Hill are the two
other quarterbacks listed on the Texas A&M depth chart. Joeckel
completed five of 11 passes last season for 42 yards and no
touchdowns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  