-- Apple, Voss, IDBI, Fox, Nintendo: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/apple-voss-idbi-fox-nintendo-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and
iPhone,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  have
been targeted more by patent-licensing firms than any other
companies in the past five years, PC World  reported .  The licensing firms, sometimes derided as “trolls,” don’t
make products or provide services covered by the patents they
seek to enforce.  Speaking at a conference at  Stanford University  in
 California , attorney Michael Brody of Winston & Strawn LLP said
the firms have a better than 24 percent chance of either
negotiating a settlement or prevailing in court or on appeal, PC
World said.  Brady said that lately it’s become harder for the licensing
companies to get court orders barring the sale of products that
allegedly infringe their patents, according to PC world.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Voss Settles Trademark Suit With High Liquors Over Bottle Shape  Voss of Norway ASA, a seller of bottled artesian water, and
a  Kentucky  liquor maker have settled a trademark-infringement
dispute related to the shape of a bottle.  In a federal case filed in Ashland, Kentucky, in January,
the Oslo-based company claimed that High Liquors LLC of Russell
used bottles virtually identical to the cylindrical flat-topped
containers in which Voss water is sold in the U.S.  The two companies’ products are sold in liquor stores, and
Voss claims the public was likely to assume falsely that the
products are from the same source.  The parties jointly asked for dismissal of the case in an
Aug. 22 court filing without revealing terms of any agreement.
The dismissal is without prejudice, which means that the case
can be refiled.  The case is Voss of Norway ASA v. High Liquors LLC, 13-cv-00004, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Kentucky
(Ashland).  Feuding South Carolina Bishops’ Trademark Case Dismissed  A federal judge in South Carolina dismissed a dispute
between two Episcopalian bishops over the use of diocesan
trademarks, saying the case is better suited for state court.  U.S. District Judge C. Weston Houck on Aug. 23 said the
dispute between Charles G. vonRosenberg and Mark J. Lawrence
could be refiled if it appears the underlying issues aren’t
disposed of in state court, where a related case is pending.  The suit stems from a theological dispute after which
Lawrence withdrew from the Episcopal Church and declared that
the South Carolina diocese he led had “disassociated” from the
church.  VonRosenberg was elected as provisional bishop of the
diocese and filed the suit March 5 seeking an order barring
Lawrence’s use of the diocese’s trademarks.  The federal case is VonRosenberg v. Lawrence, 13-cv-00587,
U.S. District Court, District of South Carolina (Charleston).  Deccan Chronicle Trademarks for Sale ‘As-Is,’ IDBI Bank Says  India ’s  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  said it’s selling trademarks to
 Deccan Chronicle Holdings Ltd. (DECH)  “as-is” and that the buyer will
have to defend the marks in pending litigation over their
ownership, the Business Standard  reported .  The marks are for four publications: the Deccan Chronicle,
Andhar Bhoomi, Asian Age and Financial Chronicle, according to
Business Standard.  When Mumbai-based IDBI Bank said this month that the marks
were for sale,  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)  said it had a clam to
their ownership, the newspaper reported.  The dispute is being hard at the Debt Recovery Tribunal in
Hyderabad, India, according to the Business Standard.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Streaming TV Doesn’t Infringe Copyrights, Appeals Court Told  A company that streams TV shows to subscribers petitioned a
federal appeals court in California to overturn a lower-court
ruling that granted Fox Broadcasting Co.’s bid to shut down the
service in the state.  FilmOn X LLC, based in Beverly Hills and founded by Alki David, argued at a hearing in Pasadena yesterday that it isn’t
infringing copyrights by capturing broadcasters’ over-the-air
signals with its small remotely located antennas and
retransmitting the programming to its customers.  Fox, a unit of  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) , sued FilmOn X
in 2012, claiming that it violated Fox’s exclusive rights to
reproduce and perform its works publicly and that the service
doesn’t have a license to transmit its programming. Fox and
other broadcasters, including  CBS Corp. (CBS) , Comcast Corp.’s NBC and
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, are fighting unlicensed online streaming
services because they are a threat to the revenue the broadcast
networks receive from cable and satellite TV providers.  After U.S. District Judge George Wu granted the injunction,
FilmOn X appealed. Wu denied the broadcasters’ petition to
extend the injunction beyond California and several other states
and they have appealed that ruling.  FilmOn X argued in court papers that the California appeals
court should follow a decision by a federal appeals court in  New
York . The New York court ruled against an injunction that would
have shut down Aereo Inc., which has a technology similar to
FilmOn’s.  Fox said in a letter to the California appeals court that
it should take into account the dissenting opinion of U.S.
Circuit Judge  Denny Chin  in New York, who said the Aereo system
“is a sham, as it was designed solely to avoid the reach of the
copyright law.”  The lower-court case is Fox Broadcast Stations v.
Aereokiller, 12-cv-06921, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California. The appeal is Fox Television Stations v.
Aereokiller, 13-55156,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth
Circuit (Pasadena).  Nintendo Gets Metroid Fan Film’s Kickstarter Campaign Shut Down  Nintendo Co. (7974) , the Japanese video-game maker, temporarily
derailed a fan group’s campaign to raise money for a film based
on the Metroid science-fiction action games.  The  page  on Kickstarter Inc.’s crowd-sourcing website for
“Metroid: Enemies Within (A Metroid Fan Film)” now carries a
notice that the film is the subject of an  intellectual property 
dispute.  Nintendo sent a  takedown request  to New York-based
Kickstarter under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act stating
that it owns copyrights “in all aspects of its Metroid video-game franchise and related products, including but not limited
to the characters, storylines, audiovisual, pictorial and
graphic works” from six different Metroid games.  Nintendo characterized the fan film, story boards and
related material as “unauthorized derivative works” that
infringe its copyrights.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Equinox Says Ex-Employee’s Peakfit Uses Its Trade Secrets  Equinox Holdings Inc., a New York-based operator of fitness
clubs, sued a former employee and his company for trade-secret
misappropriation.  In a suit filed in  Los Angeles  County Superior Court,
Equinox accused Yaw Owusu and his Peakfit Academy of making
unauthorized use of confidential information and stealing
customers.  Owusu, a former fitness instructor for Equinox, allegedly
converted the chain’s training program, materials and
promotional items for use at Peakfit. Equinox also said Owusu
and Peakfit are deceiving the public into thinking the training
materials they are using actually belong to them.  Owusu is using confidential information to promote his new
business and persuade Equinox members to join him at Peakfit,
according to the plaintiff’s filing.  Equinox is asking the court for money damages, including a
royalty, and an order barring further use of its  trade secrets .
It’s also asking for money the company claims was wrongfully
obtained, including compensation paid to Owusu when he allegedly
breached contractual obligations to Equinox.  Owusu and Peakfit didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail
sent to the Peakfit website seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Equinox Holdings Inc. v. Owusu, BC517104,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  