-- Marathoners Go to Sioux Falls for Spot on Boston Starting Line
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-08-28T16:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/marathoners-go-to-sioux-falls-for-spot-on-boston-starting-line.html
Barry Williamson missed qualifying
for next year’s Boston Marathon by 10 seconds at a race in June.
He is now spending about $600 to travel to  Sioux Falls ,  South
Dakota , to give it another shot.  “That 10 seconds is costing me a lot,” Williamson, of
Rosemount,  Minnesota , said in an interview.  Williamson, 51, is among the runners on a quest to book a
place in the April race. The annual 26.2-mile journey from
Hopkinton,  Massachusetts , to Boston has taken on a renewed
significance after fatal bombings halted this year’s marathon
with 5,633 runners still on the course.  The  Sioux Falls Marathon , in its fourth year, will attract
about 700 runners, up from 350 last year, according to Wes Hall,
executive director of the Sioux Falls Sports Authority, which
stages the race. The race is Sept. 8; the deadline to qualify
for  Boston  is Sept. 22.  The demand led Hall to add about 900 volunteers and spend
$2,500 for a “pace team” of about 15 runners in an effort to
assist those seeking Boston qualifying times.  “For a race our size, to put that amount of money out
there, when we don’t have the budget for it, it’s a little bit
of a sacrifice,” said Hall, 33. “But I think it will be for
the benefit of a lot of people.”  As the Sioux Falls race has approached, Hall said he has
received numerous phone calls and e-mails from runners verifying
that the  course is certified  by USA Track & Field, a requirement
for a runner’s time to count for a Boston spot.  Unlike other races, Boston -- the world’s oldest annual
marathon -- requires general-entry runners to meet qualifying
 time standards  based on their age. Organizers made it more
difficult for this year’s race, the first change since 1990,
toughening standards by five minutes for all ages.  First Chance  Runners with the fastest qualifying times are given the
first opportunity to register. The increased interest for the
2014 race could make it even more difficult to gain entry, and
Hall realized that his race would take on added significance.  “We heard people saying ‘this is probably my last
chance,’” he said. “If this is what they want to accomplish,
we’re going to do everything we can to try to make that a
reality for people.”  After running in Boston every year from 2007-12,
Williamson, a grounds crew worker for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  who
has completed 33 marathons, didn’t make the lineup this year,
leaving him at home when two bombs exploded close to the
downtown finish line of the Boston Athletic Association’s
signature race. Three people were killed and more than 200 were
injured.  “I have a close connection to Boston,” said Williamson,
who finished  Grandma’s Marathon  in Duluth, Minnesota, on June 22
in 3 hours, 30 minutes,  10 seconds , just shy of the required
time. “I have a need to get back. It seems as though I want
this one as much as I wanted the first one.”  Automatic Entry  Because of the bombings, runners who were unable to finish
were granted automatic entry into next year’s race. Their
inclusion will increase the field to about 36,000 runners,
according to the Boston Globe. The exact number has yet to be
announced by race organizers. A record 36,748 runners started
the centennial race in 1996. Approximately 500,000 spectators
line the route, organizers said.  Like Sioux Falls, other smaller marathons around the U.S.
have seen increased interest because of the bombings, race
directors said.  Mike Calley, who has organized the  Pocatello Marathon  in
Pocatello,  Idaho , since 2005, said he expects to attract 500
runners for this year’s race on Aug. 31, up slightly from 473
last year.  “Immediately following Boston, we had a big spike in our
registrations,” Calley, 48, said. “I got a lot of calls to my
house asking if our race was a Boston qualifier.”  Downhill Race  The Pocatello race, which has a starting elevation at 6,600
feet (2,000 meters) above  sea level  and drops 1,500 feet before
runners reach the finish line, averaged 19 registration per day
in the week following the Boston bombings, up from an average of
5 per day, Calley said.  “What happened in Boston united the running community,”
he said. “Next year is going to be a pretty special event.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  