-- Dollar Advances With U.S. Stocks as Oil, Gold Decline
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2013-08-29T20:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/asia-futures-rise-amid-u-s-stock-rebound-as-oil-declines.html
The dollar gained with U.S. stocks
as a report showed the American economy grew more than forecast
last quarter. Oil slid from a two-year high while European
shares rose for the first time in four days.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency
against 10 major peers, climbed 0.5 percent and the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  increased 0.2 percent at 4 p.m. in New York.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.8 percent as Vodafone Group
Plc jumped 8.2 percent to an 11-year high. Crude slipped 1.2
percent and gold dropped 0.4 percent. The yield on 10-year
Treasuries fell less than one basis point to 2.76 percent,
reversing an earlier gain, following a U.S. auction of notes.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate, up from an initial estimate of 1.7 percent,
Commerce Department figures showed today. The prospect of an
imminent attack on Syria faded as U.K. Prime Minister David
Cameron, the U.S.’s top ally, struggled to win parliamentary
backing for military strikes that critics said echoed the push
to war in  Iraq .  “We’re back to focusing on economic data, specifically out
of the U.S. and Europe, and the Fed tapering, as the market is
coming around to believe the Syrian conflict poses only a short-term risk,” said Manish Singh, who helps oversee $2 billion as
head of investment at Crossbridge Capital in  London . “I am of
the opinion that tapering will happen in September, regardless
of data.”  The 2.5 percent growth in GDP compared with a 2.2 percent
median estimate of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
improvement shows the world’s largest economy gaining momentum
after a drought, Superstorm Sandy and budget battles in
 Washington  stalled growth in the last three months of 2012.
Recent data have shown the labor market is gaining strength
while home prices rise, bolstering household finances.  Jobless Claims  A separate report today showed the number of Americans
filing applications for unemployment benefits fell more than
forecast last week.  The S&P 500 has fallen 2.8 percent in August amid
speculation the Federal Reserve will pare stimulus measures and
concern the U.S. will take military action against  Syria . The
benchmark index has retreated 4.2 percent since its last record
on Aug. 2.  Minutes of the Fed’s July meeting released on Aug. 21
showed policy makers supported cuts to the central bank’s bond-buying program this year if the economy improves in line with
its forecasts. Fed stimulus helped push the S&P 500 up as much
as 153 percent from its March 2009 low, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Guess Gains  Among stocks moving today, telephone, technology and
consumer shares climbed at least 0.4 percent to lead gains in
eight of the 10 main industry groups in the S&P 500.  Guess? Inc. (GES) 
surged 13 percent as the clothes maker reported second-quarter
profit that topped estimates and boosted its full-year forecast.  Trading volume in S&P 500 stocks was 19 percent below the
30-day average at this time of day, with one session left before
the Labor Day holiday weekend. Trading on U.S. exchanges is
poised for the second-slowest month in at least five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. An average of about 5.5
billion shares changed hands each day this month. That’s about
50 million shares more than last August.  Europe Stocks  Almost three shares advanced for every one that fell in the
Stoxx 600, and the gauge was up 0.2 percent for the month.
 Vodafone (VOD)  surged after the mobile-phone company said it’s in
discussions with  Verizon Communications (VZ)  Inc. over a sale of its
45 percent holding in their Verizon Wireless venture to the U.S.
carrier. Verizon Communications rallied 2.7 percent in U.S.
trading.  Carrefour SA climbed 5.6 percent as  France ’s largest
retailer posted increased first-half profit. WPP Plc, the
world’s biggest advertising company, advanced 4.2 percent after
reporting a gain in sales.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index reached the highest level
in four weeks. The currency gained against 13 of its 16 major
peers, advancing 0.7 percent to $1.3243 per euro. The greenback
advanced 0.6 percent to 98.26 yen after gaining 0.6 percent
yesterday. The yen added 0.1 percent to 130.13 per euro.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index climbed 1.1 percent,
trimming its monthly loss to 2.9 percent. The Philippine Stock
Exchange Index jumped 3.6 percent, snapping a two-day, 6.9
percent slump, as the economy grew for the fourth straight
quarter, beating analysts’ estimates. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong
added 0.9 percent.  Rupee Rises  India ’s rupee climbed 3.2 percent and the Sensex gauge of
equities rose 2.3 percent. The central bank said it will sell
dollars to the nation’s biggest oil importers to cool demand for
foreign exchange. The South Korean won climbed 0.2 percent
against the dollar after Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said a
widening current-account surplus would buoy the currency.  The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities dropped 0.8 percent,
the first decline in six days. West Texas Intermediate crude
declined 1.2 percent to $108.80 a barrel as concerns eased over
the prospects of an imminent military strike against Syria. Oil
futures climbed to $110.10 yesterday, the highest close since
May 3, 2011.  Britain released an assessment showing it “highly likely”
the Syrian government was behind the mass killing of civilians
with chemical weapons on Aug. 21 near Damascus. Still, Cameron
bowed to opposition demands to await a judgment by on-site
United Nations inspectors.  Chemical Attack  Likewise, the Obama administration is laboring to marshal
conclusive evidence backing its assertions that Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad was directly responsible for the attack, said
three intelligence officials familiar with the situation.  Gold slipped 0.4 percent, the most in more than two weeks,
after reaching a three-month high yesterday. The precious metal
has tumbled 16 percent this year on speculation that the Fed
will slow the pace of the stimulus. Copper fell 1.5 percent.  Treasuries erased losses after the U.S. sale of $29 billion
in seven-year notes produced a lower-than-forecast yield. The
notes drew a yield of 2.221 percent, compared with a forecast of
2.232 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Federal
Reserve’s 21 primary dealers.  Italian 10-year bonds advanced for a second day amid
speculation easing political tension in the nation will boost
investor demand at a 6 billion-euro ($7.96 billion) debt sale
today. Italy’s government, led by Prime Minister Enrico Letta,
yesterday agreed to a compromise on a property tax in a deal
that may mend relations with Silvio Berlusconi, his partner in
the coalition.  The yield on the securities fell four basis points to 4.37
percent. Italy sold 6 billion euros ($8 billion) of five and 10-year securities, matching its maximum target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  