-- Barclays’s Azar Sees Middle East M&A Driven by Sovereigns
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-08-28T13:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/barclays-s-azar-sees-middle-east-m-a-driven-by-sovereign-funds.html
Middle East mergers and
acquisitions, at a six-year high, will be driven by sovereign
wealth funds and regional transactions amid an economic recovery
in the  Persian Gulf , according to a  Barclays Plc (BARC)  executive.  “M&A is back. Money is cheap and companies are feeling
better about growth through acquisitions,” Makram Azar, vice
chairman of  investment banking , said in an interview yesterday.
“There are two types of M&A happening in this region -
sovereigns looking at acquisitions abroad to diversify and
regional consolidation.”  Deals valued at $39.1 billion have been announced in the
Middle East and  Africa  this year, the highest since the same
period in 2007 and a 15 percent increase from a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Some of the biggest
transactions involve companies in the  United Arab Emirates 
consolidating as they seek to benefit from a revival in property
prices, tourism and retail.  Abu Dhabi sovereign fund Mubadala Development Co. said in
June it will buy a stake in state-owned Dubai Aluminium Co. in a
$15 billion joint venture.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , Abu Dhabi’s
biggest developer, in the same month completed the acquisition
of Sorouh Real Estate Co., creating a developer with $13 billion
in assets.  Ooredoo QSC, the company formerly known as Qatar Telecom
QSC, bought about 200 million shares in  Kuwait ’s National Mobile
Telecommunications Co., known as Wataniya, in October for 519
million dinars ($1.8 billion), raising its stake to 92 percent
from 53 percent.  U.A.E. Deals  “There are also a lot of companies in the Gulf that
operate in the same industry who are realizing that integration
would provide them with the scale and competitive advantage to
reach the next level,” Azar said. “We’ve already seen examples
of such transactions with QTel/Wataniya, Dubal/Emal and
Aldar/Sorouh, and we expect to see more of these intra-regional
transactions.”  Dubai and state-linked companies are preparing to repay
about $20 billion in debt in 2014 in what Moody’s Investors
Service has called a “pivotal year” for the emirate. A
property crash spurred by the 2008 global credit crisis drove
Dubai to the brink of default almost four years ago, before it
was rescued with a $20 billion bailout from  Abu Dhabi  and the
U.A.E. central bank.  Dubai Confidence  Confidence in Dubai, home to the world’s tallest tower, has
improved since state-linked companies refinanced or paid $3.75
billion of debt last year.  An upturn in domestic real estate sales has coincided with
a recovery in the economy, which expanded 4.4 percent last year,
the most since 2007 as tourism and retail figures improved,
according to government data.  Barclays, the third-largest arranger of M&A deals in the
region, was an international adviser on a plan by Egyptian
construction and fertilizer company Orascom Construction
Industries to transfer shares from Cairo and  London  to Amsterdam
in a deal valued at about $10.5 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It also advised Bahrain’s Investcorp Bank
BSC when it sold its majority stake in British online payment
company Skrill Group this month to CVC Capital Partners Ltd. in
a 600 million-euro ($802 million) transaction.  Barclays rose 1.3 percent to 284.3 pence in London as of
2:17 p.m. local time and has gained about 8 percent this year.  The bank plans further expansion in the  Middle East  on
rising demand for wealth management and investment banking
services, John Vitalo, the bank’s chief executive officer for
Middle East and North Africa, said in March. The bank, which
employees about 1,000 people in the region, expects to hire
about 100 more this year and has a “healthy pipeline” of debt
capital market and M&A deal mandates, he said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  