-- Bill Clinton Enlisted By Obama to Promote U.S. Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-08-28T17:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/bill-clinton-enlisted-by-obama-to-promote-u-s-health-law.html
Bill Clinton  agreed to lend his
weight to President  Barack Obama ’s effort at educating people
about the U.S.  health-care overhaul , a helping hand needed to
combat confusion as key parts of the law begin Oct. 1.  Clinton, a two-term U.S. president who left office in 2001,
will promote the Affordable Care Act in a Sept. 4 speech from
his museum in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , according to a statement
today from his philanthropic foundation. A White House aide,  Dan Pfeiffer , welcomed Clinton’s help and quipped on Twitter that
the former president is “the Secretary of Explaining Stuff.”  Obama has called on the former president’s star power
before, including during his 2012 re-election campaign. Clinton
appeared at high-dollar fundraising events and in campaign ads
that culminated in a rousing speech to the Democratic National
Convention that helped to clarify Obama’s economic policies and
accomplishments for independent and undecided voters.  “He generally is very effective at what people call retail
politics; talking about things as they directly affect people’s
lives,” Robert Blendon, a professor at the Harvard School of
 Public Health  in  Boston , said in a telephone interview.  The challenge now is to surmount political opposition and
public confusion about the 2010 Affordable Care Act, the largest
regulatory overhaul of health care since the 1960s. More than 40
percent of people remain unsure whether the law is still on the
books, according to a  poll  today by the  Kaiser Family
Foundation , a nonprofit based in  Menlo Park ,  California .  Public Concern  “People who are concerned about this bill are afraid that
things in their lives aren’t going to go right -- their health
insurance rates may go up, they may have to change policies,
their taxes are going to go up,” Blendon said.  The Affordable Care Act aims to reduce medical costs and
extend insurance coverage to at least half of the nation’s 50
million uninsured. A key pillar of the law starts Oct. 1, when
people who lack health insurance can begin buying coverage
through new marketplaces in every state called exchanges.  The Obama administration is racing to publicize the
opportunity, particularly in states run by Republicans who have
rejected the law and aren’t helping to implement it.  Opinion of the health law has been largely unchanged since
Obama signed, with slightly more Americans opposed than in
favor, Blendon said. Even Clinton will have trouble turning that
around, though the transition into “the second phase of this
issue,” where Americans begin to experience the law’s benefits
and costs first hand, offers an opportunity, he said.  ‘Critical Role’  Clinton plans to speak about “the critical role a high
quality, affordable and accessible health care system plays in
the” U.S., according to the Clinton Foundation statement.  Clinton’s own attempt to overhaul the U.S. health-care
system in 1993 ended in disaster when Congress failed to pass
legislation and his party lost control of the  House of
Representatives  in the 1994 elections. Democrats steered clear
of the issue for more than a decade thereafter.  Clinton’s popularity has grown since he left office in
January 2001. A Gallup poll last year showed about 70 percent of
Americans view the former president favorably.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  