-- Bleak Future for Carmakers as Rupee Plummets: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-28T18:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/bleak-future-for-carmakers-as-rupee-plummets-corporate-india.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  and  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) , the nation’s biggest carmakers, will have to raise
prices of vehicles sold overseas to maintain profitability as a
plunging rupee raises costs amid stagnating demand at home.  India ’s currency plummeted the most in two decades to a
record yesterday. A further depreciation will increase imported
component costs and worsen a sales slump in India, R.
Sethuraman, Hyundai Motor India Ltd.’s director for finance,
said in an e-mail. The unit of  South Korea ’s largest automaker
purchases as much as 40 percent of its raw materials from
overseas depending on the car model, according to Sethuraman.  Automobile companies are rushing to increase use of local
parts as the rupee’s drop raises costs and deliveries decline in
 Asia ’s third-largest car market. Higher export prices may stymie
sales overseas, while a cash squeeze engineered by the Indian
central bank to stem the rupee’s decline prompts banks to raise
 interest rates , deterring buyers at home.  “Overall the picture looks bleak in the Indian car market
as there are no pull factors for buyers,” Maruti Chief
Financial Officer Ajay Seth said in an interview. “Nobody
expected the sudden rupee depreciation, so there’s no short term
measures that we can take to avoid the pain.”  Maruti is delaying a plan to build a new plant in Gujarat,
said Chairman R.C. Bhargava, after deliveries in India declined
for nine straight months through July. Hyundai, which exports 40
percent of its production, is seeking newer markets in  Latin
America  and  Africa , Sethuraman said.  ‘Limited Advantage’  “While the rupee depreciation has a limited advantage in
the short term, continuous depreciation will have a reverse
impact on pricing in the export market,” said Sethuraman.
Rising raw material costs “may lead to a further drop in
already stagnating demand in the domestic market.”  Maruti’s profit growth may slow to 13 percent in the year
ending March 31, according to a median  estimate  of eight
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Net income rose 47 percent in
the same period a year earlier.  Overseas sales  accounted for
about 10 percent of the company’s revenue last fiscal year.  Shares of the Indian unit of Suzuki Motor Corp. have
dropped 17 percent this year. They fell 1.9 percent to 1,236.35
rupees in Mumbai yesterday as the benchmark S&P BSE Index rose
0.2 percent.  Payments Crisis  The rupee has dropped more than 20 percent this year, the
biggest loss since a balance of payments crisis in 1991 forced
authorities to pledge the nation’s gold reserves for loans from
the  International Monetary Fund . The advances prompted India to
open the economy to foreign investment.  The rupee slumped 3.9 percent to an unprecedented 68.8450
per dollar yesterday in Mumbai, the biggest drop since 1993,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  “As far as domestic car demand is concerned, I’d be
negative on that for sometime at least,” said Shaukat Ali, a
New Delhi-based analyst at Quantum Securities Pvt. The falling
rupee will boost oil import costs, which will “lead to rise in
fuel prices. That way it’s going to impact very badly,” he
said.  To lure customers, carmakers from Maruti and  General Motors
Co. (GM)  to  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Ford Motor Co. are introducing new
models and offering discounts. Maruti introduced a new version
of its Wagon R model called the Stingray while Ford has started
selling the Ecosport, a compact SUV.  Growth Estimate  Maruti also plans to cut use of imported parts by 3
percentage points this year, CFO Seth said on a July 25
conference call with analysts. The company imported 19.5 percent
of its raw material as of March 31, he said.  India’s gross domestic product probably rose 4.6 percent in
the three months ended June 30, the least since the first
quarter of 2009, according to the median of 41 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey before official data due tomorrow.  Slowing growth and rising borrowing costs may keep buyers
away from showrooms this year as well, said Quantum’s Ali.
Annual sales in the year through March 31 fell 6.7 percent to
1.89 million units, the biggest decline since 2001, according to
the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  “The whole economy will suffer dramatically” due to the
rupee’s drop, said  Adi Godrej , chairman of Godrej Consumer
Products Ltd. “There will be huge inflation, which will lead to
high interest costs and a whole vicious cycle will be created.”  Auto Loans  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , India’s biggest lender by market value,
raised the  base rate  by 20 basis points to 9.8 percent this
month after the central bank increased two interest rates. Banks
are not allowed to lend at rates below the base rate. Kotak
Mahindra Prime Ltd., the auto finance unit of billionaire Uday Kotak, forecasts no growth in loans this year.  “The sentiment is so poor that no one wants to buy a large
ticket discretionary like a car,” said Sumit Bali, director at
Kotak Mahindra Prime. “One can’t rule out another rate hike.”  Vehicle loans grew 24.2 percent in twelve months to June
28, data compiled by central bank show. That’s unchanged from
the same period a year earlier, data show.  Lack of demand prompted Maruti to delay the Gujarat plant
that was scheduled to begin production in the 12 months starting
April 1, 2015 and was expected to boost the company’s capacity
to 2 million cars by that fiscal year, Maruti said last year.  “If anyone can tell me when the car industry will turn
around or even show signs of turning around, I will tell you
when we will begin building the Gujarat Plant,” said Maruti’s
Bhargava said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  