-- BofA Settles Black Advisers’ Bias Suit for $160 Million
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-08-28T04:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/bofa-settles-black-brokers-bias-suit-for-160-million.html
Bank of America Corp .’s Merrill
Lynch unit agreed to pay $160 million to settle a discrimination
lawsuit filed by black financial advisers, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs said.  The case, filed in 2005, was brought on behalf of one
employee and grew to as many as 1,200  class representatives  who
“persevered through some long odds in this case,” said Suzanne
Bish, a lawyer for the plaintiffs.  The agreement is scheduled to be considered by a federal
judge in  Chicago  on Sept. 3, Bish said yesterday in a phone
interview.  “We are working toward a very positive resolution of a
lawsuit filed in 2005 and enhancing opportunities for African-American financial advisers,”  Bill Halldin , a Bank of America
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Bank of America , the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
acquired Merrill for $33 billion in 2009. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank plans to dissolve the unit as early as the
fourth quarter while keeping the Merrill Lynch brand for its
retail brokerage and investment bank, according to an Aug. 2
 filing .  Merrill Lynch had about 14,000 financial advisers as of
June 30, excluding those working at bank branches. Bank of
America’s entire staff was 257,158.  Nashville Adviser  The lead plaintiff, George McReynolds of Nashville,
 Tennessee , still works for Merrill Lynch, Bish said. McReynolds
and the firm maintained a professional attitude throughout the
litigation based on a common “passion for their clients,” she
said.  The central claim of the suit was that blacks weren’t given
the same business opportunities as whites in participating on
investment teams and in account distribution, Bish said. The
formation of adviser teams is one of Merrill’s most important
business strategies, she said, and black advisers were
segregated and excluded from the teams and the benefits and
business resources they afforded, she said.  U.S. District Robert Gettleman in Chicago rejected the case
as a class action three times before a federal appeals court
approved it. Bish said the black advisers won class
certification based on a 2011 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that
women suing  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  for gender bias on behalf of
1.5 million co-workers failed to prove the company had a
nationwide policy that led to gender discrimination.  Centralized Control  The advisers’ suit was based on claims that the
discrimination was due to “very centralized control by Merrill
Lynch,” Bish said. Any individual claims permitted to advance
would have to be tried repeatedly in federal courts across the
U.S., arguing for class certification, she said.  After the February 2012 appeals court ruling, Gettleman
issued an order certifying the class of “all African-Americans
employed by Merrill Lynch at any time since July 10, 2004, as
financial advisers or financial adviser trainees” in the U.S.
retail brokerage unit of the firm’s global private client
division.  The  New York  Times reported the settlement earlier.  “Their goal in filing this was to try to make  Wall Street 
a friendlier place where their kids would have the same
opportunities to do this job that they love so much,” Bish
said. “Our clients are going to help Merrill and help Wall
Street be a more open place for everyone.”  The cases are McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch, 11-01957,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago), and
McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Inc., 05-cv-06583, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  