-- Bond Binge Pushing Leverage Toward Financial Crisis Peak
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-08-28T15:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/bond-binge-expanding-leverage-toward-crisis-peak-credit-markets.html
Company debt loads in the U.S. are
approaching the highest level since the aftermath of the
financial crisis as borrowing to finance mergers and shareholder
payouts exceeds earnings growth.  Debt levels have increased faster than  cash flow  for six
straight quarters, boosting the obligations of investment-grade
companies in the second quarter to 2.09 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. That’s up from 2.07 times in the first
three months of 2013 and compares with 2.13 in the third quarter
of 2009, when it peaked after the deepest recession since the
Great Depression.  Businesses from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  have tapped
credit markets this year to take advantage of the lowest
borrowing costs on record before the  Federal Reserve  decides to
pull back on measures intended to boost an economy that’s
forecast to expand this year at the slowest pace since 2009. The
leverage trend can’t be sustained, JPMorgan analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  wrote last week in a report, and a combination of
rising rates and high cash balances may curtail issuance.  Risks Exposed  “They are stretching their metrics and leaving themselves
exposed to the risk that there isn’t a full-scale recovery,”
 Rajeev Sharma , who manages $1.5 billion of fixed-income assets
in New York at First Investors Management Co., said in a
telephone interview. “Once rates start to spike up, you should
see less new issuance and some kind of normalization” in
leverage, he said.  Investment-grade companies have issued $739 billion of
bonds in the U.S. this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s a faster pace than in the same period of 2012,
when a record $1.12 trillion of securities were issued by
borrowers ranked Baa3 or higher by Moody’s Investors Service or
at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  While earnings growth has remained limited, “there has
been no moderation in the pace of debt,” the JPMorgan analysts
wrote in an Aug. 23 analysis of 190 non-financial companies.
Borrowings increased by 9.1 percent in the quarter ended June 30
from a year earlier, rising to a decade-high of $2.9 trillion
even as Ebitda dropped 2.3 percent, led by declines in the
metals and mining industry.  Credit Benchmarks  “A lot of debt issued in the last year has been to finance
mergers and acquisitions and rewarding shareholders,” said the
analysts, whose New York-based firm underwrites the most
corporate bonds worldwide. Those trends “seem to be declining”
and “we expect that companies will reduce the rate of debt
issuance due to rising yields and high cash balances,” they
wrote.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Sanofi,  France ’s largest
drugmaker, sold its first bonds in euros since November 2012.
The cost to protect against corporate-bond losses in the U.S.
reached the highest level in more than seven weeks.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.3
basis point to 83.8 basis points as of 11:50 a.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure, which
jumped 5.3 basis points the previous two days, earlier rose to
as high as 85.1, the highest intraday level since July 8.  Europe Index  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to the debt
of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings, fell 0.8 to
106.7.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 2.1 basis points to 15.75 basis points,
the lowest since July 29. The gauge typically narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 5.9 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Sanofi Bonds  Paris-based Sanofi offered 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion)
of 1.875 percent, seven-year securities to yield 27 basis points
more than swaps, Bloomberg data show.  While an economic recovery in the U.S. following a 2.8
percent  contraction  in 2009 helped companies improve their
finances and lower leverage to a ratio of 1.83, credit metrics
have since deteriorated, according to JPMorgan data that
excludes automakers.  Gross domestic product in the world’s largest economy will
expand 1.6 percent this year after a 2.8 percent increase last
year, according to the median estimate of 73 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Comcast has issued about $7 billion of bonds this year, $4
billion of which helped finance a $16.7 billion payment to
General Electric for its remaining stake in broadcaster
NBCUniversal. The largest U.S. cable provider’s debt-to-earnings
ratio has since climbed to 2.25 at the end of June from a more
than decade-low of 1.94 a year earlier.  Apple Leverage  “We view our balance sheet as a strategic asset and are
focused on strengthening our financial position over the next
few years with a medium-term leverage ratio target of 1.5 to 2
times,” Michael Angelakis, Comcast’s chief financial officer,
said on a July 31 conference call with analysts to discuss
second-quarter earnings.  Apple, which is paying  shareholders  $100 billion to
compensate for a stock that’s been hammered by signs of slowing
growth, sold $17 billion of bonds in April, the biggest
corporate offering on record. That added leverage to a  balance
sheet  that had been debt-free since 2003.  It also lifted the total amount of cash delivered to
shareholders in the second quarter by investment-grade companies
to $485 billion, a 1.5 percent increase from the previous
period, JPMorgan data show. That’s 57 percent higher than the
average over the past decade, though the level has declined from
a year earlier, the analysts wrote.  ‘New Norm’  “As companies are less and less able to deliver earnings
growth through internal efficiencies and top-line growth, and at
the same time shareholders are pushing for increased rewards,
they’re turning to financial engineering to push returns,” said
Alan Shepard, an analyst and money manager at Madison Investment
Advisors Inc., which oversees about $16 billion in Madison,
 Wisconsin . “Borrow the money at low rates to finance
repurchases and you can drive earnings-per-share growth.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman at Cupertino, California-based
Apple, didn’t respond to telephone and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the company’s finances.  “People have been forced into accepting that lower  credit
quality  is the new norm,” said  Robert Smith , the chief
investment officer at Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory Services
Ltd., which oversees about $10.5 billion.  Issuance Urgency  While heavier debt burdens have been supported by a Fed
policy that pushed average U.S. corporate-bond yields to a
record-low 2.65 percent in May, JPMorgan strategists said they
expect issuance to slow as  interest rates  increase. Speculation
is mounting that Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will reduce the
central bank’s $85 billion in monthly debt purchases as soon as
next month.  With a greater sense of urgency to tap debt markets before
rates climb higher, companies may continue to increase leverage
through the end of the year, Bank of America Corp. debt
strategist Yuriy Shchuchinov said in an Aug. 26 note.  The Fed speculation helped lift borrowing costs to 3.5
percent through Aug. 26, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index. That’s still more than 2
percentage points less than the 5.9 percent average over the
last 20 years.  “As the yield curve continues to move higher, companies
may be more reluctant to increase leverage to reward
shareholders,” Shepard said. “Eventually the debt has to be
refinanced or retired, and the odds are that it won’t be done at
the historical low rates of earlier this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  