-- Bouygues Profit Rises 10% After Cutting Costs at Phone Unit
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-08-28T13:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/bouygues-profit-rises-10-after-cutting-costs-at-phone-division.html
Bouygues SA (EN) , the French building,
telecommunications and television company, said second-quarter
profit rose 10 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, after cost
cuts at its mobile-phone and broadcasting divisions.  Operating profit increased to 432 million euros ($577
million) from 394 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said in a statement today. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had forecast 358 million euros, according to the
average of three estimates. The stock rose as much as 8.8
percent in Paris, the biggest gain in six months.  Bouygues, which controls France’s third-largest mobile-phone operator and the country’s biggest television network, is
paring jobs and cutting prices to respond to  Iliad SA (ILD) , which
started a discount mobile service in January 2012. Bouygues
Telecom also started talks in July with SFR,  France ’s second-largest phone operator, to share part of their mobile networks.  “The worst seems to be over,” said Josep Pujal, an
analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux. “The recovery in telecom is going
as expected: after a period of adaptation, the group is gaining
clients again and ramping up the cost reductions.”  Low Point  Last year “should mark the low point” in the group’s
profitability, the company reiterated today, saying that cost
cuts since the start of 2012 at its phone unit will exceed a
target set in May of 400 million euros. It repeated a goal to
stabilize Bouygues Telecom’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization at 900 million euros in 2013.  Bouygues reduced its outlook for full-year sales because of
weaker-than-expected phone revenue. The company said today that
sales may fall as much as 1 percent or be stable at best at 33.4
billion euros, down from an earlier prediction that revenue
would be little changed.  The group’s backlog in construction, road works and real
estate fell 4.5 percent to 27.3 billion euros at the end of June
as  Europe ’s economic situation remains “tough.” The order book
doesn’t include a 1.15 billion-euro contract announced today to
build an undersea road tunnel in  Hong Kong , and an order to
develop commercial and residential real estate in Miami. The
company’s share of the Miami contract is about $260 million.  The stock traded 8 percent higher at 24.77 euros as of 3:44
p.m., valuing the company at 7.9 billion euros. The shares have
risen 11 percent this year, while the CAC 40 index added 8.4
percent.  Total  sales  were unchanged at 8.51 billion euros in the
second quarter as falling revenue at Bouygues Telecom and
Television Francaise 1 offset rising construction and real
estate billings. Net income fell 5 percent to 230 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  