-- BP Loses Renewed Bid to Halt Spill Settlement Payments
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-08-28T18:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/bp-loses-bid-to-halt-spill-payments-pending-investigation.html
BP Plc (BP/)  lost a renewed bid to suspend
payments from the court-supervised program administering its
settlement of claims tied to the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill.  An investigation of alleged wrongdoing at the Mobile,
Alabama, claims assistance center didn’t find “any credible
evidence of fraud,” U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New
Orleans said today.  He also rejected BP’s allegations that its ability to
appeal payments was tainted because, the company said, “at
least two appeal panelists had apparent conflicts of interest.”
The issue earlier was brought to Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan,
who investigated and is handling the matter, Barbier said.  “None of the claims represented by the firms of two of the
panelists have been approved, paid or appealed,” Barbier said
today, referring to law firms. The “alleged conflicts” are not
“a basis upon which to suspend the entire claims payment
program,” he said.  Barbier last month rejected the company’s request to stop
the payments while  Louis Freeh , former director of the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation, probes allegations of misconduct in the
claims program. BP renewed the request Aug. 5.  ‘Core Systems’  “BP respectfully believes the court’s order is wrong on
the facts and the law,”  Geoff Morrell , a BP spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement today. The “core systems for ensuring the
integrity” of the claims processing program “continue to be
deficient,” he said.  Barbier recognized the need for an independent
investigation of the program to ensure its integrity when he
appointed Freeh to investigate initial allegations of possible
misconduct, Morrell said.  “As we await the completion of this broad investigation,
we continue to believe a temporary pause in payments is
warranted,” he said. “BP is reviewing its options with respect
to the district court’s decision today.”  Nick Gagliano, a spokesman for claims administrator Patrick
Juneau, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on
the ruling.  ‘Actual Facts’  “We’re pleased that the court relied on actual facts and
evidence in reaching its conclusion -- for the second time --
and not the unsupported hyperbole and speculation propagated by
BP,”  Stephen Herman  and  James Roy , co-lead attorneys for the
plaintiffs suing the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Freeh was appointed after an attorney at the Deepwater
Horizon Court Supervised Settlement Program was suspended and
accused of accepting fees from law firms while processing their
clients’ claims from the  oil spill . Another attorney was
subsequently suspended following similar allegations.  BP faces thousands of lawsuits over damages caused by the
explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig in 2010. The
blast killed 11 workers and released more than 4 million barrels
of crude from BP’s well off the  Louisiana  coast.  BP reached the agreement with most private party plaintiffs
last year, initially estimating the cost of the settlement at
$7.8 billion. The company has since raised the estimate to $9.6
billion.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 