-- Brazil Real Rises as Central Bank Intervention Supports Currency
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-08-28T21:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/brazil-real-rises-as-central-bank-intervention-supports-currency.html
Brazil ’s real climbed to a two-week
high as the central bank’s effort to support the currency offset
declining demand for emerging-market assets spurred by
speculation the U.S. will lead a military strike against  Syria .  The real appreciated 1.1 percent to 2.3452 per dollar after
falling last week to a four-year low. Swap rates on the contract
due in January 2015 fell 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, to 10.18 percent before the central bank’s decision today
on borrowing costs.  The currency has rallied 3.8 percent since Aug. 22, when
the bank announced a $60 billion intervention program to support
the real. That is the best performance among all of the
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The central bank managed to interrupt the dollar’s gain
for now,”  Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief strategist at Credit
Agricole Brasil SA, said in a telephone interview.  Most swap rates fell today on eased speculation that the
central bank will step up the pace of increases in borrowing
costs to curb inflation.  The central bank shifted its attention in the second
quarter from accelerating economic growth, raising the  target
rate  by a quarter-percentage point from a record low 7.25
percent in April and doubling the pace of rate increases to a
half-percentage point in both May and July.  Policy makers will raise the target rate by 50 basis points
to 9 percent today, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Remains Complicated’  The decision on borrowing costs “should help encourage
investors to sell dollars and invest in local fixed income, but
with war in Syria imminent, the situation remains complicated,”
Deives Ribeiro, a currency manager at Fair Corretora, said by
phone from  Sao Paulo .  Annual inflation slowed to 6.15 percent in the month
through mid-August after surpassing the 6.5 percent upper limit
of the central bank’s target range earlier this year.  Analysts monitoring Brazil’s economy this month cut their
median growth forecast for 2013 and 2014 to 2.20 percent and
2.40 percent, the lowest estimates so far this year, according
to a central bank survey published Aug. 26. Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  rolled back growth estimates this month to about
2.5 percent from 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  