-- Brazil Raises Rate to 9% as Real Undercuts Inflation Fight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-08-28T22:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/brazil-raises-rate-to-9-as-currency-undercuts-inflation-fight.html
Brazil ’s central bank raised the key
rate by half a percentage point for a third straight meeting, as
a plunge in the currency undermines efforts to slow inflation in
the world’s second-largest emerging market.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, today
unanimously voted to raise the benchmark Selic rate to 9 percent
from 8.5 percent, as forecast by 50 of 52 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. One economist expected a 75 basis-point increase,
while one forecast a 25 basis-point boost.  “The committee considers that this decision will
contribute to put inflation on a decline and assure that this
trend will persist next year,” policy makers said, according to
their statement posted on the central bank’s website. The
statement was virtually identical to their July 10 communique.  Brazil’s central bank has stepped up efforts to prevent a
declining real from undercutting the largest rate increase among
the world’s major central banks by pushing inflation above its
target range. While last week’s announcement of a $60 billion
intervention plan has helped to buoy the currency, policy makers
have maintained the pace of rate increases to fight pass-through
to consumer prices, according to JPMorgan economist Fabio Akira.  “Inflation pressures remain strong,” Akira, the most
accurate Brazil economic forecaster according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, said by phone from  Sao Paulo  before today’s
decision. “The weaker  exchange rate  is putting upwards pressure
on prices.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 10.18 percent. The real strengthened 1.1
percent to 2.3452 per dollar.  ‘No Room’  Brazil’s central bank on Aug. 22 said it will auction $1
billion of dollar loans on Fridays and offer $500 million of
foreign-exchange swaps, Monday through Thursday, through at
least Dec. 31. The real has fallen 10 percent in the last three
months, the worst performance among 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, as investors exit  emerging markets  in anticipation
of a U.S. Federal Reserve decision to curtail monetary stimulus.  Consumer prices measured by the IPCA index rose 0.03
percent in July from the month prior, as lower food and
transportation costs offset higher housing and education
expenses, according to the national statistics agency.  While  annual inflation  slowed to 6.27 percent from 6.70
percent in June, the pace of price increases is still high
enough to hinder growth, according to Carlos Kawall, the chief
economist at Banco J. Safra SA. Brazil targets annual inflation
at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Quicker Inflation  Monthly price increases are expected to accelerate from
July, central bank Economic Policy Director Carlos Hamilton said
Aug. 12. Brazil’s monetary policy seeks to provide confidence in
the control of inflation, which is being fanned by an
expansionary fiscal policy and weaker real, he added.  “The inflation outlook is the main driver behind the
continued rate increases,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist
at Banco Mizuho do Brasil SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo
before today’s meeting. “There is no room to absorb new price
shocks.”  Banco Central do Brasil has raised borrowing costs by 175
basis points since April, more than any other central bank
tracked by Bloomberg.  Consumer confidence  has fallen in nine of the last 11
months, according to a survey from the Fundacao Getulio Vargas.
 Industrial confidence , as measured by the national industry
confederation known as CNI, in July fell to its lowest level in
four years before rebounding in August.  Slower Growth  Economists following Brazil’s economy have cut their 2013
and 2014 growth forecasts by more than one percentage point
since January, according to a central bank survey published Aug.
26.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has also rolled back 2013
economic growth estimates to about 2.5 percent from a forecast
of 3 percent to 4 percent expansion earlier this year.  The shares of Brazilian telecommunications company Oi SA
tumbled 8.9 percent Aug. 14 after the company reported an
unexpected second-quarter loss. Oi increased provisions for bad
debt by 97 percent from a year earlier, which Chief Executive
Officer  Zeinal Bava  blamed on the “current economic
environment.”  ‘Bank Focus’  “Inflation reduced consumer’s purchasing power and
confidence,” Kawall said by phone from Sao Paulo before today’s
decision. “The central bank has to give a sign that the
tightening cycle will continue.”  Brazil’s monetary policy seeks to mitigate inflation risk,
Tombini said in a statement on Aug. 19. Inflation is under
control and officials will work to avoid currency pass-through
to consumer prices, Mantega said a week later.  The 175 basis-point increase in Brazil’s benchmark rate in
2013 -- initiated at  Banco Central  do Brasil’s April meeting --
ranks as the largest among 49 central banks tracked by Bloomberg
worldwide.  Policy makers have reaffirmed their intention to extend
rate increases, as inflation remains above target, said Banco
Mizuho do Brasil’s Rostagno.  “The central bank used to have a double mandate: inflation
and economic growth,” Rostagno said. “Now, we are seeing the
central bank focus more exclusively on inflation control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  