-- Brent Crude May Spike to $150 on Syria Spillover, SocGen Says
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2013-08-28T03:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/brent-crude-may-spike-to-150-on-syria-spillover-socgen-says.html
Brent crude may “spike briefly” to
$150 a barrel if a U.S.-led attack on  Syria  sparks further
conflict in the Middle East and leads to supply disruptions,
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said in a report e-mailed today.  Military action against the regime of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad is likely within the next week,  Michael Wittner ,
the bank’s New York-based head of oil market research, said in
the report. Brent, the price benchmark for more than half the
world’s crude, may rise to as much as $125 a barrel “in the
coming days” in anticipation or event of a strike, the bank
said. A spike to $150 is possible if a widening conflict halts
output in  Iraq  or other Mideast producers.  “The concern is that an attack on Syria will reverberate
through the region, increasing the spillover into other
countries and possibly resulting in a larger supply disruption
elsewhere,” Wittner said in the Aug. 27 report. “Our big worry
is Iraq.”  Brent for October settlement surged as much as $2.87, or
2.5 percent, to $117.23 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange after settling yesterday at the highest since
Feb. 25. West Texas Intermediate crude rose $2.58 to $111.59 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest intraday
price since May 2011.  A potential loss of 500,000 barrels to 2 million barrels a
day of production in the region could be met by spare capacity
in Saudi Arabia, according to the bank.  “The Saudis could handle most likely scenarios, but the
markets will look at the shrinking spare capacity that remains
after any disruption is made up, and that would be bullish,”
Wittner said in the report.  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration is working
with allies including the U.K. and France to agree on limited
action against Syria after concluding that Assad’s regime used
chemical weapons against civilians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  