-- California May Use $315 Million to Avoid Freeing Inmates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-08-28T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/california-may-use-315-million-to-avoid-freeing-inmates.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
says he needs $315 million from state reserves this year to
meet a federal court order to reduce prison overcrowding and
avoid the release of thousands of violent felons.  The state would lease a private prison in the Mojave Desert
from  Corrections Corp. of America , refurbish shuttered lockups
and pay for more cells in other states and county jails, Brown
told reporters yesterday.  The announcement came three weeks after the U.S. Supreme
Court let stand a lower court’s order to shrink California’s
prison population to 137.5 percent of designed capacity by Dec.
31. Brown had asked for a delay, saying the state would be
forced to release almost 10,000 serious offenders.  “In the short term, this meets the court order,” said
Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat. “This is the sensible, prudent
course.”  The spending would consume almost a third of the $1 billion
reserve Brown and fellow Democrats built into the $96.3 billion
budget passed in June.  Federal judges seized control of the state’s prison health
system in 2006, saying inmate care was so bad it amounted to
cruel and usual punishment and violated the U.S. Constitution.
The judges cited cramped conditions where inmates were lodged in
gyms and dayrooms because there weren’t enough cells.  California ’s prisons operated at 200 percent of capacity
for more than a decade. As of Aug. 21, the system was at 143.8
percent of capacity, with 123,743 inmates, according to a
Corrections and Rehabilitation Department  report .  Low-Level  Twice this year, a  three-judge panel  has chided Brown over
his resistance to reducing the population any more. In April,
the judges said in legal filings that they had “exercised
exceptional restraint” in not citing him for contempt of court.  California has lowered the count by 43,000 since 2006 and
spent $1 billion on improving care and conditions, according to
the governor’s office. Brown in 2011 won approval of a program
shifting felons convicted of nonviolent, low-level crimes to
county jails, or to alternatives such as house arrest and
electronic monitoring.  Prisons take the fourth-biggest bite of California’s
budget, at $11.2 billion this fiscal year, behind schools and
colleges, health and welfare, and transportation, according to
the  Finance Department .  Under the proposal, the state would shift about 5,000
inmates to other states, joining 4,000 currently imprisoned
beyond its borders. Brown previously said he wanted to bring all
out-of-state inmates back to California to lower costs.  Shuttered Jails  The state also would look to reopen some shuttered local
jails and use the space for state inmates. The state would staff
the  Mojave Desert  prison it leases from  Corrections Corp. of
America  with state prison guards, a move intended to placate the
correctional officers union.  The spending would need approval by lawmakers before their
scheduled adjournment on Sept. 13. Democrats control both
chambers, though not all support the proposal. Standing by
Brown’s side when he made the announcement were the state’s
leading legislative Republicans and the Assembly Speaker, John Perez, a Democrat from  Los Angeles .  Absent was Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a
Democrat from  Sacramento , who has urged alternative spending on
rehabilitation, drug treatment and mental health programs
instead of prisons.  “The governor’s proposal is a plan with no promise and no
hope,” Steinberg said in a statement. “As the population of
California grows, it’s only a short matter of time until new
prison cells overflow and the court demands mass releases
again.”  Brown in 2011 canceled half of a $7.4 billion bond program
to build lockups for 53,000 inmates that lawmakers and former
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  approved in 2007 to ease
overcrowding. Brown said the additional space wasn’t needed and
was the wrong approach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  