-- California Authorized to Hold Carbon Auctions, Judge Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-08-28T22:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/california-authorized-to-hold-carbon-auctions-judge-says.html
California ’s environmental
regulators are authorized to auction carbon allowances under a
cap-and-trade program aimed at reducing pollution, a state judge
tentatively ruled in a Chamber of Commerce lawsuit challenging
the sales.  Judge Timothy Frawley in Sacramento issued a ruling today
that California lawmakers gave the state’s Air Resources Board
the authority to choose a method for distributing carbon
allowances when they passed the state’s 2006 global warming act,
known as AB 32.  “At the time AB 32 was enacted, both auctioning and free
distribution were widely recognized methods of distributing
allowances,” he said in a provisional ruling. “In delegating
to ARB the authority to ‘design’ the ‘distribution of emissions
allowances,’ the Legislature delegated to ARB the choice of
distribution method.”  The California Chamber of Commerce alleged in a complaint
filed last year that the board lacks authority to auction carbon
allowances, which it says is paramount to an invalid tax or
unconstitutional fee that would cost taxpayers $70 billion.  Frawley heard arguments today on the chamber’s claims that
the sale of carbon allowances violates the state’s Proposition
13, which requires that efforts to increase taxes to raise
revenue be passed by a two-thirds super-majority vote of the
legislature. He didn’t issue a ruling today.  Under California’s first-in-the-nation economy-wide cap-and-trade program, the state’s Air Resources Board sets a
maximum for carbon emissions from power generators, oil
refineries and other industrial plants and cuts that limit
gradually to achieve a reduction of about 15 percent by 2020.  If a business can’t make the required reductions, it can
buy emissions permits, called allowances, in auctions overseen
by the board or from other companies. They can also purchase
offset credits -- investments in off-site forest or urban
projects and other programs that reduce emissions -- to cover a
portion of their pollution.  The case is California Chamber of Commerce v. Air
Resources Board, 34-2012-80001313, California Superior Court
( Sacramento ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  