-- California Abortion Bill Shows Gulf With Other States
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-08-28T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/california-abortion-bill-shows-gulf-with-other-states.html
To see the growing gulf over
abortion between  California  and other states, look no further
than the Colorado River that marks the state’s border with
 Arizona .  On the California side, a bill heading soon to Democratic
Governor  Jerry Brown  would make it easier for rural women to
terminate pregnancies by allowing nurse practitioners and
midwives to perform abortions in the first 12 weeks, now
provided only by doctors.  Across the river in Arizona, Republican Governor Jan Brewer
effectively banned nurse practitioners from doing the procedures
in 2011. Five Planned Parenthood clinics stopped offering
abortions when doctors couldn’t be found, according to Cynde
Cerf, a spokeswoman.  California “completely bucks the trend that we’ve been
seeing in other states in the past three years, which is to
adopt abortion restrictions en masse,” said Elizabeth Nash,
state issues manager for the New York-based  Guttmacher
Institute , which researches and compiles reproductive health
data. “This is moving in a completely different direction than
what we are seeing in other states.”  The California measure, approved this week by the Democrat-controlled state Senate, contrasts with at least 178 laws
restricting abortion that other states have passed since 2010,
according to the institute. The laws have made it more difficult
for women to get abortions, despite the U.S. Supreme Court’s
1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that legalized a woman’s right to
terminate her pregnancy.  Five States  If signed into law by Brown, California would be the fifth
state to permit non-physician abortions, joining  Montana ,  New
Hampshire ,  Oregon  and  Vermont , according to a study by the
University of California,  San Francisco . Thirty-nine states
require a licensed physician.  The author of the California bill, Assembly Majority Leader
Toni Atkins, a San Diego Democrat, said the legislation was
needed to help women in the half of the state’s counties without
a doctor to perform abortions. The Senate version of the bill
will go back to the Assembly to reconcile amendments before it’s
sent to Brown.  Arizona’s law signed by Brewer two years ago prohibited the
state nursing board from determining whether abortion care was
within the scope of practice for nurse practitioners.  The effect was immediate. There are seven abortion clinics
in the state today, down from 19 in 2010 because of the measure
and other restrictive laws, according to NARAL Pro-Choice
Arizona, which opposes the limits.  Local Facilities  Eighty-seven percent of U.S. counties have no local
facilities for abortion, according to the  University of
California  study. Those areas are home to more than a third of
women aged 15 to 44, the study showed.  A similar California bill failed last year after some
Democrats said they were concerned that abortions performed by
non-physicians wouldn’t be as safe. That measure was amended to
allow nurse practitioners and other clinicians to dispense
abortion-inducing drugs, and was signed Brown.  Many of the anti-abortion laws passed in recent years have
been argued on the basis that they improve health and safety.
They have also proven effective at shuttering providers: In
addition to Arizona, restrictions have been blamed for closing
at least a dozen clinics in states including Michigan, Ohio and
 Pennsylvania .  A University of California  study  published in January in
the American Journal of  Public Health  found that complications
from abortions by nurse practitioners, nurse midwives or
physician’s assistants were “clinically equivalent” to those
performed by doctors.  “I can’t think of a single national trend that California
isn’t bucking,” said Brian Johnston, the Western Regional
Director at the National Right to Life Committee. “The reality
is that a human life must end for this to be an abortion and so
this is an issue of huge significance, and other states
recognize that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  