-- Canada Factories Count on U.S. Pickup to End Recession
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-08-28T20:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/canada-factories-count-on-u-s-pickup-to-end-recession.html
Canadian manufacturers, dogged by
the effects of a strong currency, are counting on a pickup in
U.S. demand to end the sector’s deepest contraction since 2009.  Canadian  factory production  has shrunk 2.7 percent since
the end of 2011 and is 7.6 percent weaker than it was in July
2008, right before the country slipped into its last recession.
Aside from agriculture, manufacturing is the only part of the
economy that has failed to return to pre-slump levels.  Montreal-based  Saputo Inc. (SAP) , the nation’s largest dairy
processor, and Peoria, Illinois-based construction and machinery
maker  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  are among companies shutting plants in
 Canada  amid rising wage costs and tepid demand from the U.S.,
which buys about 75 percent of Canadian exports. Weakness in
manufacturing, which accounts for 11 percent of gross domestic
product, is holding back the world’s 11th largest economy.  “The Canadian manufacturing sector continues to struggle
against the collective headwinds of a sluggish  U.S. economy  and
the persistent strength of the currency,” said  David Tulk ,
chief macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities
unit. If the U.S. private sector can sustain growth, “there is
a certain amount of pent-up demand for manufactured goods out of
the American economy.”  Between December and June, Canada lost 11 factory
businesses with more than 200 employees, according to Statistics
Canada  data , representing 3.4 percent of all companies. More
closures are coming. Stockholm-based Electrolux AB, the maker of
Frigidaire ovens, is planning to shift output to  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , from a plant near Montreal next year.  Canadian Dollar  Manufacturers are contending with a Canadian dollar that
has risen 52 percent against its U.S. counterpart since the end
of 2001. This has boosted the price of exports, making them less
competitive, and increased production costs, such as wages,
relative to the U.S. When measured in U.S. dollars, unit labor
costs in Canada have increased 92 percent since March 2003,
compared with a 12 percent rise for American businesses.  Since June 2009, when the U.S. economy emerged from
recession, the average Canadian factory wage has increased twice
as fast as in the U.S., according to Statistics Canada and U.S.
Labor Department data.  Stronger U.S. growth has the capacity to offset those
challenges, said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income strategy at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  “The big thing that’s happening is that domestic demand is
poised to improve with a fair degree of confidence in the
U.S.,” Chandler said. “Canadian manufacturers are well
positioned to benefit.”  Stock Prices  Canada’s benchmark stock index is underperforming U.S.
equities for a third year on expectations for better U.S.
growth. Canadian stocks fell 2.5 percent in the first half of
the year, compared with a 13 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, the largest half-year performance gap between
the two indexes since 1998.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Index rose 0.13 percent to
12,607.22 in Toronto today, while the U.S. S&P 500 gained 0.27
percent to 1634.96.  The American economy, the world’s largest, is projected to
grow 2.5 percent on average in the second half of this year,
according to the median projection in a Bloomberg survey of
economists from Aug. 2 to Aug. 6. The pace may pick up to 2.8
percent by the second quarter of 2014, the survey showed.  The U.S. has typically needed to post year-over-year growth
of about 2.5 percent or better to generate gains in Canadian
factory output,  Doug Porter , chief economist at Bank of Montreal
in Toronto, said in an Aug. 23 report.  ‘Postwar Reconstruction’  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said in a June speech
that resurgent demand from the U.S. is critical to reviving
confidence in the economy and bolstering investment in
manufacturing, a process he likes to “postwar reconstruction.”  Even after U.S. growth picks up, falling capacity means it
could take some time for manufacturers to re-gear plants in
order to capitalize on the demand. The stock of factory space in
absolute terms fell in 2011 to its lowest since the 1990s,
according to Statistics Canada data, and accounted for a record-low 7.9 percent of Canada’s capital stock last year.  “Essentially, there’s some lost output that we have that
we’ll never get back because of the length of time that we’ve
struggled here,” Chandler said. “The lags are significantly
longer because a mothballed factory can’t start up again, you
need to build a new one.”  Closed Factories  The lost output is evident in the divergence between U.S.
and Canadian manufacturing since 2011. Canadian output has
fallen even as the  Federal Reserve ’s  index  of U.S. factory
production increased 3.4 percent. The two are typically closely
correlated.  “We’re not getting the so-called manufacturing bang for
the U.S. buck that we would in past recoveries,” Porter said.  Motor vehicle assembly, the country’s second-largest
factory industry after wood processing, has led declines over
the past year, even as sales in  North America  rise to new post-crisis highs.  General Motors Co. has reduced output in Canada this year
by 11.5 percent, as it winds down production of one of its two
plants in Oshawa, Ontario, according to a report by TD
Economics. Ford Motor Co. says its Canadian workers are the most
expensive worldwide.  Relocating Plants  “Most of any new capacity will go to  Mexico  and to a
lesser extent the U.S.,” said  Kevin Tynan , an analyst at
Bloomberg Industries.  The government is taking steps to support manufacturers. In
his most recent budget, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  extended
tax breaks for factories and provided new direct funding.  What factories need most is a stronger American expansion.  The U.S. economy, which buys about three-quarters of
Canada’s exports, hasn’t rebounded from recession as quickly as
in the past. Quarterly growth rates have averaged 2.2 percent in
the four years since the slump’s end in 2009, a full percentage
point less than the average over the same period after the two
prior recessions.  Where demand is robust -- in U.S. housing, for example --
Canadians are benefiting.  In places like Chetwynd, British Columbia, a town of fewer
than 3,000 people in the foothills of the  Rocky Mountains ,
lumber companies such as  West Fraser Timber Co. Ltd. (WFT)  are racing
to rebuild neglected plants and replace antiquated equipment.
Wood processors have boosted output 5 percent in the 12 months
through May.  Capital Spending  “We are currently in, I’d say easily, our largest capital
expenditure program in the history of this company,” said Larry Hughes, chief financial officer at Vancouver-based West Fraser.
“Anybody who’s got money, or making money now, if they’re smart
is putting it back into the mill to bring in the latest
technology.”  Another reason for optimism is that investment has begun to
return.  Capital spending  by manufacturers has outpaced the rest
of the economy for three straight years and is projected to
total C$20.9 billion this year, the highest since 1999.  Manufacturing output in April and May was 0.3 percent above
average production in the first quarter. That puts it on pace
for its first quarterly gain in a year for the three months
ended June.  Statistics Canada  will report second-quarter GDP data on
Aug. 30, which will show whether Canada’s factories are still in
recession.  In the meanwhile, Graphic Packaging Holding Co., a maker of
folding cartons for food and beverage products based in
Marietta,  Georgia , is in severance talks with workers at its
Brampton, Ontario, plant as it prepares to shut down the
facility next month.  The move will eliminate about 150 jobs, according to Dave
Moffat, an official with the Communications, Energy and
Paperworkers Union of Canada who oversees the Ontario region.  “We’re still trying to get to the bottom of what
happened,” Moffat said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  