-- Carney Offers Banks Liquidity-Rule Sweetener for Lending
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-08-28T16:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/carney-offers-banks-liquidity-rule-sweetener-for-lending-boost.html
The  Bank of England  moved to boost
lending to consumers and businesses by the largest  U.K. banks  by
offering to ease liquidity rules for institutions that meet
capital targets.  The central bank will allow the main U.K. lenders to shrink
required holdings of low-yielding, easy-to-sell securities, such
as  government bonds , once they hold capital reserves equivalent
to 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, Governor  Mark Carney 
said today in his first policy speech since taking over from
 Mervyn King  in July.  “The effect will be to lower total required holdings by 90
billion pounds ($139 billion), once all eight major banks and
building societies meet the capital threshold,” Carney said at
an event in Nottingham organized by the  Confederation of British
Industry . “That will help to underpin the supply of credit,
since every pound currently held in liquid assets is a pound
that could be lent to the real economy.”  The Bank of England said in June that five U.K. banks need
to find an additional 13.4 billion pounds to meet tougher
minimum  capital requirements , including the 7 percent rule, set
to take effect at the end of this year. Shares of the U.K.’s
largest lenders, including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY) , surged after Carney’s speech today.  “It’s pretty much the first relaxation of the rules after
the banks have been subjected to gold-plated regulation compared
with their European and U.S. peers,” said  Simon Willis , a
banking analyst at  Daniel Stewart Securities Plc (DAN)  in  London . This
relaxation of the rules should improve profitability, he said.  Capital Shortfall  The June warning from the BOE prompted Barclays, the U.K.’s
second-largest bank by assets, to embark last month on a 5.8
billion-pound rights offering to bolster its financial
resilience.  Barclays jumped as much as 1.4 percent in London after
Carney’s speech. Lloyds advanced 1.7 percent and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  rose 1.8 percent.  Carney’s plan “offers significant upside” for lenders as
they can swap the low interest paid on deposits at the central
bank for the higher returns possible on new loans, Claire Kane,
an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in a research note.  The effects of the BOE’s decision are “likely to emerge
gradually” over the coming year, she said.  Lloyds, Barclays and RBS had combined liquid assets of 510
billion pounds at the end of June, according to RBC data.  Spur Lending  Britain’s economic growth accelerated in the second quarter
and the central bank and the Treasury are trying to spur lending
to cement the recovery.  U.K. mortgage approvals  declined in June and business
lending fell, the BOE said on July 29, highlighting continued
strains in credit markets. Lenders granted 57,667 home loans
compared with 58,071 in May, the central bank said. Business
lending fell by 1.3 billion pounds.  Carney’s relaxation of the liquidity rule contrasts with a
suggestion by U.S. Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo 
earlier this year that regulators could ease bank capital
requirements in exchange for lenders boosting their resilience
to short-term financing squeezes.  Under Turullo’s proposal, flexibility would only be granted
if a bank had a liquidity position that was substantially
stronger than minimum requirements.  Higher Lending  “The U.S. to date has taken the view that rules are
minimums not to be transgressed regardless of stress, let alone
policy rationales like hopes for higher lending,” Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Washington-based research firm
Federal Financial Analytics Inc. “With the BOE’s action, U.S.
banks pushing back against this approach have an important ally,
in effect, if not by intent.”  Global regulators have overhauled capital and liquidity
regulations for lenders in the aftermath of the 2008 financial
crisis.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which brings
together regulators from 27 nations including the U.K., U.S. and
 China , earlier this year revised a draft liquidity rule for
lenders that is set be phased in starting in 2015, and to fully
take effect by Jan. 1, 2019.  Funding Squeeze  That rule, known as a liquidity-coverage ratio, requires
banks to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day
squeeze on their ability to obtain funding.  The Prudential Regulation Authority, the unit of the BOE
responsible for bank oversight, said that the plan announced by
Carney today would still require banks to hold liquid assets
equivalent to 80 percent of what they would need to meet the
Basel rule in 2019.  The PRA said that it would consult on how to adapt its
rules to the Basel standard once the European Union has finished
its deliberations on how to apply the international measure.  While Carney’s announcement today was targeted at large
U.K. lenders, the PRA is working on “broadly similar” plans
for smaller banks and building societies, the regulator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  