-- Carney’s Debut Speech Frees Gilt Yields to Climb
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-08-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/carney-s-debut-speech-frees-gilt-yields-to-climb-u-k-credit.html
Investors who’ve driven 10-year gilt
yields higher ever since Mark Carney joined the Bank of England
now have the governor’s blessing.  In his first speech as head of the central bank, Carney
told business leaders in Nottingham in the English midlands that
“longer-term market interest rates are certainly relevant, but
what matters most to you is actually what happens to bank rate,
now and in the future.” He said that’s because rates on 70
percent of loans to households and more than 50 percent of loans
to businesses are linked to the BOE benchmark.  “It gives the impression they don’t care about the longer
end; that’s a green light for yields to rise and that’s playing
with a bit of fire,” said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in  London  and a former BOE official. “He seems much
more focused on the short end and reaching out to businesses and
households over and above the head of the markets.”  Carney introduced forward guidance on Aug. 7 and said the
BOE plans to keep its benchmark at a record-low of 0.5 percent
at least until unemployment falls to 7 percent, which it doesn’t
see happening for another three years. Gilt yields have risen
since that announcement and investors have increased bets on
higher rates, suggesting they aren’t convinced.  The yield on the 2.25 percent gilt due in September 2023
rose 3 basis points to 2.80 percent yesterday and is up 25 basis
points this month. Short-sterling futures fell, indicating
investors are adding to bets on higher interest rates. The
implied yield on the contract expiring in September 2015
increased 4 basis points to 1.32 percent.  Direct Access  For the BOE governor, investors may not be his target
audience as he looks to boost spending and investing to  add
momentum  to a recovery lagging most other developed economies.
He said guidance “reaches directly to those who put capital to
work, households and businesses.”  “The focus on forward guidance at this point appears to be
to deliver a message directly to the man on the street rather
than the markets that rates aren’t going to go up,” said
Michael Amey, money manager in London at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which manages the world’s biggest bond fund.
“He’s saying what’s important isn’t just the path of market
expectations, but the path delivered by the BOE and keeping
short rates anchored even if longer yields go up.”  Those people may already be listening. The number of
households expecting the BOE to increase rates in the next two
years fell to 40 percent this month from 53 percent in July,
according to a Markit Economics Ltd. poll.  Stimulus Signal  Amey said policy makers may eventually have to “rail back
against interest rates going up,” most likely with more
 quantitative easing , through that point isn’t here yet. Carney
addressed that, noting risks from market expectations and saying
the Monetary Policy Committee was ready to act if this
undermined the recovery.  “The upward move in market expectations of where bank rate
will head in future could, at the margin, feed into the
effective financial conditions,” Carney said in his speech.
“If they tighten, and the recovery seems to be falling short of
the strong growth we need, we will consider carefully whether,
and how best, to stimulate the recovery further.”  ‘Staging Post’  U.K. unemployment was 7.8 percent in the second quarter and
the MPC doesn’t see it  reaching the threshold  until the end of
2016. Carney sought to reassure executives who may share some
economists’ view that it will fall faster, saying that even if
that happens, it’s not a catalyst for tightening.  It’s a “staging post to assess the economy,” he told the
assembled crowd. “Nobody should assume that it is a trigger for
raising rates.”  U.K. gilt yields have risen in part because of indications
of strengthening  U.K. growth  and the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
signals that it may begin trimming its bond purchases, currently
running at $85 billion a month.  “They have to try to decouple as best they can,” said
Azad Zangana, an economist at Schroder Investment Management in
London. “The problem is the market just doesn’t really believe
them given the forward guidance they’ve provided.”  The BOE may have added to upward pressure on longer-dated
yields after it said yesterday it will relax liquidity
requirements for banks meeting capital targets. That will allow
them to reduce required holdings of low-yielding, easy-to-sell
securities, such as government bonds. Tinsley said the move is
“not particularly supportive” for gilts.  MPC Split  Investors skepticism has also been fueled by dissent on the
MPC. Several officials questioned guidance before Carney’s
arrival, and Martin Weale voted against it this month because he
wanted the inflation-escape hatch to be bigger.  While the MPC voted to keep its QE program on hold this
month, some members said the case for more was “compelling.”
They added there was “merit in first supporting” guidance and
waiting to assess its impact. Zangana, Tinsley and Amey said
votes to restart bond purchases would be a possibility at future
meetings for those officials concerned about higher rates.  “The obvious next step would be to resume quantitative
easing,”  Vicky Redwood , an economist at Capital Economics in
London and a former central bank official, said in a research
note. “If the MPC decides to show its teeth, there is plenty of
scope for rate expectations and gilt yields to fall back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  