-- CBRC Tells Banks to Limit Investment in Local Government Bonds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-28T06:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/cbrc-tells-banks-to-limit-investment-in-local-government-bonds.html
China’s banking regulator  told
lenders to be “cautious” when investing in bonds issued by
local government financing vehicles as policy makers seek to
rein in local borrowing.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission has capped at
end-2012 levels LGFV loans by banks, which are banned from
providing guarantees to the entities’ bonds, Cao Guoqiang, Vice
President of  China Citic Bank Corp. (998) , said at a teleconference.  Total local government debt may have risen 13 percent over
two years to 12.1 trillion yuan ($1.98 trillion) as of December
2012, Moody’s Corp. estimated in June, citing a National Audit
Office review. That adds to risks that the central government
will be forced to bail out local authorities. Banks had  advanced 
9.7 trillion yuan of loans to these financing vehicles as of
June 30, according to the banking regulator.  Local governments set up more than 10,000 so-called LGFVs
to fund projects such as roads, sewage plants and subways after
they were barred from directly selling bonds under a 1994 budget
law. Former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said April 6 that
local governments’ combined debt may have exceeded 20 trillion
 yuan .  A 4 trillion-yuan stimulus plan during the 2008-09
financial crisis swelled loans to companies, which they roll
over or refinance with note sales.  The National Development and Reform Commission’s provincial
branches will take charge of preliminary reviews of bond sales
by unlisted companies, the China Securities Journal  reported 
today. The so-called “enterprise bonds” are overwhelmingly
from local-government financing vehicles, the report said.  The NDRC in April ordered greater scrutiny of debt sale
applications from some LGFVs with credit ratings below AA+,
according to a May 22  statement . The agency  issued  a separate
notice in the same month to carry out a nationwide financial
inspection of enterprises that have filed bond sale
applications.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  