-- Celtic Rallies to Join AC Milan in Champions League Group Stage
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-28T23:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/celtic-defeats-shakter-karagandy-in-champions-league-playoffs.html
Celtic came from behind to beat
Shakter Karagandy 3-2 over two games and join AC Milan and 12
other former winners in the Champions League group stage.  James Forrest’s stoppage-time goal last night capped a 3-0
home victory in Glasgow as Celtic overturned a 2-0 deficit from
the opener of the two-match playoff in Kazakhstan.  “This is the greatest night of football in my life,”
Celtic manager Neil Lennon, who ran the length of the field to
join the celebration after Forrest scored, told Sky Sports. “I
have a huge feeling of relief and a huge feeling of pride.”  The victory took Celtic into the 32-team group stage of
European soccer’s elite club competition for the second straight
season, alongside teams including defending champion Bayern
Munich, Barcelona and Manchester United.  Kevin-Prince Boateng scored twice as AC Milan, a seven-time
European Cup winner, beat PSV Eindhoven 3-0 for a 4-1 series
victory. Zenit St. Petersburg, Viktoria Plzen and Real Sociedad
also won in the final round of playoff games to move into the
group stage. The 10 playoff winners join 22 automatic qualifiers
in today’s draw in  Monaco .  The victory for 1967 European champion Celtic denied
Shakter the chance to become the first team from Kazakhstan to
qualify for the group stage, where teams are guaranteed a
minimum of 8.6 million euros ($11.5 million) in  payments  from
tournament organizer UEFA.  Shakter goalkeeper Aleksandr Mokin made three early saves
against Mikael Lustig, Anthony Stokes and Kris Commons to keep
the visitors in front. Celtic broke through in first-half
stoppage time as Commons scored with a swerving left-foot shot
from outside the area.  Celtic’s Comeback  The Scottish champion tied the series 2-2 three minutes
into the second half on Giorgos Samaras’s goal and almost took
the lead in the 61st minute as Stokes’s volley hit the crossbar.  Shakter was twice denied moments later when Nikola
Vasiljevic’s shot was cleared off the line by Adam Matthews and
Sergei Khizhnickenko hit the bar.  Celtic completed its comeback in stoppage time as Stokes
weaved through three defenders in the area and cut the ball back
for Forrest, who drilled a shot into the roof of the net.  “It’s going to go down as one of the greatest nights at
Celtic Park,” Commons told Celtic’s website. “We needed to
score three goals and keep them out, and we did it the way we
had dreamt about it.”  Milan Advances  AC Milan took the lead in the ninth minute at the San Siro
in  Italy  as Boateng sent a shot from outside the penalty area
into the lower left corner.  Mario Balotelli  made it 2-0 in the
55th minute and Boateng closed the scoring with 13 minutes left.  Zenit St. Petersburg beat Pacos Ferreira 4-2 in  Russia  to
reach the group stage for a fourth time. Danny scored two goals,
while Aleksandr Bukharov and Andrey Arshavin had one each, as
Zenit won 8-3 on aggregate.  Viktoria Plzen booked its second trip to the group stage as
Stanislav Tecl’s third-minute goal secured a 1-0 win at Maribor
and a 4-1 series victory. Carlos Vela scored twice as Real
Sociedad advanced with its second straight 2-0 win against Lyon.  The 32 teams will be split into four seeding pots for
today’s draw, using club’s co-efficients based on their European
results from the past five years and national team co-efficients. One team from each of the pots will be drawn to form
the eight groups of four, with teams from the same country
unable to be pooled together.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 