-- Cemex Buys Holcim’s Czech Operations While Selling German Assets
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-08-28T05:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/cemex-buys-holcim-s-czech-operations-while-selling-german-assets.html
Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the biggest cement maker
in the Americas, will buy  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) ’s operations in the  Czech
Republic  while selling assets in western  Germany  to the Swiss
company. The companies will combine operations in Spain.  Holcim will pay Monterrey, Mexico-based Cemex 70 million
euros ($94 million) in cash in connection with the transactions,
the Mexican cement maker said in a statement today. Cemex said
the deals will result in a recurring improvement in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of as much
as $30 million starting next year.  Cemex has refinanced part of its  debt , sold shares in a
South and Central America unit and won credit upgrades during
the last 15 months after the U.S. housing bust helped push it to
the brink of default.  “When finalized, this will be an important strategic step
that should allow Cemex to improve its footprint in  Europe , and
it will consolidate our portfolio in the continent,” Cemex
Chief Executive Officer Lorenzo Zambrano said in the statement.  Cemex’s second-quarter  loss  narrowed to $152 million from
$187 million in the same period a year earlier as higher prices
and cement volume in the U.S. helped push total sales up 3.8
percent to $4.01 billion, the company said July 25.  Revenue  in
northern Europe slid 1 percent to $1.09 billion as operating
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the region dropped 11 percent to $108 million. Cemex has lost
money on a net basis for 15 consecutive quarters.  The stock has climbed 22 percent this year in Mexico
trading,  compared  with a 9.3 percent decline for the benchmark
IPC index, as investors bet on a continued housing recovery in
the U.S., Cemex’s largest foreign market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  