-- CEO Pay Rules at German Landlords Dubbed Worst by Green Street
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-08-28T08:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/ceo-pay-rules-at-german-landlords-dubbed-worst-by-green-street.html
German landlords have some of the
worst pay policies for chief executive officers among European
real estate companies when it comes to ensuring the best returns
for shareholders, a study by Green Street Advisors Inc. showed.  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWN) ,  Germany ’s second-largest rental-home
owner, and retail property company  Deutsche Euroshop AG (DEQ)  have
“poor” compensation policies because their CEOs don’t receive
a significant portion of their pay in stock and compensation
isn’t tied to per-share performance, Green Street said in a
report. British companies such as  Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR)  and
 Derwent London Plc (DLN)  ranked near the top, according to the  Newport
Beach , California-based real estate research firm.  “The CEO is the primary actor in delivering returns for
the shareholder,” said John Lutzius, managing director at Green
Street in  London . “It’s important that CEOs’ personal
compensation is aligned with what shareholders really care
about.”  Executive compensation is coming under scrutiny across
 Europe  as the continent’s share of global real estate investment
shrinks. The U.K. and Swiss governments have backed tougher
rules including shareholder votes on compensation and France and
Germany plan to implement similar controls.  The market value of
European property stocks is 14 percent of the global total, down
from 18 percent five years ago, according to data compiled by
the  European Public Real Estate Association .  ‘Absolutely Transparent’  “We are absolutely transparent,” Deutsche Wohnen
spokeswoman Manuela Damianakis said. “We use a variety of
metrics to measure long-term incentives, including the share
price.”  Deutsche Euroshop declined to comment.  Compensation policies cited as poor in the report include a
lack of disclosure on how bonuses are calculated, performance
measures that aren’t linked to per-share results, and rewards
paid in cash instead of stock, according to the report.  Songbird Estates Plc (SBD)  in the U.K. and  Swiss Prime Site AG (SPSN) 
are among the companies that have the least transparent bonus
policies, Green Street said. That can hurt shareholders because
they’re unable to tell whether the CEO’s interests are aligned
with their own.  Songbird declined to comment.  Swiss Prime Site chief financial officer Peter Wullschleger
said by email the company’s pay policies comply with Swiss law
and International Financial Reporting Standards. Swiss Prime
Site, which signed new contracts with its top executives that
took effect on Jan. 1, plans to publish the new compensation
details in its 2013 annual report to be released next year, he
said.  Faster Updates  Green Street’s Lutzius said the company should update
shareholders sooner.  “CEO compensation is such an important element of a
company’s overall strategy,” he said. The company should
disclose the key elements of the compensation package now.’’  Deutsche Euroshop, Deutsche Wohnen and  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG) ,
also of Germany, rank low because they link payments to absolute
profit growth and not to per-share results. That can encourage
executives to issue more shares to finance acquisitions, Green
Street said.  TAG Immobilien declined to comment.  “Measures like funds from operations are not always well
correlated with total shareholder returns,” said Lutzius. “You
can manufacture FFO growth artificially, for example by loading
up on debt or buying lesser-quality properties that have higher
yields.”  Share Awards  Giving CEOs a large portion of their pay in shares is
another way to ensure alignment of interests, Green Street said.  “Skin in the game really matters,” said Lutzius. “The
best way to ensure alignment is to require significant share
ownership.”  In the U.S., real estate investment trust CEOs own shares
valued at about 20 times their base salaries on average, the
Green Street report found. That ratio was 4.8 in the U.K. and
0.5 in continental Europe.  “On the continent, we were surprised to see so many CEOs
have so little investment in the companies they lead,” Lutzius
said. “Ideally, we’d like to see that CEOs have a material
ownership in the company, ownership that’s material to their own
personal net worth.”  U.K. companies were praised for making a large portion of
CEO pay dependent on the company’s performance. At Great
Portland, about 73 percent of the CEO’s 2.6 million-euro average
pay over three years depended on results he produced. At  Corio
NV (CORA)  of the Netherlands, only 24 percent was linked, according to
Green Street.  Stock Performance  Some companies can benefit from changes that would lead to
“quick wins,” while others require more extensive reforms,
according to Green Street.  At  Eurocommercial Properties NV (ECMPA) , where 50 percent of the
annual bonus is based on dividend growth, Green Street says
investors should request that bonuses follow total shareholder
returns.  Vicki Bradley, a spokeswoman for Eurocommercial, confirmed
the basis of the bonus and said dividends are subject to
shareholder approval.  At TAG, where there is no long-term incentive plan, Green
Street recommends implementing one that’s linked to share
performance.  “Getting CEO pay right is an important ingredient to
delivering appropriate returns over a full real estate cycle,”
Green Street said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  