-- China Mengniu Profit Gains as Foreign Tie-ups Boost Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-29T06:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/china-mengniu-posts-profit-gain-as-pricier-products-boost-sales.html
China Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319) , the
country’s largest dairy producer, increased first-half earnings
16 percent as tie-ups with foreign milk producers helped
reassure customers its products were safe. Shares surged.  Mengniu turned to  France ’s Danone SA and Denmark’s Arla
Foods amba to win back confidence from Chinese consumers after a
series of  food safety  scandals hammered sales of domestic dairy
products. Mengniu also made deals to strengthen control of its
supply chain and expand its infant formula business. The company
agreed to buy a stake in raw-milk producer China Modern Dairy
Holdings Ltd. in May to gain greater control of milk supplies.  “The overall industry is seeing decent growth in
volumes,” Emma Liu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said before the earnings announcement. “As
consumers grow increasingly aware of food safety, they will
stick to the big brands.”  The Hohhot, Inner Mongolia-based producer said in a filing
to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange late yesterday that first-half
 net income  climbed to 749.5 million  yuan  ($122 million) from
644.7 million yuan a year earlier. That compared with the 753.6
million yuan average of seven analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 13 percent to 20.67 billion yuan from
18.24 billion yuan.  Mengniu  shares  jumped as much as 7.9 percent to HK$32.20 in
Hong Kong today, headed for the biggest gain since May 20. The
stock traded 7.5 percent higher at HK$32.10 at 2:50 p.m. local
time. The company’s stock has gained 46 percent this year,
compared with a 4.5 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  Danone Deal  The company’s introduction of new and more expensive
products this year, and improvement of existing ones helped
boost  consumer confidence  and sales, Sun Yiping, Mengniu’s chief
executive officer said in a briefing in Hong Kong today. A
shortage and resulting rise in the cost of raw milk led to
higher costs in the first six months of the year, she said.  Mengniu announced three major deals in two months,
including a tie-up with Paris-based  Danone SA (BN)  and an investment
in baby milk company  Yashili International Holdings Ltd. (1230) , amid a
government push to improve product standards and consolidate the
industry.  Danone, the French owner of Activia yogurt and Evian water,
said in May it would spend 325 million euros ($434.6 million) to
form a joint venture with Mengniu and invest in the company. The
Chinese producer, which sells dairy products ranging from yogurt
to liquid milk under its namesake brand on the mainland, already
has a tie-up with Danish producer Arla Foods amba from 2012.  Mengniu will have more room to grow as China’s per capita
consumption of dairy remains low, said Liu, who has a buy rating
on the stock.  Supply Chain  In 2011, the company said moldy cattle feed led to
excessive toxin levels in its milk. Mengniu was among 22 dairy
companies found to have sold products containing the chemical
melamine in 2008, when tainted powder killed six infants in
China.  Mengniu also made deals to strengthen control of its supply
chain and expand its infant formula business. The company agreed
to buy a 26.9 percent stake in raw-milk producer  China Modern
Dairy Holdings (1117)  in May for HK$3.18 billion ($410 million) in a
deal that would give it preferential purchase rights to Modern
Dairy’s milk supply.  The dairy product maker also offered to buy 75 percent of
Yashili in a deal valued at about HK$12.5 billion in June.  Yashili ranked seventh in China’s infant-formula market
last year with a 4.7 percent share, according to market
researcher Euromonitor International. The investment will give
Mengniu “an immediate and strong presence” in the smaller
Chinese cities beyond Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou,
Jacqueline Ko, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Kim Eng Securities,
wrote in a report this month.  Food Quality  Mengniu will also benefit from China’s push to consolidate
its  dairy industry  as authorities may implement policies
favorable to local companies while seeking to improve food
quality standards, said Ko, who has a buy rating on the stock.  Of the 30 analysts covering Mengniu, 22 have a buy rating,
six have a hold call and two have a sell recommendation,
according  data  compiled by Bloomberg,  China is seeking to groom as many as five large domestic
infant-formula companies as part of the government’s move to
raise product standards by 2018, the China Securities Journal
reported Aug 16.  The plan, which will be put in place in stages starting
this year, envisions the creation of up to five firms with more
than 5 billion yuan of annual sales by the end of 2018, the
newspaper said, citing people it didn’t identify.  Mengniu has the biggest share in  China ’s drinking milk
market, with about 34 percent in 2012, according to Euromonitor.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  