-- China’s Stock-Index Futures Fall as Oil Gains on Syria Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-28T01:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/china-s-stock-index-futures-fall-as-oil-gains-on-syria-concerns.html
China’s stock-index futures  fell as
oil prices jumped amid concern the U.S. will take military
action against Syria.  Futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  expiring in September lost 0.3
percent to 2,329.80 as of 9:15 a.m. local time.  PetroChina Co. (601857) ,
the nation’s biggest oil company, will resume trading today
after the company said three senior managers resigned and were
under investigation by authorities. CSR Corp. and  China CNR
Corp. (601299) , the biggest train makers, may decline after posting lower
profit.  Air China Ltd. (601111) , the nation’s largest international
carrier, may advance after reporting higher net income.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.3 percent to
2,103.57 yesterday, paring this year’s loss to 7.3 percent. The
CSI 300 Index rose 0.2 percent to 2,340.88. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 0.9 percent. The Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index fell 1.6 percent in New York.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 1.1 percent today,
while crude rose to an 18-month high as the U.S.,  France  and
Britain stepped closer to a military strike against  Syria  after
concluding the regime used chemical weapons against civilians.  The Shanghai Composite is valued at 8.5 times its projected
12-month earnings, compared with the five-year average of 12.7
times, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Trading volumes
in the index were 27 percent higher than the 30-day average
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PetroChina Probe  PetroChina said in a statement yesterday the three
managers, including top executives at two units, are “currently
under investigation by relevant PRC authorities.”  The three are Li Hualin, chairman of Kunlun Energy Co., an
oil and gas producer and distributor; PetroChina vice president
and general manager of its biggest oilfield, Ran Xinquan; and
Wang Daofu, chief geologist for PetroChina.  “It is unclear whether the issues under investigation are
of a purely personal nature or related to the managers’
respective duties at PetroChina,” Citigroup Inc. analysts wrote
in a report. “We expect sentiment on the stock to be weak as
long as there is uncertainty over this issue.”  CSR and  China  CNR may decline. CSR said first-half net
income dropped 24 percent from a year earlier while CNR said
profit fell 5.4 percent.  Of the 178 Shanghai-listed companies that reported first-half  earnings  that Bloomberg tracks, 83 beat analyst estimates,
84 trailed and the rest were in line. Chinese publicly traded
companies are required to release first-half reports by the end
of August.  Air China may advance. The carrier said first-half profit
rose 10 percent from a year earlier as currency gains from a
stronger  yuan  and income from its stake in Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. helped offset lower fares.  In New York, Chinese solar stocks fell, with LDK Solar Co.
tumbling the most in three months after its cash balance dropped
to the lowest level since 2009 and second-quarter sales sank 51
percent. China Southern Airlines Co. widened the discount to its
Hong Kong shares after reporting an operating loss.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  