-- China Urban Migrants’ Cost Seen at Least $6.8 Trillion: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-28T05:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/china-urban-migrants-cost-seen-at-least-6-8-trillion-economy.html
China must spend at least 41.6
trillion  yuan  ($6.8 trillion) over two decades to integrate
rural workers living in cities and towns so the country realizes
benefits of urbanization, a United Nations report said.  Spending may exceed 75 trillion yuan in a scenario with a
higher rate of investment to improve  living conditions  and
housing quality, according to the report released yesterday in
Beijing. The study’s baseline assumptions are for the urban
population to rise to 976 million in 2030 from 666 million in
2010 and integrate about 210 million migrant workers.  The report quantifies the urbanization challenges faced by
Communist Party leaders as they prepare for a November meeting
to discuss deepening policy reforms amid an economic  slowdown .
Officials are considering changes to the hukou residence-registration system that excludes migrant workers from taking
advantage of schools and pension benefits in cities.  “Much more needs to be done to eliminate the continued
gaps between migrant workers and registered urban residents,”
said the report, produced by the United Nations Development
Programme and the Institute of Urban and Environmental Studies
of the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , a government-run
research organization. “These will not be conducive to social
stability, city livability or sustainable development.”  A major question is how to pay for the urban shift while
regional governments face rising debt burdens. Local-government
debt may have surged to about 18 trillion yuan, according to
Societe Generale SA, from an official estimate of 10.7 trillion
yuan at the end of 2010. The National Audit Office said July 28
that the cabinet ordered a new nationwide government-debt review.  Financial Support  Jia Kang, director of the Ministry of Finance’s fiscal
science research center, said in June that urbanization will
require financial support of 60 trillion yuan based on a 150,000
yuan per-capita cost of making 400 million rural residents into
urban dwellers. Jia said that  China  should develop a public-private partnership in financing urbanization.  The UN report said funding may need to shift “from today’s
one-source, government-dominated financing to a mix of
sources.”  Li Tie, an official with China’s top economic planning
agency, said earlier this month that plans to encourage rural
residents to settle in cities face opposition from local
governments. “Nobody wants such a big group of migrants to be
their neighbors and share their so-called civilized space,” Li,
director-general of the China Center for  Urban Development  under
the National Development and Reform Commission, said at an Aug.
10 forum.  Funding Sources  Mao Daqing, executive vice president of China Vanke Co.,
the biggest developer by market value traded on the country’s
stock exchanges, told the forum some local governments may be
hard pressed to pay for urbanization.  Separately today, China’s State Council said the nation
will work to ensure steady growth in the second half while
maintaining the consistency and stability of economic policies,
the official Xinhua News Agency said, citing a report delivered
to a session of the National People’s Congress Standard
Committee.  Premier  Li Keqiang  is banking on hundreds of millions of
migrant workers and their families becoming permanent urban
residents to boost  consumption  and sustain growth at his bottom
line of 7 percent a year, as the government restructures an
economy that’s expanded at an average 10 percent a year over the
last two decades.  Speaking at his first news conference after becoming
premier in March, Li said, “Urbanization will usher in a huge
amount of consumption and investment demand, increase job
opportunities, create wealth for farmers, and bring benefits to
the people.”  Pension Expenses  The 41.6 trillion yuan figure is based on an assumption of
an 80,000 yuan cost to fully integrate migrants into urban areas,
a number calculated by the Development Research Center of the
State Council, or cabinet. Without pension expenses, the figure
would be 46,000 yuan, according to the UNDP report.  China reported nominal  gross domestic product  of 51.9
trillion yuan last year.  HSBC Holdings Plc estimated in an October report that the
movement of 10 million rural residents to become urban residents
every year for the next 20-30 years would create more than 100
billion yuan a year in additional consumer spending.  “The model of relying on resource-intensive use and
sacrificing the environment for rapid urbanization is
unsustainable,”  Xie Zhenhua , an NDRC vice chairman, said
yesterday at the report’s release.  Europe Comparison  The country’s urbanization increased to a majority of its
population from 10 percent in six decades, a transition that
took 150 years in  Europe  and 210 years in  Latin America  and the
Caribbean, UNDP Administrator Helen Clark said in a statement.  Asian stocks dropped for a second day on concern the U.S.
will take military action against  Syria . The MSCI  Asia  Pacific
Index was down 1.5 percent as of 2:20 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Elsewhere in Asia today,  Japan  continues meetings of panels
of experts to review the nation’s plan to boost its  sales tax  to
8 percent from 5 percent in April. That move would be followed
by a jump to 10 percent in 2015.  While a higher consumption levy may improve the nation’s
finances, the increase could also undermine the nation’s rebound
under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s recovery program, by dragging
down  consumer spending . Tokyo University Professor Takatoshi Ito
said yesterday that the tax should rise as planned.  “Economic indicators show the economy isn’t in a bad state
and raising the sales tax wouldn’t slow the economy or the bid
to end deflation,” Ito, a former Finance Ministry official,
told reporters. Not proceeding in line with the plan could lead
to falling stocks, a stronger yen and a spike in bond yields,
Ito wrote in a statement submitted to a panel.  Around the world today, economic releases span home sales
and mortgage applications in the U.S., retail sales in  Italy  and
 money supply  in the euro area.  --Scott Lanman and Zhou Xin, with assistance from Shamim Adam in
 Singapore  and Shen Hu in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, James Mayger  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  