-- China Rongsheng Seeks Funding as Ship Order Slump Cuts Cash
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-08-29T10:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/china-rongsheng-posts-first-half-loss-after-ship-orders-plunge.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , seeking government assistance after a slump
in vessel orders, is pursuing alternative sources of funding
after burning through cash and posting a second straight loss.  The biggest private Chinese shipbuilder is in talks with
banks for loan refinancing as it seeks to control costs and
capital expenditure. Shares of Shanghai-based Rongsheng fell.  The shipyard will have sufficient funds to meet obligations
over the next one year, based on a review of its  cash-flow 
projections, the company said yesterday. Rongsheng’s ability to
raise funds and meet payments will determine how much China
needs to intervene in the sector after the government earlier
this month issued a three-year package to support the troubled
shipbuilding industry, the world’s biggest.  “These weak financial results will make new orders even
harder to win, given customers will steer clear of a distressed
yard,” Vincent Fernando and Yan Ke, analysts at Religare
Capital Markets Ltd., wrote in a note dated today. They have a
target price of 50  Hong Kong  cents for Rongsheng’s stock.  “While not our base case, this is the kind of stock that
could potentially go to zero,” they wrote.  The  stock  dropped 4.2 percent to close at 92 Hong Kong
cents. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  increased 0.8
percent. Rongsheng shares have declined 26 percent this year.  Going Concern  Some customers sought to postpone delivery of vessels amid
a sluggish global shipping market and that delayed collection of
receivables, Rongsheng said in a statement yesterday. At the
same time, the company continued to make payments to its
suppliers and workers, crimping cash flows.  With sales plunging 71 percent and few new orders coming,
Rongsheng’s  cash and cash-equivalents  decreased by 1.27 billion
 yuan  ($208 million) to 871 million yuan as of the end of June.
Total borrowings were 24.85 billion yuan, the company said.  “The above conditions indicate the existence of
uncertainties, which may cast doubt on the group’s ability to
continue as a going concern,” Rongsheng said in a note to the
earnings report, reiterating comments made in a March statement.  The company posted a first-half net loss of 1.26 billion
yuan, compared with a profit of 215.8 million yuan a year
earlier, it said yesterday. Revenue totaled 1.58 billion yuan
and trade and bills receivables that were due for over 360 days
more than doubled to 3.1 billion yuan from 1.2 billion yuan.  Chinese Support  China  announced its support for the industry as a third of
its shipyards may shut down in about five years amid a global
vessel glut. The country held an order book of 109 million
deadweight tons at the end of June, 13.4 percent lower than a
year earlier, according to government data.  Export-Import Bank of China yesterday signed a strategic
cooperation deal worth 100 billion yuan with China State
Shipbuilding Corp., the bank said in a statement on its website.  Private yards are facing increased competition from state-backed builders, who have easier access to credit to pay
workers, buy raw materials and provide financing for clients.
China State Shipbuilding, China Shipbuilding Industry Corp. and
other government-run companies won three-quarters of all orders
in the first half.  Bulk Carriers  Rongsheng has plans and arrangements to repay about 10
billion yuan of short-term debt due in 12 months, Chief
Financial Officer Sean Wang told reporters in Hong Kong
yesterday. He didn’t elaborate.  “Since the management has plans to address the key
liquidity issue, we can’t continue to cast doubts on the
company,” said Lawrence Li, a Shanghai-based analyst with UOB
Kay-Hian Holdings Ltd. Still, the lack of new orders is a cause
of concern, he said.  In the first half of 2013, new shipbuilding prices were
under severe pressure, with meager profit margin and harsh
contractual terms, the company said.  “In this adverse market environment, we adopted a
defensive sales strategy by avoiding low-price orders, or orders
with unfavorable payment terms,” it said.  Rongsheng, which won two new orders for bulk carriers and
delivered seven vessels in the first half, will be cautious in
seeking new ship orders as the current prices are low and
payment terms aren’t favorable, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Chen Qiang said.  The company had an orderbook of 86 vessels, with a total
volume of about 11.8 million dead-weight tons, valued at about
$4.6 billion as of the end of June, Rongsheng said. All these
vessels will be delivered by 2016 as per contracts, it said.  Number of total employees, including contract workers, has
fallen to about 8,000 from about 10,000 at the end of last year.  Rongsheng agreed to sell convertible bonds for HK$1.38
billion to Action Phoenix Ltd., a member of VMS Investment
Group, which is engaged in proprietary investments, asset
management and securities brokerage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  