-- China Agbank’s Quarterly Profit Jumps as Bad-Loan Costs Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-29T01:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/china-agbank-s-profit-jumps-as-bad-loan-provisions-decrease.html
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the
nation’s third-largest lender by market value, posted a 22
percent increase in second-quarter profit as it set aside less
money for bad loans, while lending and fee income rose.  Net income  climbed to 45.3 billion  yuan  ($7.4 billion) from
37 billion yuan a year earlier, based on first-half figures
published by the Beijing-based lender yesterday. That exceeded
the 42.6 billion-yuan median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  The lender’s profit expanded faster than earnings at  Bank
of Communications Co. (3328)  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  after it
stepped up debt recovery, improved credit-risk management and
wrote off some bad loans. Those measures also helped
Agricultural Bank, whose 420 million customers exceed the
population of any country except  China  and  India , post a smaller
increase in soured loans than competitors.  “Asset quality has been good so far, though our concerns
remain unalleviated,” Sophie Jiang, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Religare Capital Markets, wrote in a research report
yesterday. “Concerns remain over the outlook, especially that
of infrastructure loans.”  China’s policy makers announced a national audit of local
governments on July 28 amid concern some may struggle to repay
borrowings.  Rural Credit  Agricultural Bank boosted loans in rural areas and credit
to smaller firms and individuals. Lending to so-called small and
micro enterprises grew 5.1 percentage points faster than the
total during the first half. Fee income from settlement and
clearing, sales of wealth management products and custodian
services also jumped.  Shares (1288)  of Agricultural Bank rose 2.7 percent, the biggest
intraday gain in almost two weeks, to HK$3.38 in Hong Kong as of
9:34 a.m. local time, narrowing this year’s drop to 12 percent.
The stock is the worst performer among the five largest Chinese
lenders.  Second-quarter profit at Bank of Communications, the fifth-largest lender, increased 13 percent, while No. 2 Construction
Bank’s earnings climbed 9.7 percent.  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest lender by market value,
will report first-half earnings today, along with Bank of China
Ltd., the fourth-largest.  Minsheng Bank  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988) , the nation’s first private
lender, yesterday reported a 20 percent increase in second-quarter profit, in line with analysts’ estimates. Shares of
Minsheng rose 3.2 percent to HK$8.38 in  Hong Kong .  Agricultural Bank set aside 10 billion yuan as provisions
for soured loans in the second quarter, compared with 12 billion
yuan a year earlier, boosting the bad loan coverage ratio to
344.5 percent as of June 30.  The bank’s  nonperforming loans  rose to 86.7 billion yuan as
of the end of June from 85.7 billion yuan in March, representing
1.25 percent of total advances. The average bad-loan ratio of
the five biggest banks stood at 0.97 percent as of June 30,
according to the China Banking Regulatory Commission.  Agricultural Bank’s overdue loans, a broader measure that
shows loans with principal or interest past due by at least one
day, rose 7.5 percent to 94.5 billion yuan during the first six
months. Construction Bank this week posted a 17 percent rise in
loans overdue during the same period.  Mortgage Growth  Outstanding loans at Agricultural Bank stood at 6.9
trillion yuan at the end of June, an increase of 8 percent from
the beginning of the year. Residential home loans, which
accounted for 62 percent of its retail loan book, increased 13.2
percent in the first half to 1.2 trillion yuan.  “Mortgages remain a key strategic focus for the bank’s
loan book expansion,” May Yan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Barclays Plc, wrote in a note today.  Chinese banks’ asset expansion will slow in the second half
as economic growth may weaken further, Agricultural Bank
President Zhang Yun said at a press conference in Beijing
yesterday. That will lead to slower earnings growth in the rest
of the year, he said.  Net interest margin, a measure of lending profitability,
narrowed to 2.74 percent for the bank in the first half from
2.85 percent a year earlier as the central bank cut  interest
rates  twice starting in June last year while competition for
deposits intensified. The industry’s margins will contract
further in the second half as policy makers continue
liberalizing rates, Zhang said.  Deteriorating Outlook  “We do expect the earnings outlook to deteriorate in the
second half,” when Chinese banks tend to book more expenses and
provisions than earlier in the year, Grace Wu, an analyst at
Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd., said yesterday. “If
income growth slows going forward, then the ability to control
costs will be much more important for ABC. It has less
flexibility in that regard.”  In the first half, Agricultural Bank’s net income climbed
15 percent to 92.4 billion yuan, according to yesterday’s
statement. Second-quarter profit was derived by subtracting the
first-quarter figure from first-half earnings.  Net interest income  rose 7.3 percent to 180 billion yuan in
the first six months, while fee income from items including
credit cards and custodial services rose 22 percent to 47.6
billion yuan.  Agricultural Bank’s capital-adequacy ratio fell to 11.8
percent as of June 30 under new  capital requirements  that took
effect at the beginning of this year. Its core Tier 1 ratio
dropped to 9.11 percent.  Both measurements are higher than China’s minimum
regulatory requirement, which calls for systemically important
banks to have a minimum core Tier 1 ratio of 6.5 percent and
total ratio of 9.5 percent by the end of 2013. The levels
required will climb by 0.4 percentage points annually for the
following five years.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  