-- China Seeks Western-Style Care Amid Explosion of Elderly
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-08-28T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/china-seeks-western-style-care-amid-explosion-of-elderly.html
The Chinese increasingly eat, shop
and play in ways their Western counterparts would instantly
recognize. They’re  aging  like them too, living longer lives that
are often limited by debilitating illnesses.  As the almost 200 million population of over-60s more than
doubles in the next 40 years, China faces a deluge of infirm
elderly who can’t live alone. Nor can they rely on Confucian
tradition of children caring for their parents: the country’s
one-child policy has left fewer offspring to share the load,
while more Chinese are moving away from home to study or work.  While China  spent  1.1 trillion  yuan  ($179.7 billion) over
the past four years to cut the cost of drugs and provide basic
medical coverage for more than 90 percent of its 1.3 billion
people, services for the elderly have fallen behind. To plug the
gap, Premier  Li Keqiang  said Aug. 16 the government will cut red
tape and costs to spur foreign investment into the type of
privately funded care that is common in the West.  “They’re going to be struggling with an enormous burden in
terms of caring for their elderly,” said Benjamin Shobert,
managing director of  Rubicon Strategy Group  in  Seattle , which
advises companies on how to enter Asian health-care markets.
“They don’t really have two bites of the apple. Purely from a
time-frame point of view, the next 10 years are critical.”  Longer Lives  More than two decades of record  economic  growth turned the
Chinese into the world’s top consumers of cars and smartphones.
At the same time,  China 's people can expect to live 76 years on
average, seven years longer than in 1990, World Health 
Organization data  show . They can also look forward to 16 years 
of life after retirement,  according to Bloomberg data .  Those gains came at a cost. Uneven growth  lured  hundreds of
millions of people from rural areas into cities, separating
families and removing a key source of support for the elderly.  The social upheaval eroding China’s multi-generational
family structure is accompanied by changes in health, a  study 
published in June’s edition of the Lancet shows.  China’s health profile in 1990 looked like that of other
 developing countries  such as Vietnam and  Iraq , according to the
paper by the  Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention 
and Peking Union Medical College. By 2010, it resembled rich
nations such as the U.S., with  heart disease , strokes, high
 blood pressure  and diabetes among ailments gaining prominence.  A “shift to chronic disability” poses a major challenge
for China’s health system, the report said.  Chronic Disease  More than half of U.S. seniors over 65 suffer from one or
more chronic disease, with more than a quarter needing help with
activities such as eating or washing, according to the
 Department of Health . Private care in America -- from home
visits  to full-time nursing facilities -- will generate more
than $300 billion in annual revenue by 2016, according to a
December report by Freedonia Group Inc.  In China, those options are largely missing.  “Everything that you need as an elderly person, from
nutrition to care to recreational needs, that gap needs to be
filled here,” said  Bromme H. Cole , founder of  China Geriatrics
Institute , which trains health-care workers. “This is an
embryonic industry still -- it’s chaotic, there’s confusion, but
at the same time there’s enormous opportunity.”  Premier Li’s statement signals China’s leaders feel
pressure to accelerate growth in the sector to meet their
commitments under the 12th Five-Year Plan, he said.  ‘Time Sensitive’  “Development of competent senior care operators is very
time sensitive as about 7.5 million people enter the over-65
cohort each year,” Cole said. “China is unprepared to offer
the minimal standard of care to all their citizens in this age
group.”  One priority is home-care services that China wants to meet
90 percent of elderly needs, said Rubicon’s Shobert. Current
rules, for example, deter foreign home-care companies from
offering services typically provided in the U.S., like physical
rehabilitation, he said.  For now, the government and foreign players are still
searching for the policy framework that’s right for China and
will spur investment into services Chinese will want and can
afford to buy.  ‘Doesn’t Export’  “If you look globally, this is a business model that
doesn’t typically export,” Shobert said.  Eight months after Columbia Pacific opened its first
assisted-living facility in  Shanghai , only 25 of the 100 beds
have been taken.  “We’re still experimenting with the best way to market
this,” said Nate McLemore, managing director of the Seattle-based investment fund. “It’s a new concept for people to know
they can live a full life in their aging years and be very well
taken care of.”  Columbia Pacific unveiled its second project at a ceremony
last week in Beijing attended by U.S. Ambassador Gary Locke and
Dou Yupei, the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs.  Elderly residents of Senior Living L’Amore will have a
roster of activities that include mahjong, tai chi and Karaoke.
For about $2,000 to $3,000 a month, caregivers wash, feed and
remind them to take their medicine, according to Serena Xie, the
head of Columbia Pacific’s China unit.  Top Support  When Xie moved to China three years ago to set up the
business, she recalls “nobody had an idea of how to process the
applications” and it was difficult to bring regulators
together. Today, political support starts at the top.  “Every government person I’ve met with recognizes that
there are needs that must be addressed,” said  Mark Spitalnik ,
founder of  China Senior Care Inc. , which is building a
residential aged-care facility in the eastern Hangzhou
city. “It comes down to giving people a face-saving way to take
care of the elders in their family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  