-- Commodities Gain to Six-Month High as Oil Rallies on Syrian Risk
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-08-28T03:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/commodities-gain-to-six-month-high-as-oil-rallies-on-syrian-risk.html
Commodities advanced to the highest
level in more than six months as escalating tension in  Syria 
spurred a rally in oil on concern that supplies from the  Middle
East  may be disrupted.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index rose as much as 1.6
percent to 673.4, the highest since Feb. 20, and was at 673.35
at 11:14 a.m. in Singapore. West Texas Intermediate rose as much
as 2.4 percent, while Brent rallied 2.5 percent. The two oil
benchmarks plus gold account for about 50 percent of the index.  The U.S.,  France  and Britain stepped closer to a strike
against Syria, laying the legal groundwork to justify military
action and moving forces into place. Syria is suspected of
launching an Aug. 21 chemical-weapons attack outside Damascus.
A U.S.-led strike on Syria is likely within the next week,
Societe Generale SA said in a report.  “The geopolitical  risk premium  increased sharply in oil
and also supported gold markets,” analysts at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. led by Melbourne-based Mark Pervan
said in a report. “While the events in Syria have little impact
on  oil prices  in isolation, the potential impacts flowing
through to the rest of the region are high.”  Gold futures climbed 2.2 percent to $1,424 an ounce
yesterday, the highest level for a most-active contract since
May 15. Bullion for December delivery traded 0.2 percent lower
at $1,416.90 today.  Corn, wheat and soybeans in Chicago advanced today as hot
weather in the Midwest spurred concern that yields may decline.
Copper futures on the Comex climbed for the fourth day in five.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net 
NI OIL
NI MIDEAST
NI CMDMARKET
NI NRGMARKET
NI METMARKET
NI AGRMARKET
NI PCSMARKET
NI SYRIA
NI EM
NI ASIA
NI CMD 