-- Corn Output in China Seen Lower on Heavy Rain, Researcher Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-28T05:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/corn-output-in-china-seen-lower-on-heavy-rain-researcher-says.html
Corn output in  China , the second-biggest consumer, may be less than projected this year as rain
and flooding in the northeast damaged crops, boosting the need
for more imports, according to a local researcher.  Production may fall about 2.7 percent from an Aug. 14
estimate to 179 million metric tons,  Feng Lichen , the general
manager of Dalian-based grain advisory company Yigu Information
Consulting Ltd., said yesterday. Feng estimated last year’s
harvest was 181 million tons, lower than China’s official figure
of 205.6 million tons.  A smaller crop may lead to higher imports of the grain used
in food and livestock feed, as demand continues to outpace
production. Inbound shipments may reach a record 7 million tons
in the 12 months starting Oct. 1, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates. China made its first-ever purchase from
Ukraine this year, increasing competition with the U.S., the
biggest supplier, and  Argentina .  “Too much rain has caused some crops to fail,” said Feng.
“Domestic supply could easily become tight from a current
surplus.”  Heavy rains and lower temperatures in the northeast caused
flooding and hail damage since Aug. 14, the China National Grain
and Oils Information Center said Aug. 19. The top producing
region received as much as 50 percent more rain than the average
in previous years.  CBOT, Dalian  Corn for delivery in December on the Chicago Board of Trade
rose 1 percent to $4.91 a bushel at 1:08 p.m. in Beijing.
Futures on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange  were little changed at
2,338  yuan  a ton, or $9.70 a bushel.  Dalian prices have slid 3.9 percent this year on the
prospect of record imports and a larger local crop. State
reserves hold about 30 million tons bought from farmers this
year, which has weighed on prices, said Feng.  Low temperatures caused by rains can slow or halt crop
development, weather service  Xn121.com  said yesterday. China,
which the USDA estimates will consume about 207 million tons
this year, has ordered more than 4 million tons of U.S. corn for
delivery after Sept. 1, the grain center said.  “It’s looking wet and cold in the northeast, and that adds
risks to crops,” said  Li Qiang , the chairman at Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co. “Temperatures and early frost in the next
month are the key to watch for.”  Temperatures in the  Jilin province , located in the center
of the northeast, will average 17 degrees Celsius (63 degrees
Fahrenheit) in the next week, lower than the average of 19
degrees in previous years, according to Xn121.com.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  