-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Decrease for First Time This Week
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-08-28T17:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-decrease-for-first-time-this-week.html
The cost to protect against losses
on corporate bonds fell for the first time this week, a day
after the measure jumped the most in two months.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.6
basis points to a mid-price of 82.5 basis points as of 1:21 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index yesterday gained 4.5 basis points, the most since
June 20, as the U.S. and its allies began moving closer to a
military strike against  Syria  in response to an alleged chemical
weapons attack near Damascus last week. The swaps measure
typically increases as investor confidence deteriorates.  “Mounting tension amongst investors over Syria appeared to
come to a pause midweek as demand for safe-haven assets came
skidding to a halt,” Andrew Wilkinson, the chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in an e-mail.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Ten-year Treasuries fell after rising for four days,
pushing the yield 7.2 basis points higher to 2.78 percent,
Bloomberg prices show.  Risk Premium  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 7.4 basis points to 401.6, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  narrowed 1.3 basis points to 131
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 4 to 587.8.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  