-- Danske Bank Reprimand, Ex-JPMorgan Trader, China: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-08-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/danske-bank-reprimand-ex-jpmorgan-trader-china-compliance.html
Denmark’s bank regulator reprimanded
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  for inadequate management of market risks two
months after ordering Denmark’s biggest lender to add $18
billion in risk weighted assets.  The Financial Supervisory Authority said yesterday the
Copenhagen bank must ensure control of market risks across the
company, weigh risks against returns, and safeguard against
alterations to risk models driving changes in assessments. The
agency also called for greater transparency in decision making.  The Copenhagen-based agency ordered the improvements after
reviewing a study on the bank’s risk management systems that
Danske paid for and that was requested by Denmark’s 14-member
Financial Council, which advises the FSA on key cases. The FSA
said it received the analysis, conducted by the consulting firm
 Oliver Wyman , on June 18. The review was ordered to determine
whether Danske had taken on more risk than it budgeted for and
whether its assessments mirrored reality.  Danske agreed to increase capital allocated to meet its
solvency requirements, the FSA said.  The bank has taken steps to improve risk management, the
FSA said. It is hiring an external consultant to assess its
models, and the market risk committee hired four people earlier
this year, bringing total employees in the unit to about 46.
Management has agreed to hire more people as needed, the FSA
said.  Danske was identified by a government panel as one of
Denmark’s too-big-to-fail banks earlier this year.  Compliance Policy  India Regulator Sets Rules for Commodity Exchange Board Members  New rules in India provide that not less than 50 percent of
the board strength of a commodity futures exchange shall be
independent directors and they should be appointed for a period
of three years, the  Forward Markets Commission  said on its
website.  The Forward Markets Commission shall appoint four
independent directors, the regulator said in the rules.  In addition, directors should satisfy criteria of “fit and
proper person,” and the appointment of the chief executive
officer shall be subject to prior approval of the commission,
the regulator said.  Exchanges have to furnish information related to the board
and corporate governance to the commission by Sept. 2.  Compliance Action  EU Investigation Finds China Solar-Panel Makers Got Aid  Chinese solar-panel makers received subsidies, a European
Union investigation showed, increasing the likelihood of EU
tariffs on imports of the renewable-energy technology from  China 
to counter trade-distorting state aid.  The European Commission has concluded in the probe opened
last November that Chinese manufacturers of crystalline silicon
photovoltaic modules or panels, and cells and wafers used in
them, benefited from preferential lending, tax programs and
other aid, an EU official said yesterday in Brussels. The
inquiry is one of two that the commission is conducting into
alleged unfair Chinese trade in solar goods.  The commission on Aug. 2 approved an agreement with China
to curb Chinese shipments of solar panels as part of a parallel
probe into below-cost sales, a practice known as dumping.
Chinese manufacturers that take part in the pact are being
spared provisional EU anti-dumping duties as high as 67.9
percent.  The commission is engaged in a political balancing act as
it seeks to limit Chinese competition against European
manufacturers. On Aug. 7, the commission decided against
imposing preliminary anti-subsidy tariffs on Chinese solar
panels.  SEC’s White to Meet With Exchanges on Nasdaq Trading Halt  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo
White will meet Sept. 12 with the heads of exchanges and other
self-regulatory organizations to discuss last week’s trading
halt in Nasdaq-listed stocks.  “The meeting at the SEC will address the market data
dissemination system involved in last week’s halt as well as
other critical market systems and infrastructure issues,”  John
Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in a statement yesterday.  Nasdaq ’s Aug. 22 shutdown stopped trading in more than
2,000 U.S. stocks for three hours. The outage stemmed from a
communication error between another exchange and a network that
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  operates to disseminate data on quotes and
prices.  White also said after the outage that the SEC should
advance a proposal that would require exchanges and other
entities that facilitate trading to test the reliability of
their technology.  Ex-JPMorgan Trader Released, Saying He Opposes Extradition  Former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  trader Javier Martin-Artajo was
released from police custody after telling a Madrid court he
opposed attempts by U.S. prosecutors to extradite him on charges
he hid trading losses that cost the bank $6.2 billion.  The former trader turned himself in yesterday morning after
being contacted by investigators, a Spanish police official
said. He was released after a hearing in Madrid yesterday in
which he said he was unwilling to be extradited, according to a
spokeswoman for the National Court.  The U.S. this month charged Martin-Artajo, a Spanish
citizen, and Julien Grout, a French citizen, with trying to hide
the losses stemming from trades by Bruno Iksil, the Frenchman at
the center of the case who became known as the “London Whale.”
Grout and Martin-Artajo face as many as 20 years in jail if
convicted of the most serious counts, including conspiracy and
wire fraud.  Martin-Artajo, 49, oversaw trading strategy for Iksil’s
synthetic portfolio at JPMorgan’s chief investment office in
London, while Grout was a trader who worked for him.  Martin-Artajo’s lawyer, Lista Cannon, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment yesterday. He “is confident
that when a complete and fair reconstruction of these complex
events is completed, he will be cleared of any wrongdoing,” a
spokeswoman for his  law firm  said earlier this month.  Jennifer
Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to comment.  At a hearing yesterday, Martin-Artajo’s lawyer filed
documents in which his client denied the allegations, according
to a court official who asked not to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly. The U.S. now has 40 days
to file sworn statements in support of its extradition request.  The extradition process “can take up to several months,”
said Ivan Mercado, managing partner at Mercado & Rengel, a law
firm in  Spain  that works on U.S. extradition cases. Mercado is
not involved in the case.  The spokeswoman for the court said Martin-Artajo’s
passport has been confiscated. Another court official said that
wasn’t the case, but that he can’t leave Spain without court
approval.  Grout is living in  France  and isn’t a fugitive, his lawyer,
 Edward Little , a partner at Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP in New
York, said in an Aug. 12 interview, two days before his client
was charged.  “He visited the U.S. last month with confidence he was not
being indicted and moved to France to save money and look for a
job,” Little said at the time. France has no obligation under
its extradition treaty with the U.S. to send Grout to New York.
Little declined to comment yesterday.  Amazon Drops Price Parity Clause for German Retailers  Amazon (AMZN)  told Germany’s antitrust regulator it will drop the
company policy, known as the price parity clause, that forced
retailers to offer their lowest price at Amazon marketplace as
well as elsewhere.  The Federal Cartel Office said it is reviewing whether it
can now drop the probe of Amazon’s policy. The company’s price
parity clause prevented retailers that offer goods on Amazon’s
platform from selling them cheaper elsewhere on Internet.  Earlier this year, Germany’s Cartel Office said it was
surveying 2,400 retailers as it examined the impact of Amazon’s
price parity clause on Amazon marketplace online retailers. At
that time, the Cartel Office said Amazon may need to remove the
clause if the survey shows it leads to higher prices without
benefit to consumers.  Courts  BofA FDIC Suit for $1.7 Billion in Investor Losses Thrown Out  Bank of America Corp .’s lawsuit against the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. over $1.7 billion in investor losses was
dismissed by a federal judge.  The suit was based on the bank’s role as trustee for Ocala
Funding LLC.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Rothstein in Washington threw
out the case, saying there weren’t enough assets to make any
payments on general creditor claims, according to her decision
yesterday.  The case stems from a mortgage-fraud scheme at failed
lender Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp. From 2002 through
August 2009,  Lee Farkas , while he was chairman of  Taylor Bean ,
sold more than $1.5 billion in fake  mortgage loans  to  Colonial
Bank  with the collusion of its employees and diverted more than
$1.5 billion from Ocala Funding, a financing vehicle Taylor Bean
controlled.  Farkas is serving a 30-year sentence, following conviction
for 14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and  securities fraud 
relating to the scheme.  The case is Bank of America v. FDIC, 10-cv-01681, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  Interviews/Conferences  Hong Kong Has ‘Last Mover Advantage’ on Dark Pools, Adler Says  Having a single market without much fragmentation, stamp
duty and regulations around dark pools, which keep their market
share low, have helped to keep issues associated with high
frequency trading out of Hong Kong, Ashley Alder, CEO of  H.K.
Securities and Futures Commission , said at a conference in the
city Aug. 26.  Dark pool consultation “hopefully” will be out this year,
Alder said in his remarks.  Dark pool rules will create a market-wide code to replace
current license conditions, according to Alder.  The Hong Kong SFC is in discussions with exchanges on
issues including circuit breakers, Alder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 