-- Danske Bank Trading Gain Provokes Regulator Reprimand
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-08-29T10:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/danske-says-huge-trading-gain-provokes-value-at-risk-reprimand.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  said the financial
regulator decided to reprimand Denmark’s biggest bank over its
risk controls because of a surge in revenue at its trading unit.  Net trading income climbed 34 percent from 2007 to 10.6
billion kroner ($1.9 billion) last year, according to the
Copenhagen-based bank. Income from trading grew 21 percent last
quarter from the first three months of 2013, Danske said Aug. 1.
After net interest income, revenue from trading securities made
the biggest contribution to Danske’s total income last year.  “We can see that we have had huge profits in our market
activities that would spark interest in how we manage our market
risks,” Peter Rostrup-Nielsen, Danske’s chief risk officer,
said in an interview.  The Financial Supervisory Authority said this week that
Danske, whose assets are almost twice Denmark’s gross domestic
product, needs to improve the transparency around its value-at-risk models -- a measure of how much a bank stands to lose
within a given time frame. The reprimand follows questions in
the U.S. about the ability of VaR to predict risks after
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  failed to prevent a $6.2 billion trading
loss.  Danske Bank “has had in a few short years very large
profits from activities with a market risk, also in comparison
to peers,” the FSA said on Aug. 27. “The bank shall ensure
that the validation of models of market risk are sufficiently
independent of the models’ development.”  ‘Attracts Attention’  Danske has “had significant income in our trading area,
but that does not necessarily mean that it was driven by taking
excessive risks,” Rostrup-Nielsen said. “We don’t feel that is
the case. But of course it attracts attention to see whether our
risk management is appropriate.”  The financial regulator’s reprimand follows an order in
June that Danske add $18 billion to its risk-weighted assets
amid concern the bank was understating its credit risks.  Danske, identified by a government panel as one of
 Denmark ’s too-big-to-fail banks in March, reported a 46 percent
jump in second-quarter net income earlier this month as
impairments dropped by almost half. The bank said its solvency
need was 11.3 percent, up from 11 percent three months earlier.  The Copenhagen-based agency told Danske to improve its
market risk controls after reviewing a study on the bank’s risk
management systems. The review was paid for by Danske after
being requested by Denmark’s 14-member Financial Council, which
advises the FSA on key cases. The FSA said it received the
analysis, conducted by the consulting firm Oliver Wyman, on June
18.  Mirroring Reality  The review, which was supposed to determine whether Danske
had taken on more risk than it budgeted for and whether its
assessments mirrored reality, found Danske’s systems were
generally adequate, with areas for improvement, the FSA said.  Regulators across the globe have been taking a closer look
at how institutions use VaR after JPMorgan trader Bruno Iksil,
nicknamed the London Whale, took positions that grew too large
for him to unwind without incurring billions in losses.  When Iksil ran up against a VaR cap, rather than curb his
trading, JPMorgan changed its model, according to documents
compiled by the U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations, which earlier this year concluded a nine-month
review. The bank’s shares plunged and its chief investment
officer was fired.  JPMorgan-Style  Danske’s implementation of VaR, the safeguards the bank
already has in place, and products traders deal rule out the
possibility of a JPMorgan-style loss, Rostrup-Nielsen said.  “We don’t have the profit-loss part of the organization
managing their own risks,” he said. Danske does “more plain
vanilla business,” trading conventional products such as
interest rates and foreign currencies, and as a result, “it is
much more transparent what the risks are,” he said.  Danske’s daily VaR  averaged 235 million kroner  in the
second quarter, the highest level in a year, the bank said
earlier this month. Rostrup-Nielsen declined to disclose what
the bank’s VaR budget is, saying the figure isn’t public.  Trading income “has been fairly high at times throughout
the financial crisis because spreads have been wider and
activity levels have been higher, so trading conditions in some
aspects have been better,” Rostrup-Nielsen said. “If you look
at the risk numbers, they have been fairly stable throughout so
it hasn’t been a result of us taking a one-sided bet on the
market.”  Tougher Oversight  The FSA has toughened its oversight of the financial
industry since Denmark’s property bubble burst in 2008.  Spar
Nord Bank A/S (SPNO)  said today an inspection found Denmark’s fourth-biggest listed lender had correctly stated losses. Similar
inspections at smaller community banks since last year led the
regulator to conclude bad loans were big enough in some cases to
wipe out equity. Toender Bank A/S, a regional lender close to
the German border, was declared insolvent after a November
inspection.  Danske said it will hire an external consultant to review
its VaR models. It has already boosted capital by 300 million
kroner as a buffer against potential losses from credit spreads.  “There is nothing there that is too surprising,” Rostrup-Nielsen said. “In some areas, we were already making
progress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  