-- De Blasio Extends Lead Among Democrats in NYC Mayoral Race
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-08-28T18:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/de-blasio-extends-lead-among-democrats-in-nyc-mayoral-race.html
New York Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, who wants to tax the wealthy to pay for pre-kindergarten
classes, widened his lead among seven Democrats seeking the
party’s mayoral nomination, a Quinnipiac University poll showed.  Thirteen days before the primary election, de Blasio was
favored by 36 percent of likely voters, with City Council
Speaker Christine Quinn at 21 percent and former City
Comptroller  William Thompson  with 20 percent, according to the
survey released today. An Aug. 13 poll showed de Blasio with 30
percent, Quinn at 24 percent and Thompson with 22 percent.  Democrats outnumber Republicans in the city by more than 6
to 1. If no candidate gets 40 percent in the primary, the top
two finishers in each party will compete in an Oct. 1 runoff.  “De Blasio, in fourth place just five weeks ago, is edging
up on the magic 40 percent,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of
the Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute. “Let’s see how he does in the home stretch.”  The survey is based on telephone interviews conducted Aug.
22 to Aug. 27, a period before, during and after a week in which
Quinn, 47, won endorsements from the  New York  Times, the New
York Post and the Daily News.  De Blasio, 52, was elected citywide as public advocate, a
watchdog post, in 2009 after two-terms representing a Brooklyn
district in the City Council. The job involves responding to
citizen complaints and recommending improvements to government
services, according to the office website.  Tax Increase  He has proposed increasing the city’s tax on income above
$500,000 to raise $532 million to pay for all-day pre-kindergarten and adolescent after-school activities. The measure
would have to be approved by the state legislature, where
members stand for re-election next year.  De Blasio has also highlighted his opposition to police
stop-and-frisk tactics, which affect mostly young black and
Latino men. He received 34 percent support from black voters,
compared with 25 percent for Thompson, the only black candidate,
and 15 percent for Quinn.  De Blasio’s wife, Chirlane McCray, who is black, is a
frequent companion at campaign events. In a television
commercial, their 15-year-old son, Dante, sporting a large Afro,
praises his father as the candidate most likely to rein in
police stop-and-frisk practices.  Federal Monitor  The tactics were ruled unconstitutional Aug. 12 by U.S.
District Judge Shira Scheindlin, who appointed an independent
monitor to oversee the department’s use of the practice and
ensure it doesn’t unlawfully target minority citizens. Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ’s administration has appealed the ruling.  Of the other candidates in the race, 8 percent supported
former U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner; 6 percent backed
Comptroller  John Liu ; and 1 percent former Council member Sal
Albanese. Eight percent said they were undecided.  De Blasio led Quinn in a possible runoff, 59 percent to 30
percent. He also topped Thompson 52 percent to 36 percent,
according to the poll. Thompson, 60, the party’s candidate for
mayor in 2009, lost to Bloomberg by about 4.3 percentage points.
Thompson would beat Quinn in a runoff 57 percent to 33 percent,
the poll reported.  The mayor, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, is barred by law from seeking a fourth
term.  The survey of 602 likely Democratic voters, from Aug. 22 to
27, had a 4 percentage-point margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  