-- Detroit Judge Says Casino-Tax Revenue Can't Be Frozen
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S t e v e n   R a p h a e l
-- 2013-08-28T15:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/detroit-judge-says-casino-tax-revenue-can-t-be-frozen.html
The judge overseeing  Detroit ’s
bankruptcy said the city’s casino tax revenue is protected by
U.S. law and can’t be frozen by Syncora Guarantee Inc. in their
dispute over a proposed $253 million swaps settlement.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes in Detroit ruled today
in the city’s favor as it seeks to buy its way out of  interest-rate swaps  contracts to save about $50 million a year. Cash from
the casino tax is considered collateral for payments the city
owes on the contracts. Syncora wants the cash held by a
custodian rather than distributed to the city.  After Detroit filed the biggest-ever U.S. municipal
bankruptcy last month, the city’s emergency manager, Kevyn Orr,
asked Rhodes to approve the settlement with Merrill Lynch and
UBS AG when it comes to court next month. Syncora, which sold
insurance on the swaps, opposes the settlement, claiming that
ending the contract too early could hurt its economic interests.  U.S. District Judge Gerald Rosen, Detroit’s lead bankruptcy
mediator, on Aug. 23 ordered New York-based Syncora, the city
and swaps holders to meet with an Oregon bankruptcy judge in
Detroit tomorrow to try to settle their differences.  The Oregon judge, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Elizabeth Perris,
has been a court-appointed mediator for three California cities
that also filed bankruptcy: Vallejo, Mammoth Lakes and Stockton.
Stockton remains in bankruptcy.  Under the settlement, swap providers would be paid at least
75 percent of what they’re owed, depending on when the contract
is canceled. City attorney Corinne Ball, a partner at  Jones Day 
in New York, said in court on Aug. 21 that the discounted value
of the swaps was about $190 million.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Raphael in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   sraphael5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  