-- Deutsche Telekom Wins Kabel Deutschland Case Over Duct Fees
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-08-28T10:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/deutsche-telekom-wins-kabel-deutschland-case-over-network-access.html
Kabel Deutschland  Holding AG lost a
suit seeking 350 million euros ($468 million) from  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  over claims Germany’s former phone monopoly
overcharged its rival for the use of cable ducts.  The Frankfurt Regional Court rejected Kabel Deutschland’s
argument that Deutsche Telekom violated antitrust rules since
2003, Arne Hasse, the tribunal’s spokesman said in an e-mailed
statement today. Deutsche Telekom doesn’t have a dominant market
position in the area, according to the court.  “Because the suit also sought a declaratory judgment
covering the future, the economic value of the case is in the
billions,” Hasse said.  Kabel Deutschland, the cable provider being  bought  by
Vodafone Group Plc, argued that a ruling by  Germany ’s
telecommunications regulator forcing the company to charge less
for use of the “last mile” of its network indicated that the
duct fees were also too high.  Marco Gassen, a spokesman for Unterfoehring-based Kabel
Deutschland, said the company will most likely appeal after it
analyzes the judgment.  The court backed Deutsche Telekom’s position, company
spokesman Andreas Middel said.  When the suit was filed last year, Kabel Deutschland said
the annual fee of about 100 million euros needed to be cut by
about two thirds. The company had bought Deutsche Telekom’s
cable network in 2003 and part of the deal was the fee agreement
for the duct use.  The lease arrangement was part of Kabel Deutschland’s
decision to take over the cable network, the court said today.
Since Deutsche Telekom had no dominant market position, the
telecommunication regulator’s rulings didn’t play a role in the
case, according to the judges.  The case is LG Frankfurt am Main, 2-06 O 182/12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 