-- Draghi Rate Pledge Weakened by Recovery It Targets
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-08-28T13:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/draghi-rate-pledge-weakened-by-recovery-it-targets-euro-credit.html
Mario Draghi ’s pledge to keep rates
low for an extended period is being complicated by an economic
recovery that’s arrived sooner than he expected.  Less than two months after the European Central Bank
president pledged to keep rates at or below current levels, data
show the 17-nation bloc has emerged from its  longest-ever
recession  and is poised for further growth. The U.S. is strong
enough for the  Federal Reserve  to consider paring stimulus and
the U.K. is picking up. That’s helped pushed rate expectations
back to levels that Draghi has called “unwarranted.”  Economists from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Berenberg Bank say
that while the ECB is getting the expansion it predicted, it may
struggle to prevent borrowing costs from rising too high. That
threatens to choke an economy still suffering from record
unemployment, bank lending that has contracted for more than a
year, and continuing recessions in Spain and Italy.  “Clearly you have the economic recovery, but the ECB will
want to curtail any particularly strong moves,” said  Sarah Hewin , head of research at Standard Chartered Bank in  London .
“The last thing you want to do is cut short the recovery.”  German Bonds  German  bund yields  have risen as investors transfer money
to riskier investments that offer higher returns. The yield on
the 10-year note climbed as high as 1.98 percent on Aug. 23 from
a record low of 1.15 percent in May. It was at 1.86 percent at
2:56 p.m. in  Frankfurt  today.  The overnight rate that banks expect to charge each other
by the ECB’s August 2014 rate meeting, as measured by Eonia
forward contracts, was at 0.27 percent today, near the level in
late June that triggered Draghi’s July 4 pledge to keep rates
low for an extended period. It fell as low as 0.09 percent on
July 8.  The euro-area economy grew 0.3 percent in the three months
through June, ending six quarters of contraction, and the
region’s services expanded for the first time in 19 months in
August. Economic confidence in the currency bloc probably rose
to the highest level in 17 months, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before a European Commission survey this week.  Draghi’s Challenge  Rates have also been pushed higher as a U.S. recovery
prompts Fed officials to debate when to begin slowing their $85
billion a month in bond purchases. At their meeting in July, Fed
officials said they were “broadly comfortable” with Chairman
Ben. S. Bernanke’s plan to unwind purchases this year, according
to minutes released Aug. 21.  Investors have likewise added to bets on higher U.K.
 interest rates , even after the  Bank of England  under Governor
 Mark Carney  pledged to keep its key rate unchanged at 0.5
percent. Carney said today that officials are ready to add
stimulus if investor expectations for higher interest rates rise
too far and undermine the recovery.  “Markets will expect the ‘extended period’ during which
the ECB has said its interest rates would stay low or lower to
become shorter,” said  Christian Schulz , senior economist at
Berenberg Bank in London. “That creates a challenge for Draghi.
He’ll need to appear as dovish as possible to avoid premature
talk of an exit from the ECB’s accommodative policy stance.”  Draghi’s way of doing that so far has been to stress the
fragility of the economic revival. His Aug. 1 assessment of the
economy placed the balance of risks to growth “on the
downside” and he warned that inflation, forecast to average 1.4
percent this year, is lower than the ECB would like.  Record Joblessness  If the disconnect between economic data and the ECB outlook
continues, policy makers’ current approach may not be enough,
said Greg Fuzesi, an economist at JPMorgan Chase in London.  “As growth picks up, you’re still left with the suspicion
that their thinking will change as the growth data improve,” he
said. “Are they able to stick to the script on extended period
guidance? I don’t think they’re making the economic case very
clear.”  The euro-area recovery has a long way to go. The jobless
rate hasn’t yet fallen from its record high of 12.1 percent and
youth unemployment was at 23.9 percent in June. Bank lending to
households and companies fell 1.9 percent in July from a year
earlier, the most on record and the 15th contraction in a row.
The economies of Spain and  Italy  both shrank last quarter.  “High unemployment, weak housing markets and still-tight
credit conditions will also help keep domestic demand in many
euro-zone countries subdued,” said Martin van Vliet, senior
euro-area economist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.  Council Split  While the ECB currently forecasts a contraction in the
euro-area economy this year of 0.6 percent, new forecasts due on
Sept. 5 will be key to assessing the central bank’s confidence
in the recovery and the strength of its forward-guidance pledge.  ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said on Aug. 22
that he sees few arguments for a cut in interest rates after a
“stream of good news,” while his Cypriot counterpart Panicos Demetriades argued two days later that a rate cut is “still on
the cards.” The euro area is displaying “uncertain positive
signals,” Finnish governor  Erkki Liikanen  said Aug. 26.  While Draghi still has measures at his disposal to manage
market interest rates, including a cut to the benchmark rate,
currently at 0.5 percent, further long-term loans to banks, or
even charging banks to hold deposits at the ECB, keeping rates
tamed has become more difficult.  “Something fundamental has changed,” said  Michael Schubert , an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “If the
economy continues to improve, the ECB faces a dilemma. They
can’t talk down the recovery, neither can they afford to trample
on the shoots of growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  