-- Dutch Banks, Funds Close to Deal on State-Backed Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-08-28T16:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/dutch-banks-funds-close-to-deal-on-state-backed-mortgage-bonds.html
The Netherlands is preparing to set
up a government-backed mortgage bond institution to remove some
home loans from lenders’ balance sheets and help end a five-year
 housing slump .  The government and pension funds will allow banks to sell
low-risk mortgages to the new institution, according to three
people with knowledge of the talks. The fund would offer state-guaranteed bonds to institutional investors, said the people,
who asked not to be identified as the talks are private.  Dutch banks are reliant on capital-market funding to fill a
gap of about 450 billion euros ($599 billion) between deposits
and loans. The shortage is inflated by the nation’s mortgage
debt, among the highest in the world at 108 percent of gross
domestic product. Banks are unable to match that by local
savings, as these are predominantly held in the country’s
pension funds, which invest more than 85 percent of their 960
billion euros outside the Netherlands.  The high mortgage debt has made the banks vulnerable to the
housing market, where prices have dropped more than 20 percent
from a 2008 peak. Stricter  capital requirements  and a lack of
domestic competition among banks have driven up  mortgage rates ,
authorities have said.  ‘Happen Soon’  The plan isn’t final and European regulators would have to
consider whether it qualifies as state aid, the people said.  “We have been in talks for a while to see if pension funds
could invest more in the Netherlands,” Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem told reporters in The Hague today. “We are going
at a speed now in which it can happen soon.”  The plans were reported by Dutch newspaper Het Financieele
Dagblad earlier today.  Dutch national mortgage bonds could help cut banks’
balances, reduce financing costs and ensure funding in case of
financial market stress, a committee led by Kees van Dijkhuizen,
currently chief financial officer of ABN Amro Group NV, said in
March. Pension funds and other institutional investors could
benefit as the debt would offer better returns than Dutch
sovereign bonds, while state-backing reduces risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  