-- The High Price of Immigration
-- B y   P a u l   C o l l i e r
-- 2013-08-28T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/the-high-price-of-immigration.html
Why are migrants not only the
winners but also the big losers from migration?  The answer is that those who have already migrated lose, at
least in economic terms, through the subsequent migration of
others. Migrants lose because they compete with one another.  Migrants aren’t in close competition with indigenous
workers. The advantage the indigenous have may be that they have
better command of the language or that their greater tacit
knowledge of social conventions makes them more productive.  Or it may be because employers discriminate against
immigrant workers. Whatever the explanation, the upshot is that
immigrants form a distinct category of worker. Additional
immigrants therefore drive down the earnings of existing
immigrants. This is the only clearly established substantial
effect of immigration on wages.  The effects of immigration on the wages of indigenous
workers vary between very small losses and modest gains. If
immigration policy were to be set by its effects upon wages, the
only interest group to campaign for tighter restrictions should
be immigrants.  The individual behavior of immigrants evidently belies this
interest: Immigrants typically devote considerable effort to
trying to get visas for their relatives. But these two interests
aren’t inconsistent.  An immigrant who enables a relative to join her receives
benefits such as companionship. The increased competition in the
job market generated by the extra migrant is suffered by other
immigrants. In effect, a tightening of immigration restrictions
would be a public good for the existing immigrant community as a
whole.  Heightened Intolerance  There may be further social reasons that the existing stock
of immigrants has an interest in tighter restrictions. The size
of the immigrant stock also affects attitudes of the indigenous
population. Contrary to the hope that exposure increases
tolerance, the opposite appears to happen.  Heightened intolerance is a public bad suffered by
immigrants as a whole, and is thus inadvertently generated by
the individually maximizing migration decisions of each
successive migrant. Hence, the paradox of migration. Individual
migrants succeed in capturing the huge productivity gains from
migration. But migrants collectively have an interest in
precisely what individually is most detrimental: entry barriers.  By capturing the lion’s share of the large productivity
gain from migration, migrants repay the initial investment of
the journey. But are there any continuing costs of being an
immigrant in a culturally alien environment? We can use
happiness as an integrating measure of economic gains and social
costs.  Research finds that above a modest income threshold,
increases don’t generate sustained increases in happiness,
though they do have transient effects. If you win the lottery,
you feel happier. But the warm glow fades after a few months. If
we apply this to migration, for the typical migrant from a low-income country to a high-income one, the income gain is
overkill. Income increases from well below the threshold to well
above it.  According to the economics of happiness, the first few
thousand dollars would increase happiness, but the remainder
would be slack. Above the threshold, by far the most powerful
determinants of happiness appear to be social -- marriage,
children and friends count more than the size of a paycheck.  Migration has clear effects on these social
characteristics, but they are negative. Families are separated,
and the migrant spends his life in a culturally alien
environment that, day by day, may tend to make him less happy.  Migration Lottery  However, happiness isn’t the only alternative to income as
a measure of well-being. An approach favored by some economists
is the “ladder of life,” which asks people to imagine on a 10-point scale the worst possible life and the best, then place
themselves on this scale. This produces self-reported estimates
of well-being that more consistently increase with the level of
income, so we can’t necessarily conclude that migration provides
an income gain that is overkill in terms of well-being.  Potentially, both happiness and the ladder of life can be
used to address the question of whether migration increases the
well-being of migrants. However, the large academic literature
that purports to measure these effects applies methods that
aren’t up to the demanding requirements for reliable results.
For example, several studies show that migrants tend to be less
happy than the indigenous host population. But a leap of faith
is then required to infer from this that migration has made
people less happy than they otherwise would have been had they
stayed home.  I have found only two studies that deploy methods that get
around such pitfalls. Both are very recent and as yet
unpublished.  The first considers migration from Tonga to  New Zealand . It
takes advantage of an entry program introduced by the government
of New Zealand called the Pacific Access Category. Its crucial
feature was that it was run as a lottery, granting and refusing
access to applicants on a random basis. Because winning is
random, the lottery winners shouldn’t differ much from the
lottery losers. Hence, following their migration, the lottery
winners can be compared with the lottery losers, and any new
differences between them can reasonably be attributed to the
fact that the winners have migrated.  Tonga is fairly representative of many poor countries --
average income is about $3,700 a head, whereas in New Zealand
it’s more than $27,000. So the winners of the migration lottery
also metaphorically won a financial lottery. This showed up in
the data: Four years after migrating, the lottery winners had
increased their incomes by almost 400 percent.  But the study carefully measured the effects both on
happiness and on the ladder of life. One year after migrating,
there were no significant effects on either. After four years,
there were still no effects on the ladder of life, but people
had become significantly less happy, by 0.8 points on a five-point scale.  Cultural Dislocation  The other study tracks migrants from villages to cities
within  India . It, too, investigates how well-being changed
relative to an almost identical group of people who had stayed
behind. Because its context is migration within India, this
research is far from an ideal guide to international migration,
where both the income change and the cultural change are much
larger. It should, however, provide some indication of what
effects are to be expected.  As with migration from Tonga to New Zealand, rural-to-urban
migrants in India substantially increased their income.
Consumption rose by an average of about 22 percent, very much
less than the gain from international migration but enough to
increase well-being as measured by the ladder of life. Both
types of migration incur a degree of social dislocation, but the
migrant moving from a village to a city within India doesn’t
suffer the dislocation of an alien culture.  As with the Tongan study, this one finds that migrants
place themselves no higher on the ladder of life than their
siblings who stayed behind. Their higher income comes at the
price of cultural dislocation, manifested by strong nostalgia
for their former village life. An implication is that their
migration incurs a substantial hidden cost that offsets the
readily apparent gain in income.  A tentative inference of these studies is that migrants
incur substantial psychological costs that may be broadly
commensurate with their large economic gains. The huge
productivity gains from migration appear not to translate into
additional well-being. Migration doesn’t deliver the anticipated
free lunch.  Psychological Costs  Nonetheless, migration might eventually raise well-being.  In the case of rural-to-urban migration within the same
country, a reasonable presumption is that the children of
migrants grow up without the nostalgia of their parents: For
them, the city is home. This second generation and subsequent
ones have higher incomes than they would have had their parents
remained in the village. And, because they themselves don’t
suffer offsetting psychological costs, they are also happier.  Rural-to-urban migration thus conforms to the 19th-century
narrative that migrants move for the benefit of their children
rather than themselves. The psychological costs may be enormous,
wiping out the income gains that accrue to migrants, but they
are unavoidable costs of progress and have the status of
investments.  But for international migration from poor to rich
countries, both the income gain and the cultural dislocation are
an order of magnitude greater. Whether the psychological costs
last a single generation or persist depends upon whether
subsequent generations continue to feel dislocated. Whereas the
costs of rural-to-urban migration are highly unlikely to persist
beyond the first generation, the descendants of international
migrants might continue to feel alien. In the worst-case
scenario, continuing psychological costs would offset the gains
for several generations. Migration wouldn’t be an investment; it
would be a mistake.  (Paul Collier, a professor of economics and public policy 
at the Blavatnik School of Government at the University of 
Oxford, is the author of “The Plundered Planet,” “Wars, Guns, 
and Votes” and “The Bottom Billion.” This is the second in a 
 series  of three excerpts from his new book, “ Exodus: How
Migration Is Changing Our World ,” published by  Oxford
University Press . Read  Part 1  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Paul Collier at  mail@wylieagency.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 