-- LeapFrog’s Toddler-Safe Texting Aims to Fend Off Amazon
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-08-30T14:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/leapfrog-s-toddler-safe-texting-aims-to-fend-off-amazon.html
(Corrects market gain in sixth paragraph of story
published Aug. 28.)  Toddler-safe texting has arrived.  Spurred by burgeoning demand for kid-styled tablets,
 LeapFrog Enterprises Inc. (LF)  and  VTech Holdings Ltd. (303)  revamped their
tyke-targeted devices to add features that let three-year-olds
send short messages to grandma and even watch online videos
without stumbling across websites kids shouldn’t see.  “Exposing our children to the Internet at an early age is
incredibly valuable, but how do you do it safely?” John Barbour, chief executive officer of Emeryville, California-based
LeapFrog, said in an interview.  By tackling parents’ fears about their kids going online,
these toymakers are seeking to extend their dominance in a niche
category of the booming tablet market that they created two
years ago after releasing the first versions of LeapFrog’s
LeapPad and VTech’s InnoTab.  With the added Web features in the recently released $150
LeapPad Ultra and $100 InnoTab 3s, they are also presenting more
of an alternative to devices from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Samsung
Electronics Co. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the larger market for tablets
that is projected by researcher IDC to increase 34 percent to 67
million units shipped this year.  LeapFrog and VTech faced little competition early on for
tablets made specifically for children -- as opposed to parents
handing over an iPad to their kids. The LeapPad became a runaway
hit, and its success helped turn around the company’s fortunes.
The shares have more than doubled since the first version went
on sale in July 2011, compared with a 22 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The shares fell 1 percent to $9.83
at 1:19 p.m. in New York. VTech’s InnoTab has become its best-selling product.  Mattel’s Absence  That easy ride has ended and it’s not because  Mattel Inc. (MAT) 
and  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , the world’s largest toymakers, have entered the
market. Despite these devices being one of the few bright spots
in the sluggish U.S. toy industry, they’ve stayed out, saying
making tablets is too expensive and risky and will instead focus
on creating branded content for mobile devices.  Meanwhile, Samsung  announced  a kid tablet yesterday that
will be released next month, and Amazon’s recent television
advertising features a parade of children. It’s offering a
monthly subscription service with unlimited kid content, more
parental controls and marketing the 7-inch Kindle Fire at $174
as “the perfect family tablet.”  While sales of children’s tablets account for a small part
of the total tablet market, which includes Apple’s top-selling
iPad, there may be plenty of room to keep carving out this niche
with more families now buying more than one tablet, IDC said.  Wal-Mart Backing  Given that LeapFrog has established itself as a leader in
kid tablets and has increasing support from retailers such as
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the Ultra is projected to be one of the
top-selling toys this holiday-shopping season, said Michael Swartz, an analyst with  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  in Atlanta who
recommends buying the shares.  LeapFrog executives thought long and hard about adding
adult features to the LeapPad because while kids are begging to
get online, parents feel the need to hover over them, said Jill
Waller, vice president of multimedia learning. VTech also spent
months designing a tablet kids could use on their own.  Both companies curated the online experience, limiting
access to such sites as PBS.org. LeapFrog makes all these
decisions through its LeapSearch browser, while VTech uses
filters and also lets parents add or block content.  Toddler Texting  Another LeapFrog innovation is its texting app, Pet Chat.
Users are restricted to sending messages to each other from a
pre-determined list of phrases such as “I’m being silly.” Hong
Kong-based VTech has Kid Connect, which allows tykes to text
another InnoTab or parent-approved smartphone.  “A pre-schooler will have the same ability as everyone
else in terms of staying connected to mom and their friends,”
said William To, VTech’s North America chief.  Adding Wi-Fi to the Ultra could help make it LeapFrog’s
most successful tablet yet, Barbour said. The first two versions
were among the top 10 best-selling toys last year, according to
NPD Group, and helped boost companywide revenue  28 percent  in
2012 for its best growth in nine years.  LeapFrog and VTech are using their status as trusted
education brands to win over parents after years of making
content and other electronic devices focused on learning.
Another advantage is that Wal-Mart and other retailers typically
put LeapPads in the toy aisle, which walls them off from adult
tablets in the electronics department.  Target Mom  “We don’t want to be in the electronics aisle because mom
doesn’t shop there,” VTech’s To said. “Teenagers walk that
aisle. Maybe dad walks that aisle. Our target audience is really
mom. She is the decision maker.”  Other new entrants are piling into the market as well with
inexpensive “family tablets” designed to have it both ways.
Parents can configure them to create multiple profiles so only
dad can watch “Breaking Bad” while junior is confined to
“Angry Birds.” Many, like the $150-priced Kurio 7s from Techno
Source, run on Google Inc.’s Android software while LeapFrog and
VTech feature their own operating systems.  “You can do anything you want but also hand it to your 6-year-old,” said Eric Levin, division head of Techno Source, a
unit of  Li & Fung Co. (494)  Sales of the 7s should more than double
this year to 1 million-plus units, he said.  Closely held Fuhu Inc. takes segmentation further with
three devices that each target a few years of childhood, from
the 5-inch  nabi Jr.  for preschoolers at $100 to the 10-inch nabi
XD aimed at tweens for $250. After releasing its first tablet in
late 2011, the company realized that how kids used the devices
varied greatly, even for children just a few years apart, and
parents wanted a more targeted experience.  CEO Unfazed  Barbour, the LeapFrog CEO, says he is unfazed by the
mounting competition. Many customers loyal to the brand’s
emphasis on education will upgrade to the Ultra, he said. Plus,
he expects to win new customers switching from low-priced
tablets that don’t offer much for kids or have moms in mind.  Even as the company has moved to offering downloads of its
software, it will continue to sell cartridges with content such
as electronic books and spelling games that are inserted into
the tablets. That’s because the cartridges, which sell for as
much as $25 apiece, remain appealing to mothers, he said.  “When mom is in Wal-Mart or Target, it’s actually easier
for her to pick up a cartridge and use it, then it is to go and
download,” said Barbour, who joined LeapFrog as CEO in March
2011 and oversaw the release of the first LeapPad. “Any time
mom has to spend time being the head of IT at home, she’s very
unhappy. Mom needs safety, she needs trust and she needs
simplicity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  