-- Eased Mortgage-Risk Rule to Be Proposed by U.S. Agencies
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-08-28T17:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/eased-mortgage-risk-rule-to-be-proposed-by-u-s-agencies-today.html
Regulators today proposed easing a
measure to require lenders to keep a stake in mortgages that
they securitize, an effort designed to discourage the kind of
risky loans that contributed to the subprime credit crisis.  The 505-page draft regulation written by six agencies drops
a requirement that lenders retain a stake in mortgages with down
payments of less than 20 percent, which appeared in an earlier
version of the measure known as the qualified residential
mortgage rule. The first draft, released in 2011, drew protests
from housing industry participants and consumer groups who said
it would impede home lending.  The new measure “will bring a measure of clarity and
consistency to the mortgage market that will facilitate its
recovery,” Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said today at a meeting where the agency’s board
members voted to release and seek comment on the proposal.  The draft would align the qualified residential mortgage
rule, designed to protect investors, with similarly named
guidance governing risky home lending: the qualified mortgage,
or QM rule, desiged to protect borrowers. That regulation,
issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in January,
contains no down payment requirement. It offers legal
protections to banks that make loans defined by the rule as non-abusive.  Shaping Market  Both rules, mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, will
reshape who can lend and who can borrow because banks will
probably make only those loans that conform to the new
standards.  The new plan marks a victory for a coalition of Realtors,
bankers and consumer advocates who lobbied for the two rules to
be aligned.  “We’re very thrilled because we think it’s a victory for
home buyers and future homeownership in the country,” Gary Thomas, president of the National Organization of Realtors, said
in a telephone interview.  Loans guaranteed by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
mortgage financiers operating under U.S. conservatorship, would
automatically be exempt from risk-retention requirements for as
long as the companies remain in federal control. The two
companies, which would be eliminated under proposals in
Congress, currently guarantee about two-thirds of all new home
loans.  Daniel M. Gallagher, a Republican member of the Securities
and Exchange Commission, one of the regulators issuing the
proposal, said in a written dissent today that the new standards
were so lax that they would allow lenders to escape retaining
risk on many loans that will probably default.  Government Role  “The re-proposed risk retention rules, if adopted, will
ensure that the vast majority of mortgages in the  United States 
are insured or owned by the government, will introduce another
flawed government imprimatur of creditworthiness into the
markets, and will disincentivize proper risk management and due
diligence in the mortgage markets,” Gallagher wrote.  The proposal would require banks to retain a slice of
mortgages when borrowers are spending more than 43 percent of
their monthly income to repay their debt. The earlier version
would have required banks to keep a stake in loans when
borrowers were spending more than 36 percent of their income on
all loan payments. The new measure also would prohibit loans
with risky features such as balloon payments or repayment terms
of longer than 30 years.  The agencies also asked for public feedback on an
alternative that would require lenders to keep a stake in any
loan with a down payment of less than 30 percent. That was “not
selected as the preferred approach,” the agencies said in the
proposal.  The regulators are asking for public feedback on the full
proposal by Oct. 30 before they vote to finalize the rule.
Additional agencies involved in the rulemaking are the  Federal
Reserve , Department of Housing and Urban Development,  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  