-- ECB Says Private Sector Loans Continue Fall as Economy Revives
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-28T08:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/ecb-says-private-sector-loans-continue-fall-as-economy-revives.html
Lending to companies and households
in the euro area fell for a 15th month in July, extending the
longest credit contraction on record, even as signs of economic
recovery in the region increase.  Loans to the private sector dropped 1.9 percent from a year
earlier, the Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  said today.
That’s the steepest decline on record. Adjusted for loan sales
and securitization, lending contracted 1.4 percent in July.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 1 that credit will
lag the recovery in the real economy. The 17-nation euro area
emerged from recession in the second quarter, posting 0.3
percent growth after six quarters of contraction. Economic
confidence in the region is forecast to rise in August to the
highest level in 17 months, according to a Bloomberg News  survey 
before a report tomorrow.  “When we see a turnaround in investment then we should see
credit picking up, particularly in Germany, perhaps by November
or December,” said Annamaria Grimaldi, an economist at Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA in Milan. “In the case of Italy and  Spain , it’s a
much more delicate issue and depending on deleveraging the
dynamic of credit could be more sluggish.”  Germany ’s gross domestic product climbed 0.7 percent in the
three months ended June from the prior quarter. Italy’s economy
shrank 0.2 percent and Spain contracted 0.1 percent. Both
nations have been in recession for two years.  The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses
as an indicator for future inflation, slowed to 2.2 percent in
July from 2.4 percent in June, according to today’s data.
Economists had expected a decline to 2 percent, according to the
median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  M3 grew 2.5 percent in past three months from the same
period a year earlier. M3 is the broadest gauge of  money supply 
and includes cash in circulation, some forms of savings and
money-market holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  