-- Legal Pot Sellers Say Armored-Car Companies Halt Service
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-08-28T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/legal-pot-sellers-say-armored-car-companies-turn-away.html
Steve DeAngelo says his staff may
need to carry cash in personal vehicles to pay Harborside Health
Center’s bills after his armored car provider told his co-founder that a federal agency ordered it to stop serving
cannabis businesses.  “The only way we have to pay our bills is transporting
cash from point A to point B,” said DeAngelo, executive
director of the medicinal marijuana  collective  based in Oakland,
 California , with 128,000 patients.  “This includes 15 percent of our $30 million-a-year gross
that goes to the cities of  San Jose  and Oakland and the state of
California for our taxes,” he said. “This is a huge threat to
the safety of my patients and staff, and beyond that it’s a huge
threat to the general public.”  DeAngelo isn’t alone. Several large marijuana dispensaries
in California and  Colorado  received similar notices from their
armored vehicle services, said Steve Fox, director of government
relations for the Washington-based  National Cannabis Industry
Association .  The U.S.  Justice Department  declined to comment on the
matter, Ellen Canale, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail in response
to repeated requests. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration
referred questions to the Justice Department, its parent agency.  The end of armored-car service to some marijuana
dispensaries underscores ongoing tension between federal law,
under which cannabis remains illegal, and laws in  20 states  and
the  District of Columbia  that legalized medical marijuana
consumption, plus measures in Colorado and  Washington  that allow
those 21 and older to possess up to an ounce of pot.  Federal Response  Attorney General Eric Holder hasn’t provided a federal
response to the laws in Washington and Colorado that will also
allow retail sales of pot next year.  The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on
the conflicts between state and federal marijuana laws on Sept.
10, Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat,  announced  Aug.
26.  Federal laws bar banks from offering accounts to pot shops,
forcing medical marijuana firms to pay their sales taxes and
other bills in cash. Cannabis businesses also are unable to
obtain credit cards.  DeAngelo’s car service, Dunbar Armored Inc., didn’t return
calls and messages for comment.  Fox, of the cannabis trade group, said that other medical
marijuana dispensaries affected by the issue didn’t want to come
forward because of security concerns.  Unsecured Cash  “In Colorado, one of our larger members told us that the
DEA told their armored-car provider they couldn’t provide
services,” he said. “As you can imagine, no one who is being
put in a situation where they have to have large amounts of cash
unsecured is going to want their name in the paper.”  The suspension of armored-car service is the latest in what
marijuana advocates say is an increasing number of federal
enforcement actions against cannabis firms.  Federal officials have conducted 270 raids on medical
cannabis providers since the start of the Obama administration,
compared to 260 during  George W. Bush ’s eight years in office,
according to a June  report  by Washington-based Americans for
Safe Access, a nonprofit representing patients.  The review found that the Obama administration spent more
than $289 million over four and a half years on enforcement,
about $100 million more than Bush did in his eight years in
office.  ‘Safe Facility’  Harborside Health Center’s DeAngelo said his collective is
being audited by the  Internal Revenue Service , which asked for
detailed financial records.  His seven-year-old not-for-profit assured the city of
Oakland in a safety plan it filed before it opened that it would
use armored car services and that this is “one of the reasons
the city felt we would run a safe facility,” he said.  Rebecca Kaplan , an at-large Oakland City Council member,
said the city’s confident its regulation of dispensaries keeps
them safe, yet it’s concerned the end of armored-car service
places residents in harm’s way.  “There is no benefit to shifting medical cannabis funds
out of armored cars and into public vehicles,” said Kaplan, who
was re-elected to a second four-year term last year.  “To require medical marijuana dispensaries throughout the
nation to use unguarded cash systems -- no rational person
wouldn’t understand they are creating an environment to support
muggings, to support burglaries and to support crime,” she
said.  City Attorney  Kaplan said she called the city attorney’s office to
explore the city’s legal options.  DeAngelo credits Harborside’s investment in a 36-camera
security system, biometric locks and a bank vault that is
reinforced with 18 inches of concrete with preventing criminal
incidents. Keeping cash on the premises may render that plan
moot, he said.  “Some businesses do not want to go public because they
fear they would be targeted for violent robberies,” he said.
“I also naturally have that concern. I think this is such an
outrageous threat to public security that somebody had to be
willing to stand up and talk about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Jennifer Oldham in
Denver at   joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Stephen
Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  