-- Egypt Bets on Persian Gulf Aid to Boost Economy as IMF Shunned
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-08-28T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/egypt-bets-on-persian-gulf-aid-to-boost-economy-as-imf-shunned.html
Egypt  is betting on aid from its
oil-rich Persian Gulf neighbors to spur its ailing economy,
ending a two-year pursuit of an International Monetary Fund loan
it had touted as vital to regaining investor confidence.  The government announced yesterday approval of a 22.3
billion Egyptian-pound ($3.2 billion) stimulus package after
securing $12 billion in aid pledges from the Gulf last month.
Egypt doesn’t “currently have the desire or the need to ask for
assistance from the IMF,” Finance Minister Ahmed Galal said in
a statement yesterday.  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait  rushed to
aid Egypt following the military’s ouster of the former
President Mohamed Mursi July 3. Almost three years after Egypt’s
2011 revolt, the country’s economy is struggling with growth at
just a third of the 6.2 percent it averaged in the last five
years of former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s three-decades of rule.  Gulf aid “alleviates the risk of an immediate crisis,”
 William Jackson , London-based  emerging-markets  economist at
Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone. In the longer term, the
abandonment of IMF talks is “worrying, because it reduces the
need for authorities to make painful reforms such as fiscal
consolidation and allowing the pound to weaken to a more
competitive level,” he said.  Battling Deficit  The government, battling a  budget deficit  that ballooned to
14 percent in the year to June from 11 percent a year earlier,
says it’s considering economic reforms. Measures being studied
include a value-added tax, limited tax exemptions for informal
businesses to encourage registration, and widening the use of
electronic cards to control distribution of subsidized fuel,
Galal said.  Egypt’s benchmark $1 billion of 5.75-percent Eurobonds due
in 2020 advanced, pushing the yield down 11 basis points to 8.93
percent at 6:33 p.m. in Cairo. That’s the lowest level on a
closing basis in two weeks. The pound was little changed at
6.986 per dollar, having gained 0.6 percent since Mursi’s fall.  Political unrest has persisted after the military-backed
government’s violent break-up of sit-ins in Cairo by Mursi
supporters which left at least 1,000 people dead this month.
Backers of Mursi are calling for another round of nationwide
protests tomorrow.  The Muslim Brotherhood, the group that fielded Mursi for
office, has endured its most severe crackdown in decades. The
group’s top leaders, along with hundreds of other members, have
been rounded up as the push against the Islamist organization
elicited international criticism and talk of reviewing aid by
some of Egypt’s closest allies, including the U.S. and the
European Union.  Funds Arrive  Gulf funds, of which $5 billion arrived last month, helped
replenish Egypt’s foreign-exchange reserves to $18.9 billion,
the highest level in 20 months, and pare the decline of the
Egyptian pound, which has dropped 11 percent since December.  Of the total sum pledged, $6 billion are interest-free
deposits with the central bank that will be added to reserves,
while $3 billion in grants will be invested in infrastructure
projects, Galal said. The remaining $3 billion will be in the
form of petroleum products to cover local demand.  The  Finance Ministry ’s head of debt management, Samy Khallaf, said in a phone interview yesterday there are “signs
of further financial support” from Gulf nations.  Part of the money received will be invested in housing,
education and health projects, Planning Minister Ashraf El Arabi
said in a televised press conference yesterday. The government
aims to boost economic growth to 3.5 percent in the current
fiscal year from 2 percent in the year that ended in June, he
said.  “Any money coming for the Gulf gives policy makers a bit
more breathing space,” said Anthony Simond, London-based
emerging markets investment analyst at Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc. “I don’t think anyone expected an IMF agreement in the
next year or so of the transition so spurring the economy is a
necessity at this stage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  