-- Emerging Stocks Drop to Seven-Week Low on Syria Concern
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-08-28T21:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/emerging-stocks-decline-to-7-week-low-on-outflows-syria-tension.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
seven-week low and currencies in India and Turkey sank to
records as speculation grew that the U.S. will take military
action in Syria.  Stocks in the  Philippines (PCOMP)  led declines as the benchmark
index tumbled to an eight-month low on concern capital outflows
will accelerate. OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA sank 17
percent, dragging Brazil’s Ibovespa to a three-week low. India’s
rupee fell the most in two decades as a surge in oil threatened
to worsen the current-account deficit, while Turkey’s lira slid
a third day. Brazil’s real rose the most among 31 major
currencies amid central bank’s intervention.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped 0.6 percent to
909.81, the lowest level since July 8. Rising tension in Syria
has worsened a rout that  erased  more than $1 trillion from the
value of developing-nation equities this year. Foreign investors
pulled about $2.4 billion this month from markets in India,
Indonesia, Thailand and the  Philippines  amid speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will reduce monetary stimulus.  “The tensions in the  Middle East  and the threat of
imminent military action are casting a pall over the equity
markets,”  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management, said by phone from Atlanta. His firm oversees about
$48 billion.  “The global concerns about Syria and higher  oil
prices  continue to weigh.”  Nine of 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell
today, led by health-care shares. The  gauge  of developing
nations extended this year’s plunge to 14 percent, compared with
an 11 percent advance for a measure of developed markets.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.2 percent to $37.43. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
retreated 1.2 percent to 28.21.  Brazil’s real climbed to a two-week high amid central
bank’s effort to support the currency. The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  retreated
for a third day as OGX posted the biggest decline in the
emerging-market benchmark measure.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid for a fourth day as OAO Rostelecom,
Russia’s biggest fixed-line operator, was downgraded at Bank of
America Merill Lynch. Russia failed to sell any bonds at a
weekly auction for the first time since June as yields rose to a
two-month high.  Discovery Tumbles  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index fell 1.8 percent, the
most since July 5.  Discovery Ltd. (DSY) , South Africa’s largest
medical-insurance provider, sank 9.1 percent after saying profit
will be as much as 10 percent lower than the previous period.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index dropped 3 percent,
extending a monthly drop to 14 percent. SM Investments Corp.,
owner of the largest shopping-mall operator and biggest grocery
chain, slid 7.5 percent to the lowest price since October. The
Jakarta Composite Index rose 1.5 percent.  India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  rebounded from the lowest intraday
level in almost a year as some traders closed bearish bets
before derivatives contracts expire tomorrow. Reliance
Industries Ltd., the owner of the world’s largest refining
complex, gained 1.1 percent. The rupee slumped 3.9 percent to an
unprecedented 68.8450 per dollar in Mumbai.  China’s stocks fell from a two-week high as  PetroChina Co. (601857) 
dropped after four senior managers were removed amid a
government anti-corruption campaign and drugmakers slid on
concern earnings are trailing estimates.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid 0.03 percentage point to 354 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  