-- Emirates Mulls Sukuk for $4.5 Billion in Planes: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f   a n d   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-08-28T12:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/emirates-mulls-sukuk-for-4-5-billion-in-planes-islamic-finance.html
Emirates, the world’s biggest
airline by international passenger traffic, is considering the
sale of Islamic bonds as it seeks to raise $4.5 billion in the
financial year starting April 2014 to pay for planes.  The Dubai-based carrier will need an average of $5.34
billion a year over the next five years, including 2013, to
finance 119 aircraft deliveries, Brian Jeffery, senior vice
president for corporate treasury, said in an interview at the
airline’s headquarters, which overlook Dubai International
Airport. Among financing options the company could tap the sukuk
or non-Shariah-compliant  bond market  early next year, he said.  Emirates last sold $1 billion of Islamic bonds in March,
before speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce its
bond purchasing program prompted an emerging-market debt selloff
and sent  yields higher . The state-owned airline is undergoing a
period of rapid growth as its home base Dubai recovers from the
2008 global financial crisis. Passenger traffic through Dubai
airport jumped 17 percent in the first half to 32.6 million and
hotel occupancy reached 84.6 percent.  The  debt market  is currently volatile, “and that is not
ideal for us, but volatility has not stopped us from issuing
bonds in the past,” Jeffery said last week. “I’m pretty
confident that, given the brand and the credit story of
Emirates, sufficient funding will be available.”  Yields Rise  Average yields on global  corporate sukuk  have risen 46
basis points to 4.62 percent since the Fed said June 19 it might
taper its asset-purchase program as early as this year,
according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Corporate US Dollar Sukuk
Index. The yield on Emirates’ $1 billion sukuk, which carries a
3.875 percent profit rate, increased 40 basis points, or 0.4 of
a percentage point, in the period to 5.1 percent at 4:03 p.m. in
Dubai. The so-called amortizing notes have a final maturity date
of March 2023 and a weighted average life of five years.  Emirates’ decision on whether to sell bonds will depend
“on pricing and an acceptable structure,” Jeffery said. Other
options for funding are commercial debt, operating leases and
export credits, which are typically restricted to 20 percent of
the deliveries, he said.  Cash raised for next year will finance the delivery of 21
aircraft including 10 Airbus SAS A380s, nine Boeing Co. 777-300
ER and two Boeing 777 freighters, Jeffery said.  Emirates is established as a major global carrier, serving
134 destinations in 76 countries. Its fleet of Airbus A380
double-deckers has turned Dubai into an international aviation
crossroads, stripping business from veteran carriers such as Air
France-KLM Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG of  Germany .  Keeping ‘Awake’  Emirates, which begins its fiscal year on April 1, needed
$5.5 billion this year to finance 25 aircraft deliveries,
Jeffery said. Of this, it raised $2.9 billion from an enhanced
equipment trust certificate issued in June 2013 through Doric,
vanilla finance leases and export credits, and pure operating
leases for two freighter aircraft. It also issued $750 million
in non-Shariah compliant bonds in January.  Of the 25 aircraft, financing for 21 has been arranged.
Emirates is now evaluating offers for the remaining four
aircraft for U.S. and European export credits, Jeffery said.  “The availability of funding generally, and the factors
that influence that, are what keep me awake,” said Jeffery.
“If the banks are having their own problems or the bond markets
collapse that will affect us.”  IPO  Net income at Emirates soared 34 percent to 3.1 billion
dirhams ($845 million) in the last fiscal year. The same year
presented the company with its “real test” as it received 35
aircraft and had to raise $7 billion, Jeffery said. On average
the airline takes delivery of 24 planes a year.  The carrier’s ability to raise funds proves it has no need
for a  credit rating , Jeffery said. Emirates boasts a fleet of
201 aircraft and has 192 on order worth more than $71 billion at
list prices, according to the airline’s fact sheet.  Jeffery said he is “not too concerned” that runway
repairs at Dubai International Airport starting May 2014 would
affect the airline’s financing capabilities, and said it is
being dealt with at “the commercial and operational level.”  Meanwhile Emirates has no plans for an IPO, as far as
Jeffery is aware. The decision rests with the Dubai government,
the airline’s owners, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net ;
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  