-- Mercator Loss Narrows on Cost Cuts as Revenue Declines
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-08-28T10:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/mercator-loss-narrows-on-cost-cuts-as-revenue-declines.html
Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d ., the
Slovenian retailer due to be sold to  Croatia ’s Agrokor d.d.,
narrowed its first-half loss on lower operating costs as the
recession in the region continued to hurt sales.  Its loss shrank to 15 million euros ($20 million) from 19
million euros a year earlier, the Ljubljana-based company said
in a regulatory statement today. Revenue dropped 3.3 percent to
1.4 billion euros, with the biggest decline in Croatia. Serbia
saw an increase in revenue of 4.2 percent.  “Lower revenue is in particular a result of slow economic
activity and lower sale of seasonal products due to
uncharacteristic weather during the first months of this year’s
spring,” the company said. Sales were also hurt by a withdrawal
from Bulgaria and Albania and the closing of some units, it
said. It cut operating costs by 18.6 million euros.  Mercator, the biggest retail chain in the Balkans, is
getting out of markets in the region where it expanded before
the financial and economic crisis hit in 2008. Its owners,
Slovenian banks and drink maker Pivovarna Lasko d.d., agreed to
sell a 53 percent stake of the retailer to Agrokor in June for
240 million euros, or 120 euros a share.  Mercator shares declined 2 euros, or 2 percent, to 101.50
euros at 12:13 p.m. in Ljubljana, giving the company a market
value of 380 million euros, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.
The stock has declined 11.4 percent from the start of the year.  Debt Reduction  The company wants to reach a  debt restructuring  deal with
its creditor banks, mostly foreign-owned, by the end of the year
to reduce 990 million euros of debt, Toni Balazic, the chief
executive officer said today in Ljubljana. Lenders are awaiting
the impact of the Agrokor takeover on Mercator before the debt
agreement, he said.  Slovenia’s  economy  will only recover in 2015, according to
the government’s economic institute, after shrinking an annual
4.8 percent in the first quarter.  Croatia’s gross domestic product will contract 1 percent
this year and grow 0.2 percent in 2014, according to the
European Commission. By comparison,  Serbia  should grow between
1.5 percent and 2.5 percent this year and next, Moody’s
Investors Service said on Aug. 26.  Agrokor will secure financing for the Mercator purchase
“because it’s a good deal,” company President Ivica Todoric
said in June. The Croatian company will boost capital and may
offer Mercator shares in a public offering by the start of next
year, he said.  Acquisition Cost  The transaction cost, split between the group of sellers
and Mercator, is “well below” 1 million euros, Balazic said
today.  “All stakeholders involved in the transaction will strive
to close the acquisition as a failed deal would put enormous
pressure on Mercator’s debt and a major capital injection would
have to follow,” Andraz Grahek, managing partner at Capital
Genetics in Ljubljana said in an e-mail. “Completing the
transaction is the only way that makes sense, because it unlocks
synergies, especially in Croatia, which has been a never ending
nightmare for Mercator’s operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  