-- Merkel Rejects D-Mark Nostalgia, Says Euro Symbolizes Unity
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-08-28T18:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/merkel-rejects-d-mark-nostalgia-says-euro-symbolizes-unity.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel rejected
nostalgia for the deutsche mark, telling a crowd of supporters
today that “under no circumstance” would  Germany  be better off
if it had held on to its post-World War II currency.  Speaking at an election rally in Ulm in southern Germany
next to the city’s signature cathedral, Merkel said the single
euro-zone currency eliminated currency-fluctuation risk and
symbolized the achievement of European unity and peace.  “The euro is more than a currency, it’s a political
testament,” Merkel told a crowd of several thousand, including
a small group of protesters from the anti-euro Alternative for
Germany party, or AfD. “The world believes that we’ve achieved
something wonderful -- 60 years of peace.”  As Merkel shores up her lead in the polls, her Christian
Democratic-led bloc has been concerned that the AfD’s message of
unwinding the single currency could draw voters from her flank.
Her Social Democratic Party opponent,  Peer Steinbrueck , went on
the attack this week, accusing Merkel of not being upfront over
the cost to German taxpayers in resolving the  European debt
crisis .  Speaking to rally participants, some waving orange placards
emblazoned with “Angie,” Merkel said indebted nations in the
17-member euro must overhaul their economies just as Germany has
in the last decade to pull out of the slump.  “Today we’re the growth engine and the anchor of stability
in Europe and we know that painful reforms have their success,”
Merkel said.  Leading Polls  With 25 days to go before the Sept. 22 election, Merkel has
maintained her lead  in the polls  over the SPD. Support for her
CDU-led bloc was unchanged at 41 percent in a weekly Forsa poll
for today’s Stern magazine. While her Free Democratic coalition
partner dropped a percentage point to 5 percent, their combined
tally of 46 percent would still be enough for a repeat of the
current coalition, Stern said.  The AfD, whose protesters in Ulm carried signs reading
“Don’t Let Europe Fall on the Euro,” gained a percentage point
to 3 percent in the poll, missing the 5 percent threshold to
enter parliament. Still, pollsters have said the AfD’s support
might be under-reported because of possible reluctance among its
backers to reveal how they’ll vote next month.  The SPD held at 22 percent and its Green party ally dropped
two percentage points to 11 percent, the lowest level this year.
Forsa polled 2,501 voters from Aug. 20 to Aug. 26. The margin of
error was as much as 2.5 percentage points.  Merkel yesterday sought to pin the blame for the euro-region’s debt turmoil on her SPD predecessor, Gerhard Schroeder,
telling a rally in Rendsburg that he should never have let
 Greece  into the single-currency area.  “Chancellor Schroeder accepted Greece in and weakened the
stability pact and both decisions were fundamentally wrong, and
one of the starting points for our current troubles,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Ulm, Germany at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  