-- Letta Delivers Italian Tax Deal by Appeasing Berlusconi
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-08-29T11:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/letta-delivers-italian-property-tax-deal-by-appeasing-berlusconi.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
passed cuts to an unpopular property tax in a deal that may mend
relations with  Silvio Berlusconi , his partner in a fragile
coalition government.  The government plans to cancel a tax on primary residences
this year and replace it in 2014 with a municipal levy, Letta
told reporters late yesterday after a cabinet meeting in  Rome .
Berlusconi, a three-time former premier, praised the deal and
said Letta had lived up to his word.  The agreement shows Letta’s ability to forge compromise,
even as conflicts within his cabinet intensify and weigh on
markets. Italian stocks began slipping Aug. 19 as talks stalled
and Berlusconi’s allies, who spearheaded the  tax-cut  campaign,
threatened to topple the government. Letta’s next task is to
maintain cohesion when Berlusconi, now a senator, faces
impeachment proceedings Sept. 9 in the upper house.  “Any deal is good,” said  Raffaella Tenconi , an economist
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London . “This is a step
that tells me that there is cooperation” within the coalition,
she said.  The benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  was up 0.8 percent at 1:25
p.m. in Milan after closing 1 percent higher yesterday. The
Treasury sold the maximum amount offered at a sale of five- and
10-year debt today, and  consumer confidence  increased more than
economists forecast in August on expectations a tax-cut deal
would be reached.  Spending Gap  The government is committed to keeping its  budget deficit 
below 3 percent of gross domestic product this year, Letta said.
Spending cuts, levies on gaming and value-added tax receipts
will compensate for the loss of revenue from the property levy,
Letta said. Full details will be given in the budget law later
this year, he said.  Letta, 47, is seeking to build momentum in the economy as
 Italy  shows signs of shaking off a recession that extended to
eight quarters in the period through June. He is also trying to
respect the budget discipline enacted by his predecessor,  Mario Monti , to help fight the European sovereign debt crisis.  Letta’s decision was met with criticism from an ally of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . Michael Meister, deputy
chairman of Merkel’s Christian Union caucus in parliament, said
the tax cut threatens the stability that Monti brought to Italy.  Merkel Ally  “Instead of further stabilization progress with structural
reforms and fiscal consolidation, Italy faces setbacks under the
Social Democrat Letta,” Meister said in response to an e-mailed
request for comment. “Letta must responsibly recognize the
importance of Italy for the stability of the entire euro zone.”  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive
arm, is waiting for Letta to specify how he’ll offset lost
revenue to keep public finances in line with Italy’s EU
commitments, Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters today in Alpbach,  Austria .  “Ensuring the sustainability of Italy’s public finances,
and in particular reducing its very high public debt, is
absolutely essential for restoring confidence and creating the
conditions for a lasting recovery,” Rehn said. “I welcome
Prime Minister Letta’s strong reassurance of Italy’s
determination to respect its budgetary commitments for 2013.”  Property Values  The property-tax debate pitted Letta’s commitment to budget
discipline against Berlusconi’s demands for tax cuts. Berlusconi
said the levy, imposed last year as an emergency austerity
measure, was unjust. Letta said yesterday the tax was unfair
because the property values found in public registers were
outdated. The new local tax will allow municipalities to make
the levy more progressive, he said.  The deal allowed Berlusconi, founder of the People of
Liberty party, to claim victory on his promise in the February
election campaign to end taxation on primary residences.  “People of Liberty respected its pact with voters and
Prime Minister Letta respected his pact” with the party,
Berlusconi said in his statement.  The process to strip Berlusconi of his Senate seat begins
with a committee meeting in the upper house and may take weeks
or months before an eventual vote in the full chamber is called.
He risks expulsion because his conviction for  tax fraud  was
upheld on Aug. 1 by Italy’s top criminal court. Letta’s
 Democratic Party , the biggest force in the coalition, has said
Berlusconi’s expulsion is required by an anti-corruption law
enacted in December.  People of Liberty, the second-biggest party, claims the law
is unconstitutional and shouldn’t be applied to Berlusconi,
whose conviction stems from  tax evasion  in 2002 and 2003 at his
Mediaset SpA television broadcaster.  Berlusconi is also appealing convictions in separate
criminal cases for illegal use of wiretaps, abuse of power and
engaging a minor in prostitution. He has denied all charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  