-- EU Carbon Closes at Seven-Week High as Crude Oil Price Surges
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-08-28T17:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/eu-carbon-permits-jump-to-eight-week-high-as-crude-price-surges.html
European Union emission permits
advanced to the highest in seven weeks on speculation that crude
oil’s surge to a two-year peak may spur demand for carbon
allowances.  Carbon for December gained as much as 3.7 percent to 4.72
euros ($6.31) a metric ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract closed up 1.5 percent at 4.61 euros a
ton, the highest since July 3.  West Texas Intermediate crude rose as much as 3 percent in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, its
highest since May 2011, on concern that conflict in  Syria  may
threaten oil supplies from the Middle East. Higher oil prices
can influence the price of coal and natural gas, which in turn
can affect demand for carbon permits.  “Carbon is being boosted by the jump in energy prices,”
Milan Hudak, an analyst at Virtuse Energy sro in  Prague , said
today by e-mail. “Yesterday’s close above 4.50 euros gave the
market an impetus to rise further this morning,” he said,
citing resistance at the contract’s highs reached earlier this
month.  Carbon closed yesterday at 4.55 euros a ton, 5 euro cents
higher than a Fibonacci retracement level of carbon’s jump from
3.25 euros to 4.88 euros in early July. Fibonacci analysis is
based on the theory that securities tend to rise or fall by set
percentages after reaching a high or low, creating areas where
buy or sell orders may be gathered.  “Traders were expecting that a break above the down-trendline would push prices a lot higher,” said Fred Payne, a
carbon trader in  London  at CF Partners (U.K.) LLP, an investment
firm specializing in renewables and commodities. “What we saw
this morning is that playing out.”  High Price  Today’s high price of 4.72 euros also corresponded to the
200-day moving average for the December contract, which may have
capped the morning increase, according to Krzysztof Piatek, a
trader at Vertis Kornyezetvedelmi Penzugyi zrt in Budapest.  Carbon slumped to a record 2.46 euros a ton on April 17 as
the euro-area’s longest recession curbed demand, exacerbating an
oversupply of permits. EU member states are considering a
carbon-market rescue plan to reduce the surplus after the
European Parliament backed it in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  