-- EU Narrows Down Carbon-Market Overhaul Options, Hedegaard Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-08-28T12:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/eu-narrows-down-carbon-market-overhaul-options-hedegaard-says.html
The European Union’s regulatory arm
is winnowing down the options for a long-term overhaul of the
world’s biggest carbon market and aims to reach a decision in
the coming months, EU Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard
said.  The European Commission has floated several scenarios to
help curb a record glut of emission permits and boost the price
of carbon in the bloc’s 54 billion-euro ($72 billion) emissions-trading system, where prices slumped to an all-time low in
April.  “We’re now narrowing down the options and we will propose
something in the autumn,” Hedegaard said in an interview in
Brussels yesterday.  Among the tools the commission is considering is a
flexibility mechanism that would link the supply of carbon
permits with the EU’s industrial activity, Jos Delbeke,
director-general for climate at the Brussels-based commission,
said in May.  The idea of an automatic supply-adjustment tool is getting
prominence in the climate department, according to a person
familiar with that matter, who declined to be identified citing
policy. The climate department is drafting measures to overhaul
the carbon market, which then need approval from the
commissioners.  Carbon Market  The concept of a flexibility mechanism was floated in the
public consultations on the overhaul among governments, traders
and industry by groups including the International Emissions
Trading Association and Tschach Solutions, a market analysis
firm. It adds to six scenarios sketched out by the commission in
a November report on the carbon market, including a tighter
climate goal, cancellation of carbon permits, mechanisms to
support emission prices and limits on imported credits.  The ETS needs a mechanism that allows stricter emission-reduction targets while avoiding excessive price increases,
according to Ingo Tschach, managing director at Tschach
Solutions.  One option would be to “adapt on a yearly or quarterly
basis auction volumes based on past economic growth,” Tschach
said by telephone today. “It’s very easy to explain. It’s
probably easiest to agree on.”  IETA proposed a “dynamic allowance reserve” or a free
allocation of permits based on actual output. Any such mechanism
should be operated in a transparent, independent and predictable
manner and should be triggered by “quantitative thresholds, not
price levels,” the lobby said in its consultation paper.  Economic Crisis  The European cap-and-trade program imposes pollution limits
on about 12,000 manufacturing companies and utilities in the
region, including Germany’s largest utility EON SE and
steelmaker  ArcelorMittal. (MT)  The system, in which caps were set
before the economic crisis, doesn’t allow any price floors or
ceilings. After the slump reduced industrial production and cut
into demand for pollution rights, the surplus of permits rose to
around 2 billion metric tons last year, a level almost matching
the annual supply, according to the commission.  Linking carbon supply with a measure of economic activity
presents “conceptual and practical problems,” according to
 Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at Energy Aspects Ltd. in  London .  “Such a plan presupposes there’s a right price for
carbon,” he said, adding that the EU should set the emissions-reduction target and let the market set the price.  EU emission permits for delivery in December rose 1.1
percent to 4.60 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange. That price compares with an all-time high of 36.40
euros in 2008. The commission has said current carbon prices are
too low to stimulate investment in low-emissions technology.  Backloading Measure  To help boost prices before an overhaul of the market is
enacted the commission last year proposed a short-term fix known
as backloading. The emergency plan, which was supported by the
European Parliament in July and is awaiting a verdict from
national governments, would delay auctions of some permits,
alleviating the record glut.  Negotiations between the Parliament and member states about
the final wording of the backloading measure will start after
Sept. 22 elections in  Germany , Hedegaard said yesterday. The
government in Germany, the biggest European economy, remains
undecided whether to back the plan, with Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler opposing carbon-market intervention and
Environment Minister Peter Altmaier advocating a move to help
prices rebound.  “The backloading in itself will never re-establish the
price that would give the strong signal that we need; that was
also never expected, it was never intended to,” Hedegaard said.
“It was intended only to stabilize the situation while we were
discussing the more far-reaching things, the more structural
options.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  