-- EU’s Rehn Says ‘Premature’ to Put Numbers on Greek Financing Gap
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-08-28T09:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/eu-s-rehn-says-premature-to-put-numbers-on-greek-financing-gap.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said it’s too early to judge how
much extra money  Greece  will need to plug an emerging hole in
its 240 billion-euro ($321 billion) rescue program.  Rehn said the so-called troika representing creditors needs
to pore over  Greece’s accounts  before determining whether the
figure of 10 billion euros cited last week by Finance Minister
Yannis Stournaras is accurate.  “It is premature to quote any figure,” Rehn said in an
interview in Brussels today. “The troika will do its job and
make the analysis of the potential financing gap and we in the
normal order of things will make possibly a proposal in the
course of this autumn.”  Greece’s widening needs have intruded on the election
campaign in  Germany , the country that has dominated the
management of  Europe ’s 3 1/2-year-old debt crisis.  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  is running on the promise that loans made to
Greece won’t be written off.  The release of 5.8 billion euros in July and August put off
the next reckoning with Greece until after the Sept. 22
election, which will be German voters’ first opportunity to pass
judgment on Merkel’s handling of the crisis.  To counter opposition charges of covering up the cost to
the German taxpayer, Merkel’s government has prepared voters for
some additional concessions to Greece. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  last week spoke of a follow-up package that is “much
lower” than previous ones.  Financing Gap  Europe faces two deadlines on Greece. By the end of the
year, there needs to be a decision on plugging the financing gap
for 2014, estimated at 4.4 billion euros by the  International
Monetary Fund  in July. Creditors need to fill that hole first
because the IMF insists on seeing a 12-month guarantee of
Greece’s financing in order to continue with its own lending.  The second deadline, sometime next year, is to consider
possible “further measures and assistance” promised by
European creditors in  November 2012 . These hinge on Greece
posting an operating budget surplus before interest payments
this year, a figure that won’t be certified until April 2014.  Speaking as the  European Commission  got back to work after
the summer break, Rehn said the size of any additional package
would hinge on Greece’s needs and -- a decisive factor for the
IMF -- its ability to repay.  ‘Political Challenges’  “It’s important that we indeed first do the analysis and
focus on both the question of whether there is a financing gap
and second on debt sustainability,” Rehn said.  Asked about the power struggle in  Italy (GDBR10)  between Prime
Minister Enrico Letta and allies of former leader  Silvio Berlusconi , Rehn said that an easing of political tensions is
the first ingredient for an economic recovery.  “We all know that there have been political challenges in
 Italy  and I trust that the political leaders try to ensure
political stability,” he said. “It’s important for economic
stability and recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  