-- EU Says Probe Finds Chinese Solar-Panel Makers Got Aid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-08-28T15:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/eu-says-probe-finds-chinese-solar-panel-makers-got-subsidies.html
The European Union said an
investigation determined that Chinese solar-panel makers
benefited from government subsidies, increasing the chance the
EU will impose tariffs on imports from  China  of the renewable-energy technology.  The probe opened last November found that Chinese
manufacturers of crystalline silicon photovoltaic modules or
panels, and cells and wafers used in them, received preferential
lending, tax programs and other assistance, according to the EU.
The inquiry is one of two the EU has begun into alleged unfair
Chinese trade in these solar goods.  The European Commission, the EU regulator in Brussels, on
Aug. 2 approved an agreement with China to curb Chinese
shipments of solar panels as part of a parallel probe into
below-cost sales, a practice known as dumping. The accord, which
took effect on Aug. 6, sets a minimum price and a volume limit
on EU imports of Chinese solar panels until the end of 2015.  “All interested parties (including the government of
China, exporters, EU producers, importers, suppliers and users)
will have a period of time to comment on these findings,” John Clancy, spokesman for EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “The commission will then
consider these comments and determine what definitive action
should be taken in the investigations.” He didn’t give a time
frame for a decision.  EU Imports  “The disclosed findings in the anti-subsidy case do not
undermine the amicable solution with China which resulted into
the undertaking applied from the beginning of August in the
context of the anti-dumping proceeding,” Clancy said in the
statement.  The dumping and subsidy cases cover EU imports valued at 21
billion euros ($28 billion) in 2011. EU governments, acting on
proposals from the commission, must decide by early December on
any “definitive” measures against China, whose exporters
control around 80 percent of the bloc’s solar-panel market.  The commission found that Chinese solar-panel makers
receive subsidies amounting to 11.5 percent of their sales
turnover, said EU ProSun, the industry group seeking definitive
anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties against China on behalf of
around 40 European solar-panel producers including  Solarworld AG (SWV) 
of  Germany .  The group said the findings of Chinese state aid justify
the imposition of anti-subsidy, or “countervailing” duties, in
addition to the EU measures taken to counter dumping.  “Chinese subsidies have led to a Chinese takeover of the
European solar market, resulting in numerous closures of
European companies and factories,” Milan Nitzschke, president of
EU ProSun, said in an e-mailed statement today. “We therefore
call on the EU to impose countervailing duties to counter the
effect of these  illegal subsidies .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  