-- Europe Stocks Fall to Six-Week Low on Syria Concern
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-08-28T16:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/european-stock-index-futures-fall-bouygues-may-be-active.html
European stocks  dropped to the
lowest level in six weeks as concern grew that the U.S. will
take military action against Syria.  Accor SA fell the most in more than 14 months after posting
first-half profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Air France-KLM  Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG paced a decline among
European travel and leisure companies. Bouygues SA jumped the
most in six months after reporting a 10 percent increase in
second-quarter profit.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.4 percent to 297.89 at
the close of trading, its lowest level since July 17. The gauge
fell as much as 1.1 percent in intraday trading. It has still
 advanced 8.1 percent  since this year’s low on June 24 as the
 European Central Bank  pledged to keep  interest rates  low.  “The key thing we are worried about regarding Syria, but
also Egypt, is a sharp rise in  oil prices  and how it has a
potential to be a bigger problem for  emerging markets  in
particular and then, potentially the West” Norman Villamin, who
helps oversee more than $40 billion as European chief investment
officer at Coutts & Co. in Zurich, said in telephone interview.
“This correction will create opportunities for those who are
looking for more attractive entry levels.’”  The Stoxx 600 slid 1.8 percent yesterday after U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said the U.S. will hold Syria
accountable for using chemical weapons against its own people.
The attack near Damascus last week killed as many as 1,300
people, according to opposition groups.  Military Action  Oil climbed to a two-year high on concern the conflict in
Syria may spread and threaten oil supplies from the  Middle East .
The U.S. and its allies are working to define goals for a
military strike against Syria, according to a U.S.
administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity. The
U.K. will put forward a draft resolution authorizing action to
protect civilians in Syria, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said.  In the U.K.,  Bank of England  Governor  Mark Carney  said the
central bank is prepared to boost stimulus if the U.K.’s
economic recovery is hampered by investors’ expectations of high
interest rates.  “The upward move in market expectations of where  bank rate 
will head in future could, at the margin, feed into the
effective financial conditions facing the real economy,” Carney
said. “If they tighten, and the recovery seems to be falling
short of the strong growth we need, we will consider carefully
whether, and how best, to stimulate the recovery further.”  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes retreated in 12 of the 18
western European markets today. France’s CAC 40 lost 0.2 percent
and Germany’s DAX dropped 1 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
retreated 0.2 percent.  Italy’s FTSEMIB Index jumped 1 percent. Renato Brunetta, an
ally of  Silvio Berlusconi , said today Italy will cancel part of
an unpopular property tax, easing concern the issue would cause
Berlusconi’s party to withdraw from the governing coalition.  Accor (AC)  dropped 4.4 percent to 27.52 euros, the biggest loss
since June 2012. Europe’s largest hotel operator posted first-half earnings before interest and taxes of 198 million euros
($265 million), missing the average analyst projection of 212
million euros. The company predicted 2013 Ebit of between 510
million euros and 530 million euros, compared with the average
534 million-euro analyst estimate.  A gauge of European travel companies slumped to a two-month
low, for the  third-worst performance  among the 19 groups in the
Stoxx 600. Air France-KLM slid 2.9 percent to 5.74 euros and
Lufthansa fell 3.2 percent to 13.49 euros.  Polymetal Loss  Polymetal International Plc (POLY)  lost 5.8 percent to 698 pence
as the Russian gold and silver miner posted a first-half net
loss of $255 million, compared with a $157 million profit a year
earlier.  Bouygues (EN)  rallied 10 percent to 25.33 euros, the biggest
gain since February. The French building, telecommunications and
television company’s operating profit increased to 432 million
euros from 394 million euros a year earlier. Analysts had
forecast 358 million euros, according to the average of three
estimates.  Separately, Bouygues cut its sales target for the full year
to 33.2 billion euros to 33.4 billion euros. That compared with
a previous forecast of 33.45 billion euros.  Statoil ASA (STL)  rose 4.2 percent to 137.60 kroner. Norway’s
biggest energy company made its third oil discovery off the
coast of  Canada  in the Flemish Pass basin. Bank of America Corp.
raised the stock to  buy  from neutral.  “The group’s ongoing commitment to exploration has
replenished the portfolio and offered more flexibility to pick
the best organic projects, meaning there is less of a trade off
between growth targets versus sustaining returns,” Bank of
America analysts including Matthew Yates wrote.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S advanced 5.5 percent to 104.90
kroner as Stoxx Ltd. said the company is among the 12 stocks
that will be added to the Stoxx 600 as of Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  