-- Everton Advances in League Cup; Manchester Utd. Faces Liverpool
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-28T23:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/everton-advances-in-league-cup-manchester-utd-faces-liverpool.html
Everton rallied to beat Stevenage
2-1 in extra-time and join four other Premier League clubs in
advancing to the third round of English soccer’s League Cup.  Marouane Fellaini’s goal in the 116th minute last night
gave Everton the home win over Stevenage, which plays in third-tier League One. Luke Freeman put the visiting team in front in
the 36th minute and Gerard Deulofeu tied the score for Everton
just before halftime.  Newcastle United  and  Cardiff City  won away games against
League Two clubs, while  Stoke City  and  Aston Villa  beat League
One teams to advance in England’s second-tier cup competition.  The draw for the third round, where the seven Premier
League teams involved in European play enter the competition,
also was held last night with  Manchester United  hosting
Liverpool among the matchups.  Swansea will open the defense of its League Cup title at
Birmingham, while a repeat of last season’s F.A. Cup final was
also drawn with champion Wigan going to Manchester City.  The third-round matches are scheduled to be played the week
commencing Sept. 23.  Brothers Shola and Sammy Ameobi scored last night as
Newcastle won 2-0 at Morecambe, while Nicky Maynard and Rudy
Gestede got second-half goals as Cardiff beat League Two
Accrington Stanley by the same score.  Kenwyne Jones  scored a hat trick to give Stoke a 3-1 home
win against Walsall, and goals from Andreas Weimann, Christian Benteke and Fabian Delph lifted Aston Villa past Rotherham 3-0.  In a pair of matchups between teams from the second-tier
Championship, Nottingham Forest defeated Millwall 2-1 on Jamaal
Lascelles’s extra-time goal and Watford beat Bournemouth 2-0.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 