-- Ex-Madoff Aide Says Beach House Isn’t Fair Game for Jury
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-28T23:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/ex-madoff-aide-says-beach-house-isn-t-fair-game-for-jury.html
Former Bernard Madoff employee Joann Crupi wants to prevent prosecutors from telling jurors at her
fraud trial that she used a $2.7 million bonus from her ex-boss
to buy a beach house.  Crupi, facing a trial scheduled for October with four other
former Madoff employees, told a judge in  Manhattan  federal court
that evidence of the 2008 purchase would be “prejudicial.”  “Ms. Crupi’s purchase of a beach house fits within no
reasonable construct of relevance,” her lawyer Eric R. Breslin
said in a memorandum filed today. “This evidence serves one
purpose alone -- to inflame the jury and invite them to see Ms.
Crupi as living ’the high life’ on the backs of Madoff
victims.”  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain set Oct. 7 for the
start of a trial against Crupi, Daniel Bonventre, Annette Bongiorno, Jerome O’Hara and  George Perez . The defendants, who
have all pleaded not guilty, are charged with crimes including
conspiracy, fraud and falsifying records.  Crupi, who worked for Madoff’s firm from about 1983 to
December 11, 2008, was responsible for tracking and directing
money into and out of an account used for the  Ponzi scheme ,
according to a superseding indictment filed in July.  Crupi, along with other defendants, also helped to maintain
fake trading records at the firm, the government alleged. She
received the $2.7 million cash bonus in 2008 after a European
accounting firm conducted an audit of Madoff’s operation,
according to the indictment.  The location of the beach house wasn’t specified in the
court papers filed today.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 