-- Texas Woman Charged in Obama Ricin Letter Set for Trial
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-08-28T18:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/texas-woman-charged-in-obama-ricin-letter-set-for-trial.html
The Texas woman accused of mailing
ricin-laced letters to President  Barack Obama  and  New York  Mayor
Michael Bloomberg will be held without bail until a bond hearing
on Sept. 11. Her trial is set for Oct. 7.  Shannon Guess Richardson, 35, a former actress, pleaded not
guilty today to one charge of threatening the U.S. president
“with bodily harm” and two charges of mailing threatening
communications in federal court in Texarkana, Texas.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Caroline Craven found Richardson is
competent to stand trial on the recommendation of a government
doctor who evaluated her in prison, according to Lynn Siebel, a
deputy in Craven’s court.  Richardson has been detained since her June 7 arrest on
suspicion she was involved with the tainted letters.  “She does not contest the competency determination,
although that doesn’t address the issue of sanity if we decide
to bring it up,” Tonda Curry, Richardson’s lawyer, said in a
telephone interview before the hearing.  Richardson originally approached law enforcement officials
in late May with purported information implicating her estranged
husband in a plot to send ricin-laced letters to Obama,
Bloomberg and the head of a gun-control group affiliated with
the mayor, according to a criminal complaint filed against her.  Letters Intercepted  She later changed her story to admit typing the labels and
mailing the letters under what she claims was coercion by her
husband, according to the complaint.  The letters were intercepted before they reached their
targets, and no one was injured by the deadly powder. The
Federal Bureau of Investigation found castor beans, used to make
ricin, and other suspicious materials in the couple’s home in
New Boston, near Texarkana, according to the document.  “She’s still not charged with anything related to the
ricin,” Curry said. “She’s charged with mailing threatening
communications, with the words on paper, not the contents of the
letters.”  Nathaniel Richardson, her husband, has filed for divorce
and was recently awarded temporary custody of the couple’s son,
born four months prematurely while his mother was incarcerated.  The husband has publicly stated that law enforcement has
cleared him of suspicion in the ricin-letter plot, the lawyer
said.  “But the government has told me that’s in no way true,”
Curry said.  Katie Chaumont, a spokeswoman for the FBI’s Dallas-based
division, said policy prevented her from commenting on an
investigation in progress.  Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  The case is U.S. v. Richardson, 5:13-cr-00013, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Texas  (Texarkana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 