-- F&N Jumps Most in 4 Months on Property Spinoff
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-08-28T09:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/f-n-rises-to-5-week-high-on-property-spin-off-singapore-mover.html
Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN) , controlled by
 Thailand ’s richest man, climbed the most in four months on plans
to spin off its property business through a Singapore listing at
the end of the year.  Shares of the 130-year-old company with investments from
food and beverage to publishing climbed 4.2 percent to S$5.72 at
the close in Singapore trading, the biggest jump since April 25.
The company will offer two shares of its unit Frasers
Centrepoint Ltd. for every stock held, it said in a statement
yesterday.  F&N, as the company is known, is spinning off a unit with
S$9 billion ($7 billion) of  assets  as of June, allowing both
companies to focus on their separate expansion strategies. The
move follows the S$13.8 billion takeover earlier this year by
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi.  “This makes the company a more transparent organization,”
Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based director of Global Special
Situations at Religare Capital Markets, said by phone, adding
that he plans to buy F&N shares on the spin off. “This helps
enhance valuations. Conglomerates are always treated with a bit
of a discount.”  The listing of the property arm is expected in November or
December, according to the statement, and the two companies will
be traded separately on the Singapore exchange.  Frasers Centrepoint is also considering plans for a
hospitality trust, according to the statement. It has a S$2.4
billion pipeline of commercial and retail properties as well as
S$1.65 billion worth of hospitality assets that could be
injected into its property trusts, Lim Ee Seng, chief executive
officer of Frasers Centrepoint, said in a briefing yesterday.  Charoen has a net worth of $6.9 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  and
Morgan Stanley are financial advisers for the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  