-- F1 Builder Said Close to Selling Unit to Birla
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-08-28T10:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/f1-builder-said-close-to-selling-unit-to-birla.html
Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla is
close to buying a cement unit for 37 billion rupees ($547
million) from the company that built India’s only Formula One
track, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Birla’s  UltraTech Cement Ltd. (UTCEM) , India’s biggest maker of the
construction material, may announce the deal to acquire
 Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA) ’s Gujarat unit as early as next week,
one of the people said, asking not to be identified because the
process is confidential. Completing the transaction may take
about six months, the person said.  The sale may help Jaiprakash reduce part of its $10 billion
 debt  and boost UltraTech capacity by about 9 percent. The
proposed purchase will allow UltraTech to boost market share as
rivals including Holcim Ltd. expand in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy. The price for the Gujarat plant per ton of capacity is
20 percent cheaper than Holcim’s offer to combine its Indian
units, according to Sanjeev Kumar Singh, an analyst at Centrum
Broking Pvt., and IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd.  “From a long term perspective UltraTech will benefit from
the expanded capacity at an attractive cost,” said Mumbai-based
Kumar. “Any new cement project in  India  will today require at
least three to four years because of the stricter norms and
delays in land acquisition for a project. The returns for
UltraTech should be fairly good.”  Valuations Fall  UltraTech fell 5.6 percent to 1,463.70 rupees, while
Jaiprakash rose 3.9 percent to 33.75 rupees at close of trade in
Mumbai. India’s benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index gained 0.2
percent. Prices on Jaiprakash’s 5.75 percent dollar-denominated
convertible debt fell 12 cents to $72.88, yielding 14.98
percent, according to Standard Chartered Plc prices.  Askari H Zaidi, a spokesman for Jaiprakash, and Pragnya Ram
a spokeswoman of the Birla group, declined to comment.  The companies have been in discussions for more than a
year, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
UltraTech had offered about 43 billion rupees for the Gujarat
unit, two people familiar with the process said in November. The
valuation has since fallen because of concerns about production
at one of Jaiprakash’s mines, the people said.  Jaiprakash’s parent, the Jaypee Group, is seeking to reduce
 debt  by 150 billion rupees by selling its cement plants in
southern and western India, some of its power generation units
and property, Suren Jain, managing director at  Jaiprakash Power
Ventures Ltd. (JPVL) , said in an interview this month.  Inaugural Race  “The money from the sale will help Jaiprakash in lowering
debt, though it may not be enough,” said Ajit Motwani, an
analyst at Emkay Global Financial Services.  The company is selling assets to cut costs and reverse a
two-year decline in profit, as a cash crunch prompts Indian
lenders to raise  interest rates  for the first time since 2011.
The group’s liabilities increased fivefold in five years as it
expanded the groups power, sports and construction businesses.  The company has also developed a 5.13-kilometer (3.19-mile)
Formula One track called the Buddh International Race Circuit,
built on the outskirts of India’s capital,  New Delhi . The
inaugural race was held in 2011.  Jaiprakash started talks with Birlas after it terminated
negotiations with  CRH Plc (CRH) , the world’s second-largest maker of
construction materials. CRH on Oct. 9 said it terminated talks
with Jaiprakash to buy the operations, which include a 4.8
million metric ton grinding facility and a clinker plant.  The cement unit of the group is the country’s third
largest, according to a company presentation. The group plans to
sell about 30 percent of its cement capacity of 35 million tons,
Jain said without elaborating.  UltraTech has an installed capacity of 54 million tons a
year, according to the  company’s website . It plans to increase
capacity by 10 million tons in the next 20 months to  64.45 
million tons, Birla said on July 29.  Demand Forecast  That will add to cement supply, which exceeds demand in
India. Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. forecasts the gap will
only narrow by 2016.  “For us, consolidation has been the name of the game,”
Birla said on Aug. 30, 2012 at the company’s annual general
meeting. “We, as the last man standing, have the best chance of
being the first man forward - to consolidate market positions,
to show superior performance and get an edge over competition.”  Birla, who also controls the world’s largest rolled
aluminum maker, is targeting a 63 percent increase in revenue
for the group to $65 billion by 2016.  The proposed purchase price values capacity at Jaiprakash’s
Gujarat unit at $133 a ton, according to Centrum’s Singh. That
compares with $166 a ton that Holcim’s  Ambuja Cement Ltd. (ACEM) ’s plan
to acquire stake in unit ACC Ltd.  Remove Hurdles  India’s gross domestic product probably grew 4.6 percent in
the three months ended June 30, according to a median  estimate 
of 41 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That’s the slowest
pace of growth in more than four years. The government is
scheduled to release the data on Aug. 30.  Birla is betting on an economic recovery in the $1.8
trillion economy. To revive growth Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is reviewing progress of the power, road and
port projects and trying to remove hurdles.  “Our highest priority is to get the investment cycle
restarted,” Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told
reporters yesterday in New Delhi. Indian power projects worth
$12.75 billion, stalled because of a lack of fuel linkages, will
sign supply accords with Coal India Ltd. by Sept. 6, he said.  Cement consumption may expand at a compounded average
growth rate of 7.9 percent in the three years to 2016 led by
demand from power and road projects, according to a research by
Credit Analysis & Research. Demand grew 5.6 percent in the three
years to March 31, data show.  “The consolidation will be good for the cement industry,”
Centrum’s Singh said in a phone interview. “The short term
challenges of slowing cement demand will not be sustained as not
much new capacities are coming up and very soon demand should
catch up with supplies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  