-- Fenerbahce Banned From Soccer’s Europa League; Shares Dive
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-08-28T14:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/fenerbahce-expelled-from-europa-league-as-court-rejects-appeal.html
The top sports court rejected an
appeal by  Turkish soccer club Fenerbahce  against a two-year ban
from European competition for match-fixing. The Istanbul team
will appeal the decision to  Switzerland ’s supreme court.  Today’s ruling prevents Fenerbahce playing in this season’s
Europa League. It was eliminated by Arsenal in  Champions League 
qualifying last night, losing 5-0 over two games.  The Lausanne, Switzerland-based Court of Arbitration for
Sport also said in a  news release  it rejected an appeal by
Ukraine’s Metalist Kharkiv against a one-year ban from European
competition for match-fixing.  Fenerbahce Futbol AS (FENER) , the company that owns the soccer
team, will appeal to the Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland,
whose decision will be final, to reverse the verdict, it said in
a statement on its  website .  “The board of directors of our club will make decisions on
the future of our club at a meeting tomorrow and the decisions
will be shared with the public,” it said.  Shares of Fenerbahce, the highest-valued sports company on
Borsa Istanbul, dived as much as 6.3 percent to 23.9 liras, the
lowest since August 2007. The shares had risen to 27.4 liras at
the close of morning trade, before the court decision was
announced.  Replacement Club  European soccer’s ruling body UEFA handed the ban to
Fenerbahce, last season’s runner-up to  Galatasaray (GSRAY)  in the
Turkish league, on June 25. Fenerbahce was allowed to compete in
Champions League qualifying pending its appeal.  The CAS said that because of the urgency of both decisions
it was issuing its judgments without giving reasons. These will
be announced as soon as possible, it said.  UEFA said in a statement it will meet tomorrow to decide
who will take the Turkish club’s place in the Europa League.  The court of arbitration  said earlier  it will decide Aug.
30 on an appeal by  Besiktas (BJKAS) , another Turkish club banned for one
year from Europe on June 25. Besiktas shares fell as much as 3.3
percent to 1.46 liras on Borsa Istanbul. Besiktas plays Tromso
of  Norway  tomorrow in Istanbul in the second leg of a Europa
League playoff. Tromso won the first leg 2-1 last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
3909 or  eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 