-- Five Reasons Housing Isn’t Ready to Drop Dead
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-08-28T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/five-reasons-housing-isn-t-ready-to-drop-dead.html
Hissss! That’s the sound of the air
coming out of the housing market. At least that’s what some
folks thought they heard when the U.S. Census Bureau reported a
13.4 percent dive in  new home sales  in July, the biggest decline
in more than three years and one that coincided with a sharp
increase in  mortgage rates .  Don’t start writing housing’s obituary just yet. First, the
residential real-estate market just got going. Only in the last
two years has residential investment  contributed  in any
significant way to economic growth. It has to make up for lost
time.  Second, what might look like a lack of demand may actually
be a dearth of supply.  So pour the water out of that half-empty glass. Then refill
it to half full and consider some of the positives:  1. Mortgage rates and the theory of relativity  The rate on a  30-year fixed mortgage  rose to 4.58 percent
last week from 3.53 percent in early May, according to  Freddie
Mac . That’s a hefty jump. But after years of consistently
falling rates, the first move off the lows tends to energize the
fence-sitters more than deter potential buyers, according to
Michael Carliner, an economic consultant who specializes in
housing.  With  house prices  finally turning up late last year, that
fence is becoming an increasingly uncomfortable perch. So yes,
mortgage rates have risen more than a full percentage point in
the last four months, and there is going to be a certain amount
of sticker shock for those considering financing options for
their purchase. But in the grand scheme of things, 4.6 percent
is a pretty good rate for a 30-year mortgage. Just ask people
who bought a home in the early 1980s and locked in at a rate of
15 percent or more.  At this point, the inability of many potential homeowners
to qualify for a mortgage is still a bigger issue than rates.  2. Someone tell the builders  Among the wide array of housing indicators, the  National
Association of Home Builders ’  Housing Market Index (USHBMIDX)  leads the
pack in both timing (the August report was released Aug. 15) and
predictive ability. The monthly survey asks builders to rate
current sales, traffic of prospective buyers and expectations
for sales six months down the road. Although the survey is
qualitative -- the builders can choose among “good,” “fair”
and “poor,” for example -- the results provide an early window
on the state of the market.  The NAHB index rose to 59 this month, the highest since
2005. Reports from major builders have been upbeat, although the
stock market has been unimpressed. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index, an index of large home
builders, is down 29 percent since its peak in May, technically
a  bear market . (The stock market has a habit of overpredicting
recessions.)  3. An inventory of nothing is nothing  Lack of supply has been a feature of the new housing market
as builders -- once burned, twice shy -- have been slow to
embrace the revival of residential real estate. Single-family
housing starts are up 67 percent from their 2009 low, but July’s
annual rate of 591,000 is a long way from the peak of 1.8
million in 2006.  Although the  inventory of new homes for sale  has been
inching up -- to 171,000 last month from an all-time low of
142,000 in July 2012 -- the increase has been in the “not
started” and “under construction” categories, not in
“completed” homes. “Builders aren’t stuck with a lot of
unsold homes,” Carliner says.  The inventory of completed homes stood at 36,000 in July,
compared with 43,000 six months ago. And the median  time on the
market  was 3.5 months, which was typical of the bubble years. It
does seem as if softer sales are a reflection of supply
constraints.  4. Rising prices, less distress  Home prices  have been on a tear, especially in certain
areas of the country, but the rate of increase may be slowing,
according to the latest S&P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index for
June. All 20 cities tracked by Case-Shiller posted increases
both monthly and from a year earlier in June; only six rose at a
faster pace than in May.  The  national home price index  rose 10 percent in the second
quarter of this year from the same quarter in 2012; home prices
rose almost 25 percent in  Las Vegas  and  San Francisco , which
sounds positively bubbly. Should we be concerned?  Carliner says no. Prices are rebounding from lows that were
depressed by the large share of distressed sales. “Now
distressed sales are a smaller share of sales, so prices are
going back up,” he says. “Relative to 2007, prices aren’t that
high.”  Just enough to tempt a potential buyer without turning him
off.  5.  Help wanted: Carpentry skills a plus  You would have thought that the housing boom, bust and slow
recovery would have created a surfeit of construction workers.
Wrong. Reports of regional labor shortages in hot markets such
as Seattle and Phoenix are popping up in the  Federal Reserve ’s
Beige Book, in NAHB surveys and in reports from trade
associations. There are 2 million fewer  construction workers 
today than at the 2006 peak. Some have retired and moved on. The
supply of new entrants isn’t sufficient to satisfy builder needs
in certain areas of the country.  Add it all up, and it seems a bit too early to sound the
death knell for housing.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 