-- Ford Says MyFord Touch Will Spread to Europe Models
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-08-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/ford-says-myford-touch-will-spread-to-europe-models.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it plans to
introduce its MyFord Touch infotainment system, the subject of
criticism in U.S. quality surveys, to its vehicle lineup in
 Europe  starting next year.  The system will debut in an S-Max concept van at next
month’s Frankfurt auto show, said Jim Buczkowski, director of
Ford’s electronics and electrical systems engineering and
research. MyFord Touch eventually will be available in all its
models in Europe, he told reporters in a briefing yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has pushed the second-largest U.S. carmaker to make unique technology a pillar of its
new models. MyFord Touch has helped boost profit, while users in
surveys by Consumer Reports and J.D. Power & Associates have
faulted the reliability of its controls, as well as its small
fonts, crowded screens and lack of buttons and knobs.  “We’ve made huge improvements and we’ve learned a lot
along the way,” Buczkowski said in Dearborn,  Michigan , where
Ford is based. “Customer feedback has been really important,
both likes and dislikes, as well as maybe things that we didn’t
explain very well for customers.”  The technology contributed to Ford’s drop in rankings of
surveys such as J.D. Power’s Initial Quality Study. The Ford
brand fell to 27th in the latest study, released in June, from
fifth in 2010. It ranked second-to-last in  Consumer Reports ’
annual auto-reliability survey in October.  System Pricing  In Europe, MyFord Touch will be an option or included as
standard in premium packages, Buczkowski said. He declined to
give specific pricing. In the U.S., the automaker typically
charges $1,000 for the system.  Ford already offers Sync, a voice-command software system,
on some models in Europe as part of an audio package. Sync
usually is a $295 option in the U.S.  Ford will market Sync and MyFord Touch similar to the way
it sells the two in the U.S., Buczkowski said. A technology
package with just Sync will start in the Fiesta small car and
the EcoSport compact utility vehicle and also will include
Applink, which synchronizes applications on smartphones with the
vehicle infotainment system. Another package will offer both
Sync and MyFord Touch.  The automaker has released several upgrades to MyFord
Touch, including one earlier this month on some 2014-model cars,
Buczkowski said.  “It’s been a learning experience for us but it’s been an
excellent experience to really bring the kinds of features and
customer experiences that people want to have,” he said.  In the U.S., vehicles with Sync or MyFord Touch systems
climbed to 79 percent of Ford’s 2013 car and truck sales, from
68 percent for year-earlier models, the company said in June.  Ford fell 3.2 percent to $15.88 yesterday at the close in
 New York . The  shares  have risen 23 percent this year, as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 14 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  