-- Former Ballerina Duval Pulls Off Biggest U.S. Open Upset at 17
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-28T04:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/former-ballerina-duval-pulls-off-biggest-u-s-open-upset-at-17.html
Victoria Duval walked into the
interview room under Arthur Ashe Stadium about two hours after
her upset win against 2011  U.S. Open  champion Samantha Stosur,
looked at her name on the placard at the front of the table and
giggled in disbelief.  “Is this for real?” Duval said in a high-pitched voice
that makes her sound even younger than her age of 17.  Less than three weeks after losing in the quarterfinals of
the U.S. Tennis Association’s Girls’ 18-and-under national
championship, Duval last night pulled off the biggest women’s
upset so far at the season’s final Grand Slam tournament in
eliminating the 11th-seeded Stosur.  Duval, who came to the U.S. from  Haiti  with her family when
she was eight, celebrated like a teenager after her victory in
Louis Armstrong Stadium, throwing her arms in the air and
jumping with joy. Afterward, Duval said she received a text
message of congratulations from Billie  Jean King , a four-time
U.S. Open champion after whom the National Tennis Center in  New
York  is named.  “I don’t even remember match point,” said Duval, who was
buoyed by chants of ‘U-S-A’ during the third set. “I guess I
was really happy. You could tell by all the jumping I did.”  Duval closed out the 5-7, 6-4, 6-4 win on her fourth match
point, sending  Australia ’s Stosur to her first opening-round
loss at the U.S. Open since 2008. Duval’s victory came a year
after she lost in the first round of her Grand Slam debut to
another former champion,  Kim Clijsters . Duval said facing
Clijsters a year ago was a valuable experience.  Not Overwhelmed  “The crowd didn’t seem so overwhelming because I felt like
I was in that position before,” she said.  The 5-foot-10 Duval was a ballerina before she turned to
tennis at the age of seven and won the first tournament she ever
participated in, a 10-and-under event in  Santo Domingo ,
 Dominican Republic , where her brother played each year.  “After that, my mom said, ‘Okay, you have to choose
now,’” Duval said. “Tennis seemed to be appropriate.”  Duval, whose father was injured in the 2010 earthquake that
struck Haiti, won the 2012 USTA’s Girls 18-and-under national
championship and earned a wild-card entry into the U.S. Open.
She made this year’s field as a qualifier and had a world
ranking of 296 entering her match against Stosur.  Duval said while she’s a goofy child at heart, she has a
warrior’s mentality on the court that helped her stay focused in
the closing stages of her win last night. She also took
advantage of Stosur’s 56 unforced errors. Duval made 35.  “She played well,” Stosur said. “I certainly helped her
along the way.”  Hantuchova Next  Next up for Duval is a second-round meeting with Slovakia’s
Daniela Hantuchova.  While Duval said she doesn’t know what the future holds,
she hopes to follow the lead of a player like 20-year-old Sloane Stephens in continuing the success of U.S. women in the sport
when sisters Serena and  Venus Williams , who have 23 Grand Slam
singles titles between them, eventually retire.  “We’re trying to make American tennis become what it used
to be,” Duval said. “We’re all working toward the same goal. I
think we’re on an amazing path.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  