-- Francesca’s Besting Lululemon Seen Luring Bids: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-08-28T20:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/francesca-s-besting-lululemon-seen-luring-bids-real-m-a.html
Francesca’s Holdings Corp. (FRAN) , the
women’s boutique operator that boasts the retail industry’s
fastest growth rate, may also command the most expensive price
tag in a U.S. takeover.  Francesca’s is projected by analysts to boost  sales  by 80
percent during the next three years, faster than any other
apparel chain including  Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. With the $1 billion company poised
to report record free cash flow and more than double its store
count to 900 outlets, Francesca’s could appeal to private-equity
firms, Avondale Partners LLC said. Rue21 Inc., a similar-sized
clothing retailer, agreed in May to a buyout by Apax Partners.  Francesca’s also might be a logical target for other U.S.
retailers whose growth has slowed, Macquarie Group Ltd. said.
Clothing chains from  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  to Abercrombie & Fitch Co.
had revenue declines in the latest quarter. Investors aren’t
giving Francesca’s enough credit for its growth prospects,
according to SunTrust Banks Inc., signaling buyers can still get
a bargain even as the Houston-based retailer would command the
highest multiple for a takeover of a U.S. chain.  “There aren’t that many retailers left who can double the
store base and have a proven concept in place,” Pamela Quintiliano, a New York-based analyst at SunTrust, said in a
phone interview. “It is definitely an attractive takeover
target.”  Randi Sonenshein, Francesca’s vice president of finance and
investor relations, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call
seeking comment.  Expansion Plan  Francesca’s, which was taken public in 2011 by private-equity firm CCMP Capital Advisors LLC, sells women’s clothes,
bags and shoes through 438 U.S. retail locations that are
modeled after upscale boutiques.  The company plans to expand to 900 stores within the next
seven years. As it grows, analysts project annual  sales  will
rise to $533 million by the fiscal year ended Jan. 31, 2016, 80
percent more than last year’s total of $296 million. That
compares with the median estimated growth rate of 20 percent
among specialty-apparel retailers valued at more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Francesca’s surging growth stands out in an industry where
retailers including  Abercrombie (ANF)  and Aeropostale are posting
lower sales and shuttering stores, according to Mark Montagna, a
Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at Avondale Partners.  Good Story  That could make the company an attractive target for
private-equity firms, which would also be drawn to its free cash
flow, he said. Analysts estimate that Francesca’s will  generate 
$50 million in free cash flow this fiscal year, the most on
record, and the company has  no debt .  “They are the best store growth story in specialty
retail,” Montagna said in a phone interview. “Such strong cash
flows would enable private equity to take them private and load
the company up with debt” in a leveraged buyout.  Francesca’s could fetch as much as a 30 percent premium, or
about $30.50 a share, in a takeover, said Susan Anderson, an
Arlington, Virginia-based analyst at FBR & Co.  Today, shares of Francesca’s rose 2.7 percent to $24.12.  A larger U.S. retailer makes more sense as a buyer of
Francesca’s, lured by the chance to give sales a jolt while also
cutting  costs  by combining operations, said Liz Dunn, a New
York-based analyst at Macquarie.  “Most strategic acquirers are looking for brands that have
growth potential as well as some differentiated business
model,” Dunn said in a phone interview. Francesca’s is “a
well-run retailer.”  Fat Margins  Francesca’s operating  margin  of 26 percent is higher than
95 percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the company’s high margins would only add to its
appeal for other retailers, private-equity suitors may not see
enough room for improvement to justify an investment, Dunn said.  Buyout firms may also be turned off by Francesca’s
valuation, according to  Howard Tubin , a New York-based analyst
at Royal Bank of  Canada .  Francesca’s trades at 3.3 times its sales in the last 12
months. Even without a premium, that’s already a higher revenue
multiple than in any takeover of a U.S. shoe or apparel
retailer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It doesn’t jump off the pages in an LBO screen as being
screamingly cheap,” Tubin said in a phone interview.  Even so, Francesca’s is undervalued given its expansion
opportunities and could be attractive to a private-equity buyer
looking to get ahead of potentially even higher multiples, said
Quintiliano of SunTrust.  Buyout firms could be interested “based on where it is
now,” she said. “They have a lot of growth and they’re not
being given any credit for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  