-- G4S Plans Rights Offer, Asset Sales to Shore Up Finances
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-08-28T07:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/g4s-plans-rights-offer-asset-sales-to-shore-up-finances.html
G4S Plc (GFS) , which replaced its chief
executive after bungling the London Olympics security contract,
said it plans a sale of shares and disposals to shore up its
balance sheet and pay down inflated debt.  The guard and security company will sell as many as 140.9
million new  shares  to existing investors, equal to a stake of
9.99 percent, it said in a statement. G4S has also found buyers
for two businesses to raise an additional 100 million pounds,
with an additional 150 million pounds in potential disposals
lined up. The shares fell 3 percent at the open of trading in
London today.  G4S is emerging from a strategic review undertaken by Chief
Executive Officer Ashley Almanza, who replacedNick Buckles on
June 1. His priority is to tackle G4S’ net debt to earnings
ratio of 3.2 times before a downgrade of its credit rating that
would cost an estimated 25 million pounds to 30 million pounds a
year, it said.  “On the operational front, we plan to introduce systems
and processes to improve efficiency and risk management and we
will be restructuring a number of businesses to ensure that they
are more competitive and able to deliver improved margins,”
Almanza said in the statement.  Citigroup, JPMorgan and Barclays Bank Plc are joint
bookrunners. Invesco Asset Management Ltd., which currently
 holds  about 14.85 percent of G4S, is backing the transaction.  G4S also announced the sale of Canadian Cash solutions and
a data solutions business in Colombia.  Profit before interest, taxes and amortization was little
changed in the first half at 201 million pounds. Sales climbed
7.2 percent and G4S flagged a contract pipeline worth 4 billion
pounds a year. It generated 218 million pounds in cash from
operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  