-- Gabriel Rises on Romania Draft Law: Toronto Mover
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-08-28T15:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/gabriel-rises-on-romania-draft-law-toronto-mover.html
Gabriel Resources Ltd. (GBU) , the Paulson
& Co.-backed Canadian miner, rose the most in almost seven weeks
after Romania approved a draft law that would allow development
of its Rosia Montana mine while increasing the government’s
stake in the project.  Gabriel gained 3.5 percent to C$1.76 at 10:24 a.m. in
Toronto. The Whitehorse, Yukon-based company earlier jumped 10
percent, the most intraday since July 11.  The draft law, which still needs parliamentary approval,
declares the project to be of “exceptional national interest,”
according to a statement published on the government website. It
proposes increasing the government’s stake in the project to 25
percent, from about 19 percent, and raising mining royalties to
6 percent from a current 4 percent.  Gabriel has spent more than a decade trying to build the
mine amid opposition from non-profit organizations that say it
will harm the environment. The new law will set a framework to
“significantly accelerate” development, the company said in a
statement today.  Rosia  Montana  has estimated reserves of 10.1 million ounces
of gold and 47.6 million ounces of silver, according to
Gabriel’s website. The mine may produce an average of 375,000
ounces of gold a year and cost $1.5 billion, Stephen Walker, a
Toronto-based analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a note
today.  “We view the announcement as positive for the shares and
await further updates on the expected September Romanian
parliamentary debate,” Walker said.  Hedge fund Paulson owned 16 percent of Gabriel as of May 17
and is its biggest shareholder, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  