-- German Inflation Probably Slowed as Euro Area Recovers
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/german-inflation-probably-slowed-as-euro-area-recovers.html
German inflation probably slowed in
August, signaling price pressures remain contained after
 Europe ’s largest economy led the euro area out of its longest-ever recession.  Germany ’s  consumer price index , calculated using a
harmonized European Union method, rose 1.7 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 1.9 percent in July, according to the
median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . Prices
probably climbed 0.1 percent from June, the survey shows.  The 17-member euro area, Germany’s biggest trading partner,
expanded 0.3 percent in the three months through June to snap
six quarters of contraction. While Germany grew 0.7 percent,
Italy and  Spain  remained in recession. Loans to companies and
households in the region fell for a 15th month in July,
extending the longest decline on record.  “The European economy is still relatively weak, so there
are certainly no grounds for inflation worries,” said Lothar Hessler, an economist at  HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (TUB)  in
Dusseldorf. “The economy could well lose some momentum in the
third quarter, but all in all performance is robust.”  German states are due to report their own inflation data
throughout today before the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden publishes national figures at 2 p.m.  Low Rates  The Bundesbank forecasts the German economy will grow 0.3
percent this year and predicts average inflation of 1.6 percent,
dropping to 1.5 percent in 2014. Prices for imported goods fell
2.6 percent in July from a year earlier, according to government
data yesterday. Prices for imported energy slid 4.1 percent.  The euro-area inflation rate remained at 1.6 percent in
July, a report published by the European Union’s statistics
office showed on Aug. 16. The  European Central Bank  will present
new growth and inflation forecasts on Sept. 5. In June, it
predicted 2013 inflation at 1.4 percent, falling to 1.3 percent
next year, and said the economy will contract 0.6 percent this
year.  ECB President  Mario Draghi , reacting to concern that a
removal of monetary stimulus in the U.S. would push up market
interest rates and derail the euro-area’s recovery, pledged in
July to keep borrowing costs at the current level or lower for
“an extended period.” He said the reason for taking what he
called the “unprecedented” step was the ECB’s expectation that
the subdued outlook for inflation will extend into the medium-term amid broad-based weakness in the economy.  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said on Aug. 27
that even though the central bank has pledged low rates for the
foreseeable future, it’s aware of the risks inherent in keeping
them there for too long. The ECB’s benchmark stands at 0.5
percent, a record low.  “Inflation in the euro area will remain moderate for quite
some time,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt . “That said, the rate of  core inflation  in Germany
is rising faster than the European average, and  interest rates 
aren’t likely to rise any time soon. We should be keeping an eye
on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  