-- German Stocks Drop Amid Growing Concern on Syria Conflict
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-08-28T07:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/german-stocks-drop-amid-growing-concern-on-syria-conflict.html
German stocks  declined, with the
benchmark DAX Index falling to its lowest level in six weeks,
amid growing concern that the U.S. will take military action
against Syria for using chemical weapons.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  lost 1.7 percent as a gauge of carmakers was
among the worst performers on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
 Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s second-biggest steelmaker, lost 1.6
percent after confirmation that it will be removed from the
Stoxx 600.  The DAX slipped 0.5 percent to 8,202.08 at 9:33 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The gauge has still rallied 6.7 percent from its low
on June 24 as the  European Central Bank  said that  interest rates 
will remain low for an extended period. The broader HDAX Index
also fell 0.6 percent today.  “The poison gas in Syria, the potential intervention of
U.S. soldiers and a further escalation in this powder-keg remain
the key triggers also on the trading floor,” Roger Peeters,
chief executive officer at Close Brothers Seydler Research in
Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mail. “Markets are alienated by the
insecurity and the unknown indirect consequences in a region,
which is affected by a lot of disturbances.”  The U.S., France and Britain are moving closer to
retaliatory military action against Syria, laying out the
justification, putting forces into place and rounding up allies
in the region.  Any armed response would be focused on Syria’s weapons
capabilities and wouldn’t be aimed at deposing President Bashar al-Assad, U.S. and U.K. officials said. U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  said in London that while no decision has been
made on a course of action, it would be legal and proportionate.  In the U.S., a report at 10 a.m.  New York  time may show
that pending sales of previously owned homes were little changed
last month after declining 0.4 percent in June, according to the
median forecast of 37 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  