-- Ghana Court Seen Upholding Mahama Win After Vote Trial
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h   a n d   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-08-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/ghana-court-seen-upholding-mahama-win-after-vote-trial.html
Ghana ’s highest court will probably
uphold President John Dramani Mahama’s election win, giving him
the authority to rein in the  budget deficit  and manage the
worst-performing West African currency this year, according to
Eurasia Group.  The  Supreme Court  is set to rule tomorrow on a bid by
opposition leader Nana Akufo-Addo, 69, to overturn the result of
a December vote he lost by almost 326,000 ballots. Akufo-Addo’s
New Patriotic Party alleged that thousands of votes cast were
invalid and counting was marred by irregularities. Mahama, 54,
won 50.7 percent of votes.  Upholding Mahama’s victory “will eliminate the
uncertainty” for investors, Philippe de Pontet,  Africa  Director
of New York-based Eurasia Group, said by phone on Aug. 23.
There’s no “evidence that irregularities subverted the will of
the electorate,” he said.  The threat of political instability accelerated the cedi’s
decline as the Supreme Court began hearings in April that were
broadcast live on radio and TV. The currency slumped 11 percent
against the dollar this year, the worst in Africa after the rand
and the Namibian dollar, which is pegged to the South African
currency. It was unchanged at 2.15 per dollar by 4:48 p.m. in
Accra yesterday.  Court backing of Mahama’s win will allow his administration
to follow through with plans to curb a budget deficit that
soared to 12.1 percent of gross domestic product last year from
4.3 percent in 2011, undermining the currency. The  Finance
Ministry  is forecasting a shortfall of 9 percent this year.  A win for Mahama will enable the government to “build on
its incremental pathway to trimming the deficit,” de Pontet
said.  Bond Yields  Yields on the country’s Eurobonds due August 2023 climbed
15 basis points to 8.233 percent since listing Aug. 1, compared
with a three basis-point increase in dollar-denominated African
bonds, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes .  The Supreme Court hearings in Accra included testimony from
former Bank of Ghana Deputy Governor Mahamudu Bawumia, the vice
presidential candidate for the NPP, and Kwadwo Afari-Gyan, head
of the Electoral Commission.  The evidence lacked a “smoking gun,” de Pontet said.
Rather than overturning the election result, the court will
probably “shift the focus to reforming the  electoral
commission ,” he said.  Opposition Protests  While an expected ruling against the opposition may spark
protests, there’s unlikely to be “significant unrest,” London-based advisory group, Control Risks, said on its website on Aug.
25.  In December, protesters clashed with security forces in
Accra and demonstrated in Kumasi, the second-biggest city and an
NPP stronghold. Mahama agreed to abide by the verdict in a
 statement  on Aug. 21 and Akufo-Addo, 69, told the state-owned
Daily Graphic  newspaper  Aug. 26 he was confident the court would
“deliver a fair judgment,” urging supporters to accept the
outcome.  The challenge prompted a “wait-and-see attitude” among
investors, Collins Appiah, director of asset management at
Accra-based NDK Financial Services Ltd., said in a phone
interview on Aug. 26. Buyers prefer “holding dollar-denominated
assets compared with their cedi counterparts,” he said.  Yields on three-year cedi bonds, the minimum duration in
which foreigners can invest, rose to 20.65 percent by Aug. 26 on
the secondary market from 19.24 percent at an auction on May 30,
according to data compiled by Standard Chartered Plc’s Ghanaian
unit. The  Ghana Stock Exchange Composite Index (GGSECI)   rallied  65
percent this year, the third-best performing equities gauge
among 94 indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Whoever wins, the government “will face the challenge of
fiscal consolidation,”  Razia Khan , London-based head of Africa
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc, said by phone on
Aug. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net ;
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  