-- Ghana Cocoa Board to Cut Subsidized Pesticides as Revenue Falls
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-08-28T04:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/ghana-cocoa-board-to-cut-subsidized-pesticides-as-revenue-falls.html
Ghana , the world’s second-biggest
cocoa producer, plans to halve the use of subsidized pesticides
next season to cut costs after a drop in prices for the
chocolate ingredient, the industry regulator said.  “We cannot maintain the schedule of free spraying with the
dwindling fortunes of cocoa,” Noah Amenyah, a spokesman for the
regulator, known as Cocobod, said yesterday in a phone interview
from the capital, Accra. “We have to reduce these activities to
meet our current low revenue.”  The board, which buys all cocoa produced in Ghana, targets
the purchase of 830,000 metric tons in the season starting in
October, from an estimated 800,000 tons in 2012-13. That
compares with record output of 1 million tons in 2010-11.  Cocoa for December delivery fell 1.3 percent to $2,450 a
ton on the ICE Futures by 10:35 a.m. yesterday in New York,
bringing its decline over the past year to 2.8 percent. Prices
may advance as much as 15 percent if drought persists in Ghana
and Ivory Coast, the world’s largest cocoa producer, James
Roemer, a meteorologist at WeatherRisk Institute, said Aug. 26.
West Africa accounts for about 70 percent of global production.  The main crop of two yearly harvests in Ghana runs October
to June while the second, consisting mostly of smaller beans, is
supplied from July through September.  The board will allocate funding for three applications of
pesticides over cocoa farms in 2013-14 from six last year and it
plans to eliminate the financing altogether in five years,
Amenyah said. Fertilizer subsidies are being maintained.  The savings may help the board raise the price it pays
farmers, enabling them to buy inputs, Amenyah said. “We are
waiting for cabinet approval before implementation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  