-- Goldman Sachs’ Jason Lee Indicted on Rape Charge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-08-28T22:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/goldman-sachs-jason-lee-indicted-on-rape-charge-in.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managing
director Jason Lee was indicted by a grand jury on a rape charge
stemming from the alleged assault on a 20-year-old woman at a
Long Island, New York, home, court records show.  Lee, 37, was arrested and charged with first-degree rape on
Aug. 21 in the town of East Hampton after police went to his
Clover Leaf Lane vacation home and learned that a woman had been
sexually assaulted inside the residence, where several people
had gathered, according to a police statement.  A grand jury indicted Lee on three charges: one count of
first-degree rape, which carries a maximum sentence of 25 years
in prison, and two misdemeanor counts of assault and sexual
misconduct, according to online state court records. Lee, who is
free on $20,000 cash bail, is scheduled to be arraigned before
Judge Barbara R. Kahn in Suffolk County Court in Riverhead on
Sept. 20, court records show.  The police statement didn’t identify Lee’s employer. Lee,
who lives in New York, is head of convertibles at Goldman Sachs
and has been placed on leave, according to a person familiar
with the matter who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about a
private personnel matter and asked not to be named.  Rented Home  Brian Desesa, an attorney representing Lee, said in an
interview last week that the case is a “huge travesty” and an
“injustice” and that Lee will be cleared of the charges “once
the story comes out.”  “Mr. Lee adamantly denies these allegations,”  Risa
Heller , a spokeswoman for Lee, said in an e-mailed statement.
“He is a very accomplished individual who has never been in
trouble with the law. His wife supports him and he looks forward
to clearing his name in court.”  The alleged assault occurred at a home of the defendant,
police said. A description of a 4-bedroom, 3-bathroom 2,700-square-foot house on the street where Lee was arrested, posted
on the website of Douglas Elliman Real Estate, said it was
available from Aug. 1 until Labor Day for $33,000.  Lee, a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, has been
with Goldman Sachs since March 1998, according to the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. He led “many of the firm’s most
complicated financing and risk-management transactions for
corporate clients” while managing convertible and equity
derivative origination for financial, health-care and consumer
companies, according to a  biography  posted on the website of a
2009 Milken Institute conference where he was a scheduled
speaker.  Bond Dealers  According to the biography, he was the firm’s
representative in 1999 at BrokerTec Global, a gathering of
Treasury bond dealers, and helped create the first inter-dealer
electronic futures exchange and clearinghouse.  The Suffolk County District Attorney’s Office didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the indictment and
East Hampton police haven’t returned multiple messages seeking
further comment on the case.  The case is New York v. Lee, 02053/2013, Suffolk County
Court - Criminal Term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  