-- Icahn Bondholders Charge Premium After Gains: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-08-28T17:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/icahn-bondholders-charge-premium-after-gains-corporate-finance.html
Even as bondholders of  Carl Icahn ’s
investing company enjoy market-beating gains, they’re demanding
extra yield on new notes to compensate for risk in the maverick
investing style of the world’s 35th-richest person.  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP)   notes  have returned 32 percent since
Aug. 26, 2010, compared with 22 percent for bonds whose ratings
are split between the lowest investment and highest junk grades.
The New York-based company sold $500 million of 6 percent bonds
last month that yielded 399 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
compared with a spread of 274 for debt in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Crossover Corporate index.  Icahn, 77, who became an activist investor after gaining
fame as a corporate raider in the 1980s, has taken stakes and
agitated for stockholder-friendly changes at companies from  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  to  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  That’s often at the expense of lenders,
with yield spreads on bonds sold by those two companies widening
more than a percentage point after Icahn entered the fray.  Unlike a typical “corporate borrower, you never know what
he is going to do,” said Marc Gross, a  money manager  who
oversees $3.5 billion in fixed-income funds at RS Investments in
New York. “I don’t like these one man show kind of companies,
too erratic, too dependent on one person. In the bond world, I
would rather buy something more boring and safer.”  New Notes  Icahn Enterprises is  rated  Ba3 at Moody’s Investors Service
and BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . The firm’s debt yielded an
average of 6.45 percent on Aug. 26, compared with 4.8 percent
for the average issuer in the crossover index.  The seven-year debt sale, announced July 29, was increased
from $350 million, according to a person with knowledge of the
offering who asked not to be identified because the marketing
was private. The bonds were sold at face value and were quoted
at 99.563 to yield 6.08 percent at 11 a.m., Bloomberg prices
show.  Icahn Enterprises  has been profitable in 16 of the last 18
years, posting losses during the financial crisis in 2008 and
also in 2005, Bloomberg  data  show. Revenue has jumped more than
30 percent in each of the past two years to $15.7 billion in
2012.  Buying Protection  In at least one instance, Icahn seems to have been aware of
the effect his stock purchases have on a target company’s bonds.
Temple-Inland Inc. disclosed that Icahn and his funds were
seeking government approval to buy as much as $500 million of
its shares on Feb. 4, 2005.  On Aug. 5, 2005, the day the investor reported that he’d
bought 3.54 million shares of the box maker in the second
quarter, Icahn started buying credit-default swaps, according to
a Feb. 16, 2007, filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The contracts, which typically rise as investor
perception of Temple-Inland’s creditworthiness deteriorates,
were quoted at a mid-price of 71.5 basis points that day,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill
Financial and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Icahn sold his swaps on Dec. 1 and Feb. 15, according to
the filing. The contracts were at 101.5 and 80 basis points on
those days, CMA prices show.  The average yield on Dell’s debt increased 1.2 percentage
points to 5.1 percent through Aug. 26 from March 22, before
Icahn’s stake was reported, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show. The company’s yields had already climbed before his
involvement, from 2.595 percent on Jan. 11, the trading day
before  Bloomberg News  revealed the company was said to be in
talks to go private.  Philosophy Student  Icahn is trying to thwart a buyout proposal from Dell
founder  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management LLC, favoring a
recapitalization plan that would keep the stock in public hands.  Transocean’s yields widened 1.1 percentage points to 4.27
percent since Jan. 11, before Icahn’s stake was disclosed.  After Icahn took a stake of more than 5 percent in
Transocean, the chairman stepped down and shareholders voted for
one of Icahn’s three board nominees in May, while rejecting his
a $4-a-share dividend plan in favor of a lower payout supported
by the company.  Icahn was born in Queens, New York, the son of a synagogue
cantor and a high school teacher. He attended public school then
enrolled at  Princeton University  to study philosophy. After
stints in medical school and the army, he became a stock broker
in 1961 and formed his own firm by the end of the decade.  ‘The Aura’  In 1978, Icahn began taking individual positions in
companies, making a mark in 1984 with a stake in Texaco Inc.
during its failed merger with Pennzoil, later doubling his money
on the investment. He became known as a raider after proxy
fights with Trans World Airlines, Gulf & Western, Nabisco and
Uniroyal.  Icahn has invested about $1 billion in Apple Inc. and is
trying to convince Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  to return
more cash to shareholders than already planned.  Shares of Icahn Enterprises have gained 127 percent since
Aug. 26, 2010, mostly reflecting a 65 percent advance this year,
Bloomberg  data  show. The  S&P 500 index  is up 14 percent in 2013.  Investors have accepted lower yields on debt from other
takeover-oriented companies. Blackstone Group LP paid 325 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries for its $400
million  bond issue  last August, which S&P rated A, Bloomberg
data show. KKR & Co. paid a spread of 245 basis points for A-rated 30-year bonds in January.  The spreads indicate investors feel safer with those
companies, which are better rated, have more balanced business
models, and less “key man” risk, according to Noel Hebert,
chief investment officer at Concannon Wealth Management, which
oversees about $250 million from Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania .  Icahn Enterprises “is much more tied up in the aura of its
founder,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  