-- Mighty River Says N.Z. Power Demand to Flatten as Economy Grows
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-28T00:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/mighty-river-says-n-z-power-demand-to-flatten-as-economy-grows.html
Power demand in  New Zealand , which
is selling stakes in generators, is forecast to remain flat even
as construction-led economic growth heads toward 3 percent, said
Mighty River Power Ltd.  “I don’t see economic conditions where you are going to
return to the same correlation between gross domestic product
and electricity that we’ve had historically,” Mighty River’s
Chief Executive Officer Doug Heffernan said today on a
conference call. “We are in for a period that’s going to keep
demand running at relatively flat level for the future.”  Power demand in New Zealand has fallen in four of the past
five years after a decade when power consumption grew at about
the same pace as gross domestic product, Heffernan said. Subdued
power consumption is overshadowing Prime Minister John Key’s
plan to raise at least NZ$5 billion ($3.9 billion) from the sale
of stakes in government-owned power companies.  About 48 percent of Mighty River, the nation’s fourth-biggest power company, was sold in May, raising NZ$1.7 billion
after its shares were offered at NZ$2.50 apiece. Key will offer
shares in Meridian Energy Ltd., the nation’s largest generator,
next month, and Genesis Power Ltd. next year.  Mighty River  shares , which dropped to a record low last
week, rose as much as 1.8 percent to NZ$2.23 after the company
said full-year net income was NZ$114.8 million, beating the
NZ$94.8 million forecast made at the time of the initial public
offering.  Construction-led  The current economic recovery is linked to construction and
“that is not a leading indicator of electricity consumption,”
Heffernan said. It has no new developments planned in New
Zealand for at least three-to-five years.  Power demand has declined as large industrial users such as
the  paper industry  have reduced capacity and as appliances used
in homes have become more efficient, Heffernan said. Consumption
at Rio Tinto Group’s aluminum smelter at Tiwai Point near the
southern tip of New Zealand has also declined, he said. The
plant uses about 14 percent of the nation’s power.  Meridian this month agreed with Rio to sell it power at a
lower price in return for a commitment to keep operating the
smelter until at least January 2017.  “The deal announced is better than the prognosis we
outlined in the offer document,” Heffernan said. “If the
smelter gives notice that will impact on thermal generators,
there’s no two ways about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  