-- India’s Rupee Plunges Most in 20 Years to Record; Bonds Decline
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s ,   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-08-28T16:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/india-s-rupee-plummets-past-68-to-record-stocks-bonds-tumble.html
India ’s rupee plummeted the most in
two decades to a record as a surge in  oil prices  threatened to
worsen the current account and push the economy toward its
biggest crisis since 1991. Bonds fell.  The U.S.,  France  and the U.K. are considering limited
military action against  Syria  after concluding the regime used
chemical weapons against civilians, fanning concern unrest will
disrupt Middle East oil supplies. The tension has worsened a
rout that’s seen global funds pull $8.7 billion from local debt
since end-May on bets the  Federal Reserve  will pare stimulus. A
7.4 percent jump in  Brent crude  this month is set to boost costs
for India, which imports almost 80 percent of its oil.  “The market is in a super-panic stage,” said Samir Lodha,
senior partner at QuantArt Market Solutions Pvt. in Mumbai.  The rupee slumped 3.9 percent to an unprecedented 68.8450
per dollar in Mumbai, the biggest drop since 1993, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency lost
13.7 percent this quarter and 20.1 percent this year, headed for
the worst annual loss since a balance of payments crisis in 1991
forced the nation to pawn gold to pay for imports.  The yield on the benchmark 7.16 percent government bonds
due May 2023 jumped 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point,
to 8.96 percent, according to data from the Clearing Corporation
of India Ltd.’s website. The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  of shares closed 0.2
percent higher at 17,996.15 after falling earlier to the lowest
level since September 2012. MCX gold futures climbed to a record
today, as investors sought a store of value.  ‘Crisis Proportions’  “India’s macro muddle is fast approaching crisis
proportions,”  Richard Iley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
 Singapore , wrote in a research report today. “Downward pressure
on asset prices is unlikely to abate until the rupee becomes
decisively cheap, maybe weaker than 70, or the authorities
deliver ‘shock and awe’ tightening.”  India’s budget and current-account deficits are responsible
for the rupee’s slide, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
said in  New Delhi  yesterday. The government is taking steps to
contain the shortfall in the broadest measure of trade to within
$70 billion in the year through March 2014, he added, compared
with an unprecedented $87.8 billion the previous period.  The  Reserve Bank of India  will operate a special foreign
exchange swap facility to meet the daily dollar needs of state-owned oil marketing companies, it said in a statement on
website. The central bank will sell and buy dollar-rupee swaps
for a fixed tenor through a designated bank for Indian Oil Corp,
Bharat Petroleum Corp. and Hindustan Petroleum Corp., it said.  Oil, Economy  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  won a rare victory by passing
a landmark bill through the lower house of parliament on Aug. 26
that expands the world’s biggest food program, a key plank of
his party’s re-election strategy. The plan involves spending
about 1.25 trillion rupees ($18.3 billion) in subsidies each
year, potentially worsening the fiscal gap.  The nation’s petroleum imports averaged $14.2 billion in
the first seven months, compared with $13.9 billion a year
earlier, official data show. The government will devise by mid-September a plan to cut energy imports, Oil Minister Veerappa
Moily said in New Delhi today.  India’s gross domestic product probably rose 4.6 percent in
the three months ended June 30, the least since the first
quarter of 2009, according to the median of 41 estimates in a
Bloomberg  survey  before official data due Aug. 30. BNP Paribas
today cut its growth forecast for India for this fiscal year to
3.7 percent from 5.2 percent, after the  Reserve Bank  of India
engineered a cash crunch last month to shore up the rupee. That
would be the slowest pace since 1992.  Indian stocks may extend this year’s declines because of
the nation’s external deficits and the capital flight from
 emerging markets , according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Rising Risk  “We are not yet prepared to say we have hit the lows and
therefore it’s time to go and turn more positive” on Indian
shares, Timothy Moe, Chief Asia Pacific Equity Strategist at
Goldman Sachs, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV India.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
jumped 491 basis points to 22.24 percent, the highest since
January 2009.  Credit-default swaps insuring the debt of  State Bank of
India (SBIN) , considered a proxy for the sovereign, against non-payment
climbed 111 basis points this month to 371 as of Aug. 27, CMA
prices show. The contracts jumped 64 basis points last quarter,
the most since the three months to Sept. 30, 2011.  Forwards Drop  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 1.1 percent to
70.52 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts advanced 1.1 percent to 69.64. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  Since the start of July, Indian policy makers have curbed
trading in foreign-exchange derivatives, restricted cash supply
and asked foreign investors to prove they aren’t speculating on
the rupee, in an attempt to arrest the currency’s slide.  “Quite clearly, there is panic in the market which is
exacerbated by the fact that the measures invoked so far have
delivered limited results,”  Madan Sabnavis  and Anuja Jaripatke,
economists at  Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. (CARE)  in Mumbai, wrote
in a report today. “The Fed meeting in September will provide
more clarity on currencies, and till then it is unlikely that
the rupee will stabilize.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  