-- India’s Nifty Futures Slump as Rupee Extends Slide Amid Outflows
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-08-28T01:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/india-s-nifty-futures-slump-as-rupee-extends-slide-amid-outflows.html
Indian stock-index futures declined
after the rupee extended a record slump amid concern capital
outflows will accelerate.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for August delivery fell 1.5
percent to 5,231 at 9:20 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index sank 3.5 percent to 5,287.45 yesterday. The S&P BSE
Sensex tumbled 3.2 percent to its lowest level since Aug. 21.
The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India  ADR Index of U.S.-traded
shares plunged 3.8 percent, the biggest loss since June 20. The
rupee slumped the most since 1996 to a record low 66.19 per
dollar yesterday, while one-month rupee forwards lost as much as
2.3 percent to an all-time low 68.24 today.  The rupee has depreciated 17 percent this year, worsening
the impact of rising oil prices, making imports costlier and
adding pressure on India’s balance of payments at a time when
the economy is growing at the slowest pace in a decade and the
prospect of a cut in U.S. stimulus is fueling fund outflows.
International investors were net sellers of  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks for a
sixth day on Aug. 26, data showed yesterday.  “This is entirely our own making,” Rahul Chadha, co-chief
investment officer at Mirae Asset Global Investments Hong Kong
Ltd., which has $40 billion in equities, said on Bloomberg TV
India yesterday. “We were enjoying huge foreign institutional
investor inflows and today when we have seen a little bit of an
outflow, the rupee has become so shaky.”  Syria Concerns  Foreign investors  sold a net $86.1 million of Indian shares
on Aug. 26, according to data from the regulator. That pared
this year’s net inflow to $11.8 billion, still the second-highest among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Asian stocks fell for a second day amid concerns the U.S.
will take military action against  Syria . The U.S. said on Aug.
26 President  Barack Obama  will hold Syria accountable for using
chemical weapons against its people, fanning concern unrest in
the region will disrupt fuel supplies.  Brent crude  has increased 6.9 percent in August, heading
for the largest monthly advance in a year, boosting costs for
India, which buys almost 80 percent of its oil abroad. India is
also the world’s top buyer of gold, which has gained 15 percent
this quarter.  Dollar-based investors have lost 25 percent from Sensex
shares in 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The index has
lost 7.5 percent this year and  trades  at 12.9 times projected
12-month earnings. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is trading at
9.8 times.  The Sensex’s 30-day  volatility  measure, a gauge of price
swings, rose to 22.6 yesterday, the highest level since January
2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shares of  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , India’s largest state-owned energy explorer, may be active after the company said it
plans to sell its 25 percent stake in a Gujarat petrochemical
project. ONGC has appointed Ernst & Young to find a buyer, K.S.
Jamestin, the company’s business development director, said in
phone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  