-- Iran Pragmatism May Keep Nuclear Talks Alive After Syria Strikes
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2013-08-28T14:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/iran-pragmatism-may-keep-nuclear-talks-alive-after-syria-strikes.html
Iran ’s interest in better relations
with the West is likely to keep nuclear talks on track even if
the U.S. and allies attack Iranian ally Syria to punish it for
using chemical weapons, analysts said.  Iran’s new president, Hassan Rohani, took office this month
after winning election on a pledge to repair ties with Western
powers that are squeezing the Islamic republic’s economy with
sanctions to halt its nuclear program. That spurred expectations
of a resumption of international talks on the issue, which
stalled in April.  The  proposed strikes  against Syria, denounced by Iranian
leaders, may delay that process without derailing it. The U.S.
has warned it’s ready to use force against Iran, too, to stop it
obtaining atomic weapons. Rohani, whose mandate for economic
revival requires an easing of the tensions, will probably win
out over any hardliners advocating anti-Western policies in
solidarity with  Syria , said Volker Perthes, director of the
Berlin-based German Institute for International and Security
Affairs, which advises Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government  “Strikes would make Iran see that the U.S. is serious
about red lines,” Perthes said in a phone interview. While
there’ll be protests from Iran, “the pragmatists will win the
day by saying ‘Look, we don’t like the U.S. but we have to deal
with them.’”  New Team  Iran held five rounds of talks with the U.S. and leading
world powers in the 12 months through April, without resolving
differences. Rohani has started putting together a new team to
oversee Iran’s nuclear program and negotiations with the West.  Iranian leaders deny they are seeking to build atomic
weapons, as alleged by the U.S. and Israel, which has also
threatened military action if diplomacy can’t halt the program.
Iran has continued to develop its technology as it participated
in talks. The  International Atomic Energy Agency  said today that
Iran has boosted its output of uranium and upgraded machinery,
though progress has slowed since May.  Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , the ultimate
decision maker on all major affairs of state including nuclear
policy, said on Aug. 3 when he endorsed the new president that
he approves of Rohani’s “prudent” and measured approach toward
the West.  Khamenei has spoken out against intervention in Syria,
saying today that it would be a “disaster.” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Abbas Araghchi told reporters yesterday that Western
strikes would “engulf the whole region.”  ‘Strong Statements’  Brent crude  has risen more than 5 percent in the past week
as tensions mounted over Syria. Iran has in the past threatened
to close the Straits of Hormuz, a key transport route for oil
supplies, if attacked.  If the attack does happen, it may lead to some friction
between Rohani and more radical elements including the
Revolutionary Guards and some clerics, yet Iran’s public
response will probably be limited to “strong statements,” said
Mahjoob Zweiri, a professor of Middle East politics at Qatar
University in Doha.  “Iran has its own concerns, wants to reduce the impact of
sanctions, wants to have its financial system engaged with the
international system,” he said. On the nuclear issue, “they
may delay negotiations, but I’m not sure they will stop them.”  Iran’s economy suffered as the U.S. and European Union
tightened sanctions in recent years.  Oil output  is near a 25-year low, inflation has exceeded 37 percent, and gross domestic
product will shrink 1.3 percent this year according to
International Monetary Fund forecasts.  No Regime Change  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and his allies have said that
they don’t intend to seek the overthrow of Syria’s President
Bashar al-Assad through the proposed military strikes, which are
instead aimed at punishing his government for its alleged use of
chemical weapons.  Rebel groups that have been fighting to topple Assad for 2
1/2 years, with backing from the U.S. and its European and Arab
allies, say more than 1,300 people were killed in the chemical
attack last week in a region near Damascus. Syria’s government
has denied responsibility.  The extent of the Western action in Syria may determine how
far Iran can decouple its support for Assad from its plans to
re-engage the West, said  David Hartwell , Middle East analyst at
research firm IHS Jane’s, by phone from  London .  Strikes probably won’t be limited to a single day, though
the U.S. and its allies are still working to define the goals of
a prospective campaign, a U.S. official said today, speaking on
condition of anonymity to discuss war planning efforts.  ‘Acceptable Storm’  A “fairly limited strike involving some form of punitive
action,” which stops well short of seeking to remove Assad,
“may be an acceptable storm for the Iranians to weather,”
Hartwell said. “That will be something they can ride out, and
in six months come back to talks with the U.S.”  Asked whether a Western attack on their Syrian ally would
lead Iran’s policy makers to conclude that their country would
be safer if it had nuclear weapons, Hartwell said that “it’s
probably already the Iranian calculation.”  The Islamic republic perceives the nuclear arsenals of
 Israel  and  Pakistan  as threats, he said. “As far as they’re
concerned, it’s a question of how the West is willing to respond
and make concessions to alleviate those concerns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  