-- Iran’s Uranium Stock Stagnates as Reactor Delayed, IAEA Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-08-28T14:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/iran-s-uranium-stockpile-grew-2-since-may-iaea-reports.html
Iran’s stock of uranium, the heavy
metal at the center of the Islamic Republic’s clash with the
 United Nations , stagnated and the country delayed the startup of
a new reactor, monitors reported.  While Iran’s total production of uranium enriched to 20
percent rose to 372.5 kilograms (821 pounds) from 324 kilograms
in May, its stockpile of material that could be purified into
bomb material at short notice grew 2 percent, the Vienna-based
 International Atomic Energy Agency  said today in a 14-page
restricted report. It has converted or is in the process of
converting 186.7 kilograms, or 50 percent of the stockpile, into
reactor fuel, leaving it with 185.8 kilograms of material.  Even as the agency “continues to verify the non-diversion
of declared nuclear material” it isn’t “in a position to
provide credible assurance about the absence of undeclared
material.” IAEA officials will negotiate with their Iranian
counterparts Sept. 27 to try to win access to suspected sites.  The report comes amid looming military strikes against
 Syria  -- a key Iranian ally that has in the past also been
accused of concealing nuclear work -- in response to chemical-weapons use against rebel-controlled areas.  Iran ’s new
president, Hassan Rohani, has been angling to give his office
more sway over atomic negotiations.  The amount of uranium enriched to 5 percent rose to 9,704
kilograms from 8,960 kilograms in May, according to the report.
Iran installed 46 percent more advanced centrifuges and
currently has 1,008 stationed at its fuel-enrichment plant in
Natanz.  Reactor Delayed  In a letter dated Aug. 25, Iran told the IAEA that it would
delay startup of its Arak heavy-water reactor. The UN has
demanded that work on the facility, which may produce plutonium
that can be used for nuclear weapons when operational, be
stopped.  While Arak’s reactor vessel is in place, “a number of
other major components had yet to be installed, including the
control room equipment, the refueling machine and reactor
cooling pumps,” the IAEA said. Iran, which had intended to
begin testing Arak in the first quarter of 2014, didn’t project
a new date.  Iran did make progress on other fronts, according to the
report. The country will begin test-producing medical isotopes
made with domestically produced fuel during the first week of
September.  About 175 kilograms of 20 percent-enriched uranium, or 630
kilograms of low-enriched uranium, if further purified, could
yield the quantity of weapons-grade uranium needed to produce a
bomb, according to the London-based Verification Research,
Training and Information Center, a non-governmental observer to
the IAEA that’s funded by European governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  