-- Iraq to Cut September Basrah Light Crude Exports to 20-Month Low
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-08-28T09:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/iraq-to-cut-september-basrah-light-crude-exports-to-20-month-low.html
Iraq  will reduce daily exports of
Basrah Light crude from the  Persian Gulf  in September to the
lowest in at least 20 months, according to a loading program
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The Middle Eastern producer, the largest in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia , will ship about 52.86 million barrels, or 1.76 million
barrels a day, from the Basrah Oil Terminal, according to the
plan. This is the lowest since at least February 2012 when
Bloomberg started tracking the data and compares with 2.09
million a day this month.  Basrah Light shipments were forecast to drop by about
500,000 barrels a day in September because of planned
infrastructure work at the terminals by State Oil Marketing
Organization, the  International Energy Agency  said in its
monthly report on Aug. 9. Iraq will boost exports next month, an
Oil Ministry official said Aug. 16.  Brent crude  jumped 7.3
percent to about $115.50 a barrel today on supply cuts in Iraq
and Libya, and speculation that fighting in Syria may escalate.  “Volumes will be curtailed only in September but the fear
is the shut-in could drag on for months given the scope of the
work as well as the country’s poor record of delivering projects
on time,” the IEA said. “The plans call for one of the two
floating Single Point Moorings to be shut for between 30 and 45
days so that work can proceed on connecting a newly installed
metering and manifold platform.”  The maintenance works are routine and won’t affect export
levels, said  Asim Jihad , an Iraq oil ministry spokesman.  The shipping schedule comprises 20 cargoes of 2 million
barrels each, 10 consignments of 1 million barrels and four of
715,000 barrels.  Iraqi exports of Kirkuk blend via the Turkish port of
Ceyhan will drop to the lowest in two years, according to a
separate loading schedule.  Loading programs are schedules of crude shipments compiled
by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan their
supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  