-- Iron Ore to Steelmakers Increases as Indian State Restarts Mines
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-08-28T08:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/iron-ore-to-steelmakers-increases-as-indian-state-restarts-mines.html
Karnataka,  India ’s second-largest
iron ore producing state until a 2011 court ruling restricted
mining, is set to increase supplies to steelmakers as banned
quarries restart operations after meeting environmental norms.  “About half of more than 100 miners have been allowed to
restart mining based on the court-laid out conditions,” S.
Shankarnarayana, Karnataka’s mines director, said today in a
telephone interview. “Output from some of these mines has
started reaching the market.”  Miners including  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , the nation’s biggest iron ore
producer, will sell as much as 4.4 million metric tons in August,
the biggest monthly sales since the  Supreme Court  eased the ban
on mining in September last year. The southern province, having
sold about 1.8 million tons this month, is offering mills
another 2.6 million tons by Aug. 30, according to data from the
state’s mines department.  The top court last year partially allowed 18 mines in the
state to restart after securing required approvals. Higher
supplies would benefit steelmakers including  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ,
which had to run its biggest factory in the state at a lower
capacity because of a lack of raw material.  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , controlled by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , is
in the final stages of securing approval from the environment
ministry and expects to restart mining in August, Managing
Director Prasun Kumar Mukherjee said in an earnings call on July
30. Sesa, whose annual mining capacity in the state had fallen
to 2.29 million tons from 6 million tons before the ban, expects
to reach its original capacity by March, he had said.  “Supplies will only increase as more mines restart,”
Shankarnarayana said. “Sesa is seeking a permit and the state’s
output will rise further after it restarts.”  The court had halted mining in Karnataka to probe
environmental breaches and allowed only state-run NMDC to mine
and sell 1 million tons a month, via online auctions. While
lifting the restriction, the court allowed the state to produce
as much as 30 million tons of  iron ore  each year, saying it was
sufficient to meet local needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  