-- Italian Bond Yield Reaches Six-Week High Before Auction
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-28T16:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/italian-bond-yield-reaches-six-week-high-before-debt-auctions.html
Italy ’s  10-year bonds  rose for the
first time in four days after comments made by an ally of former
premier  Silvio Berlusconi  spurred optimism a split in the
government coalition will be avoided.  The benchmark yield fell from a six-week high as Renato Brunetta, chief whip of Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party,
said Italy will scrap part of an unpopular property tax, easing
concern the issue would cause the group to leave the coalition.
German bonds dropped along with U.S. Treasuries as demand for
safer assets waned after the securities rallied earlier this
week amid speculation America and its allies will launch a
military strike on  Syria .  “There seems to be a relief rebound as the comment
suggested that some form of agreement was reached between
Berlusconi’s and the ruling party,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of
European rate strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank in  London . “While this may help to reduce political
tension for now, it doesn’t remove it.”  Italy’s 10-year yield fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 4.41 percent at the 5 p.m. close of trading
in London after climbing to 4.48 percent, the highest level
since July 18. The 4.5 percent bond due May 2023 rose 0.32, or
3.20 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,332) face amount, to 101.055.  Cabinet Meeting  The cabinet of Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta is
meeting in  Rome  to discuss the property tax that was imposed
last year as an emergency austerity measure. Berlusconi wants to
scrap the bulk of the levy and may retaliate if he feels Letta’s
cuts don’t go far enough.  Berlusconi was convicted of fraud linked to  tax evasion  in
the purchase of U.S. film rights for his broadcast company
Mediaset SpA. His People of Liberty party threatened to withdraw
its support if Letta’s Democratic Party votes to end his mandate
as a senator.  “We all know that there have been political challenges in
Italy and I trust that the political leaders try to ensure
political stability,” European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in an interview in Brussels.
“It’s important for economic stability and recovery.”  Italy sold 8.5 billion euros of six-month bills today at an
average yield of 0.886 percent, up from 0.799 percent at the
prior auction on July 29. The Treasury will offer as much as 6
billion euros of debt due in December 2018 and March 2024
tomorrow, the first auction of conventional bonds since July.  Spanish Bonds  Spain ’s  10-year yield  climbed four basis points to 4.53
percent after rising to 4.58 percent on Aug. 22, the highest
level since Aug. 7.  The extra yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds over similar-maturity Italian securities expanded eight basis points to 12
basis points after shrinking to three basis points yesterday,
the narrowest since March 2012.  The U.S. and its allies are moving closer to a military
strike against Syria in response to an alleged chemical weapons
attack near Damascus last week. President  Barack Obama  plans to
release an intelligence assessment this week and U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said Britain will put forward a draft
resolution at the United Nations today authorizing action to
protect civilians.  German 10-year bund yields climbed three basis points to
1.88 percent after dropping nine basis points during the
previous two days.  Bunds declined even after  Gfk SE (GFK)  said a gauge of German
consumer sentiment, based on a survey of about 2,000 people,
will fall to 6.9 in September from 7 this month, spurring demand
for safer investments.  Finland Sale  Finland sold 4 billion euros of notes maturing in 2018
through banks today, with 80 percent of the sale allocated to
overseas investors. The security was priced to yield 16 basis
points below the benchmark mid-swap rate.  Volatility in Greek bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets followed by those of Finland and  Germany , according to
measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Italian bonds returned 3.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spain’s
rose 7.6 percent, while Germany’s declined 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  