-- Iwata Urges Patience for BOJ Easing to Penetrate Real Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-08-28T10:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/iwata-urges-patience-for-boj-easing-to-penetrate-real-economy.html
Bank of  Japan  Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata said it will take time for the bank’s unprecedented easing
to extend from asset markets to Japan’s economy.  “Please don’t be disappointed yet that the impact of
easing hasn’t appeared in the real economy,” Iwata said today
in a speech in Kyoto, western Japan. The central bank’s easing
is “still in its early stages, and I hope you will be patient
enough to see its effects permeate the economy.”  Iwata’s comments signal concern that optimism among
households and businesses may start to weaken, with wage growth
and  capital spending  still stagnant even after the central bank
introduced unprecedented easing in April to stimulate inflation.
A planned sales-tax increase next year could also trigger a
contraction in the economy, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “Iwata doesn’t want to damage the optimism emerging in the
economy before the economic benefits reach households and
businesses,” said Kazuhiko Ogata, chief Japan economist at
Credit Agricole SA. in  Tokyo . “He wanted to emphasize that
monetary easing will clearly support the economy and eventually
raise wages, which is the key for generating inflation
expectations.”  Wages in Japan  fell or were unchanged  in 10 of the 12
months through June. The economy grew an  annualized 2.6 percent 
in the second quarter from the previous period, with consumer
and government spending driving the expansion as capital
spending dropped for a sixth quarter.  Stagnant Wages  It is less than 5 months since the bank introduced
qualitative and quantitative easing, Iwata said in his first
public speech after becoming a board member in March. “It will
take some more time before we start seeing persistent and steady
pickups in prices and wages.”  Until joining the  Bank of Japan , Iwata, 70, was a professor
at Gakushuin University in Tokyo. He was known as a long-time
critic of Japan’s monetary policy, calling for more aggressive
measures. Iwata had advocated the BOJ focus on increasing the
amount of money in the economy, the policy the central bank
adopted in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  