-- Japan Nuclear Watchdog Casts Doubt on Tepco Tank Monitoring
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-08-29T08:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/japan-nuclear-watchdog-casts-doubt-on-tepco-water-leak-reporting.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s inexact
monitoring of contaminated water stored at the Fukushima atomic
plant may have led the utility to overstate last week’s storage
tank leak, according to  Japan ’s nuclear regulator.  The 300-metric-ton loss reported by the utility known as
Tepco was based on an assumption that the tank had been full
before the leak, Shunichi Tanaka, chairman of Japan’s Nuclear
Regulation Authority, told reporters yesterday in Tokyo. That
assumption may not have been reliable, since there was no gauge
measuring the individual tank’s water level, he said.  “We have no idea whether it’s actually 300 tons that
leaked,” Tanaka said. “We need to look into this issue more.”  Tokyo Electric’s management of contaminated water at the
 Fukushima plant  has already drawn fire from Shinji Kinjo, leader
of a disaster task force at the NRA, who has said the utility
was careless in its monitoring of the  storage tanks  and failed
to keep records of its inspections.  Managing the water, which is increasing at a rate of 400
tons a day, is a fundamental challenge for Tepco as it struggles
with the cleanup of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, a process that
could take as long as 40 years.  Tepco’s shares fell 2.6 percent to 497 yen at the close of
Tokyo trading. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.9 percent.  Leak Questions  Tanaka’s remarks yesterday came hours after the NRA said it
had finalized its ranking of the leak, based on Tepco’s
reckoning, as a level 3 “serious incident” on the seven-stage
International  Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale , or INES, its
worst assessment of the problems at Fukushima since the
earthquake and tsunami of 2011 caused reactors to melt down.  The NRA may reconsider its INES ranking should further
studies show different amounts of water loss than those provided
by Tepco, Tanaka said.  “It’s up to us to provide accurate data to the nation,”
he said.  The leak may have begun some time in July, Mayumi Yoshida,
a Tepco spokeswoman, said yesterday. Tepco characterized the
leak as small when it was first detected on Aug. 19, prompting
the NRA to designate it a 1, or an “anomaly,” on the INES
scale.  The higher ranking was assigned after Tepco determined by
the change in the tank’s water level that 300 tons of
contaminated water had escaped.  Rating Changes  The International Atomic Energy Agency  said in a  statement 
posted on the NRA website yesterday that the Japanese agency
should explain why last week’s leak merited an INES rating while
previous incidents did not.  The leak was the fifth and largest storage tank spill since
January 2012, according to Tepco, which also stopped using
underground basins to store water after several leaks were found
in April 2013.  The IAEA also advised the NRA to communicate the severity
of plant incidents more clearly and to avoid confusing the
public with upgrades and downgrades.  “Frequent changes in rating will not help to communicate
the actual situation in a clear manner,” the IAEA said in the
statement.  David Lochbaum , the director of the Union of Concerned
Scientists in the U.S., faulted the NRA for only responding to
safety problems rather than working to avoid those lapses.  Safety Concerns  “A good regulator does not wait for bad things to happen
and then write tickets for the offenses,” Lochbaum said in an
e-mail. “A good regulator monitors activities and ensures that
there are multiple barriers in place each with sufficient
reliability to reduce the chances that all barriers fail to a
very small number.”  Another of Tepco’s challenges was highlighted yesterday
when Niigata Governor Hirohiko Izumida said he would continue to
resist the restart of the company’s Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear
power plant, which is located in his prefecture.  “There remain concerns about whether safe operations are
possible or not,” said Izumida, who also accused the NRA of
adopting too narrow a mission that neglects the safety of local
residents.  Izumida’s approval is critical before Tepco can go ahead
with plans for the restart of Kashiwazaki-Kariwa, the world’s
largest nuclear power station by generating capacity.  The governor of Fukushima, who was also in  Tokyo  yesterday
to meet with Trade Minister Toshimitsu Motegi, asked that Tepco
be strictly monitored by the government as it pursues the
cleanup. Governor Yuhei Sato also asked for a review of ocean
monitoring done by Tepco and the government.  Motegi said during an Aug. 26 visit to the plant that the
government would assume leadership of the utility’s water-management efforts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  