-- Japan Nuclear Agency Must Focus on Safety, Niigata Governor Says
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-08-28T06:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/japan-nuclear-agency-must-focus-on-safety-niigata-governor-says.html
The mission of Japan’s nuclear
regulator is too narrow and neglects the safety of local
residents, said Hirohiko Izumida, the governor at the center of
the debate over whether to restart  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s (9501) 
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear power plant.  The Nuclear Regulation Authority isn’t listening to the
concerns of local officials, Izumida, governor of Niigata
prefecture, told reporters today in  Tokyo  where he criticized
 Tokyo Electric  for putting financial considerations ahead of
safety.  Izumida’s approval is critical before Tepco, as Tokyo
Electric is known, can go ahead with plans for the restart of
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa, the world’s largest nuclear power station by
generating capacity.  The governor’s comments come as Tepco grapples with ways to
plug a toxic outflow of water from its wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant 220 kilometers (137 miles) northeast of
Tokyo.  The leak at a contaminated water storage tank, discovered
last week at the Fukushima plant, may have continued since last
month before it was detected and the tank drained, Tepco said.  Crews found elevated levels of radiation in July near where
the leak was ultimately detected on Aug. 19, Mayumi Yoshida, a
Tepco spokeswoman said today by phone.  Tepco originally characterized the leak as a small one
before determining by the change in the tank’s water level that
300 metric tons of contaminated water had escaped. A protective
barrier around the tank didn’t stop the leak because a valve in
the concrete structure had been left open, Tepco said.  Japan ’s nuclear regulator last week labeled the leak a
“serious incident” in its worst assessment of the problems at
Fukushima since the earthquake and tsunami of 2011 caused
reactors to melt down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  