-- Israel Bolsters Defenses Amid Talk of US Syria Strike
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-08-28T14:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/netanyahu-consults-with-security-ministers-as-syria-strike-looms.html
(Corrects to  Israel  in seventh paragraph.)  Israel’s military bolstered its
defenses near the northern border, media reported, and Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  warned against any retaliatory
attack on his country, amid signs the U.S. is preparing to
strike  Syria  over its alleged use of chemical weapons.  With talk of war escalating, the prime minister tried to
reassure Israelis that they were in safe hands. “There is no
reason not to follow routine,” Netanyahu said in an e-mailed
statement today. “At the same time, we are preparing for any
scenario. The Israeli military is ready to protect the people of
Israel and to respond forcefully against any threat.”  The army deployed a second Iron Dome missile defense system
outside the city of Haifa and put an Arrow missile defense
battery on alert for medium-range weapons including the Shihab
missile developed by  Iran , the Ynet news site reported, without
saying where it got the information. Israel Radio reported that
cabinet ministers approved a limited reserves callup. Military
spokesmen said they were checking the reports.  Both  Syria  and Lebanon, home to the Hezbollah militia
backing the Syrian government in its war against rebels, lie to
Israel’s north.  According to some Syrian opposition groups, 1,300 people
died in an Aug. 21 chemical attack in the Ghouta area outside
Damascus. U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  denounced the
alleged assault as a “cowardly crime” requiring a response
against the Syrian government.  Foreign Intervention  It would be the first foreign military intervention against
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad since fighting broke out more
than two years ago, claiming more than 100,000 lives, according
to United Nations estimates.  Iranian officials have said any Western attack on ally
Syria could result in reprisals targeting Israel. During the
first  Gulf War  in 1991, Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein  fired Scud
missiles at the Jewish state after the U.S. attacked Iraq for
invading  Kuwait .  Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon told a Tel Aviv conference
that Israel does not seek to interfere in the Syria conflict and
wants to maintain quiet on its borders, yet will respond to any
“provocation.”  In recent years, Syria has avoided engaging the Israeli
military even when it was suspected of direct attacks on Syrian
targets, including a suspected nuclear site in 2007 and arms
convoys and facilities this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  