-- Nintendo Cuts Wii U Price Ahead of Microsoft, Sony Debuts
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-08-29T06:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/nintendo-cuts-wii-u-price-ahead-of-microsoft-sony-debuts.html
Nintendo Co. (7974)  cut the price of its
Wii U video-game console by $50 and unveiled a new handheld
player as the company tries to boost sales in the months before
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  release competing machines.  The suggested price of the Wii U in the U.S. will drop to
$299.99 on Sept. 20, Kyoto, Japan-based Nintendo said yesterday
in a statement. The company won’t lower the console’s cost in
 Japan , where it sells for a suggested 30,000 yen ($307).
Nintendo also introduced an entry-level 2DS portable machine
going on sale Oct. 12 for $129.99.  President Satoru Iwata took the helm of U.S. operations to
drive sales growth at the creator of Mario and Zelda before new
versions of rival consoles arrive for the  holiday shopping
season . Yet combined sales for Nintendo’s hardware totaled 1.8
million units in the quarter ending in June, compared with 3.1
million a year earlier, as more customers migrated to mobile
devices for playing online games.  “They needed to cut the Wii U price to stay competitive,”
 Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los
Angeles , said in an e-mail. “But it probably won’t help much
over the long term.”  Nintendo  fell  1.3 percent to 11,840 yen, the lowest since
July 8, in  Tokyo  trading. The stock has gained 31 percent this
year, compared with a 30 percent jump in the broader Topix
index.  2DS Unveiled  The Wii U, released in November, has missed sales targets
and will be challenged by the upcoming Microsoft Xbox One and
Sony PlayStation 4. At $299.99, Nintendo’s machine is priced
$100 below Sony’s PlayStation 4, which makes its debut in
November, and $200 below Microsoft’s Xbox One, which hasn’t
specified a release date.  The 2DS has no hinges like the original DS or 3DS. It will
have two screens and be able to play 3DS games in 2-D. It will
be $40 cheaper than the 3DS, yet won’t be sold in Japan, company
spokesman  Yasuhiro Minagawa  said.  “The handheld market will be challenged on the casual side
by mobile games,” Pachter said, adding that the lower price for
the 2DS console may spur handheld sales between 20 and 25
percent.  Nintendo has forecast global 3DS sales of 18 million this
fiscal year, up from 13.95 million last year. The company sold
1.4 million 3DS units in the three months ended June, down from
1.86 million a year earlier, Nintendo said Aug. 1.  Mario, Zelda  The company said in June it will release more of its own
titles to boost demand for the Wii U. A limited edition Wii U
bundle, featuring “The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker HD,”
will also begin selling on Sept. 20, Nintendo said yesterday.  Nintendo is targeting sales of more than 5 million of its
3DS handheld console units in Japan this year, President Satoru Iwata said at a Capcom Co. event in Tokyo Aug. 27. The company
plans to introduce a series of “strong titles” after “Monster
Hunter 4,” he said.  New titles for the Wii U, including “Super Mario 3D
World” and “Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze,” will go on
sale in the fourth quarter, the company said.  “The price cut will affect earnings directly,” said  Eiji Maeda , an analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo.
“Nintendo is counting on a weaker yen to help absorb the
impact” from the price cut, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  