-- Northeast Asia LNG Prices Drop on Ample Supply, Weak Demand: WGI
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-08-28T01:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/northeast-asia-lng-prices-drop-on-ample-supply-weak-demand-wgi.html
Liquefied natural gas prices for
Northeast Asia dropped this week due to ample supply and reduced
demand for spot cargoes, according to  Energy Intelligence Group.   The cost of LNG for delivery over the next four to eight
weeks was $15.25 per million British thermal units in the period
ended Aug. 26, down from $15.40 the previous week, the New York-based research company said on the website of its World Gas
Intelligence publication. Southwest Europe gas declined to
$11.65 from $11.90.  LNG prices are forecast to fall this week, according to
four of five traders surveyed by  Bloomberg News  through Aug. 23.
Asian buyers typically purchase fewer cargoes in September and
October as power consumption drops with cooler temperatures.  Buyers in North Asia have large inventories of gas, which
has reduced demand for spot shipments. Utilities in  Japan , the
world’s largest buyer of LNG, need as much as two cargoes in
October, WGI said.  There may be spot LNG shipments available from  Russia ,
Indonesia, Brunei, Malaysia, the  Middle East  and North  Africa  to
meet demand for October, according to the research company.  Nigeria LNG Ltd., Africa’s biggest exporter of the fuel,
closed a tender Aug. 17 to sell two cargoes loading in
September. One shipment was awarded to Malaysia’s state-owned
oil and gas producer, Petroliam Nasional Bhd., which sent the
tanker Seri Bijaksana to load the supercooled gas, a company
official said Aug. 26. Deliveries from Nigeria LNG resumed last
month after the company lifted a force majeure.  Trinling Ltd. and Point Fortin LNG Exports Ltd., gas
companies from  Trinidad & Tobago , are separately offering to
sell one cargo each for September loading with their tenders
closing Aug. 23 and Aug. 26, respectively, Bloomberg reported
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  