-- Obama Says Evidence Shows Syrian Regime Used Chemical Arms
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n ,   J o e   S o b c z y k   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-08-28T22:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/obama-says-evidence-shows-syrian-government-used-chemical-arms.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
has concluded that the Syrian government used chemical weapons
against its citizens, calling it a grave breach of international
norms that demands a strong response.  The president said the conclusion was reached after
reviewing “all the evidence.” Obama said that while he’s been
given options by the Defense Department he hasn’t made a
decision to use U.S. military forces against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  In an interview with PBS’s “NewsHour” program, Obama said
the U.S. and its allies need to send “a pretty strong signal”
that will deter further use of chemical arms. Any move by the
U.S. would be a limited “shot across the bow,” he said.  “We want the Assad regime to understand that by using
chemical weapons on a large scale against your own people --
against women, against infants, against children, that you are
not only breaking international norms and standards of decency,
but you’re also creating a situation where U.S. national
interests are affected, and that needs to stop,” Obama said.  The U.S. and its NATO allies began yesterday presenting
their justification for military action against  Syria  as they
advanced plans for conducting a strike. The Obama administration
is preparing a declassified intelligence analysis to provide
evidence that the Syrian government was behind the Aug. 21
attack in a town outside Damascus.  International Consequences  “We have looked at all the evidence” and concluded the
Syrian opposition doesn’t have chemical weapons or the means to
deliver them, Obama said on PBS. “We have concluded that the
Syrian government in fact carried these out. And if that’s so,
then there need to be international consequences.”  The U.S. and the U.K. today said they are prepared to take
military action against Syria without United Nations backing
after Russia objected to a British draft of a resolution
authorizing a strike.  “By far the best thing would be if the United Nations
could be united, unlikely as that seems in the face of the
vetoes from  Russia  and  China  that we’ve had in the past,” U.K.
Foreign Secretary William Hague told reporters in  London . “If
there isn’t agreement at the United Nations, then we and other
nations still have a responsibility on chemical weapons.”  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said
Syria “cannot hide behind Russian intransigence at the Security
Council.”  Sending Signal  The U.S. is concerned that letting the Syrian government go
unpunished would send a signal to other countries, including
North Korea, that have large inventories of chemical weapons, as
well as making it likely that the Assad government will attack
civilians with such weapons again, according to a U.S. official
who asked not to be identified discussing war-planning.  While the U.S. has warships and submarines carrying
Tomahawk cruise missiles ready for action in the eastern
Mediterranean Sea, any military move may still be days away, in
part because a team of UN weapons inspectors needs at least two
more days to complete its report. Obama and British Prime
Minister David Cameron also have yet to rally support from
lawmakers and voters at home.  Cameron today backed down from asking lawmakers for
immediate support for military strikes on Syria after the Labour
opposition demanded a delay until the report from the UN team is
finished.  U.K. Parliament  If Labour opposes military action, Cameron may struggle to
win approval from the House of Commons, as some of his own
Conservative lawmakers have publicly expressed reluctance to
back such a move. Parliament debate is scheduled to begin today
and Cameron pledged to hold a further vote before any action is
taken.  Members of the U.S. Congress, who don’t return from a
recess until Sept. 9, have been pressing Obama to seek their
approval for any action by U.S. forces.  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, released a
statement last night saying Obama has a duty to provide “a
clear, unambiguous explanation” of how any military action
would advance U.S. objectives, as well as how it fits with
congressional authority to make declarations of war.  In the U.S. and Britain, polls have shown a majority of the
public opposes further involvement in the Syrian conflict. The
prospect of a military confrontation in the Middle East, a
region that produces 35 percent of the world’s oil, has rumbled
through markets. Stock markets in the region slumped for a
second day yesterday as oil prices reached a two-year high.  Oil Rises  West Texas Intermediate oil climbed 1 percent to $110.10 a
barrel after climbing as much as 3 percent to $112.24. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.3 percent to 1,634.96 as
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. rose more than 2 percent.  Allied leaders are working to define the goals of a
military strike on Syria, according to the U.S. official. Any
use of force won’t be limited to a one-day operation, the
official said.  Among the options being explored are how to deter and
degrade Syria’s chemical-weapons capability and defeat the Assad
government’s defense capabilities, another U.S. official said,
also speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal
policy deliberations.  Separate discussions are being held on whether, when and
how to accelerate and expand military and intelligence
assistance to mainstream Syrian rebels groups in an effort to
prevent extremist groups affiliated with al-Qaeda from reaping
the benefits of Western attacks on the Assad regime, said a
third U.S. official who requested anonymity to discuss possible
covert action programs.  Amid the diplomatic dueling at the UN, the Obama
administration is consulting with NATO allies, including  Turkey ,
as well as Arab nations such as Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Qatar and
the United Arab Emirates, to determine which countries would
participate in a military operation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  