-- Obama Meets Panel Reviewing U.S. Surveillance Programs
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-08-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/obama-meets-panel-reviewing-u-s-surveillance-programs.html
President  Barack Obama  met for the
first time yesterday with a panel he requested to review U.S.
collection of telephone and Internet data, according to a White
House statement that identified the group’s members.  The panel includes Richard Clarke, a former U.S.
cybersecurity adviser; Michael Morell, a former deputy CIA
director; Geoffrey Stone, a University of Chicago law professor;
Cass Sunstein, a Harvard Law School professor; and Peter Swire,
who served earlier on Obama’s National Economic Council.  The review group was among a series of steps Obama
announced at an Aug. 9 White House news conference to quell
growing public and congressional criticism of programs that
scour data on communications by U.S. citizens to look for links
to terrorist activity.  “It’s not enough for me as president, to have confidence
in these programs,” Obama said at the news conference. “The
American people need to have confidence in them as well.”  The panel will provide interim findings to Obama within 60
days to be followed by a final report, according to the White
House statement. The group’s goal, according to the statement,
is to examine how the U.S. “can employ its technical collection
capabilities in a way that optimally protects our national
security and advances our foreign policy while respecting our
commitment to privacy and civil liberties.”  The steps follow Americans’ expressions of unease with the
surveillance activities. In a survey released July 26 by the Pew
Research Center, 56 percent of Americans said the courts don’t
set adequate limits on the information collected, and 70 percent
of Americans said they believe the government is using the data
for purposes beyond anti-terrorism.  Divided Public  Even with those objections, 50 percent of those surveyed
said they approve of the programs while 44 percent disapproved.  The debate was ignited after revelations about two National
Security Agency programs by former computer security contractor
Edward Snowden, who has been charged by federal officials with
illegally leaking classified documents. Snowden, 30, is in
 Russia , which has granted the former  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding
Corp. (BAH)  employee temporary asylum.  The NSA has been collecting millions of phone records from
American citizens and monitoring cross-border  Internet traffic .
Government officials say the surveillance is authorized by a
secret court under the Patriot Act, passed after the Sept. 11
attacks, and is needed to prevent future terrorist strikes.  The government cited intercepted communications among
terrorist groups in announcing earlier this month that almost
two-dozen U.S. diplomatic posts in some predominantly Muslim
countries would be temporarily shut because of an attack threat.  Lawmakers’ Concerns  Lawmakers from both parties have raised concerns about the
legal rationale for the data collection. They have zeroed in on
the program that gathers millions of phone records from U.S.
citizens into government computers, authorized by the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court under the Patriot Act. The
court, which operates in secret, has come under scrutiny for
being too willing to approve intelligence-agency requests.  Obama said during his news conference that he will ask
Congress to change the section of the Patriot Act allowing
collection of telephone records, to increase oversight and
transparency. He said he’ll also propose a legal advocate to
serve as an adversary when spy agencies make requests in the
secret sessions of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court,
which vets requests for electronic eavesdropping.  A House proposal to take away funding for the NSA programs
-- which was vigorously opposed by the Obama administration --
came seven votes short of passing July 24.  Panel Members  The panel members identified by the White house have a
range of experience in government, including in intelligence
roles. Morell, 54, worked for the Central Intelligence Agency
for more than 30 years after beginning his career there as an
analyst in 1980. He served as acting CIA director after the
resignation of David Petraeus in November until  John Brennan  was
sworn in as CIA director in March.  Clarke, 62, served on the U.S. National Security Council
under Presidents  Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush . He’s now the
chairman of Good Harbor Consulting LLC, an Arlington, Virginia-based adviser on cybersecurity risk management.  The 55-year-old Swire, who served on the National Economic
Council from 2009 to 2010, is now a professor at the Georgia
Institute of Technology. He’s also co-chairman of the Tracking
Protection Working Group, a standards body that seeks to shield
consumers from being tracked online by advertisers.  Sunstein, 58, who served in Obama’s first term as head of
the U.S. Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, is a
Bloomberg View columnist. Stone specializes in constitutional
law at the  University of Chicago  and is the author of the book,
“Perilous Times: Free Speech in Wartime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  