-- Hockey Unveils A$31.6 Billion in Budget Savings Ahead of Ballot
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-08-28T03:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/hockey-unveils-a-31-6-billion-in-budget-savings-ahead-of-ballot.html
Australia ’s opposition coalition,
leading in opinion polls before the Sept. 7 election, said it
would make A$31.6 billion ($28.3 billion) of budget savings over
four years as it trims the civil service and cuts business
compensation linked to the carbon tax.  “All coalition policies are fully costed and fully
funded,” Shadow Treasurer Joe Hockey said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Only the coalition can be trusted to get the
budget back under control.”  A Liberal-National government would save A$5.2 billion by
cutting 12,000 public servants, and A$7.5 billion by scrapping
compensation and other spending associated with the government’s
carbon price mechanism, Hockey said. Eradicating spending linked
to the government’s 30 percent tax on coal and iron ore profits
would save A$4.7 billion, he said.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  and Labor Prime Minister
 Kevin Rudd  have put management of the economy at the center of
the election campaign amid a slowdown as the China-led mining
investment boom wanes. The ability of the major parties to
deliver pre-election sweeteners has been constrained by falling
government revenue, with Treasury predicting a budget deficit of
A$30.1 billion for the 12 months through June 2014.  Hockey said the A$9.8 billion outlay for the coalition’s
proposed Paid Parental Paid Leave Scheme would be more than
covered by scrapping existing government policies in that area,
and by a 1.5 percent levy on company taxable income above A$5
million.  Surplus Pledge  The coalition, which is pledging to produce a  budget
surplus  equal to 1 percent of gross domestic product within a
decade, only needs to gain four more seats in the 150-seat lower
house to form government. The coalition is leading Labor by six
percentage points on a two-party preferred basis, according to a
Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper Aug. 26.  Abbott and Rudd, both aged 55, will take part in a
televised debate -- the last of three in the election campaign -
- in Sydney later today.  “Abbott has a dog of a policy and it’s called paid
parental leave,” Rudd told reporters in Brisbane today.
“People don’t like leaders who arrogantly think they have the
election in the bag and try to avoid scrutiny.”  The coalition’s two-party preferred vote fell 1 percentage
point from the week before to 53 percent, according to Newspoll.
Labor rose 1 point to 47 percent. The measure is designed to
gauge who is most likely to form a government under Australia’s
preferential voting system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  