-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Crude to Two-Year High on Syria Concern
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-08-28T06:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/top-oil-market-news-wti-crude-to-two-year-high-on-syria-concern.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Crude Rises to Two-Year High on Syria; SocGen Sees $150 Risk  West Texas Intermediate crude surged to the highest price
since May 2011 on concern that conflict in  Syria  may spread and
threaten oil supplies from the Middle East.  Gas Price Jump Seen in Record Europe Stockpiling: Energy Markets  Europe’s utilities are replenishing natural gas reserves at
the fastest pace on record, risking a surge in prices as the
region’s winter heating season looms.  Brent Crude May Spike to $150 on Syria Spillover, SocGen Says  Brent crude may “spike briefly” to $150 a barrel if a
U.S.-led attack on Syria sparks further conflict in the Middle
East and leads to supply disruptions, Societe Generale SA said
in a report e-mailed today.  Asia Fuel Oil Crack at Two-Year Low, Gasoil Rises: Oil Products  Asia fuel oil falls to largest discount to Dubai crude in
more than two years, indicating wider losses from producing the
residual product. Gasoil crack rises.  Oil Inventories Rose 2.47 Million Barrels Last Week, API Reports  Oil supplies rose 2.47 million barrels last week, the
American Petroleum Institute said.  CNPC’s Jilin, Liaohe Oil Fields Halt on Worst Floods Since 1998  295 oil wells in Jilin field halt production as of Aug. 7
as floods hit northeast  China , co. says in newsletter posted on
website.  Petronas Said to Sell October Tapis at $7.50 to $7.80 Premium  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the Malaysian state oil company
known as Petronas, sold 300,000 barrels of Tapis crude for Oct.
10 to Oct. 20 loading at $7.50 to $7.80 a barrel above Dated
Brent, said two people who participate in the market.  Engen Petroleum Said to Buy Reliance’s Gasoil at $5.30 Premium  South Africa’s Engen Petroleum Ltd. bought 35,000 metric
tons of gasoil for September loading from Reliance Industries
Ltd., owner of the world’s largest refining complex, said two
traders who asked not to be identified because the information
is confidential.  Petters, Detroit, Capmark, AMR, Lehman, Rotech: Bankruptcy (1)  General Electric Capital Corp. temporarily defeated eight
of nine fraud claims in a $1 billion lawsuit brought by
creditors of hedge funds swindled by the  Thomas Petters , the
architect of the third-largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Syncrude Coker 8-1 Restarts After Planned Maintenance  Unit is back in operation, Co. said in statement
distributed by Marketwired.  Crude Supply Rises First Week in Four in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. crude supplies probably rose for the first time in
four weeks after refineries reduced operating rates as the end
of the peak-driving season approached, a Bloomberg survey
showed.  Shell Scotford Refinery Conducting Planned Maintenance  No material impact to production from unspecified
maintenance at the Shell Scotford refinery in  Alberta , Co. says
in community hotline message.  Delek Tyler Refinery Said to Shut Unit for October Maintenance  Delek US Holdings Inc. plans to shut an alkylation unit at
the Tyler, Texas, refinery for maintenance in October, a person
familiar with operations said.  N.Y. Gasoline Snaps Rally as Northeast Plant Restarts FCC Unit  New York  Harbor gasoline fell from the strongest level in
six months as a refinery in the U.S. Northeast restarted a unit
following a shutdown.  Crude Supply Rises First Week in Four in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. crude supplies probably rose for the first time in
four weeks after refineries reduced operating rates as the end
of the peak-driving season approached, a Bloomberg survey
showed.  Tesoro Says Operations Normal at Golden Eagle After Planned Work  Co. said N. California refinery operating normally,
according to spokeswoman Tina Barbee.  N.Y. Gasoline Snaps Rally as Northeast Plant Restarts FCC Unit  New York Harbor gasoline fell from the strongest level in
six months as a refinery in the U.S. Northeast restarted a unit
following a shutdown.  Motiva Says Convent Refinery Operating as Planned After Fire  Co. said refinery operating as planned after an Aug. 19
fire in one of the refinery’s process units.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  was unchanged at 10.36 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  European Jet Fuel Imports Rise to Three-Month High in August (1)  Jet fuel shipments to Europe from the Middle East and Asia
are poised to rebound to a three-month high as buyers replenish
inventories after stockpiles dropped to a five-year seasonal
low.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Stocks Fall as Oil Reaches 18-Month High on Syria, Gold Rallies  Stocks slid the most since June and oil surged to an 18-month high amid concern the U.S. will take military action
against Syria. Treasuries, the yen and gold rose while  Turkey ’s
lira and  India ’s rupee reached record lows.  U.S. Said to Weigh Legal Justification for Attack on Syria (1)  The Obama administration is constructing the legal and
political justification for a limited military strike on Syria
that would demonstrate international censure against chemical
weapons, according to a U.S. official.  Entergy to Close Vermont’s Only Nuclear Plant on Low Prices (3)  Entergy Corp. will permanently shut its Vermont Yankee
nuclear power plant in 2014 after battling for years with state
officials to keep the 41-year-old reactor in service.  Fuel Fraud Costing Europe More Than $4 Billion in Lost Taxes (2)  The watchman at  Germany ’s largest oil refinery, the MiRO
plant in Karlsruhe, would wait until a fellow security guard was
out of sight before sending a text message that it was safe to
drive a 10,000-liter tanker of stolen diesel out the gates.  Tepco ‘Whack-a-Mole’ Means Government Takeover in Fukushima (1)  Japan’s government will lead “emergency measures” to
tackle radioactive water spills at the wrecked Fukushima nuclear
plant, wresting control of the disaster recovery from the
plant’s heavily criticized operator, Tokyo Electric Power Co.  U.S. Moving With Allies Closer to Military Strike on Syria (1)  The U.S.,  France  and Britain are moving closer to
retaliatory military action against Syria, laying out the
justification, putting forces into place and rounding up allies
in the region.  Syria Vows Defiance as U.K. Parliament Recalled Over Chemicals  Syria vowed defiance as Britain’s Parliament was recalled
to discuss possible military action over an alleged chemical
attack near Damascus and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said U.S.
forces are “ready to go.”  China Widens Anti-Graft Drive as PetroChina Ousts Managers (2)  China widened its anti-corruption campaign to include the
nation’s biggest company by market value, as PetroChina Co. said
four senior managers had been removed amid an investigation by
authorities.  Petrobras Downgrade to Junk Seen in Default Swaps: Brazil Credit  Petroleo Brasileiro SA is being treated like junk by
derivatives traders as the most-leveraged major oil producer
goes deeper into debt to finance its record $237 billion
spending spree.  Tepco Must Plan for 132 Olympic Pools of Fukushima Water: Energy  Tokyo Electric Power Co. has accumulated the largest pool
of radioactive water in the history of nuclear accidents. The
utility must now decide what to do with it: dump in the ocean,
evaporate into the air, or both.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Drop While Crude Climbs on Syria as Rupee Slumps  Asian stocks dropped for a second day, credit risk climbed
and oil rose on concern the U.S. will take military action
against Syria. India’s rupee sank to a record and government
bonds in  Australia  advanced.  Yen Holds Biggest Gains in 2 1/2 Months as Syria Tension Mounts  The yen held its biggest gains in 2 1/2 months against the
dollar and euro as traders sought haven investments amid
escalating tension in Syria.  Yen’s Rising Correlation With Stocks Undermines Abe: Currencies  The strongest link in four decades between Japan’s currency
and stocks signals gains for the yen that threaten Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s attempt to eliminate deflation.  Asian Stocks Head for Two-Month Low as Syria Tensions Escalate  Asian stocks slumped, with the regional benchmark index
heading for the lowest close in two months, on concern the U.S.
will take military action against Syria for using chemical
weapons.  Hyundai to Hynix Top Asia Buying as HSBC Bullish: Korea Markets  South Korean stocks have gone from Asia’s most-hated
equities to the favorites of international investors after
valuations fell to a six-year low versus global shares and
exports rebounded.  Potash King Becomes Hostage as Belarus Pokes Putin: Commodities  As Belarus television showed the Russian head of OAO
Uralkali, the world’s biggest potash producer, being led around
the courtyard of an undisclosed prison, Anatoly Lebedko knew
exactly where it was: Amerikanka.  Silver Futures Climb Above $25 as Gold Gains on Syria Concerns  Silver for December delivery extends advance, climbing as
much as 1.4% to $25.045/oz, highest for most-active contract
since April 15.  Vietnam  Rises as Middle Power at Defense Summit: Southeast Asia  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel meets his Vietnamese
counterpart Phung Quang Thanh in Brunei today, as the
competition for oil, fish and influence puts Vietnam in focus as
an emerging middle power in Southeast Asia.  Tomahawk Missile Launches Likely in a U.S.-Led Attack on Syria  Tomahawk cruise missiles are likely to be launched at night
against hundreds of Syrian targets, including some of President
Bashar al-Assad’s elite military units, if the U.S. and allies
launch a military strike in retaliation for the use of chemical
weapons.  SPORTS  Liverpool Survives in League Cup as Bristol City Upsets Palace  Liverpool and Hull needed extra time to defeat lower-division teams in the second round of the League Cup, while
Fulham advanced in a penalty shootout and Crystal Palace was
upset.  Arsenal Secures 16th Straight Champions League Group Stage Berth  Arsenal defeated Fenerbahce 2-0 to reach the group stage of
soccer’s Champions League for the 16th consecutive season.  Arsenal Beats Fenerbahce to Reach Champions League Group Stage  Arsenal defeated Fenerbahce 2-0 to advance to the group
stage of soccer’s Champions League.  ENERGY PRICES  Last     Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----    ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      111.67   +2.66  +2.4  Nymex     Oct.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    116.75   +2.39  +2.1    Ice  October
Gasoil ($/Ton)         977.00  +14.00  +1.5    Ice     Oct.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       309.21   +5.80  +1.9  Nymex    Sept.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.58   +0.04  +1.2  Nymex    Sept.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    117.72   +1.45  +1.3    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            320.54   +4.45  +1.4  Nymex    Sept.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            81.25  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,420.20  +1.9
MSCI World Index     1,480.44  -0.3  Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  