-- Morgan Lewis, Outten & Golden, Cooley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-28T12:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/morgan-lewis-outten-golden-cooley-business-of-law.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  violated the
 National Labor Relations Act  by requiring five former employees
to use binding arbitration after they joined a class-action suit
involving overtime pay, an administrative law judge of the
 National Labor Relations Board  said.  In an Aug. 21 ruling, Steven Fish, the administrative law
judge, relied on a 2012 labor board decision that says requiring
an employee to relinquish his or her right to sue is counter to
the NLRA.  “By maintaining a binding arbitration agreement that
waives the right to maintain class or collective actions in all
forums, whether arbitral or judicial,” the bank engaged in
unfair labor practices, Fish wrote.  Fish said that while some courts have questioned the
rationale of the 2012 ruling, he was bound by it unless it’s
overturned by the courts.  JPMorgan can file objections to the ruling with the full
labor board. If the board upholds the ruling, the bank can
appeal in federal court.  Morgan Lewis  & Bockius LLP represented JPMorgan. Jonathan
Fritts, a partner at Morgan Lewis, declined to comment on the
ruling. Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  The plaintiffs were represented by Outten & Golden LLP, a
firm specializing in employment law.  “The arbitration agreements frustrated the right to engage
in concerted activity, which includes bringing a lawsuit over
how you’re paid,” said Michael Scimone, a lawyer with Outten.  The case is JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Chase Investment
Services Corp. 02-CA-098118. The federal court case is Lloyd v
JPMorgan Chase, 1:11-cv-09305, U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Courts  Facebook’s Settlement Over ‘Sponsored Stories’ Approved  A federal judge on Aug. 26 approved a $20 million
settlement of a lawsuit against  Facebook Inc. (FB)  which claimed the
social networking site used subscribers’ names without their
permission to advertise products in its “Sponsored Stories.”  Under the settlement users can claim a $15 payment, and
funds left over will go to advocacy groups. While the deal
initially approved by the judge in December included a $10 per
claimant settlement, U.S. District Judge Richard Seeborg wrote
in the order that “so few persons have filed claims that the
parties” increased the amount.  Seeborg held that “the court is satisfied that the
revisions to the terms of the settlement are sufficient to
warrant preliminary approval under the applicable standards.”  Cooley LLP represented Facebook in the litigation.  The case is Fraley v. Facebook Inc., 11-cv-01726, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Jose ).  Law Firm News  Squire Sanders Adds Health-Care Partner in Cincinnati Office  Adam Colvin joined Squire Sanders LLP as a partner in the
health-care practice group in Cincinnati.  Colvin focuses his practice on regulatory and transactional
matters, including fraud and abuse issues, joint ventures,
purchase and sale of physician practices, employment and
recruitment agreements and the establishment of ambulatory
surgery centers.  “We are very excited for Adam to join our health-care
practice group,” David Grauer, head of the practice group, said
in a statement. “His talent and extensive health-care
experience will create new opportunities and will add to the
level of service we can provide our clients.”  Holland & Knight Opens Office in Mexico City  Holland & Knight LLP is opening a new office in  Mexico  City
after previously operating in Mexico through a joint venture
established in 1998.  The office, which continues the firm’s expansion in  Latin
America , will be led by Boris Otto, the former managing partner
of the Mexico City office of Chadbourne & Parke LLP. Alejandro Landa Thierry and José Antonio Prado, formerly with Chadbourne &
Parke, will join Holland & Knight. Two counsel, Miriam Grunstein
and Leslie Palma, and five associates expand the firm’s Latin
American practices.  The Mexico City office will focus on corporate finance,
energy, project finance,  capital markets , mergers and
acquisitions, securitizations and private equity.  “We see enormous potential in Mexico for the firm and its
clients,” Steven Sonberg, the managing partner of Holland &
Knight, said in a statement. “Mexico is a dynamic market and
many of our clients have operations or interests there.”  Ballard Spahr Expands Its New York Office  Justin Angelo joined the consumer financial services group
of Ballard Spahr LLP in New York.  Angelo, who joins the firm from the Fort Lauderdale office
of Greenberg Traurig LLP, has experience defending banks and
non-banks against claims under various residential mortgage and
other consumer laws, including the Truth in Lending Act, Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices
Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act and Equal Credit Opportunity Act.  The firm opened its  New York  office on July 1 when it
joined with Stillman & Friedman, a boutique litigation firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 