-- OTP Falls to 2013 Low on Banks’ Loan Plans: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-08-28T11:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/otp-falls-to-2013-low-on-banks-loan-plans-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s biggest
lender, dropped for a third day to the lowest this year after
the country’s banks said they would assume losses as part of
plans to phase-out foreign-currency mortgages.  Shares fell as much as 1.9 percent and were down 0.5
percent to 4,170 forint by 12:40 p.m. in Budapest, the lowest
level since Dec. 28 on a closing basis. Banks would assume a
burden of “several hundreds of billions of forint over a period
of several years,” Mihaly Patai, head of the Banking
Association, told reporters yesterday after presenting proposals
to Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga .  Hungary’s lenders, burdened by the largest bank tax in
 Europe  and a levy on financial transactions, face additional
losses as the government plans to phase out $8 billion in
foreign-currency mortgages. Borrowers fell behind on payments as
the forint plunged and the Swiss franc soared following the 2008
global credit crisis.  “Uncertainty is still weighing on OTP’s share price,”
 Akos Kuti , the Budapest-based head of research at Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt., said in an e-mailed note.  OTP has slumped 8 percent in August, extending a 4.7
percent decline in July, when the government announced its
plans. The slump in emerging-market assets fueled by political
tension in  Syria  and speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve
will reduce the size of its asset purchases have added to the
shares’ losses.  Hungary’s cabinet is set to discuss the banks’ proposal
today and talks are scheduled to continue tomorrow.  “Should a deal be finally reached, that would help the
shares a lot,” Zsolt Kondrat, an economist at MKB Bank Zrt.,
the Hungarian unit of  Bayerische Landesbank , said in an e-mailed
note.  The share’s 14-day relative strength index  fell  to 36.3,
the lowest in more a month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A reading below 30 suggests to some traders a stock
may be poised to rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  