-- How to Make a Limited Strike on Syria a Bigger Victory
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-28T22:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/how-to-make-a-limited-strike-on-syria-a-bigger-victory.html
The U.S. government now  says  it has
little doubt that the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
used chemical weapons against its own people on a “massive
scale.” This makes a military response imperative but not
necessarily urgent.  If the purpose of a retaliatory strike on  Syria  is to
uphold an established  international norm  against the use of
chemical weapons -- a purpose we strongly support -- then the
best thing for the  Barack Obama  administration to do is to make
its case for intervention as deliberately and publicly as
possible.  Carried out at the  United Nations  and in foreign
ministries, legislatures and public forums around the world,
such a campaign can rally support for a prohibition that
underpins security and peace, with positive ramifications far
beyond the  Middle East . It can also help isolate those who have
defended and backed Assad, beginning with Iran,  Russia  and
China, and undermine their ability to do so in the future.
Although the Obama administration has rightly made a distinction
between an action to uphold a global norm and one to change the
course of Syria’s civil war, pursuing the former will also
advance the latter.  A crucial element will be the  evidence  that the U.S. uses
to support its case. As defense analyst  Anthony Cordesman  has
 noted , the forthcoming unclassified intelligence report on
Syria’s culpability will be the intelligence community’s “most
important single document in a decade.” Given the ugly blot on
U.S. intelligence from  Iraq , we hope that this report errs on
the side of disclosing sources and methods.  Letting UN inspectors in Syria finish their work -- which
they have said will take four more days -- is also essential to
garnering global support. So, too, is allowing U.S. allies such
as the U.K. and  France  the time for their own public debates,
which are just starting. More time and public evidence might
also enable the U.S. to persuade the  Arab League  to move from
condemning Assad to endorsing action against him.  More broadly, we would hope that before any operation gets
under way, Syria’s transgressions are given a prominent place on
the agenda of next week’s Group of 20 meetings, and that it
produces a debate that shames Russia’s  Vladimir Putin  for arming
Assad and, so far, blocking effective action against Syria at
the UN Security Council.  Russia and China will doubtless keep vetoing Security
Council resolutions that justify a use of force against Syria.
Yet there is substantial precedent in international law for
taking action nonetheless, especially if the U.S. succeeds in
attracting wide support. And documenting and publicizing Assad’s
brutality will raise the reputational cost of defending him, a
penalty that China may soon grow unwilling to pay: Unlike
Russia, it has no naval bases to lose and needs Middle Eastern
oil.  The more convincingly the case against Assad is made, the
more likely he will be held to account for what Secretary of
State  John Kerry  has called a “moral obscenity.” In that
respect, a speedy military response is likely to be a less
effective one. We have no expectation that a limited military
strike will be of huge strategic value: The civil war will grind
on, in part because the opposition has yet to offer up any clear
alternative leadership. But in defending what should be one of
the international system’s bedrock values, the U.S. and its
allies will have achieved a victory.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 