-- Lloyd’s Internal Probe Said to Be Focus of N.Y. Inquiry
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/lloyd-s-internal-probe-said-to-be-focus-of-n-y-inquiry.html
A  New York  regulatory investigation
of Lloyd’s of  London  for possible violations of Iran sanctions
law has led to a government request for files of an internal
probe by the insurer, a person familiar with the matter said.  Lloyd’s, along with  Swiss Reinsurance Co. (SREN) , were among
several companies reported July 1 to be the subject of the
inquiry by New York’s Department of Financial Services, or DFS.
Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky  asked the insurers about their
procedures to avoid violations of the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012, according to a letter from the
department.  Lawsky has now asked for details on a Lloyd’s probe, which
was triggered by his initial request for information, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t
public. Lloyd’s disclosed to Lawsky’s office July 30 that it has
contracts with two firms,  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and Trafigura
Beheer BV, that were linked to alleged shipments of aluminum to
Iran, the person said.  “Reviewing all aspects of managing agents’ performance is
part of the day-to-day role of overseeing the Lloyd’s market,”
Matt Drage, a Lloyd’s spokesman, said in a statement. “This
includes conforming with all applicable international sanctions,
which we have always done.”  The DFS said in the June 25 letter that it learned that
several insurers issued coverage that applied to trades made
with  Iran , including one policy issued by a group of European
domiciled companies. The policy and the resulting claim payment
“would likely violate the IFCPA,” the DFS said, referring to
the act.  Ron Klug, a DFS spokesman, declined to comment on the
probe.  ‘Legal Obligations’  “Swiss Re is aware of its legal obligations and has a
robust program in place to assure full compliance,” Michael
Gawthorne, a spokesman for the Zurich-based company, the world’s
second-biggest reinsurer, said when the probe was first
reported. “Any suggestion that Swiss Re is in violation of
trade sanction laws against Iran is without merit.”  In the June letter to the insurance companies, the DFS said
it is seeking information about insurers’ plans for compliance
and due diligence to avoid violations of the law.  The regulator asked the companies for a copy of every
policy issued to Glencore or Trafigura that will remain in force
after July 1, according to the letter.  Trading Pattern  The department cited news reports of “a pattern of
trades” made by Glencore and Trafigura with Iranian entities.
At least one trade involved Glencore’s shipment of alumina to
the Iranian Aluminum Co. in exchange for processed aluminum.  Century Aluminum Co. (CENX)  said in a regulatory filing in March
that affiliates of Glencore entered into sales contracts last
year with entities controlled by Iran. Non-U.S. affiliates of
Glencore, Century’s largest shareholder, entered into sales
contracts for wheat and coal and sale and purchase contracts for
metals and metal oxides, the company said.  Besides Lloyd’s and Swiss Re, companies contacted by the
DFS include Hannover Re Ltd., XL Insurance Ltd. and Assured
Guaranty Re Ltd. Assured said it wasn’t contacted by the
regulator. Representatives for the other companies couldn’t be
reached for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  