-- Toyota Refines Battery Chemistry to Improve Next Prius
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-08-29T00:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/toyota-refines-battery-chemistry-to-improve-next-prius.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which dominates
the hybrid-vehicle market with its Prius, said the company’s
next generation of batteries will be more efficient and improve
mileage.  Toyota’s future hybrids will have batteries with higher
energy density and power, Satoshi Ogiso, chief engineer for the
Prius line, hybrid vehicles and plug-in hybrids, told reporters
yesterday. He didn’t give details about when the carmaker’s next
hybrids will arrive or specifics about mileage.  “The current Prius has been America’s fuel economy king
for many years,” Ogiso told reporters at a  briefing  in
Ypsilanti,  Michigan . Toyota is “very motivated” to continue
improving its Prius mileage after boosting fuel economy by about
10 percent with second- and third-generation models.  The Toyota City, Japan-based company has mulled over the
future of its Prius line and potential changes, such as a
departure from the hybrids’ aerodynamic wedge shape, to boost
demand. The carmaker is facing increasing competition from  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  hybrids and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s fully electric cars
after years of dominating the green-car market.  Upcoming hybrid powertrains from Toyota will get
“significantly improved” fuel economy in a more compact,
lighter and lower-cost package, Ogiso said. The company has
accelerated research, development and production capacity for
nickel-metal hydride and lithium-ion solid state and lithium-air
battery technologies, he said.  5 Million Hybrids  Toyota has delivered more than 5 million hybrid Toyota and
Lexus models globally since offering the first Prius in  Japan  in
late 1997 and the U.S. three years later. Hybrids account for 16
percent of the company’s sales, compared with less than 3
percent at Ford and 2 percent at Honda Motor Co.  Toyota has wavered on whether it will meet a goal of
selling 250,000 Prius vehicles in the U.S. this year.  Jim Lentz ,
chief executive officer of Toyota’s North American operations,
said in June the company was “on target” after suggesting in
April that it may need to lower its forecast.  While U.S. demand for hybrids has fluctuated based on
economic conditions, consumers will increasingly factor in
environmental concerns over the long term, said Kazuo Ohara,
chief executive officer of Toyota’s U.S. sales unit.  “Longer term, hybrids have a potential to grow,” Ohara
told Bloomberg in an interview yesterday. “Maybe Prius has
bigger potential than gas-based products.”  Ford has sold 53,014 electrified vehicles in the U.S. this
year through July, almost five times its deliveries a year
earlier. The Dearborn, Michigan-based carmaker lowered the
mileage rating for its C-Max hybrid car this month and said it
will make one-time payments to customers because of the change.  Long Bridge  Tesla’s U.S. sales may have totaled 10,401 vehicles in the
first seven months of this year, according to an estimate by
Autodata Corp. The researcher didn’t track  Palo Alto ,
California-based Tesla’s deliveries last year.  Toyota sees a role for purely electric cars, albeit a much
smaller one than what hybrids now play for Toyota, said  Bob Carter , senior vice president of the carmaker’s U.S. sales unit.
The company’s “core technology for 15 years and for the next
foreseeable future” is hybrids, he told reporters.  There has been debate in the industry about whether hybrid
technology is a “bridge” to other technologies, Carter said.  “If it is a bridge, it’s a very, very long bridge -- 50,
60, 70 years out,” he said.  Restyled Model  More a technical curiosity than a sales success in its
early days, the original Prius’s nickel-metal hydride battery
pack and motor were exotic for a mass-market car. An exterior
design modified from Toyota’s Yaris sedan detracted from its
appeal.  Toyota restyled the Prius in late 2003 with a raked hood
and windshield that flowed seamlessly into the roof line. The
new look, coupled with  oil prices  that rose for six straight
years starting in 2002, cleared the way for sales success.  In 2004, the first full year the second-generation car was
available, worldwide Prius sales jumped to 125,742, almost
triple the 43,162 delivered in 2003. Sales expanded through
2010, until Japan’s earthquake and tsunami in 2011 temporarily
slowed production of Prius models.  Sales growth in the U.S. and Japan accelerated further last
year with the creation of a “family” of Prius vehicles that
comprises the main hatchback, v wagon, c subcompact and a plug-in model.  Japan Production  Toyota has said that by the end of the decade, the Prius
may surpass the Camry and Corolla models to become the
carmaker’s top-selling vehicle line.  Prius production has been limited to Japan, where Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to weaken the yen are boosting the
value of exports and bolstering Toyota’s earnings.  “With the advent of the new Prime Minister Abe and his
policies, the yen is actually landing at a spot where, from a
global economic standpoint, it should be,” said Mark Hogan, who
in March was appointed to Toyota’s board as the first American
outside director. “Toyota is certainly a beneficiary” of a
weak yen, “but it’s more important that the Japanese economy
get going again.”  Toyota raised its  profit forecast  this month for the fiscal
year ending March to a six-year high of 1.48 trillion yen ($15
billion). Net income in its most recent quarter almost doubled
to 562.2 billion yen, 27 percent higher than the average of four
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Bigger Profit  The next version of the Prius has to retain a lead in  fuel
efficiency  among mass-market vehicles as its appearance evolves,
Chris Hostetter, Toyota’s U.S. group vice president for
strategic planning, told  Bloomberg News  in October. The car will
need better driving “dynamics,” reflecting President  Akio Toyoda ’s directive that the company build more exciting
vehicles, he said.  Hostetter said in November that the next Prius could come
as early as the 2015 model year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  