-- Pending Sales of Existing Homes in U.S. Dropped 1.3% in July
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-08-28T14:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/pending-sales-of-existing-homes-in-u-s-dropped-1-3-in-july-1-.html
Fewer Americans signed contracts in
July to buy previously owned homes, a sign that rising  mortgage
rates  are starting to slow momentum in the housing market.  The  index  of pending home sales dropped 1.3 percent, the
most this year, after a 0.4 percent decrease in June, figures
from the National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington . Economists forecast no change in the gauge from the
month before, according to a median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  Mortgage rates at a two-year high and a limited number of
existing homes are pushing some prospective buyers out of the
market, threatening to slow the pace of the recovery in real
estate. Improvements in employment and income growth would help
provide additional fuel for housing, which has been a source of
strength for the economy.  “There’s been some signs that higher mortgage rates have
negatively impacted home purchase decisions over the past six
weeks or so,” said  Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC Securities
USA Inc. in  New York , who correctly forecast the decline in
pending sales. “The fact that the uptrend appears to have been
curtailed by higher mortgage rates is somewhat of a concern.”  Estimates (USPHTMOM)  in the Bloomberg survey of 38 economists for
pending home sales ranged from a decline of 3 percent to an
increase of 5.3 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index
declined 1.2 percent at 10:13 a.m. in New York. The  S&P 500  rose
0.2 percent to 1,633.23 after dropping to an eight-week low
yesterday amid concern over a possible military strike against
 Syria .  The Realtors’ report showed  purchases (ETSLTOTL)  increased 8.6 percent
from July 2012 on an unadjusted basis.  Sales Index  The pending sales  index  was 109.5 on a seasonally-adjusted
basis, the lowest in three months. A reading of 100 coincides
with the average level of contract activity in 2001 and
“historically healthy” home-buying traffic, according to the
NAR.  “The modest decline in sales is not yet concerning, and
contract activity remains elevated, with the South and Midwest
showing no measurable slowdown,” the group’s chief economist
 Lawrence Yun  said in a statement. “However, higher mortgage
interest rates and rising home prices are impacting monthly
contract activity in the high-cost regions of the Northeast and
the West.”  By Region  Three of four regions showed a decrease from a month
earlier, led by a 6.5 percent drop in the Northeast. They fell
4.9 percent in the West and 1 percent in the Midwest. Pending
sales climbed 2.6 percent in the South.  Last week, the Realtors’ group said sales of previously
owned homes jumped in July to the second-highest level in more
than six years as buyers rushed to lock in mortgage rates before
they increased any more. Purchases advanced 6.5 percent to a
5.39 million annual rate, the strongest since a government tax
credit temporarily boosted demand in November 2009.  The group said it expects existing-home sales to reach
about 5.1 million this year and 5.2 million in 2014. Some 4.7
million previously owned homes were sold in 2012.  While rising mortgage rates may initially stimulate demand,
the appeal may wane as higher costs push potential buyers out of
the market. The  average rate  for a 30-year fixed mortgage was
4.58 percent in the week ended Aug. 22, the highest level since
July 2011.  At the current rate, the monthly payment on a $250,000 30-year loan is about $1,279. That compares with a $1,096 payment
in November, when the average rate reached a record low of 3.31
percent.  Furniture Sales  The recovery in the housing market has aided the economic
expansion as buyers look to fill their homes with furniture and
appliances.  La-Z-Boy Inc. (LZB) , a Monroe, Michigan-based maker of
living-room recliners, reported fiscal first-quarter earnings
that more than doubled from the year before, topping analysts’
estimates.  “With housing and  consumer confidence  trending upward, we
are optimistic about the future of La-Z-Boy,” Chief Executive
Officer Kurt Darrow said on an Aug. 21 conference call. The wood
portion of the furniture industry will be the “biggest
beneficiary as housing continues to strengthen,” he said.  Economists consider pending home sales a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Existing home sales are
tabulated when a contract closes, usually a month or two later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  