-- Permira Fundraising Said to Add Pace After Early Struggle
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-08-28T09:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/permira-fundraising-said-to-add-pace-after-early-struggle.html
Permira Advisers LLP’s efforts to
attract investors to its latest leveraged buyout fund are
picking up speed after the firm initially struggled to find
backers, three people with knowledge of the talks said.  The firm is in discussions with two U.S.-based institutions
ready to commit as much as $200 million each for its fifth pool,
Permira V, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. Permira may now hit its 5
billion-euro ($6.7 billion) target as soon as January, three
months before its April deadline, the people said.  Permira, which has stakes in  Hugo Boss AG (BOSS)  and German
broadcaster  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) , had found it hard to
attract capital after its previous pool, an 11.1 billion-euro
fund raised in 2006, tumbled in value following the financial
crisis. As stock markets rebounded in the past 24 months, the
valuation of the fund has climbed. London-based Permira now
values the fund at 40 percent more than the initial cost of the
investments, according to documents seen by Bloomberg.  The firm spent 18 months marketing its latest fund before
holding an initial close in April 2012 at 2.2 billion euros,
allowing it to start spending the money. Private-equity firms
typically take eight months to hold a first close, while the
average gap between that point and completing the fundraising is
14 months, according to data provider Preqin Ltd.  Officials at Permira declined to comment on the fund.  Private-equity firms typically pool money from pension
plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies within five
to six years, then sell them and return the money and a profit
after 10 years. The firms usually charge a management fee of as
much as 2 percent and keep 20 percent of the profits from
investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  