-- Philippine Stocks Slump to Eight-Month Low Amid Outflows Concern
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-08-28T08:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/philippine-stocks-tumble-to-nine-month-low-amid-outflows-concern.html
Philippine  stocks  tumbled for a
second day, sending the benchmark index to the lowest level in
eight months, amid concern that capital outflows will accelerate.
The peso fell to the lowest level in almost three years.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  dropped 3 percent to
5,738.06 at the close in  Manila . The gauge earlier slumped as
much as 6 percent to its lowest intraday level since Nov. 26.  SM
Investments Corp. (SM) , owner of the largest shopping-mall operator
and biggest grocery chain, slid 7.5 percent to the lowest since
October.  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , the nation’s biggest builder, sank 4.7
percent to the lowest level since December.  The PSE index has fallen 14 percent this  month , poised for
the steepest loss since October 2008, amid concerns that reduced
U.S. Federal Reserve stimulus will spur capital outflows and
local protests over discretionary government budgets will slow
state spending. Foreign investors have sold a net $219 million
of Philippine shares in August after buying $1.6 billion this
year through July. Global equities retreated this week on
speculation the U.S. will take military action against  Syria .  “There is global fear that the U.S. will tighten liquidity
and then add the political tension in Syria,” said Rico Gomez,
a Manila-based money manager at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp.,
which oversees about $2.8 billion. “There’s unrest for
emerging-market assets.”  The PSE gauge is  valued  at 16 times estimated earnings for
the next 12 months, the cheapest since November 2012. That’s
still the second-highest level among 21 developing-nation stock
indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
has a multiple of 9.7.  Bond Purchases  The peso fell 0.5 percent to its weakest level since
September 2010, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The yield on
the benchmark seven-year peso bond rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 3.62 percent, the highest level since
July 17, according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing
& Exchange Corp.  The Fed is expected to cut bond purchases next month,
according to 65 percent of economists in a Bloomberg survey from
Aug. 9-13. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has told Congress that
any reduction in stimulus would depend on the economy’s
performance.  Philippine, Thai and Indonesian markets led a four-year
rally in global stocks through May as corporate profits reached
record highs on rising domestic demand and Fed stimulus spurred
international investors to seek riskier assets.  The Philippine  economy  grew 7.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the fastest expansion among 17 Asia
Pacific nations tracked by Bloomberg. Second-quarter growth
probably expanded at a similar pace, Economic Planning Secretary
Arsenio Balisacan said yesterday.  The $250 billion economy expanded 7.2 percent in the three
months to June, according to a median estimate of 24 economists
before the 10 a.m. report tomorrow.  “While its fundamentals remain good, the  Philippines  can’t
be insulated from the risk aversion that’s growing primarily
from the anticipation that we are moving to a period when the
U.S. will ease on stimulus,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief
market strategist at BDO Unibank Inc. in Manila. “Throw in the
threat of a war in Syria and rising oil prices and the
temperature for emerging markets just got hotter for some
investors. It’s hard to keep elevated valuations in this
environment.”  Global funds have withdrawn about $44 billion from
emerging-market stock and bond funds since the end of May
through last week, according to data provider EPFR Global, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm that tracks fund flows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  