-- Potential Autism Trigger Found in Brain Growth Enzymes
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-08-28T17:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/potential-autism-trigger-found-in-brain-growth-enzymes.html
Some cases of  autism  may be related
to damage in a key set of enzymes that are critical during brain
growth and development, possibly helping narrow the search for
causes of the condition, researchers said.  The enzymes known as  topoisomerases  work like scissors and
glue when brain cells known as neurons are being copied or
expressed, said  Mark Zylka , an associate professor in the
Neuroscience Center at the University of North Carolina School
of Medicine in  Chapel Hill . When studies linked mutations in the
enzymes to some patients with autism last year, the researchers
sought to determine what exact effect they had on the brain.  The  study  found the enzymes are essential for the proper
functioning of some extremely long genes, including dozens of
those that have gone awry in patients with autism, Zylka said.
The researchers inhibited the enzymes with a generic cancer
medicine and found they effectively silenced about 50 genes
linked to autism, according to the study published today in the
journal  Nature .  “Our study shows the magnitude of what can happen if
topoisomerases are impaired,” Zylka said. “We think there are
probably other drugs or chemicals in the environment that can
have this same effect. We believe this is just the tip of the
iceberg. We are doing additional research to see if other
compounds like this exist, and we have hints there are others.”  One in 50 U.S. children are diagnosed with autism or a
related disorder, according to the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention . Children with autism may be unresponsive to
people, become indifferent to social activity and have
communication difficulties.  The findings should help investigators in their hunt for
causes of autism, Zylka said. While in the past scientists had
no idea what to look for, now they can quickly zero in on
compounds that inhibit topoisomerases.  “We can now systematically screen drugs for similar
effects on autism genes,” he said, explaining that other
compounds and chemicals may also cause damage. “That’s a real
future direction that has the potential to identify
environmental causes of autism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  