-- Pound Advances From 3-Week Low Versus Euro as Carney Sees Growth
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-08-28T15:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/pound-rises-from-3-week-low-versus-euro-as-carney-sees-growth.html
The pound strengthened from the
lowest level in three weeks against the euro as  Bank of England 
Governor  Mark Carney  failed to convince investors that the
central bank will keep  interest rates  at an all-time low.  Sterling pared a drop against the dollar and U.K.
government bonds fell as Carney also said the BOE will move to
boost the lending capacity of the nation’s largest banks. The
governor has sought to underpin the recovery by introducing
guidance to damp speculation that borrowing costs will rise
anytime soon. He was speaking at an event hosted by the
Confederation of British Industry in  Nottingham ,  England .  “This is a bit more neutral than the market expected,”
said Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Societe Generale SA in
London. “Anyone who expected fireworks in the prepared remarks
that would shock gilt yields into falling further and cause the
pound to weaken is going to be a bit disappointed.”  The pound strengthened 0.4 percent to 85.81 pence per euro
at 4:24 p.m.  London  time, after depreciating 0.4 percent to
86.52 pence, the weakest level since Aug. 7. Sterling fell 0.1
percent to $1.5527 after dropping to $1.5429, the lowest since
Aug. 14.  “We are focused on doing what we can to reduce uncertainty
and build resilience so that the recovery can be sustained
despite the inevitable shocks ahead,” Carney said. “Our
forward guidance was clear that, although we would not reduce
the stimulus until the recovery is secure, we would if necessary
provide more.”  ‘Volatile’ Reaction  Under the forward-guidance policy, the BOE plans to keep
its benchmark rate unchanged until unemployment, currently at
7.8 percent, reaches 7 percent. The central bank doesn’t see
that happening until the end of 2016.  “He tried to talk the market down, but it’s not working so
far,” said Christian Lawrence, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Rabobank International in London. “The speech wasn’t hawkish
but it wasn’t quite as dovish as expected by the market. We’ve
seen a quite volatile price reaction, although I wouldn’t be
surprised if sterling started to move lower.”  The pound has strengthened 5.1 percent in the past six
months, the best performance according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-nation currencies, amid
signs economic growth is gathering pace. The euro gained 4.7
percent and the dollar climbed 2.3 percent.  Reduced Holdings  Gilts dropped as Carney said the central bank will allow
the main U.K. lenders to shrink required holdings of low-yielding, easy-to-sell securities, such as  government bonds ,
once they hold capital reserves equivalent to 7 percent of their
risk-weighted assets.  The yield on the two-year gilt increased four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 0.46 percent. The 4.75 percent
security due in September 2015, fell 0.085, or 85 pence per
1,000-pound face amount, to 108.64.  The rate on the 2.25 percent gilt due in September 2023
rose three basis points to 2.81 percent. The bond became the 10-year benchmark today, according to the Debt Management Office.  Carney’s announcement on bank capital requirements
counterbalances his dovish stance and indicates the Bank of
England will do all it can to get the economy moving faster,
according to  Steve Barrow , head of Group-of-10 research at
Standard Bank Plc in London.  Short-sterling futures fell today, indicating investors are
adding to bets on higher interest rates. The implied yield on
the contract expiring in December 2014 increased one basis point
to 0.88 percent.  Investors should buy short-sterling futures contracts
expiring between September 2014 and June 2015, expecting the
average implied yield to decline about 20 basis points from
about 0.94 percent in coming weeks, Jamie Searle, a London-based
fixed-income strategist at Citigroup Inc., wrote in an e-mailed
report today before Carney’s speech.  Gilts lost investors 3.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German
bonds dropped 2.1 percent and Treasuries declined 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  