-- Qantas Jumps Most Since 2006 After Paring Long-Haul Loss
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-29T07:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/qantas-net-income-misses-estimates-amid-challenge-from-virgin.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
largest carrier, climbed the most in nearly seven years as
profit doubled on a tie-up with Emirates and the cancellation of
unprofitable routes to  Frankfurt  and  London .  The shares  surged 14 percent on volumes almost four times
the three-month average to close at A$1.40. That’s the biggest
gain since Nov. 22, 2006.  Pre-tax profit  excluding one-time
items jumped to A$192 million ($172 million) in the year ended
June 30, from A$95 million a year earlier, the Sydney-based
company said today, exceeding the A$76 million average of seven
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Qantas has retired older planes, dropped loss-making routes
such as  Singapore  to Frankfurt and London to  Hong Kong , and
allied with Dubai’s Emirates to stem international losses that
mounted to A$484 million in the last financial year. Chief
Executive Officer Alan Joyce also added more domestic flights to
defend the carrier’s 65 percent local market share.  “The ability to contain costs and take some bold steps in
the international division is starting to show some positive
signs,” Peter Esho, chief market analyst at Invast Securities
Co., said in a note to clients after the result was announced.
“The diversified group has held up relatively well.”  The stock, now at its highest closing level since July 12,
is still down 6 percent this year, compared with a 9.5 percent
gain for the  S&P/ASX 200 index .  International Division  No dividend was declared. The company has only proposed one
such payment since Joyce took over Qantas’s top job in November
2008, with a A$117 million payout announced in February 2009 on
the same day as a A$514 million capital raising.  Net income was A$5 million, compared with a loss of A$245
million in the previous 12 months and the A$31 million average
of six analyst estimates.  Joyce has promised to return Qantas’s international unit to
profit by the year ending June 2015 by using the Emirates
alliance to drop unprofitable services and extend Qantas’s
network of destinations in  Europe  and the  Middle East .  Excluding one-time items, losses before interest and tax at
the international division narrowed to A$246 million from A$484
million a year earlier, the company said. Unit costs in the
division fell by 5 percent from a year earlier, helped by the
closure of maintenance facilities and the route cancellations.  That was a “massive achievement,” Nathan Zaia, an analyst
at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in Sydney, said in a note to clients. “The
international turnaround strategy is paying off.”  The reduced losses helped offset a 21 percent drop in the
earnings on Qantas’s domestic routes, where Ebit excluding one-time items came to A$365 million. Second-ranked  Virgin Australia
Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  has bought bigger planes and added flights and
business class seats to challenge Qantas’s dominance.  Virgin’s Expansion  Domestic flight capacity rose 8 percent during the year,
Qantas said today, as the carrier matched Virgin’s expansion to
defend its profit-boosting domestic market share. Capacity
growth will slow to a range of 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent in the
six months ending December, the company said.  Virgin, whose chief executive officer John Borghetti was a
senior Qantas executive before quitting the company five months
after Joyce took the top job, will post a net loss in the range
of A$95 million to A$110 million when it announces annual
results tomorrow, the Brisbane-based carrier forecast Aug. 5.  “On every measure Qantas is ahead significantly in the
domestic market,” Joyce said today. “Our businesses are
performing relatively very strongly against the competition.”  Fuel Surcharges  The carrier spent A$4.2 billion buying fuel, equivalent to
27 percent of group sales, which rose 1.1 percent to A$15.9
billion. An 11 percent fall in the Australian dollar in the year
raised the price of jet kerosene, prompting Qantas last month to
increase surcharges by as much as A$75 a leg on international
flights. The airline pays U.S. dollars for fuel.  At the Jetstar budget carrier, Ebit excluding one-time
items dropped 32 percent to A$138 million. The unit is  Asia ’s
second-largest low-cost airline after  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  with stakes
in Jetstar-branded carriers in Australia, Singapore,  Vietnam ,
and  Japan .  Jetstar is also seeking to win approval for a Hong Kong
venture, which  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  says will damage the
city’s economy and aviation sector. The company paid A$50
million in startup costs for its Jetstar ventures in Japan and
Hong Kong, Chief Financial Officer  Gareth Evans  said today. He
declined to give a breakdown for each carrier.  ‘Real Positive’  The arrival of Jetstar would be “a real positive for the
Hong Kong economy,” Joyce said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today. It would “create access for low airfares that
people in Hong Kong are crying out for.”  Last year, Qantas also benefited from a A$134 million
accounting change which meant revenues that would otherwise have
been recognized during 2014 were factored in during the second
half. The carrier also said it raised A$80 million after the end
of the financial year from selling its defense services business
to  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)   Net debt shrank 8 percent to A$3.23 billion over the year,
and fell 10 percent to A$4.82 billion including liabilities for
Qantas’s leased aircraft.  Short interest in the stock rose to its highest in a year
Aug. 13, according to  exchange data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
35 million shares sold short at that point is still just 1.6
percent of all  freely-traded shares , suggesting few investors
were willing to bet the stock will drop further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  