-- Questor Surges on Stricter Energy Pollution Controls
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-08-28T20:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/questor-surges-on-stricter-energy-pollution-controls.html
Questor Technology Inc. (QST) , Canada’s
top pollution-control stock in the past three years, said
stricter  air quality  rules will boost revenue for its flare-gas
incineration systems as North American energy output surges.  “The world has changed in the oil and gas industry,”
Questor Chief Executive Officer Audrey Mascarenhas said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  on Aug. 23.
“Last year, the U.S. put in some tough new rules. The whole
conversation around social license to operate is one of the
greatest risks for the oil and gas industry.”  Calgary-based Questor is among companies benefiting from
greater scrutiny of air quality, waste water and  carbon
emissions . The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency last year
issued rules requiring natural-gas drillers to capture fumes
such as methane while projects such as  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
planned Keystone XL oil pipeline draws opposition from
environmental groups such as Credo.  The tougher rules come as U.S. oil production is set to
rise 48 percent to 11.1 million barrels a day by 2020,
surpassing  Saudi Arabia , according to the  International Energy
Agency . Canadian crude oil output, including from  Alberta ’s oil
sands, will  double  to 6.7 million barrels a day by 2030 from 3.2
million in 2012, according to Canadian Association of Petroleum
Producers.  Destroys Carcinogens  Questor, which gets 50 percent of its revenue from the
U.S., is talking with “all the majors” in the North American
 energy industry  about using the company’s equipment, Mascarenhas
said, without providing names. The incinerators burn vapors and
fumes at high temperatures, destroying carcinogens, toxins and
methane, a greenhouse gas, she said.  Questor rose to a record 75 cents on Aug. 26 and has
tripled in the past three years, the biggest increase among 10
Canadian pollution-control stocks tracked by Bloomberg. The
shares closed flat at 74 cents in Toronto today and have risen
80 percent this year. Mascarenhas owns about 15 percent of the
company, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Questor’s  revenue  increased 9.7 percent to C$6.68 million
($6.37 million) last year, while net income before special items
fell 13 percent to C$1.04 million. The company competes with
Houston-based  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  and counts Cnooc
Ltd.’s Nexen division and Suncor Energy Inc. among its
customers.  ‘Risky Space’  “There’s definitely more regulation to support these
companies,” Khurram Malik, an analyst at Jacob Securities in
Toronto said by phone Aug. 22. “In general though, you’ve got
to be really careful with these stocks because it’s a very risky
space.” Share prices for small, pollution-control companies can
be volatile, he said.  Other Canadian pollution-control companies whose shares
have gained this year include  GLV Inc. (GLV/A) , a Montreal-based
manufacturer of water-treatment equipment and  CO2 Solutions,
Inc. (CST) , a Quebec City developer of  carbon capture  using enzymes.
Rising water prices and new rules on mercury output from coal
power plants in the U.S. are contributing to the success of some
pollution control companies.  GLV has risen 83 percent and CO2 Solutions has gained 92
percent this year. Julie Cusson, a spokeswoman for GLV was not
available to comment on the impact of regulation.  Leaky Pipes  “In the sense of CO2 capture, the driving force is going
to be regulation,” Thom Skinner, chief financial officer at CO2
Solution, said in an Aug. 26 phone interview. The company is
developing an enzyme-based technology to reduce carbon dioxide
from fossil fuel consumption and is working on a pilot project
for application in Alberta’s oil sands.  Pure Technologies Ltd. (PUR) , a Calgary-based company that makes
inspection systems for water and wastewater pipelines, has
increased 4.6 percent this year. The shares rose 0.4 percent to
C$4.82 in Toronto today.  The company works with municipalities and companies to
detect leaks and manage pressurized pipeline systems. Paul Moon,
a spokesman for Pure, wasn’t available to discuss regulation
when contacted by  Bloomberg News .  Cities across  North America  are upgrading aging water and
sewage networks to cope with natural disasters like  Hurricane
Sandy  which flooded parts of New York City or this year’s floods
in Calgary which may cost $5 billion to repair the damage,
according to estimates by BMO Capital Markets.  Tailings Ponds  “There is huge potential for Pure because almost all the
water infrastructure in North America is coming to the end of
its useful life,”  Jason Zandberg , an analyst at PI Financial in
 Vancouver  said Aug. 22 by phone. Zandberg has one of six buy
 ratings  on the stock; it has one sell. “They are the biggest
player in that segment in North America.”  In Canada’s oil-sands region, companies mining bitumen use
on average 2.7 barrels of water for each barrel of bitumen
produced, according to the  Canadian Association of Petroleum
Producers . Much of that water is abstracted from the Athabasca
River and ends up in man-made lakes called tailings ponds that
require treatment before the water can flow back into the
ecosystem.  “The whole oil and gas sector has been coming under
intense scrutiny,” Zandberg said. “That’s definitely a macro
trend and we should expect further regulations on all aspects of
that industry.”  Currently producers operating in Alberta determine whether
capturing, burning or releasing gas, known as venting, is
“economically viable,” according to the province’s energy
regulator. New rules to address recent increases in flaring are
expected by the end of the year, the regulator said in June.  Big Prize  Flaring and vented gas from crude oil and bitumen
production increased 66 percent from 2009 to 2011, according to
the most recent figures available from the Alberta energy
regulator.  Globally, about 5.3 trillion cubic feet of gas is flared
annually, the equivalent of 25 percent of U.S. consumption of
the fuel, according to the  World Bank . Russia and Nigeria flare
the most, while North American flaring is rising along with oil
production gains.  Oil producers can reduce flaring by connecting the produced
gas to pipelines and selling or using the gas. If that’s not
economic or practical, that’s where Questor comes in. Using
high-temperature furnaces, the waste gas is combusted at the
well site using high-efficiency gas incinerators.  Cutting emissions from flaring is “low-hanging fruit” for
the industry, Mascarenhas said. “The big prize is using that
wasted energy and heat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  