-- Rupee Jumps Most Since 2009 on RBI Support; Bonds, Stocks Rally
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n ,   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-08-29T05:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/rbi-to-sell-dollars-to-oil-firms-as-rupee-drops-most-in-20-years.html
India ’s rupee surged the most since
2009, rebounding from a record low, on speculation a central
bank plan to supply dollars to top oil importers will cool
demand for foreign exchange. Bonds and stocks rallied.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will provide foreign currency to
state-run Indian Oil Corp., Bharat Petroleum Corp. and Hindustan
Petroleum Corp., which the authority will repurchase after a
specified period, according to a statement on its website late
yesterday. The rupee plunged the most in 20 years yesterday on
concern a surge in  oil prices  amid political tension over Syria
will worsen India’s current account and push the economy toward
its biggest crisis since 1991.  “The RBI’s measure has brought relief to the markets but
it should have come much earlier than now when policy makers
have their backs to the wall,” K. Ramanathan, chief investment
officer at ING Investment Management Pvt. in Mumbai, said by
phone. “The  Syria  situation is the joker in the pack. If it
gets resolved, the rupee should find more support.”  The rupee gained 2.1 percent to 67.4600 per dollar as of
10:13 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It rose as much as 2.9 percent earlier,
the biggest intraday gain since May 2009. The currency plunged
3.9 percent to an unprecedented 68.8450 yesterday.  Today’s advance pares the rupee’s drop this year to 19
percent, still the worst performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 7.16 percent government bonds due May 2023
fell 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 8.81 percent,
according to data from the Clearing Corporation of India Ltd.’s
website. That’s the biggest drop since Aug. 22. The S&P BSE
 Sensex (SENSEX)  index of local shares rose 0.7 percent today to 18,125.78
after touching the lowest level since September 2012 yesterday.  Dollar Demand  The RBI’s plan to supply dollars to  oil companies  via
foreign-exchange swaps may boost the rupee toward 65 per dollar,
Priyanka Kishore, a strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in
 London , said in an e-mail yesterday. The three biggest state
refiners buy about $300 million each day from the local  spot
market , she estimates. The central bank sold dollars to oil
firms during the global financial crisis in 2008.  Costlier imports are pressuring on India’s balance of
payments at a time when the prospect of a cut in U.S. stimulus
is fueling fund outflows. The current-account deficit widened to
a record 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year ended
March 31.  Syria Concern  The possibility of military action by the U.S. and its
allies against Syria, after they concluded the regime used
chemical weapons against civilians, has fanned concern that
political unrest in the region will disrupt Middle East oil
supplies. A 7.6 percent jump in  Brent crude  this month is set to
boost costs for  Asia ’s third-largest economy, which imports 80
percent of its oil requirements.  Since July, Indian policy makers have curbed derivatives
trading, restricted cash supply and asked foreign investors to
prove they aren’t speculating on the rupee, in attempts to
arrest the currency’s slide.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
61 basis points to 21.63 percent today, after touching the
highest level since January 2009 yesterday.  The move by RBI “will help somewhat but it’s still too
weak a signal and will not make me change my view on the
rupee,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-market strategy at
Societe General SA in London, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “I continue to be concerned as we need to see a more
heavy hand from the authorities in India.”  Three-month offshore non-deliverable forward contracts
advanced 1.1 percent to 69.67. Forwards are agreements to buy or
sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts
are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  