-- Treasuries Decline Before 5-Year Auction as Allies Meet on Syria
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-08-28T16:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/treasuries-hold-4-day-gain-as-syria-conflict-fuels-refuge-demand.html
Treasuries fell, with five-year
notes halting a three-day advance, before the U.S. sells $35
billion of the securities as investors awaited a decision from
the U.S. and its allies about military action against  Syria .  Benchmark 10-year yields climbed from the lowest level in
almost two weeks before a government report tomorrow forecast to
show the economy grew more last quarter than previously
estimated, backing the case for the  Federal Reserve  to slow
monetary stimulus. Treasuries have gained this week as
speculation that the U.S. and its allies will take military
action in reaction to a suspected chemical attack by Syria.  “Without any type of action in the  Middle East , it gives
the market a little bit of breath from a flight-to-quality
bid,” said Jason Rogan, managing director of U.S. government
trading at Guggenheim Securities LLC, a New York-based brokerage
for institutional investors. “There’s a little bit of a selloff
in front of supply.”  The U.S. five-year yield rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.57 percent at 11:58 a.m. in  New York 
after dropping 16 basis points during the previous three days,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.375 percent
note maturing in July 2018 fell 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face
value, to 99 2/32.  Benchmark Yield  The  10-year yield  climbed five basis points to 2.76 percent
after falling to 2.70 percent, the lowest since Aug. 15.  Treasuries have lost 3.1 percent this year, including 0.5
percent in the past month through yesterday, according to the
 Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. (BUSY)   The five-year notes being sold today yielded 1.61 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.41 percent at the
previous sale on July 24. The  bid-to-cover ratio , which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.46 last month, compared with an average of 2.8
for the previous 10 sales.  “We needed a little bit of a concession to get the five-year into a decent area,” said  Michael Franzese , senior vice
president of fixed-income trading at ED&F Man Capital Markets in
New York. “The auctions will go fine with the pullback.”  The Treasury will auction $29 billion of seven-year debt
tomorrow after selling $34 billion of two-year notes yesterday.  The two-year auction drew a yield of 0.386 percent,
compared with a forecast of 0.39 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of seven of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover  ratio  rose to 3.21, the highest since April.  Allied Discussions  Treasuries rose yesterday amid speculation the U.S.,  France 
and Britain are moving closer to military action against Syria
after the nation’s government allegedly used chemical weapons. A
United Nations team is on the ground to gather evidence to
establish use of chemical warfare, Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon
said today. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government has
denied the use of chemical weapons.  The U.K. is drafting a United Nations resolution to condemn
last week’s suspected chemical attack. U.K. Prime Minister  David
Cameron  said today the UN resolution would authorize action to
protect civilians in Syria.  Treasury 10-year note yields dropped 11 basis points in the
two days ending yesterday on Syria’s crisis. U.S. 10-year
securities yielded 27 basis points more than bonds in an index
of Group of Seven debt, down from 42 basis points more on Aug.
21, the most since May 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on closing prices.  The U.S. central bank today purchased $3.3 billion of notes
maturing from August 2021 to August 2023, according to the New
York Fed’s website. Debate about when policy makers will taper
$85 billion in monthly bond buying has roiled financial markets
around the world in the past three months and sparked a selloff
in fixed-income assets.  Gross domestic product grew at a 2.2 percent annualized
rate in the second quarter, compared with an initial estimate of
1.7 percent released July 31, according a Bloomberg survey
before tomorrow’s Commerce Department report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  