-- Treasuries Halt Four-Day Gain Before GDP, Jobless Claims Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-08-28T03:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/treasuries-halt-four-day-gain-before-gdp-jobless-claims-data.html
Treasuries fell, halting a four-day
gain, before U.S. data forecast to show applications for
unemployment benefits declined, bolstering the case for the
Federal Reserve to pare stimulus as early as next month.  The five-year yield rose from the lowest in more than a
week before a $35 billion auction today. Government bonds in
 Australia  and  Japan  advanced as tension over possible military
action in  Syria  boosted demand for haven assets. The jobless
claims data will shape expectations for U.S. payrolls data due
Sept. 6, according to  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   “It’s interesting today that U.S. 10-years have weakened
given the geopolitical backdrop,” said  Tony Morriss , the
Sydney-based head of interest-rate research at ANZ Bank. “Focus
is already shifting to the payrolls number, which we consider to
be most important in shaping expectations not only of the taper
in September, which almost looks to be a done deal, but on
projecting when the Fed might have sufficient confidence in the
recovery to eventually lift short-term interest rates.”  The U.S. 10-year yield rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.72 percent at 11:33 a.m. in Tokyo, after
dropping 19 basis points in the previous four sessions,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.5 percent
benchmark note due in August 2023 fell 3/32, or 94 cents per
$1,000 face value, to 98 3/32.  Bond Auctions  The U.S. government is scheduled to sell $35 billion of
five-year securities today and $29 billion of seven-year bonds
tomorrow after $34 billion of two-year notes were sold at a
lower-than-forecast yield yesterday.  The two-year notes drew a yield of 0.386 percent, compared
with a forecast of 0.390 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven of the Federal Reserve’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover  ratio  rose to 3.21, the most since April.  The yield on the current two-year note was little changed
at 0.39 percent. The five-year yield rose 2 basis points to 1.54
percent after touching 1.51 percent yesterday, the lowest in
more than a week.  Investors  bid  for 2.46 times the amount of five-year notes
on offer last month versus 2.45 at the June auction.  Revised figures from the Commerce Department tomorrow may
show U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 2.2 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter, compared with an initial
estimate of 1.7 percent, according to the median projection of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Analysts in a separate poll  expect  a Labor Department
report will show tomorrow initial jobless claims fell 5,000 to
331,000 in the week ended Aug. 24 from the previous period. Data
due Sept. 6 may show nonfarm payrolls rose by 170,000 this
month, while  unemployment  rate held at 7.4 percent, according to
median estimates of economists in Bloomberg surveys.  Fed Operation  The Fed will purchase as much as $3.5 billion of notes
today, according to the  New York  Fed  website . The central bank’s
debate about when to taper $85 billion in monthly bond buying
has roiled financial markets around the world and sparked a
selloff in fixed-income assets.  The U.S. central bank will vote to scale back stimulus at
its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed this month by Bloomberg.  The Fed will probably reduce its purchases of Treasuries
rather than mortgage bonds, Mohamed El-Erian, the chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., which
oversees world’s biggest bond fund, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday.  Treasuries have fallen 0.5 percent this month, according to
the  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index. (BUSY)  German bunds have
 dropped  0.9 percent in the same period, while Japanese
government bonds have returned 0.4 percent.  Syria Tension  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1.5 percent as
the U.S.,  France  and the U.K. stepped closer to a military
strike against Syria. U.S. President  Barack Obama  is working
with allies to reach agreement on limited action against the
nation after concluding the regime used chemical weapons against
civilians.  Japan’s 10-year yield slid 1 1/2 basis points to 0.725
percent, after touching 0.72 percent, the lowest since Aug. 21.
Australia’s 10-year yield dropped four basis points to 3.89
percent.  “Any data has basically been trumped by the rising
tensions in Syria and bonds have rallied,” said Martin Whetton,
an interest-rate strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney.
“That’s how it should play out today as well in the Treasury
market and for global bond markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  