-- Republican-Led Michigan Senate Votes to Expand Medicaid
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-08-28T12:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/republican-led-michigan-senate-votes-to-expand-medicaid.html
The Republican-led Michigan state
Senate voted to expand the Medicaid health program for low-income people, accepting a key facet of U.S. President  Barack
Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  Yesterday’s 20-18 vote in which most Republicans were
opposed, was the last major hurdle for the legislation, which
must return to the state House before Governor  Rick Snyder , a
Republican, signs it into law. The House, also controlled by
Republicans, passed the measure for the first time in June.  “Healthy Michigan will make our state healthier and
stronger,” Snyder said in a statement after the vote. “It also
will save money for the state’s taxpayers and job providers,
help control medical costs, improve the state’s business
climate, and boost our economy.”  An expansion of state-run Medicaid programs next year is
one of two pillars of the federal Affordable Care Act, which may
extend health coverage to about 25 million uninsured people
nationwide. The Obama administration has labored to persuade
Republican-controlled states to embrace any aspect of the 2010
health law, which largely takes effect Jan. 1, 2014.  The Healthy Michigan Plan would increase Medicaid coverage
by about 470,000 people. Snyder was among a small group of
Republican governors -- including Arizona’s Jan Brewer, New
Jersey’s  Chris Christie , Florida’s  Rick Scott  and Ohio’s  John
Kasich  -- to push for Medicaid expansion.  The federal government pays for 100 percent of the cost of
the expansion until 2017, when states must then begin to
contribute a share that rises to 10 percent by 2020.  State Participation  Half the U.S. states including Michigan are participating
in the expansion or planning on it,  according  to the  Kaiser
Family Foundation , a nonprofit group based in  Menlo Park ,
California. Five more state are considering it, and the rest
have refused.  The expansion would save Michigan about $1 billion through
2020 by reducing or eliminating spending on state programs for
the uninsured, according to a March  analysis  of Snyder’s initial
proposal by the state’s Senate Fiscal Agency.  The expansion won’t begin to cost the state money until at
least the 2023 fiscal year, the Senate agency said, and perhaps
not until 2035.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  