-- Revamping ‘Ford Pinto’ of Rail Cars Urged by Group
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-08-28T20:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/revamping-ford-pinto-of-rail-cars-urged-by-group.html
The head of a rail safety group
compared a widely used train tank car to the recalled Ford Pinto
in urging U.S. regulators to require upgrades that would prevent
accidents like a Quebec derailment that killed 47 people.  Karen Darch, the co-chairman of a coalition of communities
around  Chicago  formed in response to a merger of railroads, said
regulators dragged their feet in mandating safety improvements
to the car, known as the DOT-111, amid evidence showing the
tankers are more prone to rupture in a derailment than other
types.  “Unfortunately, your combined track record has been less
than stellar when it comes to improving the crash-worthiness of
the DOT-111 tank car -- the primary car used in the transport of
dangerous hazmat like crude and ethanol in this country and in
 Canada ,” Darch, mayor of Barrington,  Illinois , told a panel of
Federal Railroad Administration and Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration officials today.  Regulators had known since 1991 that the rail car has “a
high propensity to rupture in derailment scenarios,” she said
in comparing it  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Pinto, which in the 1970s was
recalled amid questions that a flawed fuel tank would catch fire
in a rear-end collision.  In response to safety concerns, U.S. rail companies have
since 2011 added safety features to new DOT-111s to reduce the
risks of a spill or catastrophic accident. Regulators are
reviewing whether more steps are needed.  ‘Impractical, Impossible’  Cheryl Burke, a rail safety executive for  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) 
in Midland,  Michigan , said retrofitting all DOT-111s in use was
“impractical if not impossible.”  While she said Dow supports efforts to make rail transport
safe, tank cars can’t be expected to be “completely impervious
to the substantial forces that occur in significant rail
accidents, particularly high-speed derailments.”  Regulators should do a risk-analysis to determine whether
particular rail fleets should be upgraded, Burke said.  Deborah Hersman , the chairman of the  National
Transportation Safety Board , said in a 2012 letter to regulators
that the DOT-111 had a “high incidence of tank failures during
accidents.”  Phaseout Urged  According to the NTSB, about 69 percent of the U.S. rail
tank car fleet are DOT-111s. A Canadian Senate committee said in
a report this month the government should consider accelerating
the phaseout of tank cars.  U.S. regulators are reviewing safety rules for transporting
hazardous materials in response to the July 6 train derailment
and explosion in Lac-Megantic, Quebec. Some of the 72 cars,
which were carrying crude from  North Dakota ’s Bakken formation
to a New Brunswick refinery, were DOT-111s.  U.S. and Canadian regulators this month imposed emergency
rules designed to prevent trains that are parked and unattended
from rolling free. The Federal Railroad Administration now
prohibits operators from leaving trains hauling hazardous
materials without an operator, unless receiving prior
authorization, and requires employees to report to dispatchers
the number of hand brakes used.  Canadian investigators have said that not enough force was
applied to the hand brakes to the train in  Quebec  to keep it
from moving.  Advisory Panel  The U.S.  Railroad Safety Advisory Committee , which develops
new safety standards and includes officials from the government,
industry and labor unions, is also studying whether further
actions are required. It is meeting tomorrow to discuss the
issue.  The panel convened today took public testimony about what
changes regulators should make.  James Stem, national legislative director for Sheet Metal,
Air, Rail and Transportation union, said railroads should be
required to have more than one worker on a train.  The train in Quebec, which was operated by Montreal, Maine
& Atlantic Railway Ltd., had a crew of one and was parked
overnight when it broke free and rolled into the town, where it
derailed and exploded.  The number of crude shipments by rail has increased by 443
percent since 2005. North Dakota accounts for much of the
increase. About 75 percent of its oil heads to refineries by
rail, with pipelines covering the remainder.  Robert Fronczak, assistant vice president for environmental
and hazmat safety and operations at the  Association of American
Railroads , encouraged regulators to ensure shippers accurately
describe the types of tank cars being used along with the cargo
being carried.  Some rail operators may be using cars certified for the
least hazardous loads to carry fuel that warrants a more robust
rail car, he said. The government should provide some assurance
that “the commodities being transported are being transported
correctly and being declared correctly,” Fronczak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  