-- Rosneft Seen Lagging Lukoil on Strategy: Russia Overnight
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-08-28T21:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/rosneft-seen-lagging-lukoil-on-strategy-russia-overnight.html
OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest oil
company, will lag behind OAO  Lukoil (LUKOY)  in the stock market as
expansion plans boost debt,  Renaissance Capital  Ltd. said.  Shares of Rosneft will  gain  13 percent in Moscow in the
next 12 months, about half the advance projected for Lukoil,
Russia’s biggest non-state oil producer, according to analysts
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Rosneft futures expiring in
September fell 0.3 percent in U.S. hours, while American
depositary receipts of Lukoil added 0.1 percent yesterday. The
Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian
stocks in New York was little changed after a two-day slump.  State-run Rosneft plans to supply more than 2.6 billion
barrels of crude oil to China National Petroleum Corp. over the
next 25 years, while stepping up Arctic exploration and starting
to export liquefied natural gas in 2018. The acquisition of  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s joint venture in Russia in October sent its net debt to
earnings ratio to 3.27, which compares with a 0.2 level for
Lukoil. Fitch Rating raised Lukoil’s credit rating last week.  “Rosneft has a good asset base, but its ambitious strategy
is aimed at too many very large-scale projects,” Ildar Davletshin, an analyst at Renaissance Capital in Moscow who has
a hold rating on Rosneft and recommends buying Lukoil, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Lukoil is a defensive play with
a clearer strategy. The management is committed to creating
 shareholder value .”  Capital Spending  Lukoil reversed a drop in Russian oil output and has an
“ambitious but flexible” capital spending plan of $50 billion
through 2015,  Fitch Ratings  said on Aug. 21, when it raised the
company’s grade by one step to BBB, the same as the sovereign.
Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil company, and OAO Gazprom, the
world’s biggest gas producer, have a combined investment plan of
$62 billion for 2013 alone as they pursue projects backed by
President  Vladimir Putin .  A weaker ruble is cutting costs for most of Russia’s oil
and gas exporters, while rising oil prices boost revenues,
according to  Luis Saenz , head of equity sales and trading at BCS
Financial Group in London. Rosneft is benefiting “the least”
because of its high leverage, he said by e-mail.  Russia’s currency weakened to the lowest level in four
years earlier this month, while crude oil surged to a two-year
high in New York yesterday.  The 12 percent plunge in Rosneft this year drove its price
to 6.4 times  estimated earnings , compared with Lukoil’s
valuation of 4.2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock is still cheaper than global peers Exxon Mobil Corp. and
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, which trade at valuations of 11.3 and
7.3 respectively.  State Backing  “I prefer Rosneft to its usual comparison Lukoil because
it has state-backing and lots of exploration and production
upside in the Arctic and East Siberia,” Julian Rimmer, a trader
at CF Global Trading UK Ltd. in London, said by e-mail.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge rose less than 0.1 percent to
90.80, after slumping 2.2 percent in the previous two days.  OAO
Surgutneftegas (SGTPY)  led gains in the measure, surging 2.8 percent to
$6.67 in the biggest rally in two months.  ADRs of  OAO Rostelecom, (ROSYY)  Russia’s biggest fixed-line
operator, posted the biggest decline among Russian shares traded
in New York after Bank of America Corp. cut the stock to the
equivalent of sell. The shares slid 1.6 percent to $19.65 to
trade at a 0.3 percent discount to its Moscow stock.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, fell 0.2 percent to $25.84. The
RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the
 stock futures , rose 0.6 percent to 24.59, while futures on the
RTS Index expiring in September lost 0.2 percent to 129,550 in
U.S. hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  