-- Ryanair Told to Cut Aer Lingus Stake by U.K. Regulators
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2013-08-28T07:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/ryanair-must-cut-aer-lingus-stake-to-address-competition-concern.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  was ordered by
the U.K. antitrust regulator to cut its stake in  Aer Lingus
Group Plc (AERL)  to no more than 5 percent to address competition
concerns, a ruling the discount carrier vowed to contest.  Ryanair’s 29.8 percent holding in the Irish airline, valued
at about 261 million euros ($349 million), affects Aer Lingus’s
policy and strategy, the U.K. Competition Commission said in a
report today. Dublin-based Ryanair said it will challenge the
decision, which it called “manifestly unsound.”  “This prejudicial approach to an Irish airline is very
disturbing, coming from an English government body that regards
itself a model competition authority,” Ryanair Chief Executive
Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in a statement.  Europe’s largest low-cost carrier has been at odds with
competition authorities in Europe since it first acquired Aer
Lingus shares as part of a takeover bid in 2006. O’Leary’s most
recent offer for the smaller rival was blocked in February by
the European Union, which ruled it would increase fares and
reduce choice.  Aer Lingus welcomed today’s decision, saying Ryanair had
used the stake as a “Trojan horse” to plot its bids. Shares of
Dublin-based Aer Lingus dropped as much as 2.9 percent to 1.65
euros, and traded at that level at 8:34 a.m. Ryanair dropped 2
percent to 6.39 euros.  Worthless Stake?  O’Leary, speaking in an interview on Bloomberg Television
today, said he’s been actively searching for a buyer for the
stake for years, and that “nobody” is interested in Aer
Lingus, which he called a “peripheral” airline that’s been
bypassed by consolidation in the European aviation industry. The
stake may be “worthless” if no buyer comes forward, he said.  Ryanair argues that Aer Lingus plays an insignificant role
connecting the U.K. and Ireland, serving just six routes, while
Ryanair maintains a major network. At the same time, O’Leary
criticized the authorities for not intervening when IAG’s Plc’s
British Airways won permission to purchase BMI last year to gain
a greater foothold at Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest hub.  When the U.K. competition authority published its
preliminary report in May, it sought views on remedies, which
could have included the full or partial sale of the Aer Lingus
stake. The regulators typically give companies as long as a year
to sell down a stake. Ryanair may be able to delay the
enforcement of any U.K. ruling for years while it challenges the
European Union decision to block its most recent bid.  Weakness Advantage  “We consider that there is a tension between Ryanair’s
position as a competitor and its position as Aer Lingus’s
largest shareholder, and that Ryanair has an incentive to weaken
its rival’s effectiveness as a competitor,” the U.K. antitrust
authority said in its final ruling today.  Ryanair’s most recent offer valued Aer Lingus at 694
million euros. Among remedies proposed by the company, Ryanair
had offered to sell a minority stake in Aer Lingus, which it
said the U.K. watchdog has “inexplicably dismissed.”  Possible buyers of the stake that Ryanair must sell include
Etihad Airways PJSC, the Middle Eastern carrier that has been
buying holdings in airlines from  Germany  to  Serbia  and the
Seychelles. Abu Dhabi-based Etihad already owns just less than
3 percent of Aer Lingus, though O’Leary has said the airline has
made no offer for Ryanair’s stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  