-- S. African Strikes Threaten to Spread to 335,000 Workers
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y ,   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-08-28T14:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/s-african-strikes-threaten-to-spread-to-335-000-workers.html
South Africa  may face strikes
involving as many as 335,000 workers after deadlocks in wage
talks between employers and the country’s biggest labor unions
spread to gas stations and  car dealerships .  About 72,000 motor-industry workers will walk out on Sept.
2 after a breakdown in wage talks between the  National Union of
Metalworkers of South Africa , the Fuel Retailers Association and
Retail Motor Industry Organization, the union said yesterday.
They will join employees in the auto-manufacturing, construction
and aviation industries that are already on strike, while gold
mines face the threat of labor action.  Numsa “has taken a conscious decision to exercise our hard
fought democratic and constitutional right to embark on an
indefinite  strike action ,” spokesman Castro Ngobese said in an
e-mailed statement. “The strike action has not been on our
agenda, but it has been imposed on us” after the motor industry
didn’t meet union demands.  South  Africa  has been plagued by labor disputes for more
than a year, hurting economic growth. Inflation in Africa’s
biggest economy accelerated to 6.3 percent in July, the highest
in 15 months. Gross domestic product rose an annualized 3
percent in the second quarter, a slower pace than the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rand Decline  The rand has slumped 18 percent against the dollar this
year, the worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 10.3706 per
dollar by 4:42 p.m. in Johannesburg.  There is a 70 percent chance of strikes in the gold
industry after the biggest unions rejected the last offer by
producers, Mark Rosenberg, an Africa analyst at New York-based
Eurasia Group, said in an e-mailed note today. The stoppage in
the  auto industry  will probably be resolved within a week and
the construction strike within two weeks, he said.  The automotive-manufacturing industry, accounting for about
7 percent of GDP, has been at a standstill since Aug. 19, when
about 30,000 workers downed tools. Car manufacturers including
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  collectively proposed a new offer on Aug. 22, representing a
10 percent increase over three years.  “We are still on strike,” Numsa Treasurer Mphumzi Maqungo
said by phone today. “The workers have not accepted the 10
percent offer from the employers.”  Construction Industry  The  National Union of Mineworkers  and the Building,
Construction and Allied Workers Union rejected a 7.5 percent
increase offer from the South African Federation of Civil
Engineering Contractors.  “We remain hopeful that the strike will not be of a long-term nature,” Annemie Cowley, manager for communications and
marketing at the South African Federation of Civil Engineering
Contractors, or Safcec, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “About 90,000 workers are employed in the civil
engineering contracting industry.”  Safcec has about 400 employer members including  Murray &
Roberts Holdings Ltd. (MUR)  and  Aveng Ltd. (AEG) , the country’s biggest
construction companies, according to the federation.  Talks are at “a standstill now,”  Lesiba Seshoka , a
spokesman for the NUM, said by phone today.  The seven-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Construction and Building
Materials Index , fell for a second day, declining 1.9 percent to
41.89, the lowest level since Aug. 5. Murray & Roberts led the
retreat, decreasing as much as 5.6 percent, and traded 3.8
percent lower at 24.33 rand.  Specially Trained  No violent protests related to the strikes have been
reported in Gauteng province, where Johannesburg is located,
according to Lieutenant Colonel Katlego Mogale, a spokeswoman
for the Gauteng Police Service. The police are ready for any
disruption, she said.  “There’s a unit which is specially trained to deal with
strikes,” Mogale said by phone. “The public order policing
will be dealing with all the protests.”  The NUM, the biggest union in the gold-mining industry,
attended a meeting on wages on Aug. 26 and reached a point of
non-resolution with mining companies. The union has rejected the
last offer by the Chamber of Mines and may decide on a strike in
that industry as early as Aug. 31.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, the
second-largest representative of employees at bullion producers,
also rejected a revised offer and has applied for a certificate
of non-resolution, Elize Strydom, the chief negotiator for gold
companies at the chamber, said on Johannesburg-based SAFM today.
The permit gives the union’s members permission to start an
authorized strike.  ‘Highly Likely’  The chance of a workers strike is “highly likely,”
Solidarity Union General Secretary Gideon du Plessis said in
speech in Johannesburg today.  A gold-mining strike would result in 142,000 people
stopping work in an industry already affected by a 15 percent
decline in the price of the metal this year. The six-member
FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining Index has fallen 41 percent this
year compared with a 7.8 percent increase in the FTSE/JSE Africa
All-Share Index.  “Strikes are not the end of the world,” Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said at a mining conference in Johannesburg
yesterday. “Let the workers and the employers find the right
balance. At the end of the day there must be enough cooperation
to create normality in our environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net ;
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  