-- San Bernardino Judge Streamlines Eligibility Contest
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-08-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/san-bernardino-judge-streamlines-eligibility-contest.html
San Bernardino,  California ’s
bankruptcy judge chose an unusual way to help decide whether the
city should enjoy her court’s protection from creditors while it
renegotiates debts.  Instead of scheduling a multiday trial with platoons of
attorneys, a parade of witnesses and boxes of evidence, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Meredith M. Jury will give a handful of lawyers
a few hours today in her Riverside, California, courtroom to
debate the city’s eligibility to file under the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code’s Chapter 9, which covers municipalities.  Jury is streamlining the approach taken in the four other
large municipal bankruptcies filed since 1998, those of Vallejo
and Stockton, California; Jefferson County,  Alabama ; and most
recently Detroit, which last month filed the largest ever
Chapter 9 case.  Detroit  is on track for an eligibility hearing in October,
while Vallejo, Stockton and Jefferson County needed only weeks
or months to convince judges they qualified for protection. San
Bernardino, on the other hand, has waited more than a year to
reach this stage.  “I can understand she may not want to have a lengthy trial
on eligibility,” said attorney H. Slayton Dabney Jr., who
represented creditors in the $4 billion Jefferson County
bankruptcy. “That sounds like what she is trying to do.”  Court Fights  The San Bernardino case has been mired in court fights
pitting the city against its creditors and the creditors against
each other. One creditor’s law firm was kicked off the case
because it hired an attorney away from another creditor’s firm.  The city and one of its biggest creditors, the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , can’t even agree which
disputes a mediator should try to resolve.  Under Chapter 9,  creditors , including unions, lenders and
bondholders, can force a municipality to prove it’s eligible to
remain in bankruptcy after a case is filed. Calpers, for
instance, claims San Bernardino doesn’t qualify because it
failed to negotiate in good faith with creditors before filing
on Aug. 1, 2012.  Jury, who wrote the opinion for an appeals panel that
upheld Vallejo’s eligibility, has chosen to hold a summary-judgment hearing using only facts that are already part of the
case to decide whether San Bernardino met the law’s requirements
when it filed. Lawyers will present arguments on the conclusions
to be drawn from the evidence.  Arguments Only  A short, argument-only hearing may allow Jury to rule
without the time and expense of a trial, said  James Spiotto , a
partner at Chapman & Cutler LLP in  Chicago  who has written and
lectured on the law of municipal reorganizations.  If San Bernardino prevails, the city can begin negotiating
with creditors and municipal unions to develop a plan to cut
debt and reorganize some operations. Otherwise, Jury will
probably schedule the more traditional non-jury trial seen in
municipal bankruptcies, said Ron Oliner, who represents the
city’s main police union.  “The procedure the court is employing, to determine
eligibility by summary judgment, is unusual,” Oliner said in an
e-mail. His client hasn’t taken a position on eligibility.  San Bernardino, a city of about 209,000 people some 60
miles (97 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , was the third
California city to file for bankruptcy in a three-month span
last year.  Fiscal Emergency  The city said a fiscal emergency, brought on by a
$46 million budget shortfall, forced it to file despite a state
law that normally requires towns and counties to negotiate with
creditors first in a process overseen by a neutral arbitrator.
By declaring an emergency, the city sidestepped that
requirement.  The right to challenge whether a debtor is entitled to file
is a key difference between municipal and corporate bankruptcy.
Under Chapter 11, a corporation automatically gains the right to
try to cancel contracts and seek other help from a court as soon
as it files.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-bk-28006,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in federal court in Detroit at   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  