-- San Bernardino Ruled Bankruptcy Eligible as Calpers Loses
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/san-bernardino-eligible-to-stay-in-bankruptcy-judge-says.html
San Bernardino, California, was
deemed eligible to remain in bankruptcy by a judge who rejected
arguments by  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  that
the city didn’t qualify for court protection.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Meredith Jury in Riverside,
California, ruled yesterday in the city’s favor, saying it needs
the “breathing space” afforded by bankruptcy to renegotiate
debts.  “The city deserves a chance,” the judge said in her
decision. “The creditor body deserves a chance. The citizens of
the city deserve a chance.”  San Bernardino, located about 60 miles (97 kilometers) east
of Los Angeles, sought  bankruptcy protection  from creditors on
Aug. 1, 2012, blaming a fiscal emergency brought on by a $46
million budget shortfall. Since filing, the city has fought its
employee unions in an effort to cancel their contracts and quit
making certain payments to Calpers, the biggest U.S. pension
fund.  Under the section of U.S. bankruptcy law used by
municipalities, known as Chapter 9,  creditors , including unions,
lenders and bondholders, can force a municipality to prove it’s
eligible to remain in bankruptcy after a case is filed.  Jury’s decision comes after Stockton, California, east of
 San Francisco , won a contested fight in April over its
eligibility for bankruptcy. Detroit, which last month filed the
largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy, has eligibility hearings
scheduled in September and October.  Calpers Argument  Calpers argued San Bernardino doesn’t qualify because it
failed to negotiate in good faith with creditors.  Jury initially issued a tentative ruling on the city’s bid
to remain in bankruptcy and allowed Calpers to argue in
opposition to the city. She then issued a final ruling granting
the city’s eligibility.  Michael Gearin, an attorney for the pension fund, told the
judge she risked setting a “dangerous precedent” for other
municipal bankruptcy cases. It will mean other cities can rely
on a “self-inflicted crisis” to qualify for bankruptcy without
considering alternatives and failing to negotiate with
creditors, he said.  “It’s going to create incentives for debtors to create a
crisis to determine that they have an inability to negotiate
with creditors because they’ve got a large number of creditors
and then to walk into  bankruptcy court  without any intention of
moving the plan process forward,” Gearin said.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-bk-28006,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  