-- San Francisco Bay Bridge to Close for Replacement
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-28T18:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/san-francisco-bay-bridge-to-close-for-replacement.html
The  San Francisco-Oakland Bay
Bridge , since 1936 the main artery between  San Francisco  and the
rest of the country, will close tonight as crews ready the $6.4
billion replacement of its earthquake-damaged eastern span.  From 8 p.m. tonight until 5 a.m. on Sept. 3, the bridge
carrying about  280,000  vehicles a day along  Interstate 80  over
 San Francisco Bay  will be closed, the  California  Transportation
Department said in a  statement . When the 2.2-mile (3.5-kilometer) span reopens next week, drivers will travel across a
replacement designed to withstand the type of earthquake that
occurs once every 1,500 years.  Since 1997, when officials decided to replace the eastern
span of the bridge that partially collapsed in the 1989 Loma
Prieta earthquake, the cost has swelled to about $6.4 billion
from $1.3 billion, while the opening was delayed six years.  “Most people would agree with the criticism that it
shouldn’t have taken as long as it did or cost as much as it
did,” Andrew Gordon, a spokesman for the agencies overseeing
the project, said by telephone. “That said, they’re getting a
beautiful new bridge that rivals anything in the  Bay Area . More
importantly, they’re also getting one of the most seismically
safe bridges in the world.”  Unfinished Work  Even after the span opens to traffic, it won’t be done.  In
December, Caltrans crews plan to remove plates installed in the
undercarriage as a temporary seismic fix after steel rods
snapped during testing this year, Gordon said. The plates are
designed to move during an earthquake. After they’re removed,
the bridge will be reinforced with steel saddles, Gordon said.  Meanwhile, Caltrans will test hundreds of bolts similar to
32 that snapped in March during testing after they became
brittle on exposure to hydrogen, he said. There’s no reason to
believe the other bolts are vulnerable, he said, though some may
degrade over time due to corrosion.  The bridge is California’s most traveled. The eastern and
western sections meet at Yerba Buena Island, site of the former
Treasure Island U.S. Navy base. The new section will have two
parallel spans, each with five traffic lanes, 10-foot shoulders
and a bicycle path on the eastbound side.  When construction began in 2002, planners forecast
completion in five years. In 2005, lawmakers passed a $1 toll
increase to cover overruns.  During the Labor Day weekend closing, Bay Area Rapid
Transit, the regional subway and rail network, will expand
service to 24 hours a day, according to a  press release .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  