-- Schaeuble In No Rush to Sell Commerzbank Stake as Shares Wilt
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-08-28T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/schaeuble-in-no-rush-to-sell-commerzbank-stake-as-shares-wilt.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said he has no plans to sell the government’s stake in
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  any time soon because the share price is too low
to justify a divestment.  “It’s not the federal government’s wish to be an
entrepreneur, but I happen to know at what price we took on the
stake and where the price is now,” Schaeuble said in an Aug. 27
interview. “I’m not in sales negotiations with anyone.”  Germany , through the government’s Soffin bank rescue fund,
became the Frankfurt-based lender’s biggest shareholder after an
18.2 billion-euro ($24 billion) bailout in 2009 in the aftermath
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse. The stock has
declined more than any other DAX Index member since the first
part of the rescue was unveiled on Nov. 3, 2008. In that time,
it has lost 83 percent of its value, compared with a 64 percent
gain in the benchmark.  The shares have climbed more than 50 percent from an
intraday low on July 4 amid speculation an international
competitor may purchase the government’s 17 percent stake to
gain access to clients including the small and medium-sized
companies that make up Germany’s Mittelstand, the backbone of
the country’s economy.  Commerzbank shares have also benefited after the company
reported second-quarter profit that fell less than analysts had
estimated and said it’s making headway in raising capital
levels.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , who has increased
capital five times in the past four years in a bid to repay the
government and bolster the bank’s financial strength, is firing
staff as the bank wrestles with souring shipping and commercial
real estate loans.  Takeover Speculation  Standard & Poor’s lowered the company’s debt rating to A-,
four levels above junk, two months ago, saying poor economic
conditions mean it will struggle to boost earnings sustainably.  A full or partial takeover by an international bank is
“conceivable,” Florian Rentsch, the economy minister for the
state of Hesse, said in an interview with Handelsblatt today,
adding that he would welcome Commerzbank making its way
independently.  Soffin wants to sell the stake over the next six months and
foreign banks including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and
 UBS AG (UBSN)  are interested, WirtschaftsWoche magazine  reported  on
July 20, citing people close to the rescue fund it didn’t name.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  