-- Schaeuble Says Spain Exports Show Merkel Formula Working
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-08-29T09:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/schaeuble-says-spain-exports-show-merkel-crisis-formula-working.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said  Angela Merkel ’s prescription for the euro area is
yielding results, dismissing her main election challenger’s
plans to tackle the crisis as evidence he’s out of his depth.  Portugal  saw the fastest economic growth in the 17-nation
euro region in the second quarter, while  Spain ’s labor-market
reforms and lower wage costs have resulted in “very strong
export dynamism,” Schaeuble said in an interview in Berlin on
Aug. 27. In Greece, wage costs have fallen by 13 percent,
showing that “everyone’s on the right track,” he said. “We
wouldn’t have come that far if there had been an easier way.”  Schaeuble, 70, contrasted the Merkel government’s stance of
conditional aid with that of  Peer Steinbrueck , her first-term
finance minister, who is the Social Democratic candidate for
chancellor in Sept. 22 elections. The SPD platform contains a
pledge to pool euro-area debt in a so-called redemption fund, a
step Merkel said this week “is something I will not do.”  “Steinbrueck still hasn’t got it,” said Schaeuble, a
 Christian Democrat  like Merkel who succeeded Steinbrueck at the
 finance ministry  in 2009. “If we pool liabilities, through euro
bonds or a debt redemption fund, we remove the incentive for
countries that need to raise their competitiveness to do so,”
he said. “Why should we endanger what we have achieved?”  Sunday’s Debate  Schaeuble’s comments show how the debt crisis that spread
from  Greece  to dominate the 17-nation euro region throughout
Merkel’s second term is shifting to the fore of the campaign for
leadership of  Europe ’s biggest economy. The candidates will
debate their respective positions on Sept. 1, during the only
televised clash of the campaign.  Merkel has returned repeatedly to her handling of the
crisis during campaign rallies across the country, saying that
German “solidarity” in the form of financial help can only be
given to countries that reform and become more competitive.
Steinbrueck says there needs to be less emphasis on savings and
more on spurring economic growth and tackling joblessness.  “No-one knows where this coalition wants to take  Germany 
or Europe,” Steinbrueck told reporters in Berlin today, as he
laid out his priorities for the first 100 days in office if he
were to become chancellor, including a flat-rate minimum hourly
wage of 8.50 euros ($11.28), reform of the pensions system and
equal pay for men and women working in the same job. Germany
under Merkel “is at a standstill,” he said, promising a change
of course to policies of “content” rather than “nothing.”  ‘Chancellor’s Skepticism’  All the same, Steinbrueck ruled out a second debt cut for
Greece, saying that “I share the chancellor’s skepticism” and
“extreme reluctance” on further Greek debt relief.  Support for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its
Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union , was unchanged
at 41 percent in an FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television today,
while her Free Democratic coalition partner held at 6 percent.
Their combined tally of 47 percent would probably be enough for
a rerun of the current coalition if repeated on Election Day.  Steinbrueck’s SPD gained one percentage point to 26 percent
while its Green party ally dropped a point to 12 percent. The
Left Party had 7 percent, down one point. FG Wahlen polled 1,348
voters on Aug. 26-28. The results have a margin of error of as
much as 3 percentage points.  Schaeuble rejected a so-called grand coalition between his
CDU/CSU bloc and the SPD, citing the opposition’s plans to raise
taxes on the better off as “poison for the economy.”  Unemployment Rises  In any case, “it’s clear that we can finance public
expenditure with the current tax rates,” he said. “How can you
justify tax increases and threaten favourable consumer sentiment
when you’re running an overall  budget surplus ?”  While  unemployment  unexpectedly rose in August for the
first time in three months, the rate held at 6.8 percent, near a
two-decade low. Germany’s economic expansion of 0.7 percent in
the second quarter helped pull the euro region out of its
longest-ever recession.  “A bit more than 10 years ago, we were the sick man of
Europe,” Merkel said during a rally in the cathedral city of
Ulm yesterday. “We also went through a series of reforms that
were difficult for a lot of people. And today we’re the growth
engine and the anchor of stability in Europe -- we know that
painful reforms have their success.”  German voters “are better off than they were four years
ago,” said Schaeuble. “Against a difficult European and global
backdrop, the balance of this legislative period is a stable
economic picture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  