-- JPMorgan FERC-Probe Records Sought by Senate Investigators
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-08-28T18:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/senate-investigations-panel-seeks-records-on-jpmorgan-ferc-probe.html
The U.S. Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations asked energy-market regulators to
hand over “key documents” from a probe of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
as lawmakers examine banks’ roles in commodities markets.  Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who leads the panel, and
John McCain of  Arizona , its ranking Republican, sent a letter to
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission seeking records from
the agency’s inquiry and settlement with JPMorgan, according to
a copy of the Aug. 2 request obtained by Bloomberg News.  The lawmakers asked the FERC to include a 70-page document
outlining investigators’ findings, which was cited in articles
by the  New York  Times. The regulator kept that document private
when announcing a $410 million accord with JPMorgan last month.  The committee has repeatedly investigated Wall Street firms
in the wake of 2008’s credit crisis, chronicling Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s sales of mortgage-linked instruments and JPMorgan’s
handling of botched derivatives bets. In an interview last
month, Levin said lawmakers would use subpoena power to examine
banks’ dealings in physical commodities.  “We have been into this issue for a long time and it’s a
very, very significant issue,” Levin said July 23 of his
panel’s look at banks’ businesses tied to energy and natural
resources. The potential for conflicts of interest or price
manipulation “is huge,” he said.  Spokesmen for the FERC, the bank, the Senate panel and
Levin’s and McCain’s offices declined to comment on the
lawmakers’ request or didn’t respond to messages. The letter was
reported earlier this month by Platts, a publisher of
commodities market prices and news.  Abusive Bidding  JPMorgan’s energy-trading unit engaged in 12 bidding
strategies in wholesale energy markets from September 2010 to
November 2012 that resulted in tens of millions of dollars in
overpayments from grid operators, the FERC said while announcing
its settlement in July.  The bank accepted the facts in the FERC settlement without
admitting or denying wrongdoing, the agency said. The firm
announced last month that it was looking to exit the physical
commodities business, which includes energy trading.  Justice Department  Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat on the Senate
Banking Committee, held a subcommittee hearing last month on
financial firms’ involvement in commodities. He said he plans to
hold his next hearing on the topic as soon as September.  Senators Elizabeth Warren and  Edward Markey , both
Massachusetts Democrats, sent a separate letter to the FERC in
July, seeking more details on the regulator’s probe of JPMorgan.
They asked why the agency didn’t target “executives who planned
and executed market manipulations or who impeded the
commission’s investigations.”  The Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation
are conducting their own examination of whether criminal laws
were violated by individuals, a person briefed on the matter
said last week. That inquiry, which focuses on conduct at issue
in the FERC’s case, is in an early stage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  