-- Sirius Investors Shortchanged Over Liberty, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-08-28T17:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/sirius-investors-shortchanged-over-liberty-lawyer-says.html
Billionaire  John Malone  unfairly
used an investment agreement to acquire control of  Sirius XM
Radio (SIRI)  Inc. without paying a takeover premium or allowing
investors to vote on the deal, a lawyer for shareholders said.  Malone’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  structured a $530 million
investment in the satellite-radio provider in 2009 in a way that
opened the door for the takeover without paying for any more for
that right,  Mark Lebovitch , an attorney for some Sirius
shareholders, told a Delaware judge today.  “Malone wanted to enjoy all the economic benefits of being
a controlling shareholder without having any of the
responsibilities,” Lebovitch told Delaware Chancery Court Judge
Leo Strine at a hearing in Wilmington. Strine said he will rule
later on whether the investors’ claims should proceed.  Liberty officials, who took control of Sirius in January,
are pushing the broadcaster beyond radio into telematics, which
connects cars with wireless technology.  Sirius in July announced a partnership with  AT&T Inc. (T)  to
connect  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  autos in  North America  with roadside
assistance and stolen-vehicle tracking. This month, Sirius
agreed to buy the connected-vehicle services business of Agero
Inc. for $530 million.  Lawyers for ex-Sirius directors and Liberty executives say
that shareholders’ claims are barred because they focus on the
2009 agreement in which Sirius directors bargained away the
right to erect defenses against Malone’s takeover in exchange
for the cash infusion.  “The time to assert these claims has come and gone,”
Donald Wolfe, an attorney for Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty
Media, told Strine today.  Controlling Sirius  Malone’s Liberty Media gained majority control of Sirius in
January after purchasing 50 million shares of the radio operator
and getting regulatory approval for the deal.  Liberty Media plans to spin off its Sirius stake, Malone
said in 2012. Malone gained a 40 percent equity stake in the
satellite broadcaster as part of the 2009 loan deal.  Liberty Media is a holding company with a range of
investments, including stakes in the cable TV programmer  Starz
LLC  and  Major League Baseball ’s  Atlanta Braves . Several Sirius
directors, including former Chief Executive Officer Mel Karmazin, left after the takeover.  Sirius shareholders lost a bid to have Strine issue an
injunction blocking Malone from acquiring the satellite
broadcaster last year.  Shares Increase  Liberty wound up making billions of dollars on the deal as
Sirius shares have increased more than 22-fold from 16 cents on
Feb. 17, 2009, when the loan was announced, to $3.56 yesterday.
The shares rose 2 cents to $3.58 at 1:34 p.m. today in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading.  Under the investment-agreement’s terms, Malone promised not
to acquire a controlling interest in Sirius for three years in
exchange for directors agreeing not to forgo anti-takeover
defenses, lawyers for the City of Miami Police Relief and
Pension Fund said in court filings. The fund invested in Sirius
shares.  Once that period expired, Sirius directors argued they
still couldn’t put defensive measures in place based on the
investment-agreement’s terms and Malone was able to buying a
controlling interest in the satellite broadcaster without
submitting the acquisition to a shareholder vote or paying a
takeover premium, Lebovitch said in the filings.  ‘Critical Event’  “Sirius’s financial difficulties in 2009 did not make it
acceptable for the board to pass control to Liberty without
giving Sirius shareholders notice of that critical event or a
chance to vote on it,” he said in a April 19 filing.  Malone, who served on Sirius’s board, also had legal duties
to investors, especially after indicating in 2012 he intended to
become the company’s majority stockholder, Lebovitch told Strine
today. That meant it wasn’t fair for him to acquire the company
without paying a takeover premium or putting that matter up for
a shareholder vote, he said.  “You’re are complaining about the guy going into the
public markets and buying a majority?” Strine asked the
shareholders’ lawyer. He said the investment agreement
specifically allowed Malone to do so after a three-year
“standstill” pact expired in 2012.  ‘Do Nothing’  Lawyers for directors and the companies contend Sirius was
considering seeking  bankruptcy protection  when Malone offered
the $530 million bailout and the board knew the agreement may
mean shareholders wouldn’t get a takeover premium in the event
of a buyout.  Sirius officials disclosed that prospect in a March 2009
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the
company’s lawyers said in a March 13 filing.  Sirius directors initially opposed Malone’s efforts to get
regulatory approval to take control of the company’s satellite
licenses. The investment contract barred them from taking any
other steps, Raymond DiCamillo, a lawyer representing directors,
told Strine today. “The board didn’t sit by and do nothing,”
he said.  The case is In re Sirius XM Shareholder Litigation, 7800,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  