-- SocGen Can Reach 4% Leverage Ratio by Cutting Cash, Oudea Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-08-28T22:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/socgen-can-reach-4-leverage-ratio-by-cutting-cash-oudea-says.html
Societe Generale SA,  France ’s
second-largest bank by market value, would be able to meet
tougher leverage rules by reducing its cash deposits at central
banks, Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said.  “Today we have lots of cash with the central banks, we
will anyway cut that,” Oudea said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television outside Paris, indicating the firm may trim
those deposits by about 30 billion euros ($40 billion). Asked
whether the bank could improve its leverage ratio to 4 percent
should regulators require it, he said: “Yes, of course.”  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who leads the
group of 17 euro finance ministers, is seeking stricter leverage
rules for Europe’s banks. Those deemed too big to fail should
aim for a ratio of capital to total assets of at least 4
percent, more than the 3 percent standard proposed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision for 2018, he said Aug. 23.  International regulators are considering tighter leverage
requirements to prevent a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bank
rescues of 2008. Lenders including Societe Generale and
 Germany ’s Deutsche Bank AG have criticized the focus on the
leverage ratio. They and competitors have sold assets and
hoarded earnings to increase a different measure of financial
strength known as the Basel III capital ratio, which weights
assets depending on their risk.  Not ‘Backbone’  “Beyond one figure, it’s very important to say the
leverage ratio is a bad way of looking at banking,” Oudea said.
The leverage ratio should be “a backstop, not the backbone of
the regulation,” he said.  Deutsche Bank co-CEO Anshu Jain said in a speech in June
the leverage ratio is “too simplistic” because it doesn’t
reveal anything about the quality of assets.  Societe Generale’s deposits with central banks stood at 78
billion euros at the end of June, an increase of 32 billion
euros from a year earlier, according to its website.  Societe
Generale (GLE)  is among the European banks that increased cash
deposits at central banks amid Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Those deposits are “a kind of cushion, it’s a kind of
insurance,” said Oudea, 50. “With all the progress we have
made, we are going to reduce that.” Such cuts will help the
company’s earnings, he said, without providing a timeframe for
the reduction.  Societe Generale’s  profit  more than doubled to 955 million
euros in the second quarter, helped by a surge in investment-banking revenue, the Paris-based bank said on Aug. 1.  Its core Tier 1 capital ratio was 9.4 percent at the end of
June, an increase of 0.73 percentage point from the end of
March, the bank said. Societe Generale’s leverage ratio is
already at 3 percent, Oudea reiterated in the interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 