-- Sohu Jumps Amid Qihoo Acquisition Bet: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-28T20:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/sohu-jumps-amid-qihoo-acquisition-bet-china-overnight.html
Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  led gains among
Chinese equities in  New York  on speculation Qihoo 360 Technology
Co. is a step closer to buying a stake in its Sogou online
search engine unit.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. rose 0.5 percent to 95.84 yesterday,
gaining for the first time this week. Online news portal Sohu
jumped the most since May 20, while Qihoo,  China ’s second
biggest search engine, slid for the first time in a week on
concern its sale of convertible bonds will sink its stock value.
Digital map provider AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. tumbled 14 percent,
the most on record, on plans to offer free navigation
applications.  Qihoo said last month that it’s in initial talks to buy
Sohu’s Sogou search unit. The Beijing-based company sold $550
million of five-year convertible bonds, according to a statement
yesterday. Proceeds of the sale will probably be used to fund
Qihoo’s partial acquisition of Sogou, Hong Kong-based 86Research
Ltd. said in a note to clients.  “Sohu’s share rally should be driven by a possible deal
that it will sell stake in Sogou to Qihoo,” Henry Guo, an
analyst at ABR Investment Strategy LLC, said by phone from  San
Francisco . “With the bond sale, Qihoo’s existing share value
will be diluted.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 0.2 percent to a one-week low of $34.99. The  S&P 500 Index  added 0.3 percent as
energy shares rallied.  Baidu Competition  Sohu, a Beijing-based online news portal, advanced 4.6
percent to $63.40, the highest price since May 20. Chief
Executive Officer Charles Zhang said in May the company was
seeking strategic investment for its Sogou search unit to
compete with  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  for  Internet users  and advertising.  Qihoo’s American depositary receipts dropped to $77.88,
after a five-day rally sent the shares to a record $79.26. The
company is offering convertible notes due in September 2018 that
carry an annual interest rate of 2.5 percent, and investors have
the option to convert the bonds to shares of Qihoo before the
maturity date, it said.  The issuance will dilute the value of existing shareholders
by at least 4 percent, according to ABR’s Guo.  Qihoo’s Chief Financial Officer Alex Xu declined to comment
on the status of talks with Sohu in an Aug. 27 interview in
Beijing.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, jumped
3.8 percent to a six-week high of $202.68. The ADRs, each
representing 100 underlying shares in the Beijing-based company,
traded 1 percent above its Hong Kong stock, the biggest premium
in a week.  Free Apps  Oil futures rose 1 percent to a two-year high in New York
and Brent climbed to a six-month high in  London  on concern
mounting tension between the U.S. and  Syria  will threaten oil
supplies from the  Middle East .  AutoNavi, which provides digital map content to companies
from Sina Corp. to Apple Inc., plunged to $12.54, the biggest
decline since its U.S. listing in July 2010.  The company said yesterday it will offer free premium
navigation apps for Apple and Android smartphones in China,
seeking to deepen the penetration of its mobile products.
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce company
invested $294 million in AutoNavi in May for a 28 percent stake.  The free offering will reduce AutoNavi’s revenue, while
contribution from Alibaba’s acquisition won’t boost sales until
the second half of next year, according to Andy Yeung, a New
York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.  Second-quarter profit dropped to $3.8 million from $8.8
million a year earlier while sales also declined, Beijing-based
AutoNavi said yesterday in a statement.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (HSCEI)  tumbled 2.2 percent
to 9,765.19. The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.1 percent to
2,101.30, falling the first time this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  