-- South African Corn Drops After Committee Raises Output Forecast
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-08-28T11:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/south-african-corn-drops-after-committee-raises-output-forecast.html
Corn in  South Africa  fell the most
in two weeks after the Crop Estimates Committee said the nation
will produce more of the grain than previously expected.  South Africa raised its prediction for corn output this
season by about 1 percent, with farmers forecast to reap 11.5
million metric tons of the grain in the year through April. That
compared with the 11.34 million-ton median estimate of seven
analysts in a Bloomberg survey and the 11.4 million-ton estimate
the committee made last month.  White corn for December delivery, the most active contract,
fell 0.9 percent to 2,380 rand ($228) a ton, the biggest decline
since Aug. 14, by the midday close in Johannesburg. The yellow
variety for delivery the same month dropped 1.2 percent to 2,224
rand a ton.  “Today’s move has mostly got to do with the fact that the
announcement by the Crop Estimates Committee was not in line
with what was expected,” Benjamin Swanepoel, a trader from
Trademar Futures (Pty) Ltd., said by phone in Johannesburg.  The nation may also produce more of the yellow variety of
corn than the white for the first time since 1995 as a lack of
rain in some growing areas curbs output of the white kind. The
nation’s farmers will probably produce 5.93 million tons of
yellow corn in the year through April and 5.58 million tons of
white, the Pretoria-based estimates committee said in a
statement on its website yesterday.  South Africa is the continent’s largest producer of corn.
Meal made from white corn is used as one of the nation’s staple
foods, while the yellow variety is mainly used as  animal feed .  Wheat for December delivery lost 0.1 percent to 3,431 rand
a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  