-- SQM Falls in Chile After Low Prices Lead to Profit Miss
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-28T20:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/sqm-falls-in-chile-after-low-prices-lead-to-profit-miss.html
(Corrects name of research firm in seventh paragraph.)  Soc. Quimica y Minera de Chile SA ,
the country’s largest fertilizer producer, slid to the lowest in
five years after the company reported a bigger-than-expected
drop in profit as potash prices fell.  SQM  retreated  1.3 percent to 12,820 pesos at 1:30 p.m. in
Santiago, the lowest since November 2008. The benchmark Chilean
 IPSA (IPSA)  index advanced 0.2 percent.  Net income fell 44 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier to $107 million, trailing the $136 million average
of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Potash prices were
falling even before the collapse in July of an agreement between
Russian and Belarusan producers that had helped to prop up
global prices, SQM said.  “We find more negatives than positives” in the earnings
report, Banchile-Citi analysts Juan Tavarez, Raimundo Perez and
Felipe Jiman Koh said today in an e-mailed note.  Second-quarter volumes dropped in the iodine and lithium
segments, SQM said. Overall sales contracted 17 percent to $566
million.  SQM’s shares tumbled 22 percent on July 30 and 31 after
 Russia ’s OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer,
announced the end of a trade agreement with its Belarusan
counterpart Belaruskali.  Management’s statements on earnings for the rest of the
year have become “increasingly cautious given higher
competition in lithium and iodine and price pressure in
potash,” the Banchile-Citi analysts wrote.  The company is the worst performer this year on the IPSA,
falling 53 percent as the index dropped 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  