-- State Street to Open Emerging Market ETF Without BRIC Countries
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-08-28T19:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/state-street-to-open-emerging-market-etf-without-bric-countries.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the second-largest provider of exchange-traded funds worldwide, is seeking
to counter its biggest rivals’ dominance of emerging-market
stock ETFs with a fund that excludes Brazil, Russia, India and
China, known as the BRIC nations.  State Street asked the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for permission to open the SPDR MSCI Beyond BRIC ETF,
according to a regulatory  filing  dated yesterday from the
Boston-based firm. The ETF would invest in developing-market
stocks in  Chile , Columbia, the Czech Republic, Indonesia, South
Africa and Turkey, among others.  “This would allow investors to get more exposure to some
of the smaller, potentially higher-growth areas of the market,”
 Todd Rosenbluth , director of ETF and mutual fund research at S&P
Capital IQ in New York, said in a telephone interview.  The new product would expand State Street’s offerings in an
area dominated by two ETFs from Vanguard Group Inc. and
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which hold a combined $84.6 billion, or 83
percent of all money in U.S. registered emerging-market equity
ETFs that don’t use leverage, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. State Street’s top entry in the category is the $749
million SPDR S&P  Emerging Markets  SmallCap ETF.  U.S.-based emerging-market ETFs have lost $20.7 billion, or
about 17 percent of assets, this year as investors have
withdrawn from funds and the value of their holdings has
declined. The $50 billion  Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ETF (VWO) ,
the industry’s largest, has dropped 15 percent in value this
year.  BRIC stocks account for 50 percent and 42 percent of assets
in Vanguard’s and BlackRock’s largest emerging market ETFs,
respectively, according to company websites.  State Street would be the second provider to open a non-BRIC emerging-market ETF. Emerging Global Advisors LLC in
Ridgewood, New Jersey, opened the $10.2 million  EGShares Beyond
BRICs ETF (BBRC)  in August 2012.  Elizabeth Bartlett, a spokeswoman for State Street, said
the company wouldn’t comment on the proposed product while it’s
under review by regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  