-- Styrolution Owners May Sell Shares to Public in 2015, CEO Says
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-08-28T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/styrolution-owners-may-sell-shares-to-public-in-2015-ceo-says.html
Styrolution Group GmbH, the plastics
venture formed by  BASF SE (BAS)  and Ineos Group Holdings Ltd., may
hold an initial public offering as soon as 2015, Chief Executive
Officer Roberto Gualdoni said.  Other options include Ineos buying BASF’s 50 percent stake
or a sale to an industry investor, Gualdoni said yesterday at a
press briefing in Frankfurt, where the company is based. A
change in ownership could come as early as February as Ineos has
an option to buy BASF’s stake at a fixed price, he said.  “BASF has already said they want to exit, so that is just
a matter of time,” Gualdoni said. “An IPO is possible, but it
wouldn’t come next year, 2015 is possible.”  Styrolution, formed in October 2011, has set itself the
goal of generating half of its sales from specialty products and
half of revenue from  emerging markets  by the end of the decade.
Growth will come from building up existing operations as well as
potential acquisitions, the CEO said.  The maker of polystyrene and acrylonitrile butadiene
styrene, or ABS, a lightweight, robust plastic used in mobile-phone housings, vacuum cleaners and power tools, posted pro-forma sales of 6 billion euros ($8 billion) last year. Earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization and one-time
items was 335 million euros.  The German company plans to “significantly” beat 2012’s
operating profit this year and push margins into the double-digit range by the end of the decade, Chief Financial Officer
Christoph de la Camp said at the briefing. The company is on
track to cut 200 million euros a year in costs by upgrading
factories and reducing the number of information technology
systems in use.  Ebitda Formula  Styrolution’s future ownership will depend on its earnings.
As well as Ineos’ option to buy the 50 percent it doesn’t own
from February, BASF has an option to sell its stake to Ineos
from October next year, Gualdoni said. Both options expire in
2016. The price would be determined by a formula based on a
multiple of Ebitda before special items, he said.  While the CEO declined to say which multiple had been
agreed, he acknowledged that the price for commodity companies
at the end of 2011, when the agreement was made, was at about
five to seven times Ebitda. The middle of that range would give
Styrolution a value of about 2 billion euros including debt,
based on 2012 earnings.  The company, which has 3,200 employees, settled on
 Frankfurt  for its headquarters because it inherited assets in
Ludwigshafen, to the south, and Leverkusen, to the north of
 Germany ’s financial capital. Frankfurt was “neutral ground,”
the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  