-- Sugar Declines as Brazil Millers Favor Sweetener; Cocoa Advances
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-28T10:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/sugar-declines-as-brazil-millers-favor-sweetener-cocoa-advances.html
Sugar fell for a second day in
 London  and in New York after millers in Brazil’s main growing
region directed more of the cane crop to making the sweetener at
the expense of ethanol. Cocoa advanced.  Millers in Brazil’s center-south, the main growing region
of the world’s biggest producer, directed 47.8 percent of all
the cane processed in the first half of August to making sugar,
according to industry group Unica. That’s up from 45 percent two
weeks earlier. Producers switched to making more sugar as a
weaker real meant ethanol is 2 cents a pound cheaper than the
sweetener,  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  said in a report yesterday.  “It shows the industry is responding to price signals,”
 Jonathan Kingsman , managing director of researcher Kingsman SA
in Lausanne, Switzerland, said by phone, commenting on Unica’s
figures. “Ethanol is paying much less still than sugar, so the
sector has moved more toward sugar over the past month.”  White sugar for delivery in October decreased 0.7 percent
to $476.30 a metric ton by 11:31 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in London,
declining for the seventh session in eight. Raw sugar for
delivery in the same month fell 0.2 percent to 16.43 cents a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  The Brazilian real declined 13.5 percent this year, the
third-worst performer in a basket of 24 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The  Indian rupee  is the worst,
followed by the South African rand. Weaker currencies encourage
millers to export more of the sweetener priced in U.S. dollars.
 India  is the world’s second-biggest sugar producer.  “The weakening rupee increases the chance of seeing
significant Indian exports next year from their domestic
production,” Kingsman said.  India  Sugar shipments from India may exceed 1 million tons in the
year beginning Oct. 1, said  Narendra Murkumbi , managing director
of Mumbai-based  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS)  Exports will probably
be 500,000 tons to 1.5 million tons, Manish Gupta, head of sugar
trading at Olam India, said in an interview earlier this month.  Robusta coffee for November delivery was little changed at
$1,771 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Arabica coffee for delivery in
December climbed 0.6 percent to $1.1745 a pound on ICE.  Cocoa for delivery in December rose 0.7 percent to 1,640
pounds ($2,539) a ton in London. Cocoa for delivery in the same
month advanced 0.6 percent to $2,468 a ton in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  