-- Sumitomo Mitsui, Orix Said to Weigh Bids for AIG’s Planes
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-08-28T07:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/sumitomo-mitsui-orix-said-to-weigh-bids-for-aig-s-planes.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) 
and  Orix Corp. (8591)  are considering making bids for aircraft owned by
American International Group Inc.’s aircraft-leasing unit, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Sumitomo Mitsui’s banking unit is interested in buying 300
planes owned by  AIG (AIG) ’s International Lease Finance Corp. for
about $1 billion, said one person, who asked not to be named
because the deliberations are private. Orix is considering
teaming up with other investors to purchase about 100 aircraft,
or around a 10th of ILFC’s fleet, the other person said.  AIG agreed in December to sell 80 percent of ILFC to a
group of investors for $4.2 billion, though that deal has been
delayed as the consortium missed payment deadlines. The
transaction suffered a setback as New China Trust Co. left the
investor group, and the remaining bidders have yet to finish
raising money for the purchase, a person with knowledge of the
matter said this month.  Sumitomo Mitsui,  Japan ’s second-biggest bank by market
value, last year paid $7.3 billion for  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) ’s aviation division.  Orix , which offers services ranging from leasing and
insurance to real estate and private equity, has an aviation
unit in Dublin. Orix Aviation Systems Ltd. owns more than 170
commercial jet aircraft and spare engines valued at more than $4
billion, according to its  website .  Sohei Nishimaki, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Sumitomo
Mitsui, wasn’t immediately able to comment. Atsushi Horii, a
spokesman for Orix in Tokyo, declined to comment. Calvin Lee, a
spokesman for AIG in Hong Kong, didn’t immediately return a
call.  AIG’s Move  Neither company is in formal talks with AIG, the people
said. Sumitomo Mitsui and Orix, both based in Tokyo, are waiting
to see whether AIG abandons the deal with the investor group, or
whether the New York-based company chooses to pursue an initial
public offering of ILFC, according to the people.  AIG retains an option to terminate the deal with the
investor group, now led by Hong Kong-based P3 Investments Ltd.,
a person familiar with the matter said this month. ILFC owned or
operated a fleet of about 1,000 aircraft as of March 31,
according to a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  