-- Suntech Directors Quit Saying Solar Maker Has No Plan
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-08-28T08:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/suntech-directors-quit-saying-solar-maker-has-no-business-plan.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese solar manufacturer whose main unit was pulled into
bankruptcy earlier this year, said three directors including the
former chairwoman quit saying the company had no business plan.  Susan Wang, Julian Worley and Zhizhong Qiu resigned on Aug.
21, saying they weren’t provided with information they needed to
fulfill their responsibilities, the Wuxi, China-based company
said today in a statement. Michael Nacson replaced Wang, who
took the post of chairwoman in March, Suntech said.  The resignations highlight the divisions among the
company’s management after a $541 million bond default and
follow the ouster of Suntech founder Shi Zhengrong less than six
months ago.  China ’s solar-panel industry, which supplies more
than half the world market, is unprofitable amid a global glut
and slower economic growth.  “Rather than the incapability of the management team, the
more intrinsic difficulty the company is facing is the huge debt
compared with its value,” said Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-based
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Suntech’s major
advantages, including an established reputation for quality and
high-efficiency panels, “cannot provide enough competitiveness
to guarantee a survival,” she said by e-mail.  Suntech, once the world’s biggest panel maker by shipments,
fell 7.3 percent to $1.01 yesterday in  New York . The shares have
lost 34 percent this year, battered by insolvency proceedings
against its biggest unit, Wuxi Suntech Power Co.  Director Concerns  The former directors cited concern about negotiations with
bondholders,  cash flow  and a lack of clear business plan,
Suntech said in the statement. They were also concerned about
the potential erosion of internal controls and the impairment of
employees’ ability to function effectively.  The concerns are “demonstrative of disharmony and issues
of communication between the executive management and the
resigning directors that decreased the efficiency of the board’s
decision-making process,” the remaining independent directors
Philip Fan, Nacson and Kurt Metzger, said in the statement.
Nacson was appointed to the board last month by Suntech’s
bondholders.  Suntech’s biggest unit was forced into bankruptcy in March
after the company missed a debt repayment, opening the way for
bondholders to sue the company in the U.S. where its shares and
bonds trade. Suntech extended a forbearance agreement with a
majority of bondholders until Aug. 30, the company said in June.  Board Size  “The large size and geographic dispersion of the board as
previously constituted was not ideal for the company involved in
a debt restructuring process because of the need for frequent in
person board meetings to discuss and analyze complex issues,”
Fan, Nacson and Metzger said in the statement. They see progress
being made in regards to the issues raised by the resigning
directors.  Nacson, Fan, Metzger, Weiping Zhou, Shi and  David King 
continue to serve as directors of the company, Suntech said in
the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  