-- Sweden Lashes Out at Banks Luring Investors With 15% Returns
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-08-28T11:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/sweden-lashes-out-at-banks-luring-investors-with-15-returns.html
Sweden ’s government criticized banks
in the largest Nordic economy for chasing returns it says are
likely to encourage risk taking.  Targeting a return on equity of 15 percent is “not
reasonable,” Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman told
reporters in Stockholm today. “I’m scared that that kind of
return target at the banks can trigger a risk-behavior that’s
not good for the banks or for Sweden.”  Norman, who earlier this week unveiled plans to raise
 capital requirements  for Sweden’s biggest banks from levels that
already exceed standards elsewhere, says the clampdown is
necessary to protect Swedes from a financial industry that’s
grown to four times the size of the economy.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Scandinavia’s biggest lender, has told
investors it will try to deliver a return on equity of 15
percent in a “normalized interest rate environment.” The bank
returned 11.6 percent in 2012.  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , which also targets
15 percent, reported a  14.6 percent  return for 2012.  SEB AB aims to “generate return on equity that is
competitive with peers,” which means “the bank in the long-term aspires to reach a return on equity of 15 percent,” the
lender said in its  second-quarter report  on July 15.  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  says it targets a higher return on equity than
the average of its peers in the Nordic region and the U.K.  Low Inflation  “When we have a low inflation economy as we do in Sweden
with 1-2 percent inflation, if you then add a  risk premium  and
other things, it’s not reasonable to reach 15 percent,” Norman
said.  Swedish bank shares declined for a third day, with Nordea
falling  1.5 percent  to 77.15 kronor as of 1:38 p.m. in  Stockholm 
trading and Handelsbanken dropping 0.2 percent to 283.35 kronor.
Swedbank dropped 0.5 percent to 149.7 kronor and SEB declined
0.7 percent to 67.5 kronor. The Bloomberg Banks and Financial
Services Index decreased 1 percent.  The government said Aug. 26 Sweden’s four largest lenders
now face an even higher minimum core Tier 1 capital requirement
than the 12 percent of risk-weighted assets due to be enforced
from 2015 as Sweden plans to use countercyclical buffers to
ensure there’s no upper limit on reserve levels. All four banks
already exceed the 12 percent target for 2015.  Offshore Funding  Sweden’s four biggest banks, which the government has said
rely too much on short-term offshore funding, also face costs to
help finance foreign reserves at the Riksbank, Norman said. That
follows steps to triple the risk weights banks must apply to
their mortgage assets amid criticism from the government and
central bank that lenders helped fuel imbalances in Sweden’s
housing market.  Norman and Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  warned
banks last year not to raise dividend payments and instead focus
on increasing capital buffers further. Norman in January revised
that guidance and told banks they were free to raise dividends
after building reserves that exceeded regulatory minimums.  “We had the discussions about dividends when the banks had
very low capital,” Norman said today. “The banks have now done
what we wished, in other words, stashed away above the
thresholds we ourselves have established, so the situation is
somewhat different.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  