-- Switzerland Close to Resolving Undeclared U.S. Accounts
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-08-28T09:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/switzerland-close-to-resolving-undeclared-u-s-accounts.html
Switzerland is moving closer to an
agreement with the U.S. to settle a dispute over banks including
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  allegedly
helping American clients avoid taxes.  The Swiss Bankers Association’s board of directors, which
includes executives of the country’s largest lenders, met Aug.
26 to discuss a proposed program to resolve the issue, Sindy Schmiegel Werner, a spokeswoman for the Basel, Switzerland-based
group, said by telephone today.  “The board stands behind the program even though it’s a
painful measure to take,” she said, declining to elaborate.  The Swiss government is due to decide today whether to
accept the accord, paving the way for a resolution for all Swiss
banks that would involve fines and disclosure of U.S. client
data, Tages-Anzeiger reported. Acceptance of the proposal would
also help about a dozen wealth managers already under
investigation in the U.S., including Credit Suisse and Julius
Baer, move forward with their individual agreements.  Roland Meier, a spokesman for the Swiss Finance Ministry in
Bern, declined to comment on the Tages-Anzeiger report.  The new proposal comes after the Swiss parliament in June
rejected a bill that would have freed the industry to send
information to the U.S. The bill, supported by Swiss banks, was
aimed at helping firms not yet part of the U.S. probe avoid an
indictment like that of Wegelin & Co., which pleaded guilty in
January to helping American clients dodge taxes.  Paying Fines  Banks that aren’t currently under investigation that may
have breached U.S. laws with undeclared assets would have to pay
fines on accounts exceeding 50,000 francs ($54,407) under the
proposal, according to  Tages-Anzeiger.   The fines will depend on when the account was opened, with
20 percent for those that existed before August 2008, 30 percent
for the period between Aug. 1, 2008 and Feb. 28, 2009 and 50
percent thereafter, according to the Swiss newspaper.  UBS AG, the country’s biggest bank, agreed in February 2009
to pay $780 million and disclose names of American clients to
avoid criminal prosecution for helping customers evade taxes.
That deal and the voluntary disclosures by Americans that
followed allowed the U.S. to make a case against other Swiss
wealth managers.  Information on American clients from August 2008 would be
made available to the U.S. if requested through existing double-taxation agreements, Tages-Anzeiger said. Banks that didn’t have
undeclared American accounts will have to prove that they didn’t
break any U.S. laws, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  