-- U.K. Opposition Sets Out Conditions for Backing on Syria
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-08-28T15:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/u-k-opposition-sets-out-conditions-for-backing-on-syria.html
U.K. opposition leader Ed Miliband
has told Prime Minister David Cameron his Labour Party won’t
vote for military action over  Syria  without United Nations
involvement, as a poll showed Britons opposed missile strikes by
two to one.  Miliband offered tentative support for possible attacks
after meeting Cameron yesterday. His foreign-affairs spokesman,
Douglas Alexander, today laid out Labour’s conditions for
supporting Cameron in a vote in Parliament tomorrow. Cameron has
recalled lawmakers from their summer recess after last week’s
alleged chemical-weapons attacks by forces loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad that Syrian opposition groups say killed 1,300
people.  “We want to see the report of the weapons inspectors who
are presently on the ground presented to the Security Council of
the United Nations prior to action being taken,” Alexander told
the BBC. “It is not simply an issue of confirmation that
chemical weapons were used, but there is also an issue of the
responsibility -- evidence suggesting Assad’s responsibility.”  If Labour opposes military action, Cameron may struggle to
win approval from the House of Commons, as some of his own
Conservative lawmakers have publicly expressed reluctance to
back such a move. It’s 10 years since Labour Prime Minister Tony Blair led Britain into the war in  Iraq  to oust Saddam Hussein, a
move that cost him popularity and eventually led to his
resignation in 2007.  Legal Advice  The evidence behind U.K. and U.S. assertions that the
Syrian government is responsible for the attacks should be
presented to Parliament, Alexander said. Labour also wants
Cameron to publish the legal advice he has been given about
possibly military action.  A  YouGov Plc poll  published in today’s Sun newspaper found
50 percent of respondents saying they opposed missile strikes,
while 25 percent said they were in favor. YouGov questioned
1,991 people Aug. 26 and yesterday for the poll, for which no
margin of error was specified.  “The danger is we get dragged into a civil war in the
Middle East,” Diane Abbott, who ran against Miliband for the
party leadership in 2010 and is now a Labour health spokeswoman,
told the  BBC . “The idea that Assad is going to wake up after
the bombing and say ‘OK, I’m going to stop the humanitarian
abuses,’ I think that’s a little bit naive.”  Conservative lawmakers including John Baron, John Redwood
and Sarah Wollaston have also publicly said they have doubts
about the effectiveness of military action.  ‘Another Quagmire’  “There is no public appetite for anything that risks
dragging our armed forces into another quagmire,” YouGov
President Peter Kellner said in an e-mailed statement,
highlighting the failure of military interventions to bring
peace to Iraq and  Afghanistan . “A short, sharp, remote-launched
missile attack, and possibly the enforcement of a no-fly zone,
represent the outer limits of what might be acceptable, and our
latest poll shows that even that isn’t certain.”  The prime minister hasn’t yet given details of the motion
that will be put to members of Parliament tomorrow or said
whether it will be binding. In the past, Cameron has said that
British lawmakers should have the final say on going to war.  Justin Welby, the Archbishop of Canterbury, said any
decision on military action should not be rushed.  “The things which MPs will have to bear in mind in what is
going to be a very, very difficult debate is firstly, are we
sure about the facts on the ground?” Welby said in an interview
with the Daily Telegraph newspaper. “Secondly, is it possible
to have a carefully calibrated response including armed force,
if you are sure about the facts on the ground, that does not
have unforeseeable ramifications across the whole Arab and
Muslim world?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  