-- U.S., Swiss Said to Reach Deal in Offshore Tax Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s ,   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/u-s-swiss-said-to-reach-deal-in-offshore-tax-probe.html
The U.S. and  Switzerland  agreed to
resolve a long-running dispute over offshore  tax evasion  by
letting some banks voluntarily disclose wrongdoing and turn over
account information on American clients, a senior Justice
Department official familiar with the matter said.  The accord divides Swiss banks into four tiers: 14 banks
under criminal investigation; those allowed to avoid prosecution
by disclosing wrongdoing; those without wrongdoing to disclose;
and those complying with U.S. anti-tax evasion law, according to
the person, who isn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly
and asked not to be named. Total penalties by banks making
voluntary disclosures could exceed $1 billion, the person said.  The pact lets Switzerland, the world’s largest offshore
financial center with about $2.2 trillion of assets, resolve
negotiations spanning two years after U.S. criminal prosecutions
eroded Swiss bank secrecy. Those under investigation include
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-largest Swiss bank.  “The program enables all banks in Switzerland to settle
their U.S. past quickly and conclusively and creates the
necessary legal certainty,” the  Swiss Bankers Association ,
which represents more than 300 banks, said yesterday after the
Swiss government made an earlier announcement.  The accord will require banks making disclosures to
describe fully how they enabled tax evasion, including third-party advisers and other professionals involved, the person
said. They also must disclose information on an individual basis
about U.S. clients with direct or indirect ownership of
accounts, including their dollar values, the person said.  HSBC Holdings  The U.S. will still investigate wrongdoing by the 14
financial institutions, including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the largest
European bank, and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)   The Justice Department typically resolves cases against
companies in one of two ways. One is charging a company and
dropping the case if the company admits wrongdoing, pays
penalties and changes practices. The other is not prosecuting a
company while requiring it to admit wrongdoing, make payments,
and improve operations.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million in 2009, admitting it aided U.S. tax evasion
and handing over data on 4,500 accounts.  Since then, 38,000 U.S. taxpayers avoided prosecution by
voluntarily disclosing offshore accounts to the  Internal Revenue
Service  and detailing the bankers, lawyers and advisers who
helped them. The U.S. prosecuted more than 90 people for
offshore tax crimes, including two dozen enablers. Wegelin &
Co., the oldest Swiss private bank, pleaded guilty in January
and handed over $74 million.  Cooperators, Whistle-Blowers  As it investigates, the U.S. has received information from
cooperators, whistle-blowers, the IRS voluntary disclosure
program, and subpoenas, according to the person. The accord will
require banks to hand over information under the U.S.-Swiss
double-taxation treaty, the person said.  Banks that make voluntary disclosures could be subject to
penalties of 20 percent of the value of accounts in mid-2008,
according to the person. Those penalties could increase for
accounts after early 2009, when UBS reached its deferred-prosecution agreement.  The  Justice Department  has focused recent prosecutions on
U.S. taxpayers and their professional enablers who hid accounts
from the IRS after they exited UBS.  Credit Suisse, Julius Baer and HSBC’s Swiss private bank
have said they expect to pay a fine to settle their disputes
with the U.S.  Welcome Step  “We welcome this as a step towards a resolution of the
issue as a whole,” said Andres Luther, a spokesman for Credit
Suisse, commenting on the Swiss government statement.  Yesterday’s announcement doesn’t affect HSBC as it’s
already under investigation, according to David Bruegger, a
Zurich-based spokesman for the bank.  “We are continuing our discussions,” he said. “We are in
close contact with the authorities and will stay in touch until
a solution is found.”  Julius Baer  declined to comment.  The announcement comes after the Swiss Parliament in June
rejected a bill that would have given banks a yearlong legal
reprieve and allowed them to settle with the U.S. by handing
over information on employees and third parties who worked with
American clients. It would also have established legal
protection for bank employees.  Sidestepping Secrecy  “The Swiss have finally decided to deal with the issue of
creating an exception to Swiss bank secrecy by employing an
administrative procedure to avoid legal challenges and a public
referendum, which could otherwise defeat any settlement,” said
Milan Patel, a former IRS trial attorney who is now a partner at
Zurich-based law firm Anaford AG. “It also avoids the long
diplomatic procedures.”  The banks under investigation by the Justice Department can
use a 1996 tax agreement to respond to requests for names of
American clients, the Swiss government said on May 29. That
depends on the U.S. authorities providing a sufficiently
detailed description of the matter to establish suspicion of
fraud or similar offenses.  The  U.S. Senate  has yet to ratify a 2009 protocol revising
the 1996 accord to make it easier for Swiss banks to hand over
data on clients suspected of tax evasion to the IRS.  Banks that aren’t currently under investigation that may
have breached U.S. laws with undeclared assets would have to pay
fines on accounts exceeding 50,000 francs ($54,407) under the
proposal, Tages-Anzeiger reported yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  