-- U.S. Open Fans Can Choose David Burke Steak, ‘Texas Pie’
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-08-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/u-s-open-fans-can-choose-david-burke-steak-texas-pie-.html
The U.S Open adds smoky brisket
sliders and chicken tenders to the fare offered up to hungry
fans for the first time, thanks to Hill Country Chicken
Executive Chef Elizabeth Karmel.  For those who want a chocolate dessert that’s 10 miles
north of decadent, Karmel has imported the $4.50 miniature
“Texas Billionaire Pie” from  her Manhattan restaurant . The
ingredients include bittersweet chocolate, salted caramel, mini
marshmallows and toasted pecans.  “Most Texas oil tycoons are billionaires, and it’s way
richer than a millionaire’s pie,” the North Carolina-born
Karmel said in an interview.  The  U.S. Open  has taken a page from other professional
sports venues by elevating its cuisine beyond hot dogs and
burgers with the help of boldface-name chefs.  In 2010, “Iron Chef America’s” Masaharu Morimoto joined
the tennis tournament’s culinary team, offering sushi at Aces
restaurant in the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center
in Flushing, Queens.  Last year, restaurateur  David Burke , who has appeared as a
judge on Food Network’s “Worst Cooks in America,” brought his
signature steaks to the Center’s Champions Bar & Grill. Tony
Mantuano, a “Top Chef Masters” champion and chef-partner at
 Chicago ’s Spiaggia, returns to offer Mediterranean small plates
and his signature flaming ouzo shrimp at Wine Bar Food.  Instant Karmel  Karmel is the newest addition to the culinary team.  “It’s nice that barbecue and southern food now have a place
at the table along with Italian, sushi and the American
steakhouse,” said the chef, whose restaurant is in  Manhattan ’s
Chelsea district.  The Tennis Center will sell food to more than 700,000 fans
at 60 concession stands this week through Sept. 9. The complex
has 5 restaurants, 100 luxury suites and the Player’s Lounge, a
private cafeteria for the athletes.  The stands include an oyster bar, Fresca Mexicana for
tortas and other Mexican dishes, and Heineken House, an outdoor
venue in the Food Village with three bars.  Another addition, East Gate Grill, should attract
carnivores for its Pat LaFrieda Steak Sandwich, which layers
filet mignon, onions au jus and Monterey Jack cheese. It’s named
for Pat LaFrieda Meat Purveyors, a top New York supplier.  Murray’s Fave  Morimoto’s sushi menu ranges from $6 to $25. His spicy tuna
roll is a favorite of the U.K.’s  Andy Murray , the defending U.S.
Open champion, said Mark Stone, president of MM Management LLC,
which manages Morimoto’s restaurant empire.  But if you’re sticking with meat, you might try the $49
grilled rib eye at Champions Bar & Grill. The steaks served up
by Burke’s team have been dry aged for 55 days and finished with
beef fat, roasted garlic and mustard powder as they come off the
grill.  “It’s marinated in what we call love,” said Burke, whose
Manhattan restaurants include David Burke Townhouse and
Fishtail.  Muse highlights include  Laurie Muchnick  on books and
 Manuela Hoelterhoff  on music.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 