-- Ukraine Must Work With Customs Union After EU Pact, Azarov Says
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-08-28T16:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/ukraine-must-work-with-customs-union-after-eu-pact-azarov-says.html
Ukraine  must find ways to cooperate
with a Russian-led customs union after agreeing on a free-trade
zone with the European Union, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said.  The former Soviet republic needs to boost trade with  Russia 
and is prepared to sign separate pacts with the customs union,
Azarov said today in Kiev, the capital.  “These integration processes shouldn’t be set against each
other,” he said. “On the contrary, optimal ways of cooperation
must be worked out.”  Russia wants Ukraine to join a customs union it’s formed
with Belarus and  Kazakhstan , offering cheaper natural gas and
more trade in exchange. Ukraine is instead seeking to sign an
Association Agreement, including a free-trade accord, with the
EU in November, a move Russian officials have said will spark
measures to shield the country from increased European imports.  Russia banned imports from Ukrainian candy maker Roshen
last month, saying carcinogens had been discovered in its
products, and temporarily imposed stricter customs-clearance
rules on Ukrainian exporters two weeks ago. Almost a quarter of
Ukraine’s exports went to Russia in the first six months of the
year, according to state  statistics office  data.  The delays were related to disagreements with Russia over
the customs union, Azarov said last week. He met Russian Premier
 Dmitry Medvedev  in Moscow on Aug. 26 to discuss trade.  “Any outside pressure on Ukraine related to its ambition
to sign the Association Agreement with the EU is not
acceptable,” EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule said
yesterday after meeting the head of Ukraine’s National Security
and Defense Council, Andriy Klyuev.  “The signature of a free trade agreement with a third
party, meaning us, may not be used as a justification for the
tightening of customs procedures,” Fule said.  While Ukraine plans to sign the EU pact, it wants to
“preserve and develop” relations with Russia at the same time,
Klyuev said yesterday in Brussels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  