-- Vestas Advances as BofAML Sees 50% Upside: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-28T08:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/vestas-advances-as-bofaml-sees-50-upside-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  rose the
most among Copenhagen’s benchmark stocks today after Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said the Danish turbine maker’s share
price could gain 50 percent in a year as profits return.  Vestas rose as much as 5.2 percent, making the stock
today’s  biggest winner  in the Nasdaq  OMX Copenhagen 20 index. (KFX) 
The shares rose 4.5 percent to 103.90 kroner at 10:00 a.m. local
time with trading volume at 47 percent of the three-month daily
average.  Vestas shares have more than tripled in value this year as
an inflow of new orders drove investor confidence that the
company will start making money again. BofA Merrill Lynch today
started coverage of the share with a buy recommendation saying
earnings will be helped by cost cuts, stronger management,
higher prices and more global demand for its turbines.  “We see Vestas as a restructuring story in an industry
witnessing less overcapacity, better pricing discipline,
stabilizing orders and improving onshore wind economics,” BofA
Merrill Lynch analysts, including Pinaki Das, said in a note to
clients.  The bank set a price estimate on the share of 150 kroner,
indicating a premium to yesterday’s closing price of about 50
percent.  Vestas last week said Ericsson AB’s Anders Runevad will
replace  Ditlev Engel  as chief executive officer on Sept. 1. The
company switched chairman in 2012 and got a new chief financial
officer earlier this year.  “Vestas’s leadership has completely changed providing an
opportunity for rebuilding credibility with investors,” BofA
Merrill Lynch said. “We anticipate new management to push for
further restructuring (more cost reductions) as well as
increasing the focus on  profitability  and on growing the high
margin service activities.”  Separately, Stoxx Ltd. said late yesterday that Vestas will
enter the Stoxx Europe 600 Index as of Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  