-- Wal-Mart Same-Sex Benefits Puts Pressure on Hold-Outs
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-08-28T20:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/wal-mart-same-sex-benefits-puts-pressure-on-hold-outs.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s decision to
extend health-care benefits to workers’ same-sex partners
removes one of the biggest holdouts and adds pressure on other
resistant companies to follow suit.  “You can go to your board, and all of a sudden you’re not
swimming against the stream as much as you were yesterday,”
said Wallace Hopp, associate dean of faculty and research at the
University of Michigan’s Stephen M. Ross School of Business.
“You can say, ‘Jeez, Wal-Mart does it.’”  Wal-Mart, the largest U.S. private employer and a frequent
target of labor-rights groups, described the change yesterday
mainly as a path to a consistent policy as some states alter the
definition of marriage. Even so, the switch after years of
opposition may help tip the balance at companies such as trucker
 YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW) , which is considering partner benefits for
2014, or  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , one of the biggest firms left
without such coverage.  “They’re so big that everything they do sets an example,”
Hopp said of Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart. The retailer,
founded by the late Sam Walton in 1962 and known for policies
such as banning explicit lyrics in CDs it sells, serves about
two-thirds of Americans monthly.  Overland Park, Kansas-based YRC is “always re-evaluating
its benefits based on the needs and changing demographics of our
employees,” Kelly Walls, its senior vice president of human
resources, said yesterday in an e-mail.  The number of Fortune 500 companies offering health-care
benefits to same-sex partners has surged in a decade, to about
62 percent last year from 34 percent in 2002, according to the
Washington-based Human Rights Campaign.  Wal-Mart Policy  Exxon, with about 76,900  employees , received the lowest
score among the 20 largest companies on the campaign’s 2013
Corporate Equality Index examining policies for lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender workers.  On its website, Exxon says it offers coverage for “legally
recognized spousal relationships” in countries where it
operates. In the U.S., “We follow the federal definition of
spousal relationships,”  Alan Jeffers , an Exxon spokesman, said
yesterday by telephone.  Full-time workers’ spouses and domestic partners will be
eligible for coverage in medical, dental, vision, life, critical
illness and accident plans, Wal-Mart said in a postcard provided
to Bloomberg and being mailed to employees this week.  “We thought it was important to develop a single
definition for all Wal-Mart associates in the U.S. to give them
consistency in the various markets we operate in across the
country,” Randy Hargrove, a spokesman for the retailer, said in
telephone interview.  1.3 Million Employees  Wal-Mart may have held out for so long in part because the
size of its employee base makes it costly to expand benefits,
said Molly Iacovoni, a senior vice president who works on
employee benefits issues at Aon Hewitt, a human resources
consulting group.  The retailer has 1.3 million full- and part-time U.S.
employees, Hargrove said. More than half participate in health-care plans. A total of 1.1 million employees and family members
are covered by the plans.  “This may have been a cost issue for them,” said
Iacovoni, who is based in Lincolnshire,  Illinois . “It may be
that they are going to see a little bit of a cost rise,
especially since they’re offering both same and opposite sex.”  Just last week,  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  said it would
drop health insurance coverage for about 15,000 working spouses
of white-collar employees to curtail rising costs.  ‘Cultural Signal’  In an e-mailed statement, Chad Griffin, president of the
Human Rights Campaign, called Wal-Mart’s decision, “a cultural
signal that equality for LGBT people is the simplest of
mainstream values.” Griffin said he worked at Wal-Mart as a
teenager and was “moved” by the decision.  Lucas Handy, 22, an openly gay former employee of a Wal-Mart in Fort Dodge,  Iowa , had mixed thoughts on the change.  “It’s wonderful, freaking awesome if the company keeps its
promise on this issue,” Handy, a member of the union-backed OUR
Walmart group that is seeking to improve working conditions,
said in a telephone interview. “But the truth is a lot of
associates who work at Wal-Mart don’t have health care because
they can’t afford it.”  In June, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the 1996
Defense of Marriage Act that denied federal benefits to same-sex
couples legally married in states that allowed it. The court
also reinstated a federal judge’s order allowing gay marriages
in  California . Thirteen states and the District of Columbia
allow gay marriage.  ‘Naturally Disappointed’  Wal-Mart’s decision wasn’t universally well-received. The
Tupelo, Mississippi-based American Family Association “is
naturally disappointed,” President Tom Wildmon said in a
statement. “It validates a lifestyle which we think corporate
America should discourage rather than promote.”  While the change at Wal-Mart might cause some “ruffled
feathers” among conservative shoppers, it isn’t likely to cause
a significant decline in traffic, said Brian Yarbrough, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis.  Wal-Mart fell 0.7 percent to $72.38 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have risen 6.1 percent this year, compared with
a 15 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Hopp, the University of Michigan professor, called the
decision a “reflection of how the country is changing.”  “The viewpoint that tries to deny the existence of same-sex couples is becoming a minority view,” Hopp said. “Who’s to
say what Sam Walton’s views would be today? It’s a different
country now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  