-- Why Obama's Speech Won't Go Down in History
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-28T23:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/why-obama-s-speech-won-t-go-down-in-history.html
It is the privilege of every
generation to think itself more enlightened than the one that
preceded it. Occasionally, this thought is even true.  So in anticipation of President Barack Obama’s speech
marking the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, the
commentary has been all about how far and how little the nation
has traveled since that day in August 1963 when Martin Luther King Jr. described  his dream  of racial and economic equality.  No, blacks are no longer forced to ride in the back of the
bus -- but poor Americans who are black are  less likely  than
poor white households to own a car. No, there are no longer
blatantly  racist literacy tests  for black voters -- but  attempts
to  restrict the right to vote persist. Yes, the poverty rate has
declined -- but it remains  far higher  for black Americans than
for whites.  And then there is the president himself: the
personification, if not the proof, of racial progress in
America. Obama’s  29-minute speech  will not be remembered the way
King’s is. Nevertheless, it was in its own way historic.  Rhetorically speaking, it was vintage Obama, which is to
say it was well-wrought and allusive, and the closing litany of
“marching” Americans was (forgive us) moving if (forgive us
again) pedestrian. Substantively, it was judicious, with a
history of the last 50 years that delineated how much the
struggle for civil rights has achieved and how far it has yet to
go.  What the speech was missing -- this is not quite a
criticism, because the occasion demanded the kind of wide-angle
focus Obama brought to it -- was specificity.  It’s worth recalling that 1963’s rally was called the
“March on  Washington  for Jobs and Freedom.” The 200,000 or so
people who descended on the National Mall had a list of  10
demands , such as a higher minimum wage. King himself  said that 
they had “come to our nation’s capital to cash a check,” that
the government had defaulted not only on its promises of
equality and freedom but also in a more literal sense.  In this regard, it’s the words of Bill Clinton, who also
spoke at the ceremony, that synced up with history. The most
notable part of  Clinton’s speech  was his unpoetic call to
“implement health-care reform in a way that ends discrimination
against those with pre-existing conditions” -- a jarring bit of
wonkery in a day full of gauzy rhetoric.  And yet it was there for a reason. The former president is
scheduled to give another speech next week on Obama’s health-care law, reprising his role as  explainer-in-chief  for this
administration’s policies, much as he did at the 2012 Democratic
National Convention.  Obama’s speech certainly matched the occasion; a golden
anniversary is a time to pause and reflect. Unlike  the possible
end  of a presidential candidacy or  the killing  of a young black
man, it does not lend itself to passionate oratory. Obama
himself acknowledged as much when he said “no one can match
King’s brilliance” of 50 years ago.  Part of what will make Obama’s presidency historic is what
it achieves. And its signature domestic accomplishment, thus far
and probably for all time, is health-care reform.  Fifty years from now, when commentators are filling
computer screens with analyses of America’s racial progress in
the century since Martin Luther King first described his dream,
 Barack Obama ’s presidency will play a prominent part. Maybe they
also will be struck by how it took the U.S. until the second
decade of the 21st century to realize that health care also has
its place on the arc of social and economic justice.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 