-- Wind Surge Saps Bondholder Hope for Energy Future Payout
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-08-29T15:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/wind-surge-saps-bondholder-hope-for-energy-future-payout.html
For the first time,  Texas  is
connecting most of its wind farms to its largest cities. That’s
bringing cheap electricity into the service area of Energy
Future Holdings Corp., bad news to holders of $32 billion of the
power company’s debt from the biggest-ever leveraged buyout.  What began as a trickle of power to Dallas and Austin from
competitors’ windmills in West Texas has started flooding the
market. The supply uses new transmission cables being stretched
about 3,600 miles (5,800 kilometers) across the state in a $6.8
billion project set to be fully built by December.  Subsidized wind power together with natural gas that’s
plentiful from shale drilling are curbing profit at Energy
Future’s atomic and coal-fed power plants. That’s eroding value
to banks and investors in the event of a bankruptcy. Creditors
may have to fight over a shrinking pie of profit at the company
formerly known as TXU, which was taken private for $48 billion.  “The transmission is finally there in Texas to bring all
the wind power to the population centers and it’s a disaster for
the generation companies,”  Andy DeVries , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone interview.  Traditional power companies across the U.S. and  Europe  are
struggling to compete in wholesale markets with newer generators
supplying subsidized wind and solar energy. In Texas, wind has
more than doubled in the past six years and now makes up  13
percent  of the state’s generation capacity.  Market Upheaval  In the U.S., hydraulic fracturing techniques used to drill
shale have produced a flood of cheap natural gas. That, combined
with the growth in wind and tepid customer demand, is upending
power markets, leading to plant closures and bankruptcy for some
generator owners.  Most vulnerable for Dallas-based Energy Future is its
Luminant generation unit, which saw the glut of cheap wind power
and milder weather help drive  prices  down 20 percent in July
from a year earlier. Depressed electricity rates deflate
Luminant’s value and reduce what creditors may recover in a
bankruptcy, Peter Thornton, an analyst for KDP Investment
Advisors Inc., said by phone.  While Energy Future’s Oncor Electric Delivery utility is
the main partner in the transmission line project, and will
share in earnings for transmitting wind power, the parent
company said Oncor would be excluded from any insolvency
proceeding.  Moving Money  “It’s taking money from one side of the company and giving
it to another,” DeVries said. “Unfortunately, you are taking
it from the side that needs the money.”  The Texas transmission line build-out is an example of how
companies that bolster the  power grid  may be best-positioned to
survive the transition to a decentralized network where
customers use more renewable power and rely less on large
centralized  fossil fuel  and nuclear generators.  Energy Future, the biggest power producer in Texas, said in
April and again this month it’s held talks with creditors and is
evaluating changes to its  capital structure  that may include
filing for Chapter 11 for most of the company. Oncor won’t be
part of its parent’s bankruptcy filing and has set up
protections from creditor claims,  Fitch Ratings  said in an Aug.
12 research note.  Energy Future spokesman  Allan Koenig  declined to comment on
the impact of power prices on the company’s valuation.  Bankruptcy Record  The restructuring would be the largest in the energy sector
and the seventh-largest on record since 2000, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Energy Future was taken private by  KKR &
Co. (KKR)  and TPG Capital six years ago in the largest leveraged
buyout in history.  Texas Competitive Electric Holdings’s $1.83 billion of
10.25 percent notes due November 2015 traded at 5.5 cents on the
dollar Aug. 26, down from 30.5 cents on Jan. 2, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Oncor will get a boost in cash flows as the power line
project is completed and it earns a return on the investment,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert Shapard said during
an Aug. 2 call with investors.  At the same time, Energy Future,  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  and
 Calpine Corp. (CPN)  -- the three biggest owners of electricity plants
in Texas -- all reported lower adjusted second-quarter earnings
for their generators in the state as the cheap power supplied by
government-subsidized  wind turbines  helped lower prices.  Average wholesale  electricity rates  in July dipped to the
lowest since 2004, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Falling Prices  Electricity prices for 2014 also have fallen. The on-peak
North Texas power price for next year has dropped 19 percent
since reaching a peak on May 23, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  During a heat wave in the first week of August, ample wind
supplies served to keep a lid on prices that would’ve normally
spiked from the higher demand, NRG Chief Executive Officer  David Crane  said during a call with investors on Aug. 9.  “ Wind energy  reduces electricity prices and that is good
for consumers,” said Michael Goggin, an analyst for the
 American Wind Energy Association , an industry trade group.
“Wind energy has no fuel costs, allowing it to replace more
expensive and polluting sources of energy.”  Once complete, Oncor’s power lines will be part of a system
that can eventually deliver about 18,500 megawatts of wind
power, nearly double the amount now available in Texas and 25
percent of the state’s current generation capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 