-- WTI Crude Rises to Two-Year High on Syrian Tension
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-08-28T19:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/wti-crude-rises-to-two-year-high-on-syria-socgen-sees-1.html
West Texas Intermediate crude surged
to the highest level since May 2011 on concern that the conflict
in  Syria  will spread and threaten oil supplies from the  Middle
East . Brent climbed to a six-month high in London.  Futures rose 1 percent in  New York  while gasoline advanced
for the fifth time in six days. The U.S., France and Britain
moved closer to a military strike against Syria as they laid the
legal groundwork to justify action after the alleged use of
chemical weapons. Brent may advance to $150 a barrel if
shipments are disrupted,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said. Libya said
output may have dropped below 200,000 barrels a day, the least
since the 2011 uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi .  “This market is reflecting anxiety about the Middle
East,” said Adam Wise, who helps manage a $6 billion oil and
gas bond portfolio as a managing director at Manulife Asset
Management in  Boston . “As long as tension escalates in the
region, specifically in Syria and Iran, you can expect prices to
move higher. More news-driven price spikes are on the table.”  WTI crude for October delivery rose $1.09 to $110.10 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since May 3, 2011. Trading was 9.8 percent above the
100-day average at 2:40 p.m. Prices are up 20 percent this year.  Brent Advances  Brent for October settlement advanced $2.25, or 2 percent,
to $116.61 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. It was the highest close since Feb. 19. Volume was 56
percent above the 100-day average. The European benchmark crude
traded at a $6.51 premium to WTI, the most since June 21.  Gasoline for September delivery increased 6.04 cents, or 2
percent, to $3.0945 a gallon on the Nymex, adding to yesterday’s
2.8 percent gain.  Crude and U.S. equities both rose after moving in opposite
directions yesterday, when WTI rallied 2.9 percent as the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slid 1.6 percent. The 4.5
percentage-point divergence was the widest since November 2011.  WTI call options surged as futures rallied. The implied
volatility of October calls protecting against a 10 percent rise
in futures prices jumping to 35 percent at 2:36 p.m. from 21.7
on Aug. 26 and 28.9 yesterday.  U.S. officials planning potential military strikes on  Syria 
aren’t limited to a one-day operation, an administration
official said, as the  United Nations Security Council ’s
permanent members considered a resolution condemning the
suspected attack. The U.S. and its allies are still working to
define goals for a military strike on Syria, said the official,
who asked not to be identified discussing war-planning efforts.  ‘No Telling’  “The market is feeding on itself, headline by headline,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc., an
energy advisory company in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “Prices
rose to $115 on the unrest in Libya two years ago and to $110 on
 Iran’s nuclear program . There’s no telling when this rally will
flame out.”  Brent may “spike briefly” to $150 a barrel if the
conflict in Syria spreads to other parts of the Middle East,
causing supply cuts,  Societe Generale  said in a report e-mailed
today. The contract traded at $147.50 on July 11, 2008, the
highest intraday price on record.  “The concern is that an attack on Syria will reverberate
through the region, increasing the spillover into other
countries and possibly resulting in a larger supply disruption
elsewhere,” said  Michael Wittner , Societe Generale’s head of
oil market research in New York said in the report. Even if
flows aren’t cut oil may climb to $125 in coming days, he said.  Middle East  The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil
output in the first quarter of this year, according to data from
the  International Energy Agency .  WTI tumbled 9.9 percent in May 2011 as the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization bombarded Libya and U.S. forces killed  Osama bin Laden . The contract tumbled 15 percent in March 2003 as an
U.S.-led coalition invaded  Iraq  with the aim of toppling Iraqi
President  Saddam Hussein .  “We could easily see significant selling once the first
bombs drop,” Schork said.  Libya’s oil production fell as protests over pay and
allegations of corruption spread to fields operated by  Eni SpA (ENI) 
and Repsol SA, according to officials at National Oil Corp. The
North African country was pumping 1.4 million barrels a day in
March, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Geopolitical Risk  “Geopolitical risk is driving the market higher,” said
 Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “The escalation in Syria is coming after
Libyan production has tumbled. The bulls seem intent on driving
WTI close to $115.”  A technical indicator shows Brent futures may be rising too
quickly for further gains to be sustainable. The 14-day relative
strength index yesterday surged above 70 for the first time
since February, signaling the market is overbought, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Today’s reading exceeded 75.  The Energy Information Administration said U.S.  crude
stockpiles  rose 2.99 million barrels to 362 million last week.  “Absent the Middle Eastern news, we would be moving
lower,” Wise said. “This is a very bearish report, but the
market’s ignoring it.”  U.S.  crude production  increased 1.2 percent to 7.61 million
barrels a day, the highest level since 1989, according to the
EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical unit. Output has surged
as the combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped in shale
formations in the central part of the country.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on WTI in the week ended Aug.
20, data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed on
Aug. 23. Funds and other speculators boosted bullish bets on
Brent in the same period, data from the ICE Futures Europe
showed on Aug. 26.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 591,882
contracts as of 2:35 p.m. It totaled 700,944 contracts
yesterday. Open interest was 1.86 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  