-- Hypo Alpe First-Half Loss Leaves Austria to Cover Capital Gap
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-08-28T15:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/hypo-alpe-first-half-loss-leaves-austria-to-cover-capital-gap.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the nationalized Austrian lender burdened with bad debt,
reported a first-half net loss of 859.8 million euros ($1.14
billion), leaving it with a capital gap that has to be covered
with fresh state aid.  The need to scale back in its eastern European markets led
to a surge in risk provisions, which jumped to 623 million euros
from 123.1 million euros a year earlier, the Klagenfurt,
Austria-based bank said in an e-mailed  statement  today. As a
result, its core capital fell short of minimum requirements by
618.8 million euros, it said. In the first half of 2012, the
bank had a profit of 3.4 million euros.  Hypo Alpe said in July it needs a capital increase of 700
million euros to cover losses for the first half of the year
after Austria accelerated the lender’s breakup. The measure has
yet to be implemented as the bank waits for the European
Commission to approve the more than 2 billion euros of state aid
it has received over five years.  The additional adjustment of portfolios helps “maintain
saleable units in a difficult market environment,” Chief
Executive Officer Gottwald Kranebitter said in the statement.
This is associated with “anticipated, yet unfortunate, large
decreases in value,” he said.  The bank may need more cash in the second half of the year,
Chairman Klaus Liebscher, who heads the government agency
dealing with bank aid, told ORF radio last month. How much
depends on the structure of a possible bad-asset unit, he said.  Hypo Alpe hired Sachsen Asset Management GmbH and Bankhaus
Lampe KG to draft a plan for spinning off its bad assets, people
with knowledge of the matter said last month. The unit may
comprise at least 12 billion euros in assets, the people said.  Finance Minister Maria Fekter opposed the plan on concerns
it may add to  Austria ’s government debt. Chancellor Werner Faymann and Vice Chancellor Michael Spindelegger told her to
revisit the plans after non-performing assets caused losses and
capital needs at Hypo Alpe that have burdened Austria’s budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  