-- Zoomlion Profit Declines 48% After China Slowdown Saps Demand
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-08-28T09:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-28/zoomlion-profit-declines-48-after-china-slowdown-saps-demand.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and
Technology Co.  reported a 48 percent drop in first-half profit
as China’s slowing economic growth damped demand at the nation’s
second-largest construction equipment maker.  Net income  was 2.92 billion  yuan  in the six months ended
June, compared with 5.62 billion yuan a year earlier, Zoomlion
said in a filing to Hong Kong stock exchange today. Sales fell
31 percent to 20.2 billion yuan.  Zoomlion and bigger rival  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  are
contending with weaker sales as growth of fixed asset investment
slowed in China. “There will be limited room for growth in
infrastructure investment in the second half” and construction
of real estate will remain at a low level, Zoomlion said in the
earnings statement today.  Shares (1157)  of Zoomlion fell 3.1 percent to HK$6.29 in Hong Kong
trading today, before the earnings were released. The stock has
declined 45 percent this year, compared with a 5 percent drop in
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Zoomlion, based in Changsha city of central China’s Hunan
province, halted  stock trading  at least twice this year after
news reports questioned its sales data. The company has
repeatedly denied the allegations.  China’s urban fixed-asset investment growth eased to 20.1
percent in the first half from a year earlier, the official
Xinhua News Agency  reported  in July. The expansion was down 0.3
percentage points, according to the report.  Zoomlion is planning to boost sales of its environmental
machinery in a bid to offset the lower demand for its other
products and boost profit. The company is also seeking to raise
sales from outside China through acquisitions or cooperating
with overseas businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  