-- 
Abu Dhabi Shares Rise on Speculation MSCI Will Name U.A.E. Emerging Market

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-11-30T13:31:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/abu-dhabi-shares-rise-to-one-week-high-as-first-gulf-spurs-msci-optimism.html
Abu Dhabi ’s shares advanced to a
one-week high after an increase of foreign ownership limit at
 First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB)  boosted optimism the United Arab Emirates
may be upgraded to emerging market status at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   First Gulf Bank, the U.A.E. lender controlled by Abu
Dhabi’s ruling family, jumped 2.7 percent.  National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , the second-biggest bank in the U.A.E., gained to a
two-week high. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.4 percent to
2,444.86, the highest since Nov. 21, at the 2 p.m. close in the
emirate, trimming the drop for the month to 2.3 percent. The  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  increased 0.6 percent and the  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index (BGCC200)  slipped less than 0.1 percent.  “The increase in foreign ownership caps at First Gulf
shows that some MSCI requirements for upgrade are being
implemented, improving optimism” that the market could be
raised to emerging market status, said Waleed Al Khateeb, senior
finance manager at Dubai-based Daman Securities LLC. “Poor
liquidity remains an issue.”  The U.A.E. and Qatar may be raised to emerging market
status at MSCI next month after the index provider delayed the
decision in June. MSCI cited “stringent foreign ownership
limits” such as limited availability of shares to foreign
investors as a concern. About $3 trillion of funds are
benchmarked against MSCI’s indexes globally.  Under existing U.A.E. law, companies are limited to a
maximum 49 percent foreign ownership except in free zones.  First Gulf yesterday raised its foreign ownership limit to
25 percent from 15 percent. The shares advanced the most since
Nov. 13, rising to 15.15 dirhams.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi gained 1.4 percent to 10.6
dirhams, the highest since Nov. 14.  About 61  million shares  traded in Abu Dhabi today, compared
with a 12-month daily average of 64 million shares.  Kuwait’s  measure (KWSEIDX)  advanced 0.2 percent and Bahrain’s  gauge (BHSEASI) 
gained 0.7 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  and  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul
All Share Index (SASEIDX)  decreased 0.1 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30) 
declined 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  