-- 
Aditya Birla Said to Bid for Australian Coal Miner New Hope

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-12-01T04:28:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/aditya-birla-said-to-bid-for-australian-coal-producer-new-hope.html
Aditya Birla Group , controlled by
Indian billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla, placed a bid to buy
Australian coal producer  New Hope Corp. (NHC) , two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  Aditya Birla made an offer on Nov. 25, one of the people
said, declining to be identified as the information is private.
 Tata Group ’s power and steel units and  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  decided
not to bid, two other people said. Talks are on with “several”
potential bidders following indicative takeover proposals,  New
Hope , which has market value of A$4.9 billion ($5 billion), said
yesterday in a statement.  Buying New Hope, which has no debt and A$1.6 billion in
cash, would give the purchaser control of the Acland thermal
coal mine and an export terminal in Queensland as demand for the
fuel rises in  China  and India. A buyout of New Hope could be the
largest coal deal since U.S.-based  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) 
agreed to buy Massey Energy Co. for about $7.1 billion in
January.  “Companies are looking for overseas reserves because
India’s coal assets are not well-utilized and it takes a long
time to get access to mines,” said Sumant Sinha, chairman of
 SaVant Advisers , a Mumbai-based financial advisory and
consulting company. “Given that Indonesia has increased export
duties, Australia is an attractive destination.”  Shares Gain  A spokesman for New Hope, based in Ipswich, Queensland,
wasn’t immediately available for comment. New Hope rose as much
as 1.7 percent to A$6 and traded at A$5.95 as of 3:17 p.m. in
Sydney trading, compared with a 2.7 percent gain in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Aditya Birla spokeswoman Pragnya Ram and Tata Power
spokeswoman Shalini Singh declined to comment. JSW Steel
spokesman Manish Kalghatgi couldn’t be immediately reached on
his mobile phone.  Indian companies have been scouting for coal assets
overseas to fuel their  power plants  as supplies in the domestic
market deplete. More than half the 89 thermal-power stations in
 India , the world’s third-largest user of coal, had less than
seven days’ supplies as of Nov. 27, according to the Central
Electricity Authority.  New Hope is 60 percent-owned by Washington H. Soul
Pattinson & Co., while Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Materials Corp.
has an 11 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata, JSW  Tata, India’s largest business group, may bid for the miner
to secure thermal-coal mines, three people familiar with the
plan said on Nov. 5. JSW Steel, India’s third-largest producer,
may also make an offer, two people with knowledge of the plan
said on Oct. 24.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., China’s fourth-biggest producer of
the fuel, bought Australia’s Felix Resources Ltd. for A$3.1
billion in 2009 and in September agreed to buy  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s
Premier coal mine in  Western Australia  for A$297 million.
Yancoal Australia Ltd., a unit of the Chinese company, said in
September it may spend more than $1 billion buying mines in
Australia as the global market turmoil makes assets cheaper.  Aditya Birla, which has copper mines in Australia, also
made an offer to buy Aquila Resources Ltd.’s Washpool coking
coal mine in Australia, two people familiar with the matter said
last month. Coking coal is used in steelmaking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  