-- 
Adobe Buys Efficient Frontier to Expand in Web Marketing

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-11-30T21:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/adobe-acquires-efficient-frontier-helping-it-expand-in-internet-marketing.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  said it would buy
online-advertising company Efficient Frontier to gain software
that lets marketers place ads on Google Inc.’s and Facebook
Inc.’s websites.  The deal would expand Adobe’s palette of tools for online
advertisers and complement software it acquired with Omniture
Inc. two years ago, Adobe said in a statement. Closely held
Efficient Frontier, based in Sunnyvale,  California , sells
software that lets advertisers buy keywords on Google, place ads
on Facebook, and purchase so-called display ads around the Web.
Adobe, based in  San Jose , California, didn’t disclose the price
and said the transaction would be completed by February.  Adobe, the largest maker of graphic design software, has
been adding tools for online marketing as its core market
undergoes a shift. The company pared its sales forecast for the
next fiscal year on Nov. 8 as it moves to develop new products
and channels investments into digital media and marketing.  The company also said then it would stop developing mobile
versions of its Flash Player software for online video and step
up efforts to build the HTML5 programming language into its
flagship Creative Suite products.  Adobe has been expanding beyond tools for print and Web
design through acquisitions. The largest was Web traffic
analysis company Omniture, acquired two years ago for $1.6
billion.  Adobe bought video advertising company Auditude Inc. on
Nov. 1. Last January, Adobe bought Demdex Inc., whose software
lets advertisers complement Omniture with data about online
audiences. Adobe is scheduled to report fiscal fourth-quarter
earnings on Dec. 15.  Adobe closed up 5.2 percent to $27.42 in  New York . The
shares are down 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  