-- 
Thailand Cuts Interest Rate as Floods Force First Policy Easing Since 2009

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-11-30T08:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/thailand-lowers-benchmark-rate-as-flooding-forces-first-easing-since-2009.html
The  Bank of Thailand  cut  interest
rates  for the first time in more than two years and lowered its
2011 economic growth forecast as the nation reels from the worst
floods in almost 70 years.  The central bank reduced its  one-day bond repurchase rate 
by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.25 percent, it said in
Bangkok today. Nine of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted the decision, with the rest expecting a half-point cut.
The central bank said gross domestic product will rise 1.8
percent in 2011, less than an earlier 2.6 percent estimate.  The move to prop up the economy follows the worst slump in
industrial output in October since at least 2000 and the lowest
 consumer confidence  in a decade, after the floods killed more
than 600 people and shut thousands of factories.  Thailand  joins
 Indonesia  in cutting rates this month, as the threat from the
debt crisis in Europe adds pressure on  Asia  to shield growth.  “We expected a 50 basis-point cut as the next meeting is
two months away,” said Nalin Chutchotitham, an economist at
Kasikornbank Pcl in Bangkok. “They probably wanted to retain
some firepower to withstand the impact of the global slowdown.”  The baht strengthened 0.3 percent to 31.19 per dollar as of
3:21 p.m. local time. The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  climbed 0.9
percent. The currency has slipped 3.7 percent in the past three
months and the  stock index  is down about 4.7 percent.  Further Easing Possible  The central bank said today it may ease policy further if
the nation struggles to recover from the inundation. It forecast
4.8 percent growth in 2012, spurred by reconstruction, up from
4.1 percent earlier.  “Inflation is still controllable, giving us room to support
the economy,” Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said at
a briefing after the rate cut. “There are uncertainties about
the global economy and the pace of reconstruction after the
floods. We can adjust monetary policy if needed.”  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, elected in July on
pledges including higher minimum pay and rice prices, has
proposed further expenditure of 130 billion baht ($4.2 billion)
on rebuilding and steps to prevent future floods.  The government expects the economy to shrink 3.7 percent
this quarter. The damage bill may reach 400 billion baht,
Barclays Plc has said.  Food shortages caused by crop damage threaten price gains.
 Consumer inflation  accelerated to 4.4 percent this month, the
fastest pace since 2008, according to the median estimate in
another Bloomberg survey. The data are due tomorrow.  Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. lowered Asian economic
estimates this week as  Europe ’s turmoil risks a global slump.
 India ’s GDP expanded 6.9 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009, a report showed today.  Three of 17 economists in a Bloomberg survey predict the
Philippine central bank will reduce borrowing costs tomorrow to
4.25 percent from 4.5 percent, with the rest expecting no change.  Industrial output  in Thailand, a manufacturing hub for
Japanese businesses, fell 35.8 percent last month from a year
earlier. The now receding waters affected factories operated by
companies such as Western Digital Corp. and Honda Motor Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  