-- 
Public-Sector Strike in U.K. Closes Schools, Fails to Disrupt Air Travel

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-11-30T20:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/air-travelers-delayed-schools-closed-as-u-k-public-sector-workers-strike.html
Members of 30 U.K. public-sector
unions walked out in a dispute over pensions with Prime Minister
David Cameron’s government, closing more than two-thirds of
schools though failing to disrupt  air travel .  The government said about 900,000 civil servants, local-
government and health workers went on strike today. That was
“significantly less than the unions predicted,” the Cabinet
Office in London said in an e-mailed statement this evening.
More immigration officials than expected turned up to work,
Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude said, preventing delays
for travelers arriving at airports.  Unions struck to protest plans to make government employees
retire later and contribute more to their pensions. Ministers
say the move, part of Cameron’s program of spending cuts to
narrow the  budget deficit , is fair because workers who
contribute to public-sector pensions get benefits no longer
available in the private sector.  “Today’s strike is inappropriate, untimely and
irresponsible, especially while talks are ongoing,” Maude said
in an e-mailed statement.  The  Trades Union Congress , Britain’s umbrella labor
movement, had said it expected as many as 2 million public-
sector staff to strike.  Government Figures  The Cabinet Office said final figures showed 146,000
central-government civil servants walked out, less than a third
of the total, while only 14 of more than 900 Jobcentres, as
unemployment offices are known, were closed. About 79,000
health-service staff, less than 15 percent, failed to show up
for work, it said. Thirty-two percent of local-government staff
in  England  and  Wales  also went on strike, according to the
Cabinet Office.  The prime minister told lawmakers in the House of Commons
the strike was “something of a  damp squib .”  Even so, the London Ambulance Service said this afternoon
it was “under severe pressure” as a result of the strike,
 according to its website .  Colin Matthews, the chief executive officer of BAA Airports
Ltd., which operates  London Heathrow ,  Europe ’s busiest hub, said
passenger numbers were down about 25 percent on a normal day,
helping avert disruption.  Matthews said the strategy pursued by Heathrow of running a
full schedule while asking airlines to reduce the number of
passengers on flights had paid off.  ‘Common Approach’  “I’m really pleased that the airlines agreed to do what
they have done,” he said in an interview at Terminal 3. “It’s
unprecedented to get all the airlines to agree a common approach
around the table and then get them to implement it.”  Passengers arriving at Heathrow said they were surprised by
the speed at which they cleared immigration.  “It was quicker than ever. Everyone was very helpful and
there seemed to be more staff than usual,” said Georgina
Hamilton-Hopkins, from  London , who was returning from a vacation
in Miami on a Virgin Atlantic flight. “We thought it was going
to be awful. Our plane was quite empty. Loads of people had
changed flights but I had to be back at work tomorrow.”  Gatwick , London’s second airport, also reported no
disruption, and Eurostar Group Ltd., which runs trains through
the Channel Tunnel to London from Paris and Brussels, had no
delays, according to its website.  Improved Offer  Chief Secretary to the Treasury  Danny Alexander  announced
an improved offer to the unions on Nov. 2, after they had
started holding ballots for  strike action . The concessions
included protecting existing pension rights for people 10 years
from retirement, higher limits for government contributions and
improved benefit-accrual rates.  “The strike is not going to achieve anything, it’s not
going to change anything, it’s only going to make our economy
weaker and possibly cost jobs,” Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  told BBC television today. “I would urge people,
let’s settle this, let’s get back round the table and let’s
settle this for the next generation.”  Osborne told lawmakers in his year-end statement yesterday
that economic growth next year will be slower than previously
forecast and the government will need to increase borrowing.  Pay Cap  Labor unions were angered by Osborne’s announcements of a 1
percent cap on public-sector pay increases once the current two-
year freeze is over, an increase in the pension age to 67 and an
easing of health-and-safety legislation. The chancellor also
said he will make it easier for private companies to take over
public-sector services.  Hourly wages for government workers are 7.5 percent higher
than those in the private sector, the  Institute for Fiscal
Studies  said today. While Osborne’s pay squeeze will narrow the
gap, his pension overhaul will leave state employees with
retirement incomes “on average substantially more generous than
those enjoyed by private-sector workers,” Paul Johnson,
director of the research group, told reporters in London.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  increased its estimate
yesterday of the number of public-sector workers who will lose
their jobs by 2017 to 710,000, or 13 percent of employees in
local and central government. The office previously predicted
that 400,000 posts would be cut by 2016.  “I signed up to terms and conditions with this job, and
the government’s changed them with the stroke of a pen,” Simon
Kaplan, 47, a web editor in the Cabinet Office in London, said
as he manned a picket line outside. “We have millionaires in
Cabinet telling us we’re all in this together. They’ve no clue
what it’s like trying to survive on pay that’s falling when food
and fuel prices are rising.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  