-- 
Airlines, Airport Communication Would Ease Delays, FAA Says

-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 
2011-11-30T17:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/airlines-airport-communication-would-ease-delays-faa-says-1-.html
Airlines and airports must improve
communications during storms to prevent more incidents of planes
becoming stranded for hours on tarmacs, U.S. Federal Aviation
Administrator  Randy Babbitt  said.  Airlines “began to make independent decisions” about
diverting flights from New York area airports during an Oct. 29
snowstorm, Babbitt said at a forum in Washington today. Those
decisions contributed to  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  planes becoming
stuck for as long as 7 1/2 hours on the tarmac at Bradley
International Airport near Hartford,  Connecticut , he said.  “No airline knew what the other airlines were doing,”
Babbitt said.  Airports should develop storm contingency plans, as
airlines are required to have, to reduce tarmac delays, FAA
Deputy Administrator Michael Huerta said at the forum.  The agency also recommends developing a website to be used
in emergencies; organizing conference calls among airlines,
airports and government officials during storms; and clearly
marking diverted flights to prevent confusion among airports and
air-traffic controllers, Huerta said.  Industry representatives are meeting at the forum to
discuss and revise the recommendations.  One hundred thirty-four flights were diverted during the
October storm, including 28 to Bradley, overwhelming the
airport’s facilities and personnel, Babbitt said.  ‘Set Up’  “Bradley was set up to fail,” Deborah C. McElroy, a
spokeswoman for Airports Council International-North America, a
Washington-based trade group, said in an interview today.
“Airports need to be more empowered and more involved.”  The U.S. Department of Transportation is investigating the
delays that day. Scheduled maintenence and replacement of FAA
navigation equipment at  John F. Kennedy  and Newark Liberty
airports continued with the storm approaching, contributing to
the problems, Babbitt said.  The transportation department this month fined  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
American Eagle $900,000 for stranding passengers on 15 planes at
 Chicago ’s O’Hare International Airport for more than three hours
on the U.S. Memorial Day weekend in May.  The negotiated penalty was the first fine under a U.S.
tarmac-delay rule that took effect in April 2010. The rule,
expanded to non-U.S.-based airlines in August, subjects airlines
to fines of as much as $27,500 per passenger for flights that
sit outside the gate for more than three hours.  Tarmac delays of more than three hours dropped to 20 in the
year after the rule was implemented, compared with 693 in the
year before the rule, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said
at the forum.  A study by the Government Accountability Office, released
in September, said the rule has made it more likely that
airlines will cancel flights before delays reach the three-hour
mark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in  Washington  at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  