-- 
Haitong Securities Said to Seek Up to $1.7 Billion in Hong Kong Share Sale

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-11-30T12:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/haitong-said-to-seek-up-to-1-7b-in-share-sale.html
Haitong Securities Co. (600837) , China’s
third-biggest brokerage by market value, may raise about HK$13
billion ($1.7 billion) by selling shares in  Hong Kong , according
to two people familiar with the matter.  The brokerage is offering 1.23 billion shares at HK$9.38 to
HK$10.58 apiece, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the process is private. Warburg Pincus LLC, the buyout
firm based in  New York , will purchase $210 million of shares in
the IPO as a so-called cornerstone investor, according to the
people.  Companies are planning to sell as much as $7 billion of new
shares in Hong Kong by the end of the year, betting on a revival
in investor appetite after the value of initial public offerings
slumped almost 70 percent this year. Chow Tai Fook Jewellery
Group Ltd., controlled by real-estate billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung ,
is seeking to raise up to $2.8 billion.  “There will be appetite for China brokerages as the sector
is going to expand with the development of new businesses such
as asset management,” Xie Jiyong, an analyst at Capital
Securities Corp. in  Shanghai , said by telephone today. “Haitong
Securities is among the top players in the market given its size
and balanced business.”  Companies have raised $15.9 billion this year from Hong
Kong IPOs, compared with $49.1 billion for the same period last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery received bids for all the stock
available to money managers in its first day of order taking,
people with knowledge of the matter have said. New  China  Life
Insurance Co., the state-backed insurer seeking as much as $2.3
billion in an IPO in Hong Kong and Shanghai, received enough
orders to cover its institutional books for both listings, said
two people with knowledge of the transaction.  Shares of Haitong Securities fell 2.19 percent to 8.02 yuan
in Shanghai as of 11:29 a.m. local time, extending its decline
this year to 17 percent. The brokerage’s third-quarter net
income fell 46 percent to 493.8 million yuan ($78 million),
according to a statement in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  