-- 
Yahoo Gains as Alibaba-Led Group Prepares Bid

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-12-01T14:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/alibaba-led-group-said-to-prepare-bid-for-yahoo-web-portal-s-shares-jump.html
Yahoo! Inc. , the  Internet company 
exploring strategic options, rose as much as 4.8 percent on the
prospect of a bid from a group led by  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.   Alibaba  and  Softbank Corp. (9984)  are in advanced talks with
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Bain Capital LLC about making a bid for
all of  Yahoo , three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Yahoo climbed 4.1 percent to $16.36 at 9:54 a.m. New York
time after rising as high as $16.46. A bid may value Yahoo at
more than $20 a share because of tax savings tied to its stakes
in Alibaba and Yahoo Japan, said two of the people, who declined
to be identified because the discussions are private.  Yahoo’s  board  is meeting to discuss offers it received for
a minority stake from bidders including TPG Capital and a group
led by  Silver Lake , people familiar with the matter said this
week. Silver Lake’s bid valued Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo
at about $16.60 a share, these people said. TPG Capital’s offer
was higher, they said.  Some Yahoo investors say they would prefer the company be
sold in its entirety, at a higher price. “It definitely has to
be much higher than $16.60,” said Di Zhou, a  Santa Fe , New
Mexico-based analyst at Thornburg Investment Management, which
oversees about $80 billion in assets, including Yahoo shares.  While the Alibaba group has prepared financing for a
possible offer, it hasn’t decided on a final price or whether to
proceed, the people said. The group would prefer to be invited
to bid rather than going hostile, one person said. Alibaba
hasn’t informed Yahoo of its possible bid, this person said.  No Decision Yet?  “Alibaba Group has not made a decision to be part of a
whole-company bid for Yahoo,” John Spelich, a spokesman for
Hangzhou, China-based Alibaba, said in an e-mailed statement.  At $20 a share,  Yahoo  would be valued at 24.1 times
earnings in the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That would compare with 20.4 times for  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and a ratio
of 9.5 for Microsoft Corp.  The $20 price tag would undervalue the company because its
Asian assets have so much growth potential, said Thornburg’s
Zhou, who puts the value at about $25 a share.  Yahoo , the
largest U.S. Internet portal, owns about 40 percent of Alibaba,
the top e-commerce site in China, and 35 percent of Yahoo Japan.  Zhou wants to see Yahoo hold on to the Alibaba stake until
the Chinese company can do an initial public offering, providing
a windfall to investors.  “Chinese Internet penetration and e-commerce is going
well,” she said. “It should be more valuable by the day.”  Chinese Growth  Total  Internet users  in  China  may grow 27 percent this
year, with the number of online shoppers climbing 28 percent,
according to Thornburg.  Alibaba is in discussions with international banks for loan
financing to back the potential bid, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  Alibaba asked lenders to provide proposals detailing how
much financing they can provide for the potential buyout, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the details
are private. The financing will be more than $1 billion, said
two of the people. The terms of the loan, including size and the
 interest rate , haven’t been determined, the people said.  “It is not true Alibaba is soliciting proposals for
funding to acquire Yahoo,” Spelich said by phone.  U.S. Operations  Alibaba is seeking to buy back the  stake  in its company
that Yahoo owns. Softbank, meanwhile, wants to acquire the stake
in Yahoo  Japan , one of the people familiar with the matter said.
In the proposed deal, Blackstone and Bain would take control of
the U.S. operations, the person said.  Spokeswomen for Blackstone, Softbank and Yahoo declined to
comment.  Alibaba Chief Executive Officer Jack Ma said in October
that his company is interested in purchasing Yahoo. Earlier
attempts by the Chinese e-commerce leader to buy out Yahoo’s
stake faltered amid disagreements with former CEO  Carol Bartz .
Yahoo acquired the Alibaba stake for about $1 billion in 2005.  While Alibaba is in advanced talks with Blackstone and
Bain, the company is also in discussions with other private-
equity firms, including Providence Equity Partners Inc., about
an offer, one person said.  Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York ,
puts Yahoo’s total value at about $18 a share, with $5 coming
from the U.S. Internet business. The so-called off-balance-sheet
assets -- including the Asian investments -- are worth $11 a
share, plus $2 in cash, he said. By buying the whole company,
Alibaba would avoid having to negotiate over how much Yahoo’s
main business is worth, Sena said.  “Almost two-thirds of the enterprise value is really these
off-balance-sheet assets,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  