-- 
Ally’s GMAC Is Sued by Insurer Over $1.2 Billion in Mortgage Securities

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-11-30T20:14:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/ally-s-gmac-is-sued-by-insurer-over-1-2-billion-in-mortgage-securities.html
Units of  Ally Financial Inc. , the
auto and home lender that received a government bailout, were
sued by Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. for allegedly
misrepresenting the quality of  mortgage loans  underlying
securities that Financial Guaranty insured.  In suits filed yesterday in  New York  State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan , Ally Financial’s GMAC Mortgage and Residential
Funding units are accused of breach of contract in connection
with policies issued by New York-based  Financial Guaranty 
related to about $3.8 billion worth of residential mortgage-
backed securities.  GMAC Mortgage “fraudulently induced FGIC’s agreement to
provide this insurance through willful and material
misrepresentations and omissions concerning the nature of its
business practices and the credit quality of tens of thousands
of mortgage loans that provided the collateral” for securities,
Financial Guaranty said in court papers.  FGIC Corp., the holding company for Financial Guaranty
Insurance Co., sought  bankruptcy protection  from creditors in
August 2010 after suffering losses from the drop in the U.S.
housing market.  “There are substantial legal and factual defenses related
to the FGIC claims and we intend to defend our position
aggressively,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Detroit-based
Ally, said in an e-mail. “We have reviewed loan level ‘put-
back’ claims from FGIC in the normal course as contractually
required and have met our contractual obligations at all times,
including repurchasing loans where a claim was valid.”  The cases are Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. v. GMAC
Mortgage LLC, 653302/2011; Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. v.
Residential Funding Co., 653303/2011; and Financial Guaranty
Insurance Co. v. Residential Funding Co., 653304/2011, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 