-- 
Amazon Executive Asks Congress to Address Online Taxes

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-11-30T20:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/amazon-executive-says-congress-should-address-online-sales-tax.html
Paul Misener , Amazon.com’s vice
president for global public policy, urged Congress to set
standards for collecting state sales taxes from online commerce.
Any exceptions to the tax should be kept “very low” for
fairness reasons, Misener said.  Misener spoke today at a House Judiciary Committee hearing.
Seattle-based Amazon, the largest online retailer, has long
battled attempts by states to levy sales taxes on Internet
transactions. Now it’s backing efforts to create a federal
standard for states to collect sales tax on online purchases.  A 1992  U.S. Supreme Court  decision exempted businesses from
collecting sales taxes in states in which they don’t have a
physical presence, or “nexus,” such as a store or warehouse.  That ruling has given Internet-based sellers an edge in the
marketplace over brick-and-mortar retailers, said Representative
 John Conyers  of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the Judiciary
Committee.  “Online retailers have, let’s face it, an unfair
advantage,” said Conyers, a co-sponsor of one of three pending
bills that would give states the ability to collect taxes on
sales by out-of-state vendors.  Ground Rules  John Otto, an accountant and state representative from
 Texas , urged lawmakers to set ground rules for requiring the
collection of online sales taxes.  If the 1992 Supreme Court decision “is allowed to remain
the law of the land, are we not picking winners and losers
within the retail sector?” Otto said. “The marketplace has
changed in 19 years and we have not.”  Questions from several Republican panel members reflected
concern that a law facilitating the collection of the sales tax
would be perceived as a tax increase. Otto and other supporters
of federal legislation said states are only seeking what they’re
already due.  “This is not a new tax we’re collecting,” Otto said.
“It’s a tax we’ve been unable to collect.”  In 2012 states will forgo an estimated $23 billion in
uncollected taxes from out-of-state catalog and online sales,
according to the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  The issue has divided online retailers. Executives from San
Jose-based  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Overstock.com (OSTK)  of  Salt Lake City 
cautioned lawmakers against passing a measure that would harm
small businesses or saddle online retailers with added expenses.  ‘True’ Protections  “Unfortunately, the authors of recent remote sales tax
bills have walked away from true small business protections,”
Todd Cohen, EBay vice president and deputy general counsel for
government relations, said in his prepared remarks. “They want
businesses everywhere to be collecting online everywhere.
Obviously we disagree.”  Overstock chairman and CEO Patrick Byrne said requiring
companies like his to collect sales tax “would be very
burdensome.”  Byrne said efforts to pass sales tax legislation are an
attempt by  Amazon (AMZN)  and other big retailers to hurt smaller
rivals.  Amazon’s Misener said technology has advanced enough so
that all but the smallest sellers can manage sales tax
collections.  “With today’s computing and communications technology,
widespread collection no longer would be an unconstitutional
burden on interstate commerce, and Congress feasibly can
authorize the states to require all but the very smallest volume
sellers to collect,” Misener said.  Misener said almost 30 percent of uncollected sales tax
revenue can be attributed to sellers with annual online sales of
less than $150,000. Only 1 percent of online sellers have annual
sales of more than that amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  