-- 
Arpey Is Said to Have Mapped AMR Exit After Years of Anti-Bankruptcy Stand

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-11-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/amr-s-arpey-said-to-have-mapped-exit-after-years-of-anti-bankruptcy-stand.html
Gerard Arpey’s eight-year effort to
keep  AMR Corp. (AMR)  out of bankruptcy ended with his retirement as a
board decision to seek court protection threatened to erode his
credibility, people familiar with the matter said.  In opting to leave, Arpey rebuffed the board’s request to
remain chairman and chief executive officer as the parent of
 American Airlines  reorganized in bankruptcy. Arpey, 53, told the
board he could no longer lead AMR because he had fought to avoid
bankruptcy for so long and the board now was choosing another
path, said the people, who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Since taking the helm in 2003, Arpey had pushed back
against suggestions that American could resolve its ills by
seeking court protection to restructure its debt. The pressure
increased as AMR headed to a fourth straight annual loss, unable
to secure new contracts to trim industry-leading labor costs and
facing dwindling cash reserves and maturing debt.  Arpey began considering options outside of American during
the summer and moved closer to a decision in the past week, the
people said.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR announced the filing
shortly before 7 a.m. local time yesterday. Moments later Arpey
told employees in an e-mail that he would become a partner at
Emerald Creek Group LLC, a private-equity firm created by Larry Kellner, a former CEO of Continental Airlines Inc.  “I concluded that my remaining in those roles would not be
best for the company,” Arpey wrote. “Executing the board’s
plan will require not only a reevaluation of every aspect of our
business, but also the leadership of a new chairman and CEO who
will bring restructuring experience and a different perspective
to the process.”  ‘A Different Perspective’  American executives began considering a bankruptcy filing
in August and were joined by the AMR board in October, one of
the people familiar with the matter said yesterday. The board
began to more seriously consider a filing in the last few weeks,
and voted during a Nov. 28 conference call following a New York
meeting.  While Arpey declined an offer to remain CEO and chairman,
he still supported the board’s decision, said Tom Horton, who
was elevated from president and named to lead the company.  “Things developed fairly rapidly over the recent weeks,”
Horton said on a conference call with reporters. “That’s not a
decision they took lightly. There was much discussion, much
debate. In the end, that was a unanimous decision.”  Arpey, through AMR, declined a request for an interview.  AMR earlier hired advisers at law firm Weil Gotshal &
Manges LLP and investment bank Rothschild Inc. to review whether
a filing might be needed. Directors looked for ways to further
cut operating costs as AMR worked unsuccessfully in October and
November to reach a new contract with pilots, said the people.  ‘The Right Action’  As American and its board weighed options, financial
pressure built with the uneven economic recovery, volatile fuel
prices and the stalled labor talks.  “This is the right action for the company at the right
time,” Horton said. “The board has given great consideration
to the best path forward for many, many months.”  AMR is headed for a fourth-straight annual loss -- one that
analysts forecast will top $1 billion -- while other carriers
returned to profit in 2010.  The company has been negotiating since 2006 with unions in
an attempt to close what it says is an $800 million labor cost
disadvantage to its peers. American still pays into a defined
benefit pension fund and provides retiree medical benefits,
obligations that carriers such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  shed when
they filed bankruptcy earlier in the last decade.  Arpey on Bankruptcy  Arpey spoke frequently about American not shirking its
debts and not wiping out the value of shares held by AMR
investors through a bankruptcy filing. At a June 2008 Merrill
Lynch Transportation Conference, he spoke of how rivals had,
through the courts, “eliminated or frozen defined benefit
pension plans, eviscerated retiree medical plans, eliminated
restrictive work rules, outsourced work, and cut pay to levels
below American.”  Talks with the pilots stalled Nov. 14, when the  Allied
Pilots Association  declined to send the company’s last offer to
members for a vote, saying it would clearly be rejected. The
action wasn’t what led to the bankruptcy decision, Horton said.  AMR shares tumbled 79 percent this year through Nov. 25 to
$1.62 a share, buffeted by ongoing speculation the carrier might
be forced into bankruptcy.  AMR’s board saw a filing now as the best way to preserve the
company’s value and ensure a successful restructuring, one of
the people said. The company could use its $4.1 billion in
unrestricted cash and short-term investments to support
operations in bankruptcy instead of seeking outside financing
and giving up some control of its future.  Demands on Cash  American executives also became more concerned they might
have to use more cash than projected early next year during the
traditionally slow winter travel season, said one of the people.
The final issue, said this person, was a tightening in September
and October of the credit markets, leading AMR executives to
later tell the board they were less confident about refinancing
maturing obligations in the next few months.  A Nov. 17  Standard & Poor’s  debt-rating cut by one step to
CCC+ also weighed in the board’s decision, Horton said.  Arpey became CEO in 2003 when predecessor Donald Carty
stepped aside after it became known that the airline arranged
for managers’ retention bonuses in the event of a bankruptcy
while seeking concessions from unions. With Carty gone, Arpey
won all the necessary givebacks within a day.  David Bates, president of the Allied Pilots Association,
received a call from Horton at 5 a.m. yesterday informing him of
the bankruptcy decision.  Laura Glading , president of the  Association of Professional
Flight Attendants , was aware of “strong rumors” the evening of
Nov. 28 that a filing might be coming. She also received an
early morning call from Horton relaying the decision.  “I reminded him of the importance of the employees in
turning this thing around,” Glading said in an interview. “We
pledged to work together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomerg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ; 