-- 
American Air’s Bankruptcy Pains Holders of Texas Airport Municipal Bonds

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-11-30T18:27:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/amr-bankruptcy-pains-bondholders-of-texas-airport-in-american-s-hometown.html
Few may feel more pain from  AMR
Corp. (AMR) ’s bankruptcy than owners of $49.5 million in unsecured
municipal bonds, due to be paid tomorrow and guaranteed by
American Airlines.  The bonds, which traded at 99.7 cents on the dollar as
recently as Nov. 15, tumbled to 16.5 cents following AMR’s
bankruptcy yesterday, for a loss of as much as 83 percent.
 Alliance Airport Authority Inc.  sold $125.7 million of the debt
in 1991 to build an engineering and maintenance base for
American in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , the airline’s home town. MacKay
Shields, an investment unit of  New York  Life Insurance Co.,
reported holding $4.2 million of the debt on Sept. 30.  “That’s painful -- they missed it by two days,” said Matt Dalton, who oversees $925 million of municipal securities as
chief executive officer of Belle Haven Investments Inc. in  White
Plains , New York. “American had a fair amount of debt that was
due on Dec. 1, plus interest payments on other maturities.”  Among its $29.6 billion in liabilities, AMR and American
backed $3.2 billion of securities called special-facilities
bonds sold through airports and municipal authorities to pay for
gates and maintenance hangars in cities such as New York, Los
Angeles and  Dallas . American is the last large full-fare U.S.
carrier to seek protection after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  American, which leased the airport facilities, and AMR
guaranteed payment of the Alliance securities, according to an
offering document. About $76.2 million of the debt was redeemed
in 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mike Petty, who manages New York-based MacKay Shields’
Mainstay High Yield Municipal Bond Fund, didn’t immediately
respond to a telephone call seeking comment on the holdings.  Capital Research & Management Co., a mutual-fund company
based in  Los Angeles , reported owning $2.5 million of the
Alliance bonds as of June 30. Neil Langberg, manager of the
firm’s American High-Income Municipal Bond Fund, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  