-- 
AMR Bankruptcy Deals ‘Blow’ to Community That Lured Airline to Dallas Area

-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-11-30T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/amr-bankruptcy-deals-blow-to-community-that-lured-airline-to-dallas-area.html
The bankruptcy of  American Airlines 
parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  deals a blow to the  Dallas-Fort Worth region  of
Texas, a community whose identity and fortunes have been tied to
the company and aviation for more than 80 years.  American Airlines is the second-biggest employer in the
region, with more than 20,000 of its 80,000 workers based there,
and has had a presence in Dallas-Fort Worth since 1929. About
one in six jobs in the region is related to transportation,
trade or airlines, including American and Dallas-based  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV) , according to the North Texas Commission.  “It’s very, very disappointing and sad,” said Ray Hutchison, a lawyer in Dallas with Vinson & Elkins LLP who is
the husband of U.S. Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  and worked with
politicians to lure AMR’s headquarters to  Fort Worth  in 1979
from  New York .  “They’ll come out of it OK,” he said. “They’ve got to
get their labor relations right and the fuel cost right.”  AMR, once the world’s largest airline, filed for Chapter 11
protection from creditors yesterday, listing $24.7 billion in
assets and $29.6 billion in debt. While American and American
Eagle airlines continue to fly regular schedules, AMR said it
may eliminate jobs and trim service to some cities. AMR has said
it wants to renegotiate contracts with labor unions.  “We’ll probably see some cuts in wages and benefits for
local workers and that’ll ripple through the economy,” said
Bernard Weinstein, an economist at Southern Methodist
University’s Cox School of Business in  Dallas .  ‘Block By Block’  Employees also may lose about $1 billion in retirement
benefits, Josh Gotbaum, director of the U.S. government’s
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., said yesterday in a  statement .  Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings said the bankruptcy will be felt
“block by block.”  “I live next door to a pilot and a flight attendant,” he
said in an interview. The bankruptcy “impacts their lives, I
care about that, so it’s more a personal thing as opposed to a
macro-economic level.”  The pension agency, which insures private-sector  retirement
plans , is encouraging AMR to “fix its financial problems.”  AMR fell behind as peers including Delta Air Lines Inc.,
Northwest Airlines Corp. and UAL Corp.’s  United Airlines  used
the bankruptcy courts to shed costly pension and retiree benefit
plans and restructure debt. American later watched some
competitors combine, giving them larger more lucrative routes.  The airline may be stronger after the bankruptcy if it can
lower its fuel and labor costs, said Mabrie Jackson, president
of the North  Texas  Commission, which coordinates the efforts of
local governments for common municipal projects.  Regional Coup  “It makes everybody nervous,” Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price said in an interview. “The other airlines that have been
through bankruptcy have all emerged stronger and more efficient.
We feel certain American will also.”  American was created in 1929 by combining smaller airlines,
including Dallas-based Texas Air Transport. American’s southern
division was later based in Fort Worth, and the company’s 1933
 Art Moderne hangar  at Meacham Field is on the National Register
of Historic Places.  AMR moved its headquarters to Fort Worth from New York in
1979, according to its website. Other corporate relocations,
including Exxon Mobil Corp. and  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  helped make
Dallas-Fort Worth the fourth-biggest U.S. metropolitan area.  “That was a real coup for the area,” Weinstein said. “It
helped put D-FW on the map.”  “In a sense that was American coming home.”  Allan Saxe, a professor of political science at the
 University of Texas  at Arlington, agreed.  “American has been so much a part of who we are,” Saxe
said in an interview. The bankruptcy is “more of a
psychological blow, I think, than anything else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  