-- 
Manchester City’s Nasri Has ‘Bust-Up’ on Arsenal Return, Sun Says: Roundup

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-11-30T09:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/manchester-city-s-nasri-has-bust-up-on-arsenal-return-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Tunnel Trouble  Manchester City  midfielder Samir Nasri and his former
Arsenal teammate Emmanuel Frimpong had a “bust-up” as they
left the field following City’s 1-0 Carling Cup win over the
Gunners yesterday, the  Sun  reported.  The two players exchanged words in the tunnel on their way
to the locker room after Nasri returned to the north  London  club
for the first time since quitting for City in the offseason, the
newspaper said. Nasri was jeered by home fans throughout the
match at the Emirates Stadium.  Anelka Suitor  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  would be interested in
signing Chelsea striker Nicolas Anelka should the Frenchman
become available, the  Daily Mail reported .  Anelka has rarely featured in the Chelsea starting line-up
this season and could be traded in January, the newspaper said.
The 32-year-old’s contract expires at the end of the season.  Newcastle Swoop  Newcastle may make a 1.5 million pound ($2.3 million) bid
for Celtic captain Scott Brown, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Manager  Alan Pardew  has been monitoring the player and
could convince Celtic to part with the player before he enters
the final six months of his contract, according to the Mirror.  Poised for Pogba  Manchester United  may lose 18-year-old midfielder Paul
Pogba to Manchester City on a free transfer at the end of the
season, the  Independent  reported.  Pogba hasn’t signed a contract extension and is also a
target for Arsenal, Inter and AC Milan, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  