-- 
Anglo Says Codelco Tried Power Abuse in Contract Dispute

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-11-30T20:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/anglo-says-codelco-tried-power-abuse-in-contract-dispute-1-.html
Codelco ,  Chile ’s state-owned copper
company, and some authorities attempted to undertake a “brutal
act of power abuse” in a contractual dispute with  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) , the London-based company said in court documents.  Codelco violated laws as it sought to acquire 49 percent in
Anglo’s Sur copper assets in Chile under the terms of an option
agreement that can be exercised in a 30-day period starting Jan.
2, Anglo’s lawyer Cristobal Eyzaguirre wrote in documents filed
today and distributed by the company in an e-mail.  “Codelco’s actions are nothing more than a desperate
attempt to obtain a huge profit to which it never had a right,”
Eyzaguirre wrote.  Anglo’s response to the Chilean court comes after Codelco
secured an injunction on Nov. 15 preventing Anglo from selling
further stakes in Sur. Anglo sold 24.5 percent of the unit on Nov.
9 to  Japan ’s Mitsubishi Corp. for $5.39 billion, a move Codelco
said was an attempt to block it from exercising an option that
dates back to 1978 when Exxon Mobil Corp. bought the Disputada
copper mine from Chile’s government.  The unit includes Los Bronces, set to become the world’s
fifth-biggest copper mine after an expansion, and adjoining
undeveloped deposits that Anglo’s head of copper  John MacKenzie 
described on Nov. 22 as the best in the world. Under the option
contract, Codelco can acquire a 24.5 percent stake in the asset
in January at almost half the value paid by Mitsubishi, according
to Anglo’s Chile unit head Miguel Duran.  Right to Sell  Some government officials and Codelco have created an
“artificial dispute” by threatening Anglo before the January
option period, Eyzaguire wrote. The injunction that prevents
further sales of stakes in Sur “isn’t coherent,” he said.  Anglo has an “unequivocal” right to sell stakes in its Sur
assets outside of Codelco’s option, which can be exercised for a
monthlong period every three years until 2007.  Anglo acted in “bad faith” by selling the stake to
Mitsubishi a month after Codelco announced it would exercise the
option for 49 percent, Codelco lawyer Pedro Pablo Gutierrez told
reporters Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at +56-2-487-4018 or
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at +56-2-487-4019 or
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  