-- 
Appeals Panel to Review Bid to Return Bank of America Deal to State Court

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-11-30T21:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/appeals-panel-to-review-bid-to-return-bank-of-america-deal-to-state-court.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
persuaded a federal appeals court to review its request to
return an $8.5 billion bond settlement with Bank of America
Corp. to state court from federal court for a judge’s approval.  The Manhattan-based U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York  today
granted the petition for expedited review.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  had
also asked the court to reverse U.S. District Judge William Pauley’s ruling in October keeping the accord in federal court
for review, rather than remanding it to New York State Supreme
Court.  The proposed agreement, first filed in New York state
court, would settle claims from investors in the mortgage bonds
of Countrywide Financial Corp., which Charlotte, North Carolina-
based  Bank of America (BAC)  bought in 2008. The deal was reached with
an institutional investor group that includes BlackRock and
Pacific Investment Management Co. and would apply to 530
mortgage-securitization trusts.  “Delay in the resolution of this appeal will prejudice the
institutional investors and other beneficiaries of the trusts,”
New York-based BlackRock said in papers filed with the appeals
court on Nov. 1.  Bank of New York, the trustee for the mortgage-bond trusts,
filed the settlement in state court and planned to seek approval
at a November hearing. Under the state proceeding, approval
would bind investors outside the group that negotiated the
agreement.  An investor group, Walnut Place LLC and related entities,
moved the case to federal court and is fighting a bid by Bank of
New York to return it to state court.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-4554, 11-4571,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  