-- 
Asia Currencies Fall in November on Fund Outflows as Economic Growth Cools

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-11-30T08:36:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/asia-currencies-fall-this-month-on-fund-outflows-as-economic-growth-cools.html
Asian currencies fell this month,
led by the Indian rupee’s slide to a record low, as foreign
investors cut holdings of the region’s shares on concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will hurt exports.  Global funds sold $5.7 billion more Indian, South Korean
and Taiwanese equities than they bought this month, according to
exchange data.  Philippine  gross domestic product increased less
than economists predicted last quarter and Thailand’s factory
output slumped by the most in more than a decade in October,
government reports showed this week. India said today its
 economy  expanded at the slowest pace since 2009.  The rupee slumped more than 7 percent this month to 52.4050
per dollar as of 1:49 p.m. in Mumbai and touched a record low of
52.7300 on Nov. 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 3.6 percent to 9,179 per dollar,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s ringgit lost 3.2 percent to 3.1745.  “Europe is still the biggest concern in the market now,”
said Tarsicio Tong, a trader at Union Bank of  Taiwan  in Taipei.
“Unless there’s anything earth-shattering happening in the  euro
zone , Asian currencies should remain stable toward the end of
the year.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, dropped
1.8 percent in November to 114.95. South Korea’s won and
Taiwan’s dollar rose today after euro-area officials agreed to
extend the capacity of Europe’s stability fund.  Indonesia’s Intervention  The rupiah completed its biggest monthly decline since
February 2009. The currency touched a 17-month low in November
even after the central bank intervened in the market to limit
exchange-rate losses.  Bank Indonesia  is committed to stabilizing the rupiah by
selling foreign currencies and buying  government bonds  in the
secondary market, Perry Warjiyo, director for economic research
and monetary policy at the central bank, said yesterday. The
central bank unexpectedly reduced its benchmark interest  rate  by
50 basis points to 6 percent on Nov. 10.  “On the euro-zone worries, markets have been looking for
positive signals,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast
Pte in  Singapore . “The Bank Indonesia rate cut was premature.
There are constraints to how much the central bank can
intervene.”  South Korea’s won slid 2.8 percent this month to 1,142.57
per dollar as a government report showed  exports  rose 8 percent
in October from a year earlier, the smallest gain in two years.  Korea’s Output  The nation’s industrial  output  rose 6.2 percent from a year
earlier in October after gaining 6.9 percent the previous month,
government data showed today. Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said
yesterday that sustaining growth will be a policy priority next
year as the economy shows signs of slowing.  “Uncertainties in the financial market are making it
difficult for investors to bet on a weaker dollar,” said Hong Seok Chan, a currency analyst at Daeshin Securities Co. in  Seoul .
“We hear positive economy reports occasionally, but they are
not enough to relieve concerns regarding Europe’s debt
problems.”  Elsewhere, the  Thai baht  dropped 1.5 percent this month to
31.20 per dollar. The  Taiwan dollar  fell 1.4 percent to
NT$30.345,  China ’s yuan slipped 0.4 percent to 6.3799 and the
Philippine peso lost 2.3 percent to close at 43.645 yesterday.
Onshore financial markets were closed today in the  Philippines 
for a public holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  