-- 
Asian Stocks Fall After Standard & Poor’s Cuts U.S. Banks’ Credit Ratings

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-11-30T10:32:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/asian-stocks-fall-after-standard-poor-s-cuts-u-s-banks-credit-ratings.html
Asian  stocks (MXAP)  fell after  Standard &
Poor’s  reduced credit ratings for lenders including Bank of
America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. as
 Europe ’s debt crisis cuts the global earnings outlook.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.   Japan ’s second-biggest
bank by market value, fell 1 percent in  Tokyo .  Nanya Technology
Corp. (2408) , a Taiwanese memory-chip maker, slumped 6.7 percent after
a report DRAM prices for the second half of November fell.
Japanese power producers led gains among companies whose
earnings are viewed as stable throughout the economic cycle.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent to 112.68 as
of 7:30 p.m. in Tokyo, headed for a 7.5 percent drop for the
month. All but three of 10 industry groups on the measure
declined, with about five stocks falling for every four that
advanced.  “The rating cuts may have a negative impact on investor
sentiment,” said Koji Toda, chief fund manager at Resona Bank
Ltd. in Tokyo. “What investors are really paying attention to
is whether policy makers are going to take steps to resolve the
European debt situation.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.5 percent even
after industrial production increased more than analysts
expected in October.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 index rose 0.4 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index slid 0.5 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index fell 1.5 percent, falling 9.4
percent for the month and set to become the second-worst monthly
performer in Asia after the benchmark index in Vietnam.  China  Monetary Policy  Declines in the region accelerated after Xia Bin, China’s
central bank adviser and researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center, said restructuring of its economy
will depend on fiscal policy rather than on a loosening of
monetary policies. Inflation is still on a “mild upward” trend
due to rising labor costs and resource prices, he said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 18 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 5 percent drop by the  S&P 500 
and a 16 percent slump by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in
the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.6 times estimated earnings
on average, compared with 12.1 times for the S&P 500 and 10.1
times for the Stoxx 600.  Measures of consumer staples and utilities were among the
biggest gains of the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s 10 industry
groups. Japanese power producers  Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505) 
increased 3.6 percent to 1,368 yen, Chugoku Electric Power Co.
rose 3.1 percent to 1,309 yen and Kansai Electric Power Co.
advanced 2.1 percent to 1,144 yen in Tokyo.  ‘Defensive Tilt’  “People who are selling off cyclicals are also positioning
themselves in stocks with a defensive tilt, such as utilities
and consumer staples,” as global demand is likely to come off
with governments around the world running on tight budgets, said
 Angus Gluskie , who manages about $300 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “It’s a mixed sentiment out there. People
are somewhat polarized and uncertain with little consensus in
the outlook.”  Sumitomo Mitsui dropped 1 percent to 2,089 yen in Tokyo,
while  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , a lender that gets about a fifth of its
revenue from North America, retreated 2.1 percent to HK$57.45 in
Hong Kong. ICICI Bank Ltd., India’s second-largest lender by
assets, slid 2.9 percent to 712.45 rupees in Mumbai.  Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Citigroup had long-term
credit grades reduced to A- from A by Standard & Poor’s after
the ratings firm revised criteria for dozens of the largest
global lenders. China Construction Bank Corp. and Bank of China
Ltd., the nation’s No. 2 and No. 3 lenders, were upgraded to A
from A-, joining Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the
world’s biggest bank by market value, on higher ratings than
their U.S. rivals.  Memory Chips  Chipmakers fell after Digitimes said contract prices for
dynamic random-access memory, the most common chip in computers,
dropped almost 8 percent in second half of this month due to
sluggish demand. The report cited industry sources in Taiwan.  Nanya Technology sank 6.7 percent to NT$2.36 while
 Powerchip Technology Corp. (5346) , a maker of DRAM chips, declined 6.3
percent to NT$1.05 in Taipei.  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , a memory-chip
maker, dropped 5.6 percent to 368 yen in Tokyo.  BlueScope Steel Ltd., Australia’s biggest steelmaker, fell
3.8 percent today and dropped 47 percent for the month, the
steepest in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, after saying last week
it plans to sell new shares at a 34 percent discount to raise
money for debt repayment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  