-- 
Dow Average Jumps Most Since 2009 as Central Banks Take Action on Crisis

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-11-30T21:30:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/asian-stocks-u-s-futures-fall-after-s-p-downgrades-banks-yen-weakens.html
Stocks surged, giving the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  its biggest rally since March 2009, and the
euro strengthened as six central banks made additional funds
available to ease strains from Europe’s debt crisis. Treasuries
fell while commodities jumped.  The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed 3.7 percent at 4
p.m. New York time and is up 7.6 percent in  three sessions . The
Dow gained 4.2 percent to 12,045.68, while the Stoxx Europe 600
Index capped its best four-day gain in three years. The dollar
weakened against all 16 major peers, with the euro up 0.9
percent to $1.3441. The cost for European banks to fund in
dollars retreated from the highest since 2008. Oil jumped to
almost $101 a barrel and copper rose 5.5 percent.  The central banks of the U.S., the euro region,  Canada , the
U.K.,  Japan  and Switzerland agreed to cut the cost of providing
dollar funding via swap arrangements, the  Federal Reserve  said,
and agreed to make other currencies available as needed. China
said earlier today it will cut the reserve requirement ratio for
banks by 0.5 percentage points, while data on U.S. business
activity and the employment and housing markets topped
economists’ estimates.  “I’m in a better mood today than I’ve been in a while,”
Burt White, who helps oversee about $315 billion as chief
investment officer at LPL Financial Corp. in Boston, said in a
telephone interview. “This coordinated effort is a huge one. It
is not a European problem, it’s a global problem. If we don’t
get  Europe  solved, it’s going to send pretty big ripples across
the globe. We really could see some upside for the market, if
this momentum continues.”  Rescue Fund  Euro-area finance ministers said they would seek a greater
role for the  International Monetary Fund  and the  European
Central Bank  in fighting the sovereign debt crisis after
conceding an effort to expand their bailout fund missed its
target. The ministers yesterday agreed to guarantee as much as
30 percent of new bond sales from troubled governments, and to
improve its ability to cap yields by buying bonds. European
heads of government will meet in Brussels on Dec. 9 to discuss
the crisis.  The new interest rate central banks are offering for dollar
funding is the dollar overnight index swap rate plus 50 basis
points, a half percentage-point cut, and the program was
extended by six months to Feb. 1, 2013, the Fed said today. The
six central banks also agreed to create temporary bilateral swap
programs so funding can be provided in any of the currencies if
needed.  Borrowing Costs  The actions helped ease a surge in borrowing rates fueled
by concern about a possible breakup of the euro area.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, was 131 basis points
below the euro interbank offered rate after earlier reaching a
three-year high of 163. The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap
spread fell the most in nine months. Predictions in the forward
markets of how reluctant banks will be to lend in the first
quarter dropped from an 18-month high.  “You really needed the central banks to come in and force,
if you want to call it, the liquidity into the system,”  Tobias Levkovich , Citigroup Inc.’s chief U.S. equity strategist, told
Bloomberg Television. “And they recognize the pressure that was
building.”  The moves by the central banks fueled speculation that the
Fed will cut the discount rate it charges U.S. banks, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, as the changes result
in lower borrowing costs for foreign firms.  ‘Level the Playing Field’  “Be on the lookout for headlines on this front," Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at BTIG LLC in  New York ,
wrote in a note to clients. Michael Cloherty, head of U.S. rates
strategy at RBC Capital Markets in New York, said in a note that
a discount-rate cut would ‘‘level the playing field,’’ while
Jefferies Group Inc. Chief Financial Economist Ward McCarthy was
skeptical the Fed will cut the rate since there is no dollar-
funding problem in the U.S.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 4.3 percent, the
most since Aug. 11. Today’s rally trimmed the sixth monthly
decline in seven for the index, leaving it down 0.5 percent in
November. U.S. equities also advanced after companies added
206,000 workers in November, according to data from ADP Employer
Services that bolstered optimism in the labor market before a
government jobs report in two days. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an increase of
130,000.  Economic Data  Other data showed business activity in the U.S. expanded in
November at the fastest pace in seven months, according to the
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. The index of
pending home sales increased 10.4 percent in October, the
National Association of Realtors said, the biggest gain since
November 2010 and five times the median forecast of economists.  The Fed said the economy expanded at a ‘‘moderate” pace in
11 of 12 districts, led by gains in manufacturing and consumer
spending. The Fed’s Beige Book survey reinforced the central
bank’s view that the economy, while strong enough to skirt a
recession, remains too weak to bring down an  unemployment rate 
stuck near 9 percent or higher for more than two years.  Indexes of commodity producers, industrial companies and
financial firms jumped at least 5.1 percent to lead gains in all
10 of the main industry groups in the  S&P 500 . Trading volume of
stocks in the index was 45 percent greater than the average over
the past 10 sessions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Caterpillar Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and General Electric
Co. surged at least 6.6 percent as all 30 stocks in the Dow
climbed, sending the gauge up as much as 490 points.  Dollar, Commodities  The dollar weakened against all 16 major peers, with the
Australian, South African and New Zealand currencies surging at
least 2.5 percent.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities climbed 0.7 percent and
is up 3.4 percent in three days. Zinc, copper and aluminum rose
more than 5.2 percent to lead gains today. Among 24 commodities
tracked by the index, only seven declined.  Commodities are set for a “difficult environment” in
2012, UBS AG said, citing Europe’s debt crisis and a “hard
landing” in  China , the biggest raw-materials consumer. The
People’s Bank of China cut the amount of cash that lenders must
set aside as reserves for the first time since 2008 as Europe’s
debt crisis dims the outlook for exports and growth.  European Stocks  More than 27 stocks advanced for every one that declined in
the Stoxx 600, sending the benchmark gauge up 3.6 percent and
extending its four-day rally to 9.1 percent. Barclays Plc surged
and Deutsche Bank AG rallied more than 6 percent. BP Plc,
Europe’s second-biggest oil producer, climbed 5 percent and BHP
Billiton Plc, the world’s largest mining company, jumped 6.2
percent.  European stocks fell earlier after S&P cut debt ratings on
lenders from Bank of America Corp. to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
to UBS AG. More than $3 trillion has been erased from the value
of global equities this month as rising borrowing costs in Italy
and Spain signaled Europe’s debt crisis was worsening.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose nine basis
points to 2.08 percent. Germany’s one-year yield dropped nine
basis points to minus 0.01 percent, sinking below zero for the
first time ever. Italy’s 10-year bond yield slid 22 basis points
to 7.02 percent.  Default Swaps Drop  The cost of insuring against default on European corporate
debt fell, according to traders of credit-default swaps.
Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies
with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 33 basis points to
758.5, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 3 p.m. in  London . A
decline signals improved perceptions of credit quality.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 2 percent, trimming
this month’s drop to 6.7 percent. Benchmark gauges in  Brazil ,
 Russia ,  South Africa  and Turkey gained at least 2.8 percent.
Poland’s WIG20 Index jumped 4.8 percent after a report showed
the economy grew more than economists forecast in the third
quarter. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  earlier fell 3.3 percent
after central bank adviser Xia Bin said China’s policy “fine-
tuning” doesn’t mean credit controls will be loosened.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  