-- 
Atletico Madrid, Braga, PAOK Salonika Advance in Soccer’s Europa League

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-11-30T23:06:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/atletico-madrid-braga-paok-salonika-advance-in-soccer-s-europa-league.html
Former champion  Atletico Madrid  beat
Celtic 1-0 to qualify for the round of 32 in soccer’s Europa
League, with five other teams also advancing.  Arda Turan got the only goal at Parkhead in Glasgow for
Atletico, which won the title in 2010. Braga, PAOK Salonika,
Metalist Kharkiv, Standard Liege and Hannover secured spots in
the knockout rounds after yesterday’s matches.  The top two teams from each of the 12 groups go through to
the next round, where they’re joined by the eight third-place
finishers from the elite  Champions League . Sporting Lisbon,
Anderlecht,  PSV Eindhoven , Legia Warsaw, FC Twente and  Athletic
Bilbao  were already through to the round of 32.  Braga defeated Birmingham City 1-0, PAOK beat Tottenham 2-1,
Metalist won 4-1 against Austria Vienna, while Standard Liege
beat Hannover 2-0.  In other games, Udinese tied 0-0 against Rennes, Club
Brugge beat Maribor 4-3, Rubin Kazan defeated Shamrock Rovers 4-
1, while Vorskla and FC Copenhagen drew 1-1. There were no goals
in the match between Malmo and  AZ Alkmaar , Hapoel Tel-Aviv won
3-1 at Rapid Bucharest, and PSV Eindhoven beat Legia Warsaw 3-0.  Celtic will have to win at Udinese in its final Group I
game on Dec. 15 to advance ahead of the Italian team. Udinese,
third in Italy’s Serie A, was held to a scoreless draw by Rennes,
which cannot progress.  Braga defeated Birmingham on a goal from Hugo Viana to move
into the next round because of its head-to-head record against
the English team. Birmingham’s Nikola Zigic had a penalty saved.  Braga, Brugge Tied  Braga, which lost last year’s final to Portuguese rival
Porto, is tied on 10 points in Group H with Club Brugge, while
Birmingham has seven points and must win its final match to
retain a chance of going through. Maribor has one point.  Jose Ernesto Sosa scored one goal and set up two as
Ukraine’s Metalist secured qualification from Group G. AZ missed
a chance to qualify as it was held to a draw, but now holds a
two-point advantage over Austria Vienna.  PAOK held on with 10 men to beat Tottenham and advance from
Group A. Dimitris Salpingidis and Stefanos Athanasiadis scored
for the Greeks, who had Kostas Stafylidis ejected. Luka Modric
got a penalty for Spurs, who trail  Rubin Kazan  by three points
with one game to play.  Liege will top Group B after its win against Hannover,
which advances because of a superior head-to-head record against
Copenhagen.  PSV will top Group C after its win against 10-man Legia,
which was also already assured of qualifying.  The other six groups play their next-to-last games today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 