-- 
Australian Regulator Faces Stricter Standard on Mergers After Court Ruling

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-11-30T04:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/australian-regulator-faces-stricter-standard-on-mergers-after-court-ruling.html
An Australian appeal court upheld
 Metcash Ltd. (MTS) ’s acquisition of the Franklins supermarket chain
from  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK) , raising the bar for the country’s
competition regulator to justify denials of mergers.  Federal Court Justice David Yates issued the ruling today
in Sydney on behalf of the three-member appeal panel. The
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission in September had
appealed a court ruling approving the acquisition.  Metcash’s purchase of the stores was allowed to go ahead
Sept. 20 when Federal Court Justice Peter Jacobson denied the
ACCC’s request to delay the acquisition until the appeal was
heard. Today’s decision upholds a higher standard for ACCC to
follow in assessing the effects of future mergers.  “If left unchallenged, the court’s interpretation of some
fundamental principles of merger analysis could have serious
implications for the ACCC’s ability to block anti-competitive
mergers,” ACCC Chairman Ron Sims said in a Sept. 9 statement.  Metcash climbed as much as 2.5 percent, the biggest
intraday gain in more than two months, to A$4.07 before trading
at A$4.03 as of 3:07 p.m. on Sydney’s stock exchange.  Federal Court Justice Arthur Emmett rejected on Aug. 25 the
regulator’s argument that the A$215 million ($215 million)
acquisition would give Sydney-based Metcash a monopoly in
supplying independent grocery stores. He allowed the sale to
proceed.  ‘Real Chance’  Emmett had ruled the ACCC must prove that its view of what
a market would look like with and without a proposed acquisition
must be more probable than any competing argument. The regulator
had failed to prove it would be more likely than not that an
alternative buyer would be found for Franklins, he said at the
time.  The ACCC had argued that it only had to establish there was
“a real chance” another buyer could be found.  “The court’s approach, through its application of an
onerous test, would make it an unrealistic task for the ACCC in
future matters to establish what is likely to happen in the
market,” Sims said in the Sept. 9 statement.  The South African company agreed to sell Franklins to
Metcash in July 2010. The agreement was extended to Sept. 30 as
the companies awaited the initial court ruling.  Franklins has 80 stores and 10 franchise outlets in
 Australia .  The case is: Australian Competition & Consumer Commission
v. Metcash Trading Ltd. NSD1533/2011. Full Court of the Federal
Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  