-- 
Australia Business Investment Gains Most in 15 Years on Mining

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-11-30T01:59:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/australia-business-investment-gains-most-in-15-years-on-mining.html
Australian  business investment 
jumped by the most in 15 years in the third quarter as the
growth of mining projects accelerated, bolstering the nation’s
currency after four weeks of declines.  Capital spending  rose 12.3 percent from the three months
through June, when it gained a revised 6.2 percent, the Bureau
of Statistics said in Sydney today. The advance was the biggest
since the second quarter of 1996 and was higher than all except
one forecast among 20 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are ramping up
investment in equipment and hiring workers to meet demand from
 China  and  India  for coal,  iron ore  and natural gas. The report
was released just as central bank data showed lending to
consumers and businesses weakened, reflecting the other side of
Australia’s so-called two-speed economy that’s been slowed by
the highest borrowing costs in the developed world.  “The capital expenditure numbers were fantastic,” said
 Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd.,
a unit of the world’s biggest interdealer broker. “The weakness
in credit is a worry in the sense it’s at recessionary levels.”  Loans provided by Australian banks and finance companies
increased 0.2 percent in October from the previous month, the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia said today. Lending to companies was
unchanged from September, the report showed.  Today’s business investment report showed spending on
buildings and structures rose 17.1 percent in the third quarter,
and investment in new plant and equipment advanced 6.3 percent.  Spending Plans  Australian companies forecast investment of A$158 billion
($159 billion) in the year ending June 30, 5.1 percent higher
than their estimate three months earlier, today’s report showed.  “The Australian economy has rebalanced away from a credit-
driven property and consumption boom toward more modest
consumption, strong exports and investment,” Carr said.  An index of Australian  house prices  has fallen every month
this year, real-estate monitoring company RP Data-Rismark said
in a report today. Prices are down 4 percent in October from a
year earlier, it showed.  The central bank predicts growth will accelerate next year,
driven by the mining boom, even as the global economy slows.  Australia ’s central bank has responded to heightened global
risks and less inflation pressure by lowering its benchmark rate
by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent on Nov. 1, the
first reduction in 31 months.  Currency Swings  The local currency has declined 6 percent in the past month
as investors bet Europe’s crisis will force the central bank to
keep lowering borrowing costs. It traded at $1.0063 at of 12:56
p.m. in Sydney, up from $1.0022 before the data on business
investment.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said this week mounting concern about the survival of Europe’s
monetary union has caused global growth to stall.  The 34 OECD economies will expand 1.9 percent this year and
1.6 percent in 2012, down from 2.3 percent and 2.8 percent
predicted in May, the Paris-based organization said in its
twice-annual global outlook released Nov. 28.  Australia’s gross domestic product will increase 4 percent
next year, tied with  Chile  as the best-projected performer among
OECD members.  The urbanization of hundreds of millions of people in China
and India has intensified demand for Australia’s mineral wealth,
produced by companies including BHP and  Rio Tinto Group. (RIO)   Minerals, Energy  The Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said yesterday
that the value of minerals and energy projects under development
in Australia rose to a record A$231.8 billion as of Oct. 31. The
value of projects increased 34 percent from April and 74 percent
from a year earlier, it said in a report.  The surge in commodity extraction has also spurred hiring
and Australia’s jobless rate -- at 5.2 percent in October -- was
almost half the euro zone’s 10.2 percent in September.  The government forecast Australian unemployment will
increase to 5.5 percent in June 2012, a report showed yesterday.
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said he expects 300,000 new jobs to be
created in Australia, a nation of 22.8 million people, in the
next few years.  “We’re not immune from what’s going on in the global
economy,” Swan told reporters in Canberra yesterday after
releasing the government’s latest economic forecasts. “What’s
going on in  Europe  is just a reminder to us that we’ve got to
strive even harder to do better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  