-- 
Baht Set for Monthly Drop After Global Funds Trim Share Holdings

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-11-30T02:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/baht-set-for-monthly-drop-after-global-funds-trim-share-holdings.html
Thailand ’s baht was poised for its
biggest monthly decline since September after global funds
reduced holdings of the nation’s shares on concern the worst
floods in 70 years will crimp factory output and damp exports.  International investors sold $431 million more Thai
equities than they bought this month through yesterday,
according to exchange data. The Bank of Thailand will lower the
benchmark one-day bond repurchase  rate  at a review today,
according to all 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Nine
predicted a 25 basis point reduction to 3.25 percent and the
rest forecast a 50 basis point cut.  “Fund outflows are weighing on the baht,” said Disawat
Tiaowvanich, a foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl.
“People also expect the central bank to cut rates. Exporters
couldn’t produce and export goods, and so they are also
unwinding their hedging positions, boosting dollar demand.”  The baht slumped 1.5 percent this month to 31.21 per dollar
as of 8:19 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It advanced 0.2 percent today. The currency touched
31.45 on Nov. 28, the weakest level since August 2010.  The baht’s gain today was underpinned by fund inflows from
overseas reinsurers honoring claims by local underwriters on the
recent floods, according to Disawat. Fund inflows linked to
insurance claims may affect the baht, Bank of Thailand Assistant
Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said on Nov. 14.  The  yield  on the nation’s five-year generic bonds rose 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, this month through
yesterday to 3.27 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  