-- 
China Banks Get Higher Ratings Than U.S. Rivals as S&P Cites State Backing

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-11-30T05:10:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/bank-of-china-construction-bank-upgraded-by-standard-poor-s.html
Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  were upgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  after
the ratings firm revised its criteria, giving the Chinese
lenders higher grades than most of their largest U.S. rivals.  Bank of China and Construction Bank were raised to A from
A-, and  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.’s rating was
maintained at A, according to a statement issued today. The
changes reflect the “very high” likelihood of China’s
government providing help for the lenders in the event of
financial distress, S&P wrote in separate statements.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  had their long-term credit ratings cut to A-,
while UBS AG and Barclays Plc were downgraded to A and HSBC
Holdings Plc to A+. The Chinese banks’ elevation underscores
their turnaround since a decade-long overhaul of the state-run
lenders that had cost the Asian nation $650 billion by 2008.  “You look at the liquidity conditions in China, they’re
very good. You look at the policy impetus, the likelihood of
government support, it’s very very high,” Tom Quarmby, an
analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in  Hong Kong , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. “Whilst  lending  might be
higher risk, it’s just lending, it’s not exotic derivatives
businesses or investment banking.”  Shares Slide  Shares of Construction Bank fell 2.5 percent to HK$5.17 as
of the midday trading break in Hong Kong, while ICBC declined
2.3 percent and Bank of China slid 2 percent. Hong Kong’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  retreated 1.9 percent. The three
lenders and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. have declined by an
average 26 percent this year on concern that loans may sour as
economic growth cools.  Chinese banks’ bad debts may climb to 1.5 percent of total
loans by the end of next year and 1.8 percent by December 2013,
according to the median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg last month. That compares with 0.9 percent for the
third quarter, according to data from the regulator.  China’s central bank has raised the reserve-requirement
ratio for major lenders nine times since October 2010 to a
record 21.5 percent. That compares with a maximum 10 percent for
U.S. lenders, according to the Federal Reserve’s  website .  Capital Requirements  China , which has more than $3 trillion of foreign exchange
reserves, has pushed its banks to raise capital and limit off
balance sheet loans this year on concern some infrastructure
companies controlled by local governments and property
developers may be unable to repay debt. Central Huijin
Investment Ltd., which manages the government’s stakes in
China’s biggest lenders, last month began buying bank shares.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission warned lenders
earlier this month that some projects backed by local
governments may run out of funding and loans to developers are
likely to go bad as property sales slow, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  China’s economy  grew at the slowest pace in two years in
the third quarter as the government raised  interest rates  and
limited lending as part of its campaign to rein in inflation.
 Home prices  declined in 33 of 70 cities monitored by the
government in October.  Shang Fulin, appointed chairman of the banking regulator at
the end of October, asked lenders to control risks associated
with lending to local government financing vehicles, property
development, wealth management businesses and shadow banking,
the regulator said Nov. 25.  S&P, a unit of New York-based  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , has been
changing the way it looks at debt after its grades contributed
to the credit-market seizure that brought down Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. It started to review the
methodology in December 2008, months after the collapse of those
two firms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fellman in Shanghai at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  