-- 
Bank of Canada Press Release: Central Banks’ Actions

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-11-30T14:28:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/bank-of-canada-press-release-central-banks-actions.html
Following is the text of Coordinated Central
Bank Action to Address Pressures in Global Money Markets as released by
the Bank of  Canada :  Coordinated Central Bank Action to Address Pressures in Global Money
Markets  The Bank of Canada, the  Bank of England , the Bank of  Japan , the European
Central Bank, the Federal Reserve and the  Swiss National Bank  are today
announcing coordinated actions to enhance their capacity to provide
liquidity support to the global financial system. The purpose of these
actions is to ease strains in financial markets and thereby mitigate the
effects of such strains on the supply of credit to households and
businesses and so help foster economic activity.  These central banks have agreed to lower the pricing on the existing
temporary U.S. dollar liquidity swap arrangements by 50 basis points so
that the new rate will be the U.S. dollar overnight index swap (OIS) rate
plus 50 basis points. This pricing will be applied to all operations
conducted from 5 December 2011. The authorization of these swap
arrangements has been extended to 1 February 2013. In addition, the Bank
of  England , the  Bank of Japan , the  European Central Bank , and the Swiss
National Bank will continue to offer three-month tenders until further
notice.  As a contingency measure, these central banks have also agreed to
establish temporary bilateral liquidity swap arrangements, so that
liquidity can be provided in each jurisdiction, in any of their
currencies, should market conditions so warrant. At present, there is no
need to offer liquidity in non-domestic currencies other than the U.S.
dollar, but the central banks judge it prudent to make the necessary
arrangements so that liquidity support operations could be put into place
quickly should the need arise. These swap lines are authorized through 1
February 2013.  Bank of Canada Action  The Bank of Canada and the U.S.  Federal Reserve  have agreed to extend the
US $30 billion swap facility (reciprocal currency arrangement) through 1
February 2013 and adjust the pricing to the U.S. dollar OIS rate plus 50
basis points. This swap facility was set to expire on 1 August 2012.  The introduction of the expanded network of temporary swap lines will
enable the Bank of Canada, should the need arise, to provide Canadian
dollars to the other central banks, and to provide liquidity in  Japanese
yen , euros, U.K. pounds sterling, Swiss francs and U.S. dollars (via the
existing U.S. dollar swap facility) to financial institutions in Canada.  The Bank of Canada judges that it is not necessary for it to draw or offer
operations on any of these swap facilities at this time, but that it is
prudent to have these agreements in place. Should these facilities be
drawn on, the details of the liquidity facilities provided would depend on
the specific market circumstances at the time.  The  Bank of Canada  continues to closely monitor developments in global
financial markets and remains committed to providing liquidity as required
to support the stability of the Canadian financial system and the
functioning of financial markets.  SOURCE: Bank of Canada  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  