-- 
Barbies, Punks, Surfers Parade in California Cultural Jamboree

-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/barbies-punks-surfers-parade-in-california-cultural-jamboree.html
While globalization has fueled the
proliferation of museums, galleries and art fairs around the
world,  New York  remains the great magnet -- the proving ground.  In the U.S., when artists consider trading the East for the
West Coast, a Big Apple chorus chimes: “If you leave New York,
you’ll just die as an artist.”  Los Angeles  disagrees, or at least wants to shift the
attention 3,000 miles west. Arts groups in  Southern California 
have mounted “Pacific Standard Time: Art in L.A. 1945-1980,” a
six-month, all-out offensive: the Civil Art War.  P.S.T. is, by turns, beautiful and bland, self-reflective
and self-indulgent, revelatory and incomprehensible -- a power
play of extravagant proportions.  “In recent decades, Los Angeles has shed its stereotype as
the land of sunshine, palm trees, and movie stars to become an
artistic powerhouse and an increasingly important international
creative capital,” according to a P.S.T. press release.  If West wages war against East, yet never sets foot outside
sunny  California , will there actually be a shot heard around the
world? I doubt it. Even before I began the insurmountable
journey that is P.S.T., I felt assaulted by its overarching
claims, which, with an enormous chip on its shoulder, resembles
schoolyard taunting more than battle cry.  Over four days, I took in roughly 30 of P.S.T.’s 190 (and
counting) staggered exhibitions featuring more than 1,300
artists at more than 60 cultural institutions, museums and
galleries across the greater Los Angeles area and extending 100
miles north to  Santa Barbara  and 100 miles south to San Diego.  Subsidized Behemoth  I saw most of P.S.T.’s core, which includes shows at the
U.C.L.A.  Hammer Museum , the  Los Angeles County Museum of Art 
(LACMA), the  Museum of Contemporary Art  (MoCA), the  Museum of
Contemporary Art, San Diego  (MCASD) and the  Getty Research
Institute , which spearheaded, sponsored and subsidized (almost
$10 million in grants) this behemoth.  P.S.T.’s shows cover almost every theme imaginable. There
are surfboards and Barbie dolls, feminist art, socio-political
art and punk rock, hard-edged abstract paintings, Arts & Crafts
bric-a-brac, assemblage, a gleaming Airstream trailer, an
Academy Award statuette and big polished spheres of translucent
polyester resin, as well as performance art, including a piece
in which  Paul McCarthy  has unappetizing sex with food.  Bunnies, Comics  The jumble includes record-album covers, comic books,
Playboy bunnies and pictures of gas stations; a numbing amount
of text-and-photo-based Conceptual Art and far too much
documentation (P.S.T. began as an archival project).
Occasionally, it goes to disturbing extremes, as with Edward
Kienholz’s interactive dirt-floor installation “Five Car Stud
(1969-72) Revisited,” in which a group of good-ol’-boys, lit
only by the headlights of five cars, castrate a black man.  The high points of P.S.T. include the  Santa Monica Museum
of Art ’s retrospective of ceramicist Beatrice Wood; the Charles
and Ray Eames house, a modernist masterpiece undergoing
restoration; LACMA’s spirited “California Design, 1930-1965:
Living in a Modern Way”; and the exhibition “Sympathetic
Seeing: Ester McCoy and the Heart of American Modernist
Architecture and Design” at the  MAK Center  for Art and
Architecture L.A. Schindler House.  Compelling also are the groupings of Melvin Edwards’s
muscular, welded-steel sculptures in the Hammer’s “Now Dig
This! Art & Black Los Angeles 1960-1980.” Employing machine
parts, gears and chains, Edwards’s found-object sculptures
writhe and evoke traps, masks, monuments, mounted trophy heads
and acts of torture and lynching.  Light and Space  The most cohesive and sublime of P.S.T.’s offerings -- dare
I say, the most “Californian” -- is “Phenomenal: California
Light, Space, Surface” at MCASD’s two venues in downtown  San
Diego  and its original location in  La Jolla .  Here, iridescent Minimalist works -- made of glass,
acrylic, resin, mirrors and corralled portions of space, colored
light and absolute darkness -- by Larry Bell,  Peter Alexander ,
Robert Irwin, John McCracken, Bruce Nauman, Helen Pashgian and
James Turrell, among others, compete with sunset views of the
 Pacific Ocean . Making light and space palpable, they succeed.
Looking back and forth among sculptures and ocean vistas, it is
difficult to know where art ends and nature begins.  “California is America, only more so,” wrote Wallace
Stegner in 1959. P.S.T. is an exaggerated incarnation of what
could have been an excellent exhibition, or set of exhibitions,
if only someone had overseen this massive theater of operations.
Even then, I don’t think it could have been victorious. As
P.S.T. stands -- or, rather, sprawls across Southern California
-- it feels more like a home scrimmage than an organized front.  “Pacific Standard Time: Art in L.A. 1945-1980” is at
multiple venues, Southern California, through June 3, 2012.
Information:  http://www.pacificstandardtime.org .  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  is a presenting sponsor.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 