-- 
Battersea Power Station Loans Called a Day After Osborne Backs Rail Link

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-12-01T12:48:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/battersea-power-station-creditors-call-in-788-million-of-loans.html
Creditors of Battersea Power Station
asked a court to put the landmark property’s owner into
administration the day after U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  backed a London Underground extension to boost
the area’s development.  A group led by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Ireland’s
National Asset Management Agency will ask an English court on
Dec. 12 to have administrators appointed for various units of
Battersea Power Station Shareholder Vehicle Ltd., according to a
statement yesterday. The lenders are owed 502 million pounds
($786 million).  London Mayor  Boris Johnson  and Osborne donned hardhats and
visited Berkeley Group Plc’s St. James’s Riverlight project next
to the power station site on Nov. 28 to highlight regeneration
in the Nine Elms neighborhood south of the  River Thames . In his
budget statement the next day, the chancellor backed a  proposed
extension  of the Underground’s Northern Line to Battersea and
announced a plan to create an enterprise zone in the area to
ease planning restrictions for businesses.  Developer Real Estate Opportunities had planned to build
3,400 homes and 330,000 square meters (3.5 million square feet)
of commercial space at the power station, a protected historical
landmark that was closed 28 years ago. With four 350-foot-high
smokestacks, the station is  Europe ’s largest brick building and
it featured on the cover of  Pink Floyd ’s 1977 album “Animals.”  Subway Extension  The proposed subway extension is key to the redevelopment
of the neighborhood, located across the river from the borough
of Kensington & Chelsea. Engineering consultant  Parsons
Brinckerhoff  estimated the cost of the transport link three
years ago at 380 million to 633 million pounds. The U.S. plans
to move to a new embassy in the Battersea area in 2017.  Lenders applied to a Jersey court yesterday to put the
Battersea companies into administration, a form of  bankruptcy
protection . The companies “are not in a position to satisfy
these demands for repayment,” Jersey-based  Real Estate
Opportunities Plc (REO) , which owns 54 percent of Battersea Power
Station Shareholder Vehicle, said in the statement.  Battersea’s creditors rejected a 262 million-pound bid last
week from SP Setia Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s biggest public traded
property developer by sales, to purchase the senior debt related
to the London landmark.  Another of the creditors seeking the appointment of
administrators is Oriental Property Ltd., controlled by Victor Hwang, a Hong Kong entrepreneur who previously owned the power
station. He provided 150 million pounds of loans to help Irish
property entrepreneurs Richard Barrett and  John Ronan  acquire
the project five years ago.  NAMA, Lloyds  Barrett and Ronan, who control Real Estate Opportunities
through their company Treasury Holdings, have relied on the
support of Lloyds and NAMA to proceed with a 5.5 billion-pound
redevelopment of the site. REO sought a partner to back the
project after obtaining planning consent in November last year.
Ownership of the 38-acre site transferred to Battersea Power
Station Shareholder Vehicle following a debt-for-equity swap
involving some of the creditors.  Real Estate Opportunities “remains in discussions” to
sell its controlling stake in the site, it said yesterday.
“There is no certainty that any such transaction will be
effected,” it added.  REO shares fell 19 percent today to 0.75 of a penny at 9:24
a.m. in  London . That values the company at 2.5 million pounds.
Real Estate Opportunities’ other assets, mainly properties in
Ireland, are unaffected by the administration sought for
Battersea Power Station, the company said.  Design Classic  Battersea Power Station was designed by Giles Gilbert-
Scott, who also devised the red public telephone box, and built
in two stages, according to its website. The power station
provided a fifth of London’s electricity supply in the early
1950s, according to the Battersea Power Station Community Group
 website .  The building, with marble floors in its turbine room, got
heritage protection in 1980 for its architectural merit. Its
grade II listing is for buildings of exceptional interest and of
outstanding importance, according to the criteria of the
government department that approves protection.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 