-- 
BBVA Restructures Loans to ‘Help’ 105,000 Clients Keep Paying

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-11-30T15:35:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/bbva-restructures-loans-to-help-105-000-clients-keep-paying.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest lender, has restructured loans to 105,000
customers in financial difficulties since 2008 to “help” them
keep making payments.  BBVA has restructured 900 million euros ($1.2 billion) of
loans this year alone, the Bilbao, Spain-based bank said in a
 news release  dated Nov. 28, saying it was adjusting customers’
repayments to their ability to pay. Among the solutions BBVA is
offering its clients is delaying the payment of 30 percent of
the capital until the end of a loan or increasing the terms on
mortgages to 40 years.  “They studied the issue with numbers and it was seen it
was possible to go ahead and in effect it was done -- extend the
debt so that what had to be amortized in five years is amortized
in seven and there it is,” said Francisco Sebastian, a BBVA
client in Madrid who appears in a  video  posted on the bank’s
website along with the news release. “The payment has dropped a
bit and, of course, there’s the relaxation of not having to pay
things so urgently.”  BBVA’s disclosure that it has “helped” customers by
adjusting credit terms coincides with a debate about how
accurate loan-default data is in  Spain  because of the lack of
clarity about the quantity of loans in danger of defaulting that
are being restructured or refinanced. Spanish banks, including
BBVA, are fighting to stem further  loan losses  after the Bank of
Spain predicted the country’s economy may contract in the final
quarter and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development cut its forecast for 2012 growth to 0.3 percent on
Nov. 28 from the 1.6 percent it estimated in May.  Refinanced Loans  BBVA executives have been saying for 18 months defaults
have peaked even as growth stalls in a Spanish economy that
accounts for about 60 percent of the bank’s lending. Of the
105,000 families helped, 45,000 had mortgages, 44,000 had
consumer loans and 15,000 business loans, the bank said.  A BBVA spokesman, who asked not to be named in line with
company policy, declined to comment in a phone interview.  The bank has about 11 billion euros of bad loans in Spain,
equivalent to 4.9 percent of its lending in the country with
provisions set aside to cover 42 percent of that amount. That
compares to a bad-loans ratio for the Spanish banking industry
as a whole of 7.16 percent in September, according to Bank of
Spain figures.  Aristobulo de Juan, a former head of banking supervision
who helped tackle a banking crisis in the 1980s that caused the
collapse of 50 banks, said in Nov. 17 column in Expansion
newspaper that a BBVA estimate that the banking industry may
face a further 60 billion euros in unprovisioned losses may be
far short of the mark because of “systematic refinancing” of
bad loans.  “Refinancing loans is a normal banking practice,” said
Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International in  Madrid .
“It’s a win-win situation if you think there’s a good chance
that your clients can keep making their payments over the medium
term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  