-- 
Belarusian Court Sentences Subway Bombers to Death

-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 
2011-11-30T16:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/belarusian-court-sentences-subway-bombers-to-death-1-.html
A Belarusian court gave a death
sentence to two men found guilty of organizing a subway bombing
in the Belarusian capital in April, Judge Alexander Fedortsov
said in Minsk today.  Dmitry Konovalov, 25, was found guilty of killing 15 and
wounding more than 300 people when he remotely detonated a bomb
hidden in a sports bag under a bench in Minsk’s busiest metro
station on April 11. He was also found guilty of several other
criminal offenses, including bombings in Vitebsk in 2005 and in
Minsk in 2008. Konovalov only pleaded guilty to the Minsk 2005
and 2008 bombings, denying other charges and refusing to speak
throughout most of the trial.  Vladislav Kovalev, 25, accused of assisting Konovalov in
the terrorism plot, reversed his initial confession and denied
all charges except counts of hooliganism in 2001 and 2002 in
Vitebsk.  Both Konovalov and Kovalev said investigators had put them
under illegal pressure in order to extort confessions,
allegations the court disregarded as lacking proof.  “The charges are falsified, the court was misguided by the
prosecution,” Liubov Kovaleva, mother of one of the defendants
said after the sentence was announced. She said she will file a
plea to President Aleksandr Lukashenko asking to pardon her son.  The April bombing in Minsk subway shook the former Soviet
republic as it slipped into a major economic crisis, one of the
most serious challenges to President Lukashenko since he came to
power 17 years ago in 1994.  The trial began Sept. 15, the day after the country’s
central bank devalued the national currency 38 percent. While
the Belarusian ruble has lost two-thirds of its value since
January, Lukashenko acknowledged falling support for him among
the population this month by  demanding  that the government
restore popular confidence in authorities no later than May 1,
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  