-- 
Berkshire Faults Wall Street, Private Equity for ‘Disposable Reinsurers’

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-11-30T19:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/berkshire-faults-wall-street-private-equity-for-disposable-reinsurers-.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Franklin “Tad” Montross faulted  Wall Street  and private-equity firms
for creating rival sellers of reinsurance that he said may not
have the backing of their founders in three to five years.  “The investment term is obviously out of sync with the
duration of the liabilities,” Montross, chief executive officer
of Berkshire’s General Reinsurance Corp., said in a statement on
the unit’s website and dated this month. “This mismatch is
unlikely to play out well 10 or 20 years down the road.”  Berkshire , headed by billionaire  Warren Buffett , is facing
competition from new entrants to the reinsurance market as wind
storms, floods and earthquakes weigh on results at established
carriers. Stone Point Capital LLC, the private-equity firm
overseen by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director  Stephen Friedman ,
teamed with  Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd. (ALTE)  in April to back
policies through a pool of capital known as a sidecar.  “Sidecars have been the rage to offer catastrophe capacity
for just one year, effectively creating a disposable
reinsurer,” said Montross, whose General Re is based in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Several years ago I quipped, disposable
razors and diapers -- why not disposable reinsurers?”  Primary insurers typically turn to sidecars for coverage of
short-term risks focused in specific areas, said  Mark Dwelle , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets . General liability policies with
a potential span of 50 years for claims settlement, which
Montross cited in his statement, are not normally the types of
contracts that brokers arrange with sidecars, Dwelle said.  Capital Flowing  “Most sidecars are not used in that way,” said Dwelle.
“They are a really efficient way for capital to flow into the
industry and flow back out of the industry.”  The  insurance industry  faced about $70 billion of losses
from natural disasters and man-made catastrophes in the first
half, according to Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest
reinsurer. That makes 2011 already the second-most costly year
for insurers, surpassed by 2005, when Hurricane Katrina
contributed to $120 billion in claims.  General Re’s annual revenue has declined in each of the
last three years to $5.69 billion in 2010. Buffett, Berkshire’s
chairman and CEO, bought the reinsurer for $18 billion in 1998
in what was then his biggest acquisition.  Peter Hill, a spokesman for Alterra, declined to comment on
Montross’s remarks. The Alterra sidecar, New Point IV, was
capitalized by the reinsurer, Stone Point and others, Hill said.  Validus’s Sidecar  Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR) , the Bermuda-based reinsurer, raised
money for a sidecar that it said in June will write business
through Dec. 31, 2012, subject to extension.  RenaissanceRe
Holdings Ltd. (RNR)  tapped investors to fund the DaVinciRe underwriter
it runs, and CEO Neill Currie said in a June statement that the
“ability to access and deploy third-party capital” helps the
reinsurer serve clients.  “There is a lot of investor appetite to participate in the
reinsurance market, and that has to be a limiting factor” on
the ability of established carriers to raise prices, said  Ben Cohen , an analyst at Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc in  London .
“One of the reasons why that is happening is you can’t get
better returns elsewhere. You get nothing on cash and equity
markets are awful.”  Greg Faje, a spokesman for Validus, declined to comment.  The time required to settle claims on property-casualty
policies has in some cases grown because of lawsuits and
business-interruption requests, Dwelle said. Claims settlement
on property catastrophe coverage may require as long as five
years after a policy’s inception, Montross said.  “A company making long-term commitments should be run in a
conservative manner, and have owners that are committed to the
business for the long term,” Montross said. “The private-
equity money that has funded the reinsurance start-ups has
explicit exit strategies, often in as little as three to five
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  