-- 
Bids Start at $28,000 for Irish Properties as Creditors Head for the Exits

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-11-30T14:29:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/bids-start-at-28-000-for-irish-houses-as-creditors-head-for-the-exits.html
Irish homes may sell for as little
as 21,000 euros ($28,000) today as owners dispose of foreclosed
properties in the country’s biggest residential auction.  Houses on sale by Dublin-based broker  Space  and the U.K.’s
Allsop LLP include a four-bedroom log cabin on Lough Sillian, a
lake northwest of Dublin, for a minimum price of 50,000 euros. A
nursing home and a two-story property across from the U.S.
Embassy in Dublin will also be put on the block.  “The  Allsop  auctions are really the only mechanism we have
now for the revelation of prices, because transactions outside
of them are so thin on the ground,” said Constantin Gurdgiev, a
lecturer in finance at Trinity College Dublin.  Of the 110 properties in the public auction, 81 are being
sold by creditor-appointed receivers and about 45 have rent-
paying tenants, according to Space. More than 6,000 people
attended the three auctions held since April, purchasing 93
percent of the homes being offered, the broker said.  “Nobody is a mug, nobody is looking to pay too much and
everybody wants to really feel they are getting a bargain,”
said Stephen McCarthy, managing director of Space. “Contrary to
what people want to think, Irish people are still obsessed with
owning property.”  As of 1:55 p.m., 45 of the 51 properties put up for sale so
far had been sold, according to Space, which is holding the
event at Dublin’s five-star Shelbourne Hotel.  Plummeting Prices  The average asking price for a home in Ireland was 195,000
euros in the third quarter, compared with 366,000 euros during
the height of the property boom in mid-2007, according to
Daft.ie, Ireland’s largest property website. The central bank
estimated in March that prices may fall as much as 60 percent
from their peak. While properties in the city of Dublin may
regain close to half their highest values, homes built in
commuter towns in Ireland’s midlands may fall as much as 90
percent, Gurdgiev said.  The least expensive house being auctioned is a three-
bedroom duplex in Donegal County with tenants under contract for
almost five years at a rent of 50 euros a week. The minimum bid
is 21,000 euros. The highest reserve in for a residence is
420,000 euros for a 19th-century house in Dublin’s Rathgar
district arranged into eight self-contained residential units.  The average home price in Donegal county was 154,229 euros
in the third quarter. In Cavan, where the log cabin is for sale,
the average is 153,155 euros.  Burden for Banks  Irish banks hurt by the country’s real-estate slump will
see their assets become even less valuable because of rising
mortgage arrears and falling property prices, Moody’s Investors
Service said Nov. 21. At the end of the third quarter, 8.1
percent of private residential mortgages were in arrears for
more than 90 days, according to Ireland’s central bank. That
compared with 7.2 percent at the end of June.  The Dublin-based Economic & Social Research Institute cut
its growth forecast today for Ireland’s gross domestic product
to 0.9 percent for next year from 2.3 percent, saying it expects
further declines in  house prices .  Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency, set up to purge
lenders of risky properties, hasn’t taken part in the auctions,
McCarthy said. Receivers appointed by Irish and foreign banks
are taking part in the auction, according to Space.  “A lot of it is mattress money from Ireland,” he said,
referring to the buyers. “But it is being repatriated to the
U.K., because there are U.K. and foreign banks selling.”  The average price of the 179 houses and apartments sold in
the past three auctions was 175,331 euros, McCarthy said.  The most expensive home auctioned so far was on Ailesbury
Road in Dublin, one of Ireland’s priciest streets. It was bought
for 2.3 million euros, 60 percent above the minimum price.  After selling 214 properties for more than 40 million euros
in three auctions since April, Allsop and Space plan five more
next year.  “If you want to sell it quickly, if you want to sell it in
a transparent way, and you want to get paid in 30 days, there is
no other way,” McCarthy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 