-- 
Billionaire Prokhorov Touts Gold as Trump Embraces Foreclosures

-- B y   M a t t h e w   G .   M i l l e r   a n d   P e t e r   N e w c o m b
-- 
2011-11-30T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/billionaire-prokhorov-touts-gold-as-trump-embraces-foreclosures.html
Stock markets are down.  Europe  is
gyrating. Cash generates minuscule returns. Commodities,
especially gold, can soar or tumble in an instant. In these
perplexing times, Bloomberg Markets magazine in its January
issue asked 10 billionaires 14 questions covering their views on
the global economy, where they see opportunities and who gave
them the best advice.  We found much agreement: The billionaires say traditional
indicators have little influence on their investment decisions.
In fact, hair-care mogul John Paul DeJoria says beauty salons
are better barometers of economic health. The 10 largely agree
that the euro will depreciate further and that keeping one’s
portfolio in U.S. dollars is smart.  Lawyer Joe Jamail, with the bulk of his fortune in bonds
and cash, expresses in colorful language a common tenet:  Hedge
funds  are dangerous.  “I’d buy cocaine rather than buy that s---,” he says.  We also found diverging opinions. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index may wind up anywhere from 1,200 (according to Jamail) to
1,400 (according to Rubens Menin Teixeira de Souza) at the end
of 2012. It was at 1,195.19 on Nov. 29. Gold is an opportunity,
an enigma and a bubble, they say.  Art collector Eli Broad says buying a prime Picasso is the
safest investment. Pharmaceutical baron Patrick Soon-Shiong says
he’d go with season tickets to the Los Angeles Lakers basketball
team.  Russian metals mogul  Mikhail Prokhorov  offers advice that’s
hard to beat: What to do with $1 million in cash? Spend it with
pleasure, he says.  Following are profiles of the 10 billionaires and their
answers to selected questions.  Mikhail Prokhorov  Primary Asset: 36 percent stake in  Polyus Gold (PLZL)  International
Ltd.
Residence: Moscow
Industry: Commodities  The mining mogul sold his 25 percent stake in OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel, the world’s biggest producer of the metal, to
fellow Russian titan Oleg Deripaska. The 2008 deal brought him
more than $5 billion in cash and 17 percent of aluminum producer
 United Co. Rusal . Today, his flashiest assets include Polyus
Gold, with about $2 billion in annual sales, and an 80 percent
cut of pro basketball’s New Jersey Nets.  Prokhorov, 46, told Bloomberg Markets in 2010 that the term
“oligarch” doesn’t apply to him because he’s just a
businessman. This year, he jumped into politics, taking control
of a pro-business party called Right Cause. After airing his
aspirations to become prime minister, Prokhorov cut his
ambitions short following a clash with the Kremlin over how
Right Cause should be run.  *  *  *  What three economic indicators most influence your investing?  German IFO data on business expectations are best on global
manufacturing. U.S. Conference Board data are the top measure of
American consumer confidence. Chinese PMI manufacturing data are
good for  China ’s growth and exports. In  emerging markets ,
inflation,  budget deficit , production growth index and retail
sales are key.  What is the best investing advice you ever received?  “Keep your back straight and don’t fidget” -- a piece of
Russian folk wisdom.  What have been your best and worst investments?  My best was  Norilsk Nickel. (GMKN)  My team and I took a company in
serious decay that hadn’t paid salaries for six months and
turned it into the world’s biggest producer of nickel and other
metals. It was like running a small government, with 300,000
people dependent on that company for their livelihoods. I hope
my worst investment is yet to come.  What currency do you believe will depreciate the most in the
next two years? What currency would you prefer to hold your
portfolio in?  Hopefully, the euro. This would give the euro zone the
chance to export its way out of slow growth. I keep my cash in
U.S. dollars, and I keep shares of Polyus Gold as collateral.
For the long term, my preference would be to keep my portfolio
in currencies that offer high  interest rates  or high growth -- a
basket of emerging-markets currencies from Brazil to China to
Russia.  Where are the best opportunities in global fixed income?  I see little value in 2 percent on  U.S. Treasuries . Among
developed markets, Canada, Norway or Finland have better debt
levels and are less inclined to inflate away debt problems. A
combination of Russian corporate bonds, some Brazilian or
Turkish local-currency debt, with a sprinkling of less obvious
African options would be an interesting combination.  What’s the safest investment: a bar of gold, a pile of U.S.
Treasuries or a top-tier Picasso?  As a large chunk of my wealth is in Polyus Gold, a bar of
gold, of course!  Is there a money manager you would trust with your entire
portfolio?  Yes. His name is Mikhail. I sign every check myself.  Donald Trump  Primary Assets: Commercial and residential property, golf
courses
Residence: New York
Industry: Real estate  Trump’s television shows and flirtations with politics
generate the buzz; real estate brings in the bucks. Some two
dozen buildings across the U.S. have the Trump name on their
facades, as do a handful of luxury hotels and casinos. While the
Donald churns out one self-help tome after the next, golf is his
passion. Trump, 65, who claims a three handicap, agreed to buy
the legendary  Doral Golf Resort & Spa  in Miami for $170 million
in October.  *  *  *  Best investing advice?  My father, Fred C. Trump, told me to know everything you
can about what you’re doing. He believed in being thorough and
was wary of blind spots.  Where to park $1 million in cash?  Equities, corporate bonds and, if you know what you’re
doing, purchasing foreclosed houses from banks and demanding
long-term financing at favorable interest rates.  Should wealthy investors buy shares of privately held tech
darlings on secondary markets before IPOs?  Yes, but a very, very small percentage of the overall
portfolio.  Margin?  Much of my portfolio is in cash. I don’t believe in
margining one’s portfolio.  Best and worst investments?  Best: buying 40 Wall Street for $1 million. Worst: A yacht.  Eli Broad  Primary Assets: Investments, art
Residence: Los Angeles
Industries: Banking, real estate  The one-time accountant made his fortune building houses
with Donald Kaufman, founding what became KB Home in 1957. Broad
bought Sun Life Insurance Co. of America in 1971. He created
insurance giant SunAmerica Inc., which he sold to American
International Group Inc. for $18 billion in 1999. A voracious
modern-art collector, Broad, 78, owns pieces by Damien Hirst,
 Jasper Johns ,  Jeff Koons ,  Roy Lichtenstein  and  Andy Warhol . The
Broad Foundations, with assets of $2.1 billion, are big givers
to education and medical research. A fixture of Los Angeles
society, Broad is spearheading revitalization of the city’s
downtown.  *  *  *  Influential indicators?  Consumer confidence, unemployment and political gridlock.  Best investing advice?  “Don’t bet the farm.”  Dividend income or capital growth?  Growth and price appreciation.  Best and worst investments?  Best: SunAmerica and gold. Worst: Financial services
stocks.  Currency?  The euro will be the worst. The  U.S. dollar  is what I hold
most of my portfolio in.  Margin in portfolio?  Not in this uncertain world.  Where to park $1 million in cash?  High-quality multinational consumer companies such as
 Procter & Gamble Co ., Coca-Cola Co., Kraft Foods Inc. and
 Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   Best fixed-income opportunities?  Quality high-yield bonds.  Hedge-fund investing?  Individual funds and managers with the best long-term track
record, such as Seth Klarman at Baupost Group LLC.  Gold, U.S. Treasuries or a Picasso?  The Picasso.  Alisher Usmanov  Primary Asset: 45 percent stake in Metalloinvest, Russia’s
largest iron ore producer
Residence: Moscow
Industries: Metals, mining, telecom, technology  One of Russia’s richest citizens, Usmanov runs
Gazprominvestholding, the investment arm of the state gas
monopoly. The bulk of his wealth comes from Russian metals,
mining, telecom and tech companies. The top shareholder in
Metalloinvest, Usmanov also owns 25.3 percent of  Mail.ru Group
Ltd. (MAIL) , Russia’s largest Internet company, and 31 percent of No. 3
mobile-phone operator OAO MegaFon.  Usmanov, 58, who has invested in Facebook Inc. and Groupon
Inc., seeded his fortune as Russia sold off government-owned
metals companies in the 1990s. He’s often in  London  watching the
English Premier League’s Arsenal, a soccer team in which he and
a partner own a 29 percent stake.  *  *  *  Fixed-income opportunities?  U.S. government bonds and government bonds of strong
European countries (primarily Germany, France) and those of
China have better prospects.  Currencies?  If EU leaders don’t make a clear decision on how to exit
the crisis, then it’s likely we will see bankruptcies by some
member states. The euro will suffer the most. This in itself
wouldn’t be all bad for the European economy, as pillars such as
Germany will get support for exports.  What do you look for in buying stocks?  I first of all trust my own instinct, experience that I
gained over years and feeling when the moment is right for
buying shares. That is what one calls intuition.  Patrick Soon-Shiong  Primary Asset: Proceeds from combined $6.6 billion sales of
American Pharmaceutical Partners and Abraxis BioScience Inc.
Residence: Los Angeles
Industry: Pharmaceuticals  South African-born Soon-Shiong, 59, left the UCLA Medical
School faculty in 1991 after performing the first transplant of
a whole pancreas in school history. That year, he co-founded
VivoRX Pharmaceuticals Inc. and worked on a diabetes treatment.
A year later, he co-created Abraxane, a breast cancer treatment,
which he went on to co-own through American Pharmaceutical
Partners. Today, Soon-Shiong says he has stakes in more than 30
companies. He bought a minority share of the Los Angeles Lakers
pro basketball team from Earvin “Magic” Johnson in 2010 and
rates Lakers season tickets a safer investment than gold, U.S.
Treasuries or a prime Picasso.  *  *  *  Gold: opportunity, bubble or enigma?  Gold is both a bubble and an enigma. It’s no longer an
opportunity.  Where to park $1 million in cash?  The most important thing is not to lose money right now.  Fixed-income investments?  The time for bonds has passed. I thought munis were an
incredible opportunity for a while. But those days are gone.  Hedge-fund investing?  Hedge funds are dangerous. I don’t know anyone who can
predict volatility, buy across industries, hedge and invest
internationally. Assets are too interrelated.  Best advice? Invest in yourself and the people you believe in.  John Paul DeJoria  Primary Assets: Stakes in John Paul Mitchell Systems and Patron
Spirits Co.
Residence: Los Angeles
Industry: Retail  Raised near Los Angeles’s hardscrabble Echo Park
neighborhood, DeJoria, 67, tapped into the entrepreneurial vein
early. He went door-to-door selling Christmas cards at age 9 and
then expanded to encyclopedias. In 1980, he invested $700 in his
friend’s hair-care company, the eponymously named Paul Mitchell.
The company now generates some $1 billion in annual revenue.
DeJoria invested his profits from the beauty business into
booze, co-founding tequila maker Patron.  *  *  *  Influential indicators?  Beauty salons. Typically, customers will visit every six
weeks; in downturns, that drops to every eight weeks. When the
frequency starts to go up again, it indicates the economy is
improving.  Best investing advice?  How to buy a put, told to me by a woman named Rebecca.  Where to park $1 million in cash?  Twenty-five percent in gold, 25 percent in silver, 25
percent in NYSE blue-chip stocks that pay a dividend and 25
percent between Asian and European blue chips that pay a
dividend.  Currencies?  The euro will depreciate most. I recommend having most of a
portfolio in U.S. dollars and Swiss francs.  Joe Jamail  Primary Asset: More than $1 billion in cash, stocks and bonds
Residence: Houston
Industry: Law  The so-called King of Torts made his mark in 1985
representing Pennzoil Co. in its lawsuit against Texaco Inc.,
earning the trial lawyer a then-record $335 million contingency
fee. Jamail, 86, has since litigated personal injury and
corporate malfeasance cases, securing more than $13 billion in
verdicts and settlements. Renowned for his blue language,
Jamail, who earned a law degree from the University of Texas in
1953, was once admonished by the Delaware Supreme Court as being
“rude, uncivil and vulgar.”  *  *  *  What do you look for when buying stocks?  I usually don’t invest much in the market directly. I
always look for price returns rather than income, because I make
enough f------ money out of this sue shop--my law office. Most
of my stuff is in bonds.  Best investing advice?  My dad told me, “Don’t buy any g------ stocks, OK?” He
had a chain of grocery stores. He liked that cash coming in.  Fixed-income investments?  Tax-free municipal bonds, guaranteed by a public school
fund.  Is gold an opportunity, a bubble or an enigma?  I own some gold. I have a bunch of gold bars, and we give
them as Christmas presents to the grandchildren -- an ounce for
each. They don’t get to keep it. The parents put it away for
them.  Is there a money manager you would trust with your entire
portfolio?  No. But if I had to trust somebody, it would be Fayez Sarofim.  Best and worst investments?  Best: A law degree, no question about it. Worst: Airline
stocks.  Where to park $1 million in cash?  In my mattress.  Peter Hargreaves  Primary Asset: 32.2 percent of Hargreaves Lansdown Plc, the
U.K.’s biggest retail broker
Residence: Bristol, England
Industry: Financial services  The former accountant co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in
1981. Today, it operates a fund supermarket with pension,
annuity, discount brokerage and wealth management services for
388,000 clients. Shares soared 185 percent from the May 2007 IPO
to Nov. 29; assets under management rose 12 percent to 22.3
billion pounds ($35.7 billion) in the 12 months through
September. Hargreaves, 65, an avid gardener, earned 74 million
pounds from dividends before taxes from the start of 2008
through mid-November, according to Bloomberg data.  *  *  *  What do you look for when buying stocks?  Capital growth.  Fixed-income investments?  German bonds for the currency play when the euro implodes
Where to put $1 million in cash? $500,000 in Singapore dollars
and $500,000 in Norwegian krone.  Is there a money manager you would trust with your entire
portfolio?  Me.  Randal J. Kirk  Primary Asset: Investments via Third Security LLC
Residence: Radford, Virginia
Industry: Pharmaceuticals  Kirk’s Third Security has scored some of the past decade’s
biggest biotech hits. His greatest: the $2.6 billion sale of New
River Pharmaceuticals Inc. to Shire Plc in 2007. He personally
netted $1.2 billion. Looking for another big payday the next
year, he invested $200 million in synthetic-DNA researcher
Intrexon Corp. He followed with the $1.2 billion sale of
Clinical Data Inc. to  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  in February 2011,
personally reaping more than $600 million. Kirk, 57, splits time
among homes in California, Connecticut, Florida and Virginia,
where he lays down electronic music tracks in his recording
studio.  *  *  *  Dividend income or price returns?  Both are relevant, and we hold stocks that pay dividends
and those that do not. We have only a small percentage of our
portfolio in public stocks.  Best advice?  “Good deals are like bus stops; there is one on every
corner.” Told to me by Red Robertson of Grundy, Virginia, who
invested in my first deal. The advice illustrated he was not so
interested in the deal as in my dedication to it. One invests in
the guy behind the deal, above all else.  Margin in portfolio?  No. Mr. Market thinks things are going to be worth less in
the future and therefore borrowing to own more earnings-based or
asset-value-based things would be foolish. We invest in
technology and expect returns substantially greater than
borrowing costs in almost any economy.  Should wealthy investors buy privately held tech darlings on
secondary markets?  Only if they would participate as a judge in a Keynesian
beauty contest. I am not one of those people.  Rubens Menin Teixeira de Souza  Primary Asset: 32 percent of MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA,
Brazil’s fifth-largest homebuilder by revenue
Residence: Belo Horizonte, Brazil
Industry: Real estate  Menin, 55, became a billionaire building homes for Brazil’s
lowest earners. He founded MRV in 1979, riding out more than a
decade of hyperinflation by keeping costs down. An adviser to
the government’s flagship low-income-housing initiative, he says
his work is essential to the growth of Brazil’s middle class.
MRV has sponsored the Mineiro Athletic Club, one of Minas Gerais
state’s two main soccer clubs, as well as a local women’s
volleyball team.  *  *  *  Hedge-fund investing?  Individual funds, with recognized portfolio managers.  Influential economic indicators?  S&P 500, U.S. dollar versus real exchange rate and Bovespa
index.  Best investing advice?  Buying Brazilian C bonds when they were trading at 40 cents
on the dollar. The securities, issued in the 1990s, traded at
par in 2005 when the government bought back the last of them.  Where to park $1 million in cash?  Brazilian investment-grade bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew G. Miller in New York at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Newcomb in New York at 
 pnewcomb2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  