-- 
Black Friday Boosts U.S. Car Sales to Best Rate Since ‘Clunkers’

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/black-friday-boosts-u-s-auto-sales-to-best-rate-since-clunkers-in-2009.html
U.S. consumers who set records for
retail purchases during Thanksgiving weekend helped boost U.S.
auto sales in November, which may have run at the fastest pace
in more than two years.  Light-vehicle deliveries in November, to be released
tomorrow, may have run at a 13.4 million seasonally adjusted
annual  rate , the average of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
That would top the 12.3 million pace of a year earlier and
October’s 13.3 million rate, which was the best month since
sales were helped by “cash for clunkers” in August 2009.  Consumers spent a record $52.4 billion during the holiday
weekend, excluding autos, according to the  National Retail
Federation .  General Motors Co. (GM)  put a Santa Claus look-a-like in
its “Chevy’s Giving More” ads, while Honda Motor Co. wished
buyers “Happy Honda Days” with zero due at lease signing,
enticing buyers who have deferred auto purchases.  “The automakers are sending the consumer buying signals
right now,” Jessica Caldwell, an analyst for researcher
Edmunds.com, said yesterday in a conference call. “The year-end
sales, Thanksgiving sales, Black Friday sales, holiday sales,
whatever it is, there’s some sort of sale out there. It makes
sense for consumers that if now is the time to buy something,
from jewelry, to a flat-screen TV, it must also be a good time
to get a deal on a car, too.”  Analysts at Jefferies Inc., IHS Automotive and TrueCar.com
may now increase their estimates for 2012 deliveries as  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda production recovers from natural disasters
in Japan and Thailand. Demand is improving even as automakers
maintain discipline by limiting incentives, they said.  ‘Hit a Bottom’  “Underlying consumer demand is stable and we may have hit
a bottom in terms of minimum level of sales that the industry
will continue to carry going into 2012,”  Jesse Toprak , an
analyst for  Santa Monica , California-based TrueCar.com, said in
a phone interview. “Even though the stock market, housing
market and  consumer confidence  all have been down or extremely
volatile the last few months, new-car sales stood steady and in
fact inched up a couple of notches.”  Consumer confidence surged in November by the most in more
than eight years, The Conference Board’s monthly index showed
yesterday. The percentage of consumers planning to buy a new
vehicle within six months climbed to 4.1 percent, the highest
since April, the New York-based private research group said.  The pace of U.S. auto sales had dropped below a 12 million
rate in May and June after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
in their home country disrupted parts supply and production for
Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota and Tokyo-based Honda.  Gaining Speed  The auto-sales rate stayed below 12.3 million in July and
August. The slow recovery prompted analysts to cut their
estimates for next year to 13.5 million light-vehicle sales, the
average of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The average was
more than 14.2 million before  Japan ’s tsunami hurt supply.  “We’re bottoming,”  George Magliano , a New York-based
economist at IHS Automotive, said of his firm’s estimate for
next year, which was reduced to 13.2 million. “We’re looking at
the strong month we expect for November and feeling better about
where we’re going to go with auto sales.”  Toyota may say deliveries rose 5 percent from a year
earlier, and Honda sales may climb 2.6 percent, according to the
average estimates of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Both
automakers have reported year-over-year declines in every month
since April.  “Several high-volume launches, such as the Camry for
Toyota, should support continued strength in auto sales into
2012,”  Peter Nesvold , a New York-based analyst for Jefferies,
wrote in a Nov. 25 research note. Jefferies sees “upward
pressure” to its 2012 sales estimate of 12.7 million, which was
reduced from 13.6 million in August, he said.  Chrysler Leading  Chrysler may lead all major automakers with a 37 percent
surge in sales from a year earlier, the average of eight
analysts’ estimates. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based automaker
is boosting sales even as it reduces deliveries to fleet
customers such as rental-car companies, said Alan Baum,
principal of Baum & Associates.  “Their retail volume a year ago was dreadful,” Baum, who
is based in West Bloomfield, Michigan, said in a phone
interview.  Ford deliveries may climb 10 percent, the average of eight
estimates. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s performance
is “encouraging” because it precedes Ford’s introduction of a
new Escape sport-utility vehicle, which may boost sales when it
goes on sale in the first half of next year,  Itay Michaeli , a
New York-based analyst for Citigroup, wrote in a Nov. 21 report.  “November was a good retail environment for consumers
overall,” Erich Merkle, Ford’s sales analyst, said yesterday in
an interview. Consumers have been “sitting on the sidelines for
quite some time. Black Friday provided that reason to get out
there.”  GM’s Prediction  GM, No. 1 in the U.S. market, may say deliveries increased 
by 7.4 percent, the average of eight estimates.  Don Johnson , 
vice president of U.S. sales, forecast at a Nov. 15 investor 
conference that the industry would get close to a 14 million 
sales rate, including medium-and heavy-duty truck deliveries. 
Detroit-based GM is poised to replace Toyota as the world's 
largest automaker by vehicle sales.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s largest automaker, and its
affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , may combine to sell 24 percent more
vehicles than a year earlier, according to the average of three
estimates.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  may say deliveries climbed 12
percent in November, the average of five estimates.  Stocking Up  Industrywide car inventory rebounded to 53 days supply at
the beginning of November, from 43 days a month earlier,
according to LMC Automotive. That’s the biggest sequential
increase since February,  Jeff Schuster , a Troy, Michigan-based
analyst for LMC, said in an e-mail.  Toyota and Honda have said production cuts that followed
floods in Thailand will be less severe than the companies
feared. Toyota said Nov. 23 that North American factories will
operate on normal schedules this week and next week, including
overtime. Honda said Nov. 28 that six plants in the U.S. and
 Canada  will resume normal output Dec. 1.  “We are really starting to see pent-up demand dig in,”
 Jim Lentz , president of Toyota’s U.S. sales unit, said in a Nov.
17 phone interview from Blue Spring, Mississippi, where the
company opened a plant to build Corolla compact cars. “It’s
starting to push industry sales regardless of whether the
economy is flat or going up.”  The U.S. averaged annual sales of 16.8 million vehicles
from 2000 to 2007, according to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based
Autodata. Deliveries may rise about 9.5 percent to 12.7 million
cars and light trucks this year, the average of 18 analysts’
estimates in a Bloomberg survey in August.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from November 2010. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  November had 25 selling days, one more than the year-
earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  