-- 
BNP Paribas Ukrainian Unit Aims to Double Clients, Cut Branches

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-11-30T20:05:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/bnp-paribas-ukrainian-unit-aims-to-double-clients-cut-branches.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s Ukrainian business
wants to double the number of individual clients in coming years
as it pushes short-term cash, car and consumer loans, said
Philippe Joannier, chairman of the unit’s management board.  “The Ukrainian banking market is going to grow,” Joannier
told reporters today in the country’s capital, Kiev, where  PAT
UkrSibbank  is based. The lender will “restructure its retail
network to adopt branches to an increased number of clients,”
he said, adding that number of branches may be cut to 600 at the
end of 2012 from 650 now.  UkrSibbank, which has as much as 5 percent of the domestic
market, wants to win more clients in the country of 46 million.
Household loans rose 3.4 percent in October from a year earlier,
while corporate loans increased 1 percent, according to central
bank  data .  “We are going to concentrate on short-term cash loans”
that will range in size from 7,000 hryvnia ($873) to 10,000
hryvnia and which may mature in 18 months, as well as “ car
loans  and consumer loans in big shops,” Joannier said. “They
are simple for approval, simple for clients, simple for banks.
Today is not the time for 15-year loans.”  UkrSibbank, the fifth-largest Ukrainian bank by assets, is
now in talks with Delta Bank to sell its bad loans, Joannier
said, declining to provide details.  The lender has “15 percent of negatively classified
assets, which we will reduce to 10 percent gradually in another
year or year and a half,” he said.  UkrSibbank may issue hryvnia-denonimated bonds next year if
“the markets calms down.” Joannier said. The lender may become
profitable next year provided Ukraine’s national currency, the
hryvnia, avoids devaluation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  