-- 
Boeing Labor Deal May Avoid Strikes, Help End 787 Complaint

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-12-01T01:16:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/boeing-machinists-may-tell-nlrb-that-grievances-are-resolved.html
Boeing Co.’s (BA)  tentative contract
agreement with the Machinists union to keep building the 737 jet
in Washington state may help resolve a U.S. labor complaint
against the company over the 787 Dreamliner.  The Machinists’ deal today assures nearly a decade of labor
peace by extending the agreement four more years. If members
approve the contract, union leaders will tell the  National Labor
Relations Board  that complaints over Boeing’s relocation of some
Dreamliner work after four strikes since 1989 are satisfied.  “This is an extraordinary development,” said  Howard Rubel , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. “It has been almost a
tradition that the union strike to get a ‘better deal’ at the
end of each contract. The potential for this deal could enable
Boeing to improve its competitiveness and clearly shows a
genuine effort at finding solutions to vexing problems.”  The labor board accused the company in April of illegal
retaliation after Machinists complained about Boeing’s 2009
establishment of a  production line  in South Carolina, which
forbids requiring union membership as a condition of employment.
The planemaker said this year it would also consider sites
outside of the existing 737 assembly plant in Renton for
production of the new MAX variant starting in 2017.  If union members ratify the contract next week, Tom Wroblewski, president of Machinists District 751, said he would
meet with the NLRB “to inform them that we believe all our
grievances with the Boeing Co. will be resolved.”  NLRB Case  The labor board views the Machinists’ agreement as a “very
significant and hopeful development,” Acting General Counsel
Lafe Solomon said in an e-mailed statement, adding that he’d be
in discussion with all the parties about the next steps in the
process.  Nancy Cleeland, a spokeswoman for the board, said the
complaint won’t be automatically dropped and declined to
speculate on whether it would be.  Under the proposal, Machinists would get a 2 percent wage
increase each year of the contract. They’d also get a new
performance-based incentive program, their pensions would be
preserved along with retirees’ medical benefits, and they’d get
a $5,000 ratification bonus.  Puget Sound  Boeing is hiring about 100 Machinists a week as it boosts
production by about 60 percent over three years to whittle down
a backlog that now stretches to nearly 4,000 aircraft. If the
Chicago-based company had chosen another state for the 737 MAX
plant, however, the Renton facility could have shut down within
a decade, leaving just the wide-body jet plant north of  Seattle .  “Landing the MAX means there’s a stronger future for Puget
Sound,” said Connie Kelliher, a Machinists spokeswoman in
Seattle. “If we hadn’t gotten it here, we would have been left
dying on the vine. It would have been a clear signal the other
way.”  The deal requires Machinists to pay more for their health
care, one of the reasons for the 2008 strike that eventually led
to the labor complaint.  Kelliher said union representatives had already gone out to
the shop floors to promote the deal. “The benefits are only
good if you’re on the payroll to collect them,” she said.
“What are the best benefits in the world worth if the work goes
away?”  Boeing promised not to discuss the details of the plan
until tomorrow, to give Machinists’ leaders time to speak with
their members about it, said Tim Healy, a spokesman.  Workforce Stability  That marks a change from three years ago, when the company
aired radio spots and sent e-mails to bypass union leadership
and communicate directly with workers, something that riled the
labor group.  “We’ve had strikes three out of the last four times we’ve
gone to the table with the union,” Boeing Commercial Airplanes
President  Jim Albaugh  said at a Credit Suisse conference in  New
York  today, before news of the deal was announced. “It was a
lose-lose for both of us.”  The company has “worked very hard” to make the union
understand the “realities of the marketplace,” including new
competition from China and  Canada , Albaugh said. Boeing
executives, in turn, listened to the labor group on issues
regarding stability of the workforce, he said.  Albaugh said in an interview yesterday that the plant site
decision would be made based on “workforce, it’s the cost of
doing business now and in the future, it’s surety of production,
 capital investment , business climate, access to engineering and
production talent, and the investment you have to make.”  ‘Game-Changer’  Negotiations for Boeing were led by a new team including
Ray Conner, who had been in charge of supply-chain management
and operations, including the  South Carolina  complex, until he
was made sales chief in August, and Rick Stephens, Boeing’s head
of human resources.  “He’s never been involved, and he was a real game-
changer,” Kelliher said of Stephens. “Even in the release
Boeing put out today, it’s a change in tone and relationship.
This could mark a turning point.”  The government’s legal action over the 787 move prompted a
barrage of criticism, both from South Carolina and from
Republican lawmakers who said businesses have a right to choose
where they operate. The union accused Boeing of trying to win
politically because it couldn’t do so in court.  The planemaker had cited a need for production stability in
choosing North Charleston, South Carolina, for the 787 line
after the 2008 strike. That labor action lasted two months,
slashing revenue by as much as $6.4 billion.  Because of the possibility of a similar action, “striking
a deal 10 months before contract expiration and ahead of major
production rate increases removes a significant overhang,”
Heidi Wood, a New York-based analyst with Morgan Stanley, said
in a note to clients. “The thunderclouds are clearing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  