-- 
Bond Sales Drop to 18-Month Low as Yield Premiums Surge: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-12-01T01:50:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/bond-sales-drop-to-18-month-low-as-yield-premiums-surge-australia-credit.html
Australian borrowers are selling the
fewest bonds at home since May 2010 as yield premiums on
corporate and state notes hit the highest in at least two years
on concern  Europe ’s crisis will freeze global credit markets.  Bond sales fell 81 percent to A$1.3 billion in November
from the previous month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate debt increased nine basis points to 196 basis points
more than the swap rate last month, while premiums on global
company notes surged 40 to 244 and European spreads widened 59
to 270, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “While Australian corporates and banks are less affected
than their counterparts in Europe and the U.S., their spreads
are under pressure,” said  Mark Mitchell , head of credit at
Sydney-based Kapstream Capital, which manages A$3.7 billion.
“The market remains like a young child, looking for reassurance
and throwing a tantrum when it doesn’t get it.”  The government of the  Northern Territory , the least
populous of Australia’s eight major states and territories, paid
95.25 basis points more than the benchmark federal government
rate on Nov. 9 for a A$500 million offering of 4.75 percent
notes due 2017. That’s up from 59 basis points when Northern
Territory Treasury Corp. came to market in May with a five-year
offering, Bloomberg data show. Investors demanded higher
premiums on Australian corporate debt relative to federal
securities for a sixth month, the longest stretch since 1998, as
European leaders struggled to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  Slower Growth  Australia’s federal government lowered forecasts for the
nation’s annual economic growth in its midyear review released
Nov. 29 to 3.25 percent through June 30, from 4 percent in the
May budget.  “Global economic and financial conditions have
deteriorated markedly in recent months, and the risks to global
stability from the European sovereign debt crisis have
intensified,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in a statement.  With prodding from the U.S. after a series of stop-gap
accords failed to protect Italy and  Spain  from market turmoil,
euro-area finance ministers started talks yesterday on
channeling European Central Bank loans to cash-strapped euro
nations through the  International Monetary Fund .  Bond Rally  Australian bonds rallied 3.3 percent in November, the most
among 26 government debt markets tracked by Bloomberg/EFFAS
indexes, as investors sought refuge from Europe’s turmoil in
Australia, which has the fastest growth and second-smallest debt
burden of developed nations.  The nation’s  benchmark 10-year bond yield  fell 58 basis
points last month to 3.93 percent yesterday in Sydney, the
biggest such drop since December 2008. It rose 6 basis points to
3.995 percent today, offering 192 basis points, or 1.92
percentage points, more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens , who cut
rates a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent Nov. 1, will
drop the benchmark to 3.035 percent by June, interbank cash-rate
futures show.  Australia’s government and central bank are balancing the
global turmoil against mining investment that’s surging to a
record high on  China  and  India ’s demand for the nation’s
resources.  Investment Surges  Australian business investment jumped by the most in 15
years in the third quarter as the growth of mining projects
accelerated, according to a statistics bureau report released
yesterday. Australian companies forecast investment of A$158
billion in the year ending June 30, 5.1 percent higher than
their estimate three months earlier, the report showed.  The value of mineral and energy projects being developed in
 Australia , the world’s largest exporter of coal and iron ore,
rose 34 percent to a record A$231.8 billion as of Oct. 31,
boosted by spending from Chevron Corp. and BHP Billiton Ltd.,
according to a Nov. 29 report from the Bureau of Resources and
Energy Economics.  The reports came before data today that showed retail sales
slowed in October for a third month while home approvals plunged
for a second month. Home lending grew in October at the slowest
annual pace since records started in 1990, according to RBA data
released yesterday.  Dollar Rebounds  Australia’s dollar gained 5.3 percent this week to $1.0227
as of 12:34 p.m. in Sydney. The so-called Aussie will peak at
$1.07 to $1.09 by March 31, according to Commonwealth Bank of
Australia’s Aussie Dollar Barometer released yesterday, based on
a poll of almost 900 local businesses.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
surged 29 basis points in November, CMA data show.  “The monthly move in iTraxx is reflective of an
intensification in the European sovereign-turned-financial
crisis,” said Chris Viol, a credit analyst at UBS in Sydney.  The premium investors demand to hold Australian corporate
bonds instead of government debt increased 35 basis points in
November to 282, the highest since July 2009 and the longest
period of consecutive monthly increases since the seven months
ending in February 1998, Merrill Lynch data show.  Telstra, Woolworths  A separate gauge of premiums on industrial debt sold by
companies including Telstra Corp. and Woolworths Ltd. rose the
most since March 2009, according to Merrill Lynch.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  was the only Australian borrower to
sell debt domestically in May 2010, issuing A$450 million of
floating-rate notes, according to Bloomberg league table data.
The yield spread for Australian corporate debt climbed 11 basis
points to 199 that month, the biggest jump since March 2009, the
Merrill Lynch data show.  Sales have averaged A$5.5 billion a month in 2011, the data
show.  “It is a bit of a perfect storm right now. We’ve seen
primary markets close up and there’s been a definite withdrawal
of liquidity,” said David Carruthers, a senior  money manager  in
Sydney at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has about A$30
billion of fixed-income assets under management. “The outlook
for has definitely deteriorated from a systemic point of view.
Europe feels like it will have to get a whole lot worse before
it gets better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  