-- 
Borg Says Sweden Will Push for Higher Bank Capital Standards

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-11-30T15:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/borg-says-sweden-will-push-for-higher-bank-capital-standards.html
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg
said the country’s banks should be required to hold more capital
than the European Union’s proposed minimum standards.  Borg said in a Bloomberg Television interview today that
his nation will continue to seek changes in EU legislation to
implement the Basel III global guidelines for bank supervision.
The U.K. also wants to hold its banks to a higher standard in
hopes of giving them more cushion against financial crises.  “We have already decided to go for higher standards, and
our understanding is that we will have room to do that,” Borg
said in the interview in Brussels. “But for us it would be very
good if we could also see that being supported by our own
parliamentary legislative proposals, and therefore we would need
to see some further changes” in the EU plan, he said.  Borg declined to comment on why Sweden didn’t participate
in today’s coordinated action by the  Federal Reserve , the
 European Central Bank  and others to cut the cost of emergency
dollar funding for European banks. “That is a question that
should be asked of our central bank,” he said.  The Swedish finance minister repeated his call for Italy
and  Spain  to show commitment to budget improvements. He also
said the ECB should be able to join forces with the
 International Monetary Fund  to fight  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis, as long as its price stability targets aren’t
threatened.  “We see some countries like Netherlands and Finland
arguing that the combination of IMF and ECB could be
constructive,” Borg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  