-- 
Brazil Central Bank Lowers Rate for Third Meeting to 11% as Economy Slows

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-11-30T21:59:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/brazil-central-bank-lowers-rate-for-third-meeting-to-11-as-economy-slows.html
Brazil ’s central bank cut borrowing
costs by half a point for a third straight meeting as a global
economic slowdown threatens to exacerbate a slump in domestic
demand.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, today
voted unanimously to reduce the benchmark Selic rate to 11
percent from 11.5 percent, as forecast by 64 of 65 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. One analyst predicted a full-point cut.  Policy makers said that “by timely mitigating the effects
coming from a more restrictive global environment, a moderate
adjustment in the level of the basic rate is consistent with the
scenario of inflation converging to the target in 2012,”
according to their statement posted on the central bank’s web
site. The language in today’s statement was unchanged from the
bank’s Oct. 19 decision.  Brazil has taken the lead among  emerging markets  in trying
to prevent spillover from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. The
country’s surprise interest rate cut in August, the first in two
years, has since been followed by ones in Australia and  Israel .
Traders are betting Tombini will cut the Selic rate as low as
9.25 percent by July, according to interest-rate futures.  “The external crisis is more prolonged, and the data from
the domestic economy came in below expectations,”  Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos, said in
a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro  before the decision.  ‘Moderate Adjustments’  While the bank’s focus has shifted from the fastest
inflation in six years to shoring up economic growth, Tombini
has quashed bets that he would accelerate rate cuts. Last week,
he said that the global slump had not yet led to an “extreme
event” and repeated his forecast that “moderate adjustments”
would be sufficient to address any fallout in Brazil.  In addition to lowering rates, Brazil has unwound most of
the credit curbs it imposed last December to stave off a bubble
in vehicle, personal and payroll loans.  More than $3 trillion has been  wiped off  world stock
markets this month, as yields on Italian and Spanish sovereign
debt rose to Euro-era highs. Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock
index has fallen 2.6 percent this month and is down 25 percent
this year in dollar terms.  Falling industrial output and business confidence to levels
unseen since 2008 are weighing on investor sentiment in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy. Since Tombini’s first rate cut,
economists have reduced their forecast for growth this year 11
times, to 3.1 percent from 3.79 percent, according to weekly
central bank surveys. Last year, Brazil grew 7.5 percent, its
fastest pace in more than two decades.  ‘One of the First’  “Brazil is often one of the first economies to feel the
effects of a weaker global environment,” said  Neil Shearing , an
emerging markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .
“The major driver of this slowdown in Brazil has been external
factors, with weaker capital inflows, and weakening terms of
trade.”  Annual inflation in Brazil slowed for a second straight
month in mid-November, easing to 6.69 percent, in line with the
central bank’s forecast that consumer prices peaked in the third
quarter. Inflation has exceeded the 6.5 percent upper limit of
the central bank’s target range since April.  Tombini said last week that inflation rates will “fall
sharply” by the second quarter of next year. The central bank
has repeatedly pledged to slow the annual rate to 4.5 percent by
the end of 2012.  Even as the economy shows signs of cooling, 18 percent
annual credit growth and full employment conditions continue to
stoke consumer demand.  Brazilian companies had a “somewhat negative earnings
season” in the third quarter as a weaker real raised debt
service costs on foreign currency debts, said Carlos Firetti, an
analyst at Banco Bradesco SA, in a Nov. 29 note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  