-- 
Brazilian Real Advances to One-Week High as Banks Cut Dollar Funding Costs

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/brazil-rate-futures-fall-as-china-cuts-reserve-requirements-real-advances.html
The real advanced to the strongest
in a week after the  Federal Reserve  cut the cost of emergency
dollar funding for European banks as part of a globally
coordinated response to alleviate a dollar shortage.  The real rose 1.9 percent to 1.8105 per dollar at 4:43 p.m.
Sao Paulo time, from 1.8454 yesterday. It reached as high as
1.7950 earlier, the strongest since Nov. 21. The gain trimmed
the real’s decline this month to 5.3 percent.  The premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight from
central banks will fall by half a percentage point to 50 basis
points, the Fed said today in a statement in  Washington . Yields
on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contracts fell on speculation
policy makers in the South American country will accelerate cuts
to borrowing costs today to join the global effort to provide
monetary stimulus.  “They gave the markets a relief,” said Hideaki Iha, a
currency trader at Fair Corretora de Cambio e Valores.  The Fed coordinated the cut to dollar funding costs with
the  European Central Bank  as well as the  Bank of Canada ,  Bank of
England , Bank of  Japan , and  Swiss National Bank . Earlier today,
 China  reduced the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
reserves for the first time since 2008 to spur growth.  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2013 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 9.63 percent.  Traders are wagering the central bank will reduce the
benchmark rate by at least 50 basis points to 11 percent at its
monetary policy meeting today, followed by about another 100
basis points of cuts by April, futures show. Policy makers have
cut the rate by 100 basis points since August.  Rate Outlook  “Some people are betting on a 75-basis-point cut today
because of the coordinated central bank move,” said Ronaldo Patah, who manages 72 billion reais as head of fixed-income debt
at Sao Paulo-based Itau Asset Management. “People are betting
that the central banks might know something they don’t know.”  Patah forecasts a half-percentage point cut today.  The real gained earlier after China,  Brazil ’s biggest
trading partner, announced the 50 basis point reduction to the
reserve requirement ratio effective Dec. 5. China’s action
supported the real as investors speculated the move will boost
demand for Brazilian commodities, said Reginaldo Galhardo, head
of  currency trading  at Treviso Corretora de Cambio in Sao Paulo.  “China is acting because of the fall in industrial
activity,” Galhardo said in a telephone interview. “This means
that China will continue buying commodities from Brazil.”  Trading Partners  China overtook the U.S. in 2009 as Brazil’s largest trading
partner, buying everything from  iron ore  to soybeans. Commodity
exports made up 11 percent of Brazil’s gross domestic product in
2010, according to the national statistics agency.  Commodity prices, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index, rose for a third day, gaining 0.9 percent.  Brazil will force public entities and state companies to
shift 57.6 billion reais ($32 billion) in bonds they hold linked
to the overnight rate into other types of public bonds,  Paulo Valle , Treasury under secretary, said.  The move seeks to help the Treasury improve Brazil’s debt
profile by increasing investments in inflation-linked and fixed-
rate bonds, Valle said to reporters in Brasilia.  The funds, known as “extra-market funds,” may now be
deposited in the Caixa Economica Federal, ending the monopoly on
such funds formerly held by Banco do Brasil SA. State-controlled
oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA is not affected by the new
rules, Valle said.  Bond Demand  “It can be another source of demand for” Brazil’s zero-
coupon and fixed-rate bonds, said Mauricio Junqueira, who helps
oversee about $300 million at Squanto Investimentos in  Sao
Paulo .  Brazil’s new inflation calculation may reduce increases in
the benchmark IPCA index by more than the 0.3 percentage point
expected by most analysts, Valor Economico reported today.  IPCA inflation would have been as much as 0.59 percentage
point lower over the past three years under the new calculation,
according to estimates by the  Finance Ministry , the Sao Paulo-
based newspaper said. The ministry estimates were based on the
IPCA in the 12 months through October in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
according to Valor.  Brazil’s statistics bureau, known as IBGE, announced Nov.
28 the new composition of items it will use to estimate the IPCA
benchmark inflation index, starting in January. The IBGE reviews
the weighting of products and services on the inflation index
every five years based on a family consumption survey, according
to Eulina Nunes, coordinator of the IPCA index at IBGE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  