-- 
Brazil Joins China Ruling Out Climate Pact Without Kyoto Pledge

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-11-30T13:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/brazil-joins-china-ruling-out-climate-pact-this-year-without-kyoto-pledge.html
Brazil  joined  China  saying that no
deal is possible at United Nations climate talks this year
without a new round of targets for industrial nations under the
Kyoto Protocol.  The comments fuel a dispute over the future of the only
international treaty limiting  greenhouse gases , which envoys
from more than 190 nations are discussing this week in Durban,
 South Africa . The pact caps fossil fuel emissions through 2012
and is the linchpin of efforts to curb global warming.  Asked whether he could envision any agreement at the talks
in Durban, South Africa, without industrial nations signing up
to a new round of reductions under Kyoto, Brazil’s envoy said,
“no.” China’s lead negotiator,  Su Wei , last night said failing
to extend the pact would place the international system of
climate rules in “peril.”  “A second commitment period is a crucial outcome,” Andre
Correa do Lago, Brazil’s chief envoy at the talks, said in an
interview today in Durban. “It would be wasting a unique
opportunity to create new momentum in these negotiations.”  China and Brazil are key to the talks because they’re among
the quickest-growing polluters and along with other developing
nations have no limits under the  Kyoto treaty , which requires
industrial nations to pare fossil fuel emissions 5 percent
through 2012. The European Union said it wouldn’t agree to
extend Kyoto beyond next year without a pledge from the biggest
developing nations when they’d join in on the cuts.  Common Ground  While Su said China is open to negotiating with the EU, his
comments show little common ground on how to maintain momentum
on the issue. The issue over Kyoto nearly derailed last year’s
talks and makes an outcome in Durban more complicated.  “Durban is really a fork-in-the-road moment,”  Alden Meyer , director of strategy and policy at the Union of Concerned
Scientists, said in an interview. “Do we go back to the pre-
Kyoto days when countries did whatever they wanted and were
under no pressure to raise their level of ambition to what the
science demands?”  The EU wants to link new commitments it would take under
Kyoto with a road map that would lead to all nations agreeing on
a binding deal by 2015 that would take effect by 2020. China
yesterday said that suggestion backtracks on the plan agreed in
2007 that envisioned Kyoto’s extension.  ‘Shifting the Goal’  “If we cannot get a decision for the future of the second
commitment period, the whole international system on  climate
change  will be placed in peril,” said China’s Su. “We think
the EU is just shifting the goal posts to another place.”  Speaking for the EU today, Artur Runge-Metzger said the
landscape of the negotiations has changed since 2007 because
delegates have failed to approve a new treaty.  “The goal posts have been shifted already, and not by the
EU,” said Runge-Metzger, who is the 27-nation bloc’s head of
climate strategy. He said the 2007 plan envisioned a new
legally-binding treaty to supplement Kyoto by now, and that
“has not materialized.”  Brazil’s Correa do Lago said he could accept discussions on
the EU’s road map proposal if it was supported by the U.S.,
which refused to ratify the Kyoto pact.  “No other party wants to get involved in some kind of
negotiation that will end up with absence of the  United
States ,” Correa do Lago said. “We want something that is
effective rather than something that simply by using a certain
expression -- legally binding -- becomes satisfactory.”  Japan ’s View  Japan last year nearly derailed the talks by saying it
wouldn’t sign up for new commitments under Kyoto. Canada and
 Russia  since have joined in that camp. China and  India  have
become two of the top three polluters in the world since the
pact was adopted in 1997.  “The world has changed so much since the Kyoto Protocol’s
inception,” Japanese Environment Minister Goshi Hosono said at
a briefing in  Tokyo  today. “ Developing countries  are increasing
their economic presence significantly. There is no doubt China
has become an important player in the world. What we are aiming
is to reduce emissions in the world as a whole.”  The U.S. signed, but never ratified the  Kyoto Protocol ,
citing the lack of binding goals for developing countries. U.S.
lead negotiator  Jonathan Pershing  told reporters two days ago it
“doesn’t make a great deal of sense” to agree to pursue a
legally-binding pact before the content of that deal is known.  Brazil, China and other developing nations made non-binding
pledges to reduce emissions at the UN talks in Cancun last year,
where developed nations also made pledges that are voluntary. Su
said it’s too early to say whether China will be willing to
accept legally binding commitments after 2020.  “Everything needs a plan,” Grenada’s envoy, Dessima Williams, who speaks for the  Alliance of Small Island States , a
coalition of island nations at risk of disappearing as sea
levels rise, said in an interview in Durban. “But a road map
with a date that takes us away from the urgency of decision
making in Durban? No.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  