-- 
Brookfield Joins Stuyvesant Town Tenants on Bid to Buy Manhattan Complex

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   K a t i e   S p e n c e r
-- 
2011-11-30T20:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/brookfield-joins-stuyvesant-town-tenants-in-bid-to-buy-manhattan-complex.html
Brookfield Asset Management Inc . is
working with the tenants association at Stuyvesant Town-Peter
Cooper Village on a bid to buy Manhattan’s biggest apartment
complex from its debt holders.  Brookfield, a Toronto-based investment firm that manages
about $150 billion, is teaming with the tenants on a conversion
proposal that will allow residents to buy their apartments “at
a reasonable price,” Al Doyle, the association’s president,
said in a  letter  posted on the group’s website. Tenants would
have the option to continue to rent, he said.  The 80-acre (32-hectare) enclave, home to more than 25,000
people, has been under the control of CWCapital Asset Management
LLC since last year. The company is representing bondholders on
a $3 billion senior mortgage after Tishman Speyer Properties LP
and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  defaulted on the loan, undone by a plunge in
the property’s value and a failed plan to raise rents.  “We cannot -- and will not -- sit idly by and wait for our
future to be determined for us,” Doyle wrote. “With Brookfield
on our team, CWCapital, the entity representing the senior
bondholders of the property, will find it extremely difficult to
ignore us.”  ‘Robust Community Process’  The structure of the bid isn’t yet complete. There will be
a “robust community process” in the coming months to develop a
proposal, which will then be presented to CWCapital, according
to a joint statement today from Brookfield and the tenants
association.  City Councilman Daniel Garodnick, who lives in Peter Cooper
Village and has been advocating for tenants since before its
2006 sale to Tishman Speyer and BlackRock, said the deal in the
works would satisfy both residents and bondholders. The complex
has provided a park-like environment, with trees, benches and
play areas, for middle-class families since it was built after
World War II, and Garodnick and other city officials have vowed
to keep it that way.  Debt holders “will likely do best under the plan than
under any other plan,” he said in an interview after a press
conference today at the complex. “This plan will have the
support of the people who live here, which will ensure stability
and order and will also deliver to them the best outcome.”  Served on Plate  Garodnick declined to say how much Brookfield is expected
to invest. CWCapital will like the offer, he said.  “It’s as if we’re serving it up to them on a plate,” he
said during the press conference.  Elizabeth Orcutt, a CWCapital spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail that the company has no comment on today’s announcement.  The apartment complex, located on  Manhattan ’s east side
between 14th and 23rd streets, has more than 11,000 units.
Tishman Speyer and BlackRock paid $5.4 billion for the
development near the peak of real estate prices, with plans to
convert rent-regulated units to market rates.  The transaction was financed with $3 billion of debt that
was bundled with other commercial mortgages and sold as bonds.
The deal went sour after the property bubble burst and a state
court said some renters had been subject to improper rate
increases. Investors that lost money included the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System  and the Church of  England .  Dialogue With Tenants  Brookfield and the tenants plan to develop purchase price
proposals for the apartments as the bid is put together,
according to their statement today.  “A non-eviction conversion plan can only be successful if
large numbers of tenants find the deal appealing enough to want
to buy their units,” they said.  The dialogue with residents will start Dec. 3 at a general
meeting of the association, scheduled for 1 p.m. at  Baruch
College  on Lexington Avenue and East 23rd Street, according to
the tenant association’s website.  The joint release contained statements of support for the
proposed bid from both of New York’s U.S. senators,  Charles Schumer  and  Kirsten Gillibrand , as well as U.S. Representative
Carolyn Maloney, Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer,
state Senator Tom Duane.  ‘Stability and Affordability’  “In the coming months, we will work with the tenants
association on a proposal that will provide real value for
Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village creditors, while giving
tenants the stability and affordability they deserve,” Barry
Blattman, a Brookfield senior managing partner involved in the
bid, said in the statement.  Margaret Salacan, who has lived in a one-bedroom apartment
in  Stuyvesant Town  since 1988, said she was hopeful about the
plan.  “I’m excited because the tenants can finally take back
control of their destiny,” said Salacan, a personal assistant
who works from her apartment.  Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village have lost some of
their neighborhood appeal as more “transient” renters moved in
after Tishman Speyer’s purchase, Salacan said.  “It has been a landlord who is just concerned about money,
just concerned about renovating apartments, moving as many
people in as quickly as possible,” said Salacan.  Brookfield Asset’s principal lines of business are
property, energy, roads, utility lines and other forms of
infrastructure, with investments on all five continents. It is
the parent company of  Brookfield Office Properties (BPO) , owner of
lower Manhattan’s World Financial Center and unwitting host of
Occupy Wall Street demonstrators for two months on a plaza it
owns downtown, until police broke up the campsite on Nov. 15.  Brookfield owns about 12,000 multifamily units in 11 states
and one Canadian province, Andrew Willis, a spokesman, said in
an e-mail. Part of that comes via a 65 percent stake in
Fairfield Residential Co. of  San Diego ., which it acquired last
year, he said.  Last year, Brookfield Asset was part of the investor group
that brought  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the second-biggest
U.S. mall landlord, out of Chapter 11 bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  