-- 
BTA Bank Seeks Jail for Ex-Chairman Ablyazov at U.K. Trial

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T18:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/bta-bank-seeks-jail-term-for-ex-chairman-ablyazov-at-u-k-trial.html
BTA Bank (BTAS) , the Kazakh lender that
defaulted on $12 billion of debt before restructuring last year,
asked a U.K. judge to jail its former chairman, Mukhtar Ablyazov, for contempt of court in a fraud lawsuit.  Ablyazov, who fled Kazakhstan to escape prosecution and
lives in the U.K., violated a 2009 court order freezing his
assets by failing to reveal ownership in a Moscow skyscraper
project and more than 600 shell companies used to conceal his
wealth, BTA’s lawyer said today at the start of a two-week trial
in London. Ablyazov attended the hearing with an interpreter.  “There hasn’t quite been a case like this before,” BTA’s
lawyer,  Stephen Smith  of New Square Chambers, said at the
hearing. “The bank’s primary purpose is to coerce Ablyazov into
complying with the court order.”  BTA, based in Almaty, filed a series of U.K. lawsuits
against Ablyazov and Roman Solodchenko, its former chief
executive officer, claiming they took more than $5 billion from
the bank using fake loans, back-dated documents and a web of
offshore companies. The men deny the claims, while BTA has said
its accountants are still unwinding the transactions behind the
alleged theft.  Ablyazov claims the bank’s case is politically motivated
because he was part of the democratic opposition to  Kazakhstan ’s
president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has ruled the country for
more than two decades and was re-elected in April with 95.5
percent of the vote.  ‘True Motive’  The bank’s “true motive” for seeking to put Ablyazov in
jail during the case is to win “a knockout blow in order to
impact Ablyazov’s ability to operate commercially or politically
or to defend himself,” his lawyer Duncan Matthews said at
today’s hearing.  Ablyazov’s “fear” of Nazarbayev forced him to use
offshore companies and back-dated documents to protect his
assets, Matthews said. Such practices are commonly used by
Kazakhs who gain wealth quickly and legitimately and seek to
protect it from theft by the government, he said.  BTA said litigation against the men will benefit  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and other
creditors that financed it to become the biggest Kazakh lender
before its nationalization in 2009.  Ablyazov’s attempt to delay the contempt trial was denied
by Judge Nigel Teare in October after the court was shown
evidence that land “indirectly owned” by the defendant was
pledged to the Central Bank of  Russia  in violation of the
freeze. The bank wants Ablyazov to be sent to prison until the
case runs its course, saying he can’t be trusted.  Receivership  The dispute over asset disclosure has already resulted in a
court order placing an estimated $5 billion of Ablyazov’s assets
into receivership during the case.  Syrym Shalabayev, Ablyazov’s brother-in-law who was his
 money manager  since 2008, was sentenced in June to 18 months in
a U.K. jail for failing to reveal his own assets or cooperate in
the case. He hasn’t been arrested and is scheduled to testify in
the trial via a secure video link from an unknown location.
Other people who helped Ablyazov have fled, the bank said.  BTA also won a 21-month jail sentence last month against
Paul Kythreotis, a British man in Cyprus who’s accused of
helping Ablyazov. Kythreotis, who claims he was forced to lie
because of threats made against him, didn’t attend the
sentencing hearing and hasn’t been arrested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  