-- 
Berkshire Hathaway to Buy Omaha World-Herald Newspaper

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-11-30T23:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/buffett-s-berkshire-agrees-to-buy-hometown-newspaper-omaha-world-herald.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.  will expand its media holdings by acquiring the Omaha
World-Herald Co., publisher of the billionaire’s hometown
newspaper.  The World-Herald reported the price as $150 million plus
assumption of debt. The deal would give Berkshire control of the
World-Herald, six other daily newspapers and several weekly
newspapers across  Nebraska  and southwest  Iowa , according to a
company statement today. Sellers include employee shareholders
and the Peter Kiewit Foundation.  Buffett is putting aside his doubts about the industry
after telling shareholders in 2009 that papers have “potential
for unending losses” and that he wouldn’t buy most of them “at
any price.” Publishers have lost revenue as readers shift to
other media including the Internet.  Buffett told employees today that newspapers “have a
decent future,” according to the  World-Herald’s account . “It
won’t be like the past. But there are still a lot of things
newspapers can do better than any other media.” As for the
cost, Buffett said, “it’s not a crazy price. It certainly is
not a bargain.”  In addition to the $150 million cash purchase, Berkshire
will take on $50 million of World-Herald debt, the newspaper
reported. Buffett didn’t respond to an interview request e-
mailed to Berkshire’s Omaha headquarters.  “That’s a pretty generous price,” said  John Morton , a
veteran newspaper analyst and president of media consulting firm
Morton Research Inc. who writes a column for the American
Journalism Review. “That’s a price that you would have paid for
it five years ago.”  Home Team  “He’s rooting for the home team,” said  Jeff Matthews , a
Berkshire shareholder and author of “Secrets in Plain Sight:
Business and Investing Secrets of Warren Buffett.” “But he
says it’s profitable and well-run.”  The World-Herald is 80 percent owned by its employees and
20 percent held by Peter Kiewit Foundation, the paper said today
in its news story. It’s the No. 49 newspaper in the U.S. with
circulation of 135,282 daily and 170,381 on Sunday, according to
the company. CEO Terry Kroeger will stay with the business after
the  acquisition , Berkshire said.  Buffett, in his fifth decade as CEO of Berkshire, won a
Pulitzer Prize -- the industry’s highest honor -- for
investigative reporting in 1973 as owner of the Omaha Sun. The
paper was cited for an analysis of funding at Boy’s Town, a
local charity, according to  Alice Schroeder ’s biography, “The
Snowball, Warren Buffett and the Business of Life.”  Media Holdings  Berkshire’s holdings include  Business Wire , which
distributes press releases to the media. Buffett’s firm is also
the  biggest shareholder  of the  Washington Post Co. (WPO)  and owner of
the Buffalo News of New York.  “It’s a business which has been overly maligned for having
lost its relevance,” said  Thomas Russo , a partner at Berkshire
investor Gardner Russo & Gardner. “I suspect the price is such
that he can pencil out a return.”  Buffett has been among the industry’s critics and derided
the newspaper model at Berkshire’s 2008 annual meeting,
according Matthews’s book.  “Imagine that someone came along saying, ‘I have a great
idea: Let’s chop trees down, buy expensive printing presses, and
buy a fleet of delivery trucks, all to get pieces of paper to
people to read about what happened yesterday,’ ” Buffett said,
according to Matthews.  The World-Herald is the largest employee-owned newspaper in
the U.S., with a news staff of about 200 who produce morning and
evening editions, according to its  website .  Brand Names  The purchase won’t have much impact on the overall
performance of Berkshire Hathaway, which generated $136 billion
in revenue last year and $13 billion in profit on activities
that include insurance, running utilities and railroads, real
estate, manufacturing and retailing.  Brands include Geico insurance, Fruit of the Loom underwear
and Dairy Queen ice cream. Berkshire is among the biggest
stakeholders at banks including U.S. Bancorp and  Wells Fargo &
Co ., and Buffett has come to the aid of financial firms such as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. with capital
injections.  Berkshire’s Class A stock rose 4.9 percent to $118,500 as
of 4:01 p.m. in  New York .  As for the World-Herald, “it’s very difficult to see this
as a financial investment,” said  Meyer Shields , an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. who has a “hold” recommendation on
Berkshire’s stock. Buffett has “a desire to cultivate his
legacy, and if he can control the first draft of history, that
makes it a little bit easier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  