-- 
Bulgarians Protest Against Pension Changes, Spending Cuts

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-11-30T13:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/bulgarians-protest-against-pension-changes-spending-cuts.html
Thousands of Bulgarians marched and
rallied in the capital Sofia today and blocked traffic to
protest spending cuts and a government decision to raise the
 retirement age .  Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  reduced farm aid, cut
services and workers from the state railways and raised the
retirement age one year from 2012, instead of 2021 under a
pension changes started last year, to contain the impact of the
euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “We are not numbers in a balance sheet,” syndicate chief
Plamen Dimitrov said at the rally. “These are real people
behind these numbers who deserve a better life.” Protesters
carried an effigy of Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  demanding
his resignation.  Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest country in terms of
economic output per capita, weathered the global crisis without
borrowing from international lenders. The country aims to narrow
this year’s  budget gap  to 2 percent of gross domestic product
and 1.35 percent in 2012.  Some 18,000 people won’t be able to retire next year as
planned if Parliament backs the government’s pension plan, which
will help cut the 2 billion lev ($1.4 billion) deficit in the
state pension fund by 28 million lev in 2012 and 121 million lev
in 2013, Labor Minister Totyu Mladenov said Nov. 28.  ‘Delayed’ by a Decade  “Reforms in the pensions system and the railways have been
delayed by more than a decade,” Djankov told reporters in Sofia
today. “If we don’t carry them out now, they will be much
tougher for everyone to do later.”  Hundreds of farmers throughout the countryside blocked key
highways for several hours as they went into a third day of
protests against government cuts in subsidies by 230 million lev
next year. The farmers will get vouchers to buy tax-free fuel
next year as a compensation, Djankov said.  Dozens of trains also stopped between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m.
today as railway workers went on strike for the seventh day
after the  Bulgarian State Railways EAD  said it will dismiss
2,500 workers and cancel 150 train lines by the end of the year
to secure a 460 million-lev loan agreement from the  World Bank .  The railways’ losses in 2010 amounted to 218 million lev,
while its debts to banks, suppliers, tax authorities and in wage
arrears amounted to 817 million lev, Transport Minister Ivailo
Moskovski said on Nov 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  