-- 
Cain Says Ending His Presidential Campaign Is an ‘Option’ He’s Considering

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/cain-complains-of-character-assassination-.html
Herman Cain  told a New Hampshire
newspaper that ending his Republican presidential campaign is
“an option” he is considering, as he continued to face
questions about the latest allegation of sexual indiscretion
lodged against him.  Cain said in an  interview  yesterday with the editorial
board of the Union Leader in Manchester that he is weighing an
exit from the race.  “You will know by next week,” he told journalists at the
largest newspaper in the state where the nation’s first primary
will be held Jan. 10.  As Cain spoke of possibly withdrawing from the race,
though, his campaign gave the impression it was intensifying its
efforts. It announced the release of a new advertisement in
 Iowa , where caucuses start the Republican nominating process on
Jan. 3, and circulated an e-mail to supporters asking for
volunteers to travel to early-voting states to “help Herman
Cain win the Republican nomination.”  Cain, 65, told the Union Leader that his wife of 43 years,
Gloria, didn’t know that he repeatedly gave money to the Atlanta
woman who says they had a 13-year affair. The money was for
“month-to-month bills and expenses,” said Cain, who has denied
that he was sexually involved with the woman, Ginger White.  Wife Didn’t Know  He also said in yesterday’s interview that his wife “did
not know” that he and White “were friends” until the woman
went public with her story on Nov. 28.  Cain said at a televised press conference Nov. 30 at his
headquarters in  New Hampshire  that he hadn’t had an opportunity
to sit down with his wife and other family members to “walk
through this,” and said he planned to do so today.  White, in a television interview with Atlanta’s Fox 5 in
which she first publicly aired her allegation, said their affair
began after the two met in Louisville,  Kentucky , in the late
1990s and ended only eight months ago. Her story surfaced about
a month after four women alleged he sexually harassed them in
the 1990s -- charges he also has denied.  White showed reporters phone bills listing dozens of calls
and text messages from Cain’s private cell phone number.  Cain said in yesterday’s interview that about 70 of those
 text messages  involved White asking him for financial assistance
with her rent and other bills.  Job Question  “I would respond, well, how much and what are you doing
about getting a job,” he said.  Cain said he sent her money, though he wouldn’t detail the
payments on the advice of his lawyer. “I’m a soft-hearted
person when it comes to that kind of stuff,” he said.  White in her Fox 5 television interview said Cain had
treated her to lavish meals and stays at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel
in Atlanta’s Buckhead district. In a later interview on ABC’s
“Good Morning America, she said the two went on “several
trips,” including to a  Mike Tyson  boxing match in  Las Vegas .  White, who has acknowledged having financial difficulties,
said she accepted gifts of money from Cain for “the last 2 1/2
years,” and that he didn’t ask for anything in return.  Once vying for front-runner status in the Republican race,
Cain slipped to third place in a national poll released last
week by  Quinnipiac University . The poll showed Cain with 14
percent of the vote, trailing former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  Fundraising Swings  Fundraising dropped after the affair allegation surfaced,
Cain said, as donors decided he would be unable to win the
nomination.  “They see this cloud not going away,” he told the Union-
Leader.  In a fundraising letter Cain sent out Nov. 29, he referred
to White as “a troubled Atlanta businesswoman” who “used
national media outlets to promulgate a fabricated,
unsubstantiated story” that they had an affair. “I am writing
you today to assure you that this woman’s story is completely
false,” he said.  “I am not deterred,” he said in the letter. “We will
continue on this journey to make America great once again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  