-- 
Cain Attorney’s Celebrity Clients Cap Career Born From Tragedy

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/cain-attorney-s-celebrity-clients-cap-career-born-from-tragedy.html
L. Lin Wood, an Atlanta defamation
attorney, was supposed to contain the damage  Herman Cain ’s
Republican presidential bid sustained as a result of sexual
harassment allegations.  Instead, Wood may have contributed to the opposite, when he
chose to chide the news media on Nov. 28 for covering an
“accusation of private, alleged consensual conduct between
adults” while his client was saying Ginger White, who claimed a
13-year affair with Cain, was just a friend.  “It is inconceivable to me that a candidate and his
attorney aren’t on the same page,” said Michael Robinson,
senior vice president at Levick Strategic Communications in
Washington, which specializes in crisis public relations. “The
real problem here is that it makes people -- otherwise known as
voters -- disbelieve the Cain brand.”  For Wood, 59, his representation of Cain is the latest turn
in a career seeded in tragedy and capped by a series of high-
profile victories in cases captured in national headlines,
including the 1996 Atlanta Olympic bombing and an intern’s 2001
murder in  Washington .  In an interview, Wood said his statement on Cain had been
misread and was intended to convey two points: that White’s
assertions are “false allegations” and that the media
shouldn’t pry into candidate’s private lives. “I believe Herman
Cain. The public will decide who to believe,” Wood said.  ‘Both From Georgia’  Cain’s campaign said yesterday that the former Godfather’s
Pizza chief executive officer is reassessing his candidacy.
Cain, 65, hired Wood “because they are both from Georgia,”
said J.D. Gordon, Cain’s spokesman said, refusing to elaborate
on the relationship.  Wood represented John Ramsey after he and his late wife,
Patsy, were implicated by the police and media in the death of
their six-year-old daughter, JonBenet. He also was retained by
Richard Jewell, who was called a suspect by  law enforcement  and
the media in the Olympic bombing.  Gary Condit, a former California Democratic congressman,
hired Wood to sue the late columnist Dominick Dunne for libel
after Dunne insinuated on  CNN ’s “Larry King Live” that Condit
was involved in the disappearance of his intern, Chandra Levy.  Jewell was cleared by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
of any involvement in the bombing and libel settlements were
reached with CNN and NBC. Litigation with the Atlanta Journal-
Constitution regarding its coverage of Jewel is in its 15th
year. Condit’s suit against Dunne was settled for an undisclosed
amount, said Wood.  Shouting Matches  He also negotiated agreements on behalf of the Ramseys with
tabloid publisher  American Media Inc . and  book publisher  St.
Martin’s Press, Ramsey said.  During the years of libel litigation, “Lin got in more
than a few shouting matches,” Ramsey, 67, said in a telephone
interview from  Las Vegas .  When Condit was searching for a lawyer, a Georgia
congressman suggested Wood, describing the attorney as “a
junkyard dog,” Condit, 63, said.  “He is attractive and presents well on camera which means
a lot these days. You ignore the media at your peril,” said
Chip Babcock, a libel attorney who represents  Oprah Winfrey .
“Lin’s presence means there’s no free shots.”  Wood’s path toward a legal career began in the early hours
of March 29, 1969, in Macon, Georgia. The 16-year-old arrived
home from a high school party and “knew something was wrong
because the door was open,” Wood said in an interview from his
downtown office conference room.  A Tragic Beginning  What he found was the culmination of years of alcoholism
and domestic violence. His mother lay dead on the bed, beaten to
death. His father, drunk and unaware he’d killed his wife, was
wetting washcloths to put on his wife’s wounds.  “I told him to keep putting cloths on my mother while I
called the ambulance,” Wood said. “I went and called the
police.”  The teenager then raised funds to hire a defense attorney
for his father, who ultimately served three years for
manslaughter in Georgia state prisons. “I wanted to make sure
he had competent counsel,” Wood said.  In high school, Wood was editor-in-chief of the newspaper
and pitched on the baseball team, he said. He put himself
through undergraduate and law school at Mercer University with
scholarships,  student loans  and various jobs, including working
as a hospital ward supervisor and nursing assistant.  Medical Malpractice  Following law school graduation in 1977, Wood built a
reputation as a medical malpractice attorney. It was the Olympic
bombing case that brought him national prominence.  Jewell hired Wood after a columnist for the Atlanta
Journal-Constitution compared the private Olympic security guard
to convicted killer Wayne Williams, who was suspected of killing
some 20 children.  The animosity between Wood and the newspaper’s attorney,
Peter Canfield,  grew so intense that Wood recalls arguing face-
to-face with Canfield. He said their noses were touching and
“all I could think was how soft his nose was.”  Canfield, who also represents Bloomberg News, countered in
a phone interview: “He never touched my nose and I’ve never
touched his, nor would I want to.”  Their antagonism prompted the judge to turn cameras
normally trained on witnesses on to the two attorneys to monitor
their behavior.  Settlements in Millions  The court made two rulings that nearly ended the case: that
Jewell was a public figure for a limited time and that there was
no finding of malice. After losing an appeal this summer, Wood
now is asking the  Georgia  state Supreme Court to hear the case.  He won’t say how much money he’s secured for his clients or
how much he has personally earned. Total settlements are in the
millions, he said. He and his wife, Debby, have lived in the
same two-story brick house, which bears the scars of raising
four children, for 24 years. One obvious show of opulence is
Wood’s $140,000 charcoal gray Maserati.  Canfield attributes Wood’s successes to a knack for
publicity. “He’s a paper tiger,” he said. “He’s a good
promoter.”  Condit holds a different view. He said a dozen lawyers,
some nationally known, turned down his case because public
officials are required to meet a higher legal standard of proof
of defamation and libel. Wood was the only one he contacted who
thought he could win, Condit said.  Wood’s desire to win isn’t confined to the courtroom.  He spent 15 years managing a senior league baseball team,
recruiting retired minor league players to help the team’s
chances.  He has been married to Debby Jamison Wood, his fourth wife,
for 24 years. She taught him to ride horses while pregnant with
their first child.  In 2003, riding a six-foot-tall horse with the show name
She Humbles Me, Wood beat his 12-year-old daughter at a Hunter-
Jumper horse show.  That horse, Debby Wood said, “is the only thing that ever
humbled that man in his life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  