-- 
Cairn’s $600 Million Greenland Oil Campaign Ends in Failure

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-11-30T17:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/cairn-s-600-million-greenland-oil-exploration-campaign-ends-in-failure.html
Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  ended this year’s
$600 million drilling program off Greenland after the biggest
exploration campaign attempted in the Arctic island’s waters
failed to make a viable discovery.  The AT7-1 well, which had encountered traces of oil and
gas, has been plugged and abandoned, the Edinburgh-based company
said today in a statement. The AT2-1 well, the last of five
drilled this year, was also abandoned after reporting only
“minor hydrocarbon shows.” The company will evaluate its
program next year and seek partners for investment.  “Effectively these are write-offs, though there were some
encouraging signs,” said  Richard Rose , an oil analyst at Oriel
Securities Ltd. “That’s the end of the program. Rigs are going
to disappear, and we won’t see any drilling there next year.”  Cairn’s eight-well program, spread over two years, was one
of the industry’s most advanced efforts to find oil in Arctic
waters and drew protests from activists who said it risked
damaging a pristine environment.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  hold licenses to
explore off Greenland, an autonomous Danish territory of 56,000
people.  Cairn fell 1 percent to 272.3 pence in  London  as of the
4:30 p.m. close. The shares are down 35 percent this year.  The unsuccessful Greenland campaign may raise concern that
the company, which also has exploration licenses in  Spain , may
need to find a new focus after it agreed to sell a majority
interest in its Indian business to  Vedanta Resources (VED)  Plc last
year. The company has been waiting for more than a year to get
approval for the deal.  ‘Ingredients for Success’  “The first phase of Cairn’s exploration program in
Greenland has encountered oil and gas shows across multiple
basins and now reservoir-quality sands in the Atammik block,”
Chief Executive Officer Simon Thomson said in a statement.
“Whilst we have yet to make a commercial discovery we remain
encouraged that all of the ingredients for success are in
evidence.”  Greenland’s oil and gas resources may total 50 billion
barrels, according to the U.S. Geological survey. That’s more
than the U.S.’s proven crude reserves.  Polar Bears  Cairn said it had spent $573 million this year on the
unsuccessful Greenland campaign as of the end of September,
before the last two wells were completed. The company drilled
three exploration wells in 2010. Mike Watts, head of
exploration, said in January that Cairn was prepared to spend up
to $1.2 billion in Greenland on 10 to 12 wells.  About 20 Greenpeace activists were arrested in July after
storming Cairn’s Edinburgh office dressed as polar bears. In
August, Greenland’s government said it will publish the
company’s contingency plan for an  oil spill .  “However the company tries to spin this, Cairn’s Greenland
misadventures have been an unmitigated disaster from day one,”
Greenpeace said in a statement. “The incredible technical,
economic and environmental risks of operating in the Arctic
simply aren’t worth it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  