-- 
Canada Economic Rebound Beats Forecasts as Export Surge Tops Slow Spending

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-11-30T21:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/canada-economic-rebound-beats-forecasts-as-export-surge-tops-slow-spending.html
Canada ’s economy rebounded at a
faster pace than economists forecast in the third quarter as the
biggest jump in exports since 2004 more than offset slower
domestic spending.  Gross domestic product  grew at a 3.5 percent annualized
pace from July to September following a revised 0.5 percent
contraction the prior three months, Statistics Canada said today
in Ottawa. Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast 3 percent
growth, based on the median of 23 responses.  Companies such as telecommunications firm BCE Inc. and
Montreal-based railway tie-maker Stella Jones Inc. expect sales
growth next year even as the  Bank of Canada  and the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development cut their forecasts.
Exporters are being supported by the 3.7 percent decline in
Canadian dollar versus its U.S. counterpart in the last six
months.  The rebound “gives the Canadian economy some much needed
momentum against a set of headwinds that will become far more
pronounced in early 2012,” said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit. Today
the Bank of Canada joined with central banks in the U.S. and
 Europe  to cut the cost of emergency  U.S.-dollar  funding for
banks.  The Canadian dollar held onto gains following the report,
rising 1.2 percent to C$1.0200 per U.S. dollar at 3:57 p.m.
Toronto time. It earlier gained 1.9 percent, the biggest advance
on an intraday basis since May 27, 2010. One Canadian dollar
buys 98.04 U.S. cents.  The yield on the 10-year benchmark federal government bond
rose 3 basis points to 2.15 percent.  Exports Rebound  Exports of goods and services rose at a 14.4 percent
annualized pace in the third quarter, the fastest since the
middle of 2004, rebounding from a 6.4 percent decline in the
second quarter.  “Although global economic conditions have recently been
volatile, the markets we serve in  North America  should continue
to provide Stella-Jones with steady demand for its core
products,” Chief Executive Officer Brian McManus said on a Nov.
11 earnings call. The Montreal-based company makes railway ties
and telephone poles.  Renewed Output  Part of the gain in output was linked to renewed work by
energy companies that had been hampered earlier by wildfires in
Alberta and maintenance shutdowns.  Imports of goods and services fell 3.2 percent, swinging
from a jump of 13.6 percent in the second quarter.  Final domestic demand growth ebbed to 0.9 percent from 3.1
percent in the second quarter, the slowest gain since the second
quarter of 2009. Consumer and government spending and business
investment all slowed,  Statistics Canada  said.  One area of strength in domestic spending was housing, with
a 2.6 percent increase that was the fastest since the start of
last year.  Inventories rose by C$10.4 billion in the third quarter,
half of the C$20.8 billion seen in the second  “Today’s numbers showing significant growth in the
Canadian economy last quarter are very encouraging,” Prime
Minister Stephen Harper told the House of Commons in Ottawa.
“At the same time we remain very concerned about problems,
particularly in Europe, the problems of debt and deficit.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in Montreal Nov.
23 that Europe’s debt crisis is “barely contained” and he has
“flexibility” in keeping  interest rates  low while meeting his
inflation target. The next rate decision is Dec. 6 and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the key policy rate
will remain at 1 percent where it’s been since September 2010.  Forecast Challenge  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2 percent annual rate from July
through September, according to revised Commerce Department
figures published Nov. 22.  “As much as the Canadian economy is very dependent on the
U.S. economy, things in Canada have held up reasonably well,”
Siim Vanaselja, Chief Financial Officer of  BCE Inc. (BCE) , said at a
Nov. 16 investor presentation. “What has been the challenge is
just to understand and try to forecast what direction the
economy is going in.”  The contraction from April to June was the first since the
the end of the last recession in mid-2009. The decline and
rebound, and their link to temporary factors, leaves questions
about the rate of growth that can be sustained, said Ian
Pollick, senior fixed income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets 
in Toronto.  Litmus Test  “Attention should be paid to the incoming fourth-quarter
data as this will be the real litmus test into how the Canadian
economy is actually faring,” Pollick said in a note to clients.  On a  monthly  basis, Canada’s economy rose 0.2 percent in
September, following two previous gains of 0.4 percent.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent increase according to the
median of 22 responses economists in a  Bloomberg survey .  In a separate report, the agency also said the  industrial
product price index  fell 0.1 percent in October from September,
while the  raw-materials price index  decreased 1.2 percent.
Economists forecast both measures would increase, with a gain of
0.3 percent for industrial prices and a 1 percent increase for
raw material prices, according to Bloomberg surveys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  