-- 
Canada Third-Quarter Gross Domestic Product (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-11-30T13:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/canada-third-quarter-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of
Canada's National Economic and Financial Accounts for
the third quarter as released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product (GDP) advanced 0.9% in the
third quarter, after declining 0.1% in the second quarter.
Increased demand for exports led third quarter GDP growth.
On a monthly basis, real GDP by industry increased 0.2% in
September.  Consumer spending on goods and services rose 0.3% in
the third quarter, slightly below its second quarter gain
of 0.5%.  Government expenditures on goods and services grew
0.2%, similar to the previous quarter (+0.3%).  Housing investment strengthened to 2.6%, well above the
second quarter pace of 0.4%. This was the strongest growth
since the first quarter of 2010.  However, business investment in plant and equipment
fell 0.9%, the first quarterly decline since 2009.  Final domestic demand has been slowing throughout 2011
compared with 2010. On average, it has recorded quarterly
growth of 0.5% since the start of the year. This was down
from the average quarterly growth of 1.1% over the same
period of 2010.  Both the goods-producing industries (+1.4%) and the
 service industries  (+0.6%) grew in the third quarter. The
energy sector led the way and notable increases were also
seen in manufacturing, construction, wholesale trade and
the transportation and warehousing sector.  The energy sector increased 2.6% in the third quarter,
as crude oil extraction more than recovered from a period
of maintenance activities and production difficulties at
some  oil fields . Manufacturing output rose 0.9%, mostly on
increased production of transportation equipment,
machinery and chemicals. There were widespread gains in
wholesale trade (+1.4%). The transportation and
warehousing sector grew 1.3%, partly as a result of the
end of labour disputes in postal services.  Growth of gross domestic product outpaces that of final
domestic demand  Expressed at an annualized rate, real GDP expanded 3.5%
in the third quarter, following a 0.5% decline in the
second quarter. By comparison, real GDP in the  United
States  grew 2.0% in the third quarter.  Contributions to percentage change in real gross domestic
product, third quarter 2011  Exports rebound  Exports advanced 3.4% in the third quarter after
declining in the second quarter. Exports of goods
increased 4.1%, while exports of services fell 0.7%.  The main contributors to the increase of goods were
industrial goods and materials, and machinery and
equipment. On the other hand, forestry (-0.9%) and
automotive products (-0.1%) declined. This was the fourth
decrease in the last five quarters for automotive
products.  Exports rebound  In the third quarter, demand for exports of services
declined following a 3.1% gain in the second quarter.
Increases in transportation, travel and government
services were more than offset by declines in commercial
services and financial intermediation.  Demand for imports fall  Imports of goods and services fell 0.8% in the third
quarter, the first quarterly decline this year. All major
categories of goods imports declined except for automotive
products (+5.6%) and forestry products (+1.1%). Machinery
and equipment (-3.0%) and energy products (-6.3%)
contributed the most to the decline in goods imports in
the third quarter. Similarly, most major categories of
services imports fell, led by declines in commercial
services (-2.6%) and travel (-2.0%).  Consumer spending  slows  Consumer spending on goods and services slowed to 0.3%
in the third quarter, from 0.5% in the second quarter. In
the third quarter, consumers reduced their purchases of
durable goods (-0.4%). However, purchases of semi-durable
goods (+1.0%), non-durable goods (+0.4%), as well as
services (+0.3%) increased.  Purchases of new and used motor vehicles fell 1.2%, the
third quarterly decline in a row. Spending on furniture,
carpets and other floor coverings also fell in the third
quarter.  The increase in expenditure on services reflects the
rise in spending on purchased transportation, recreational
services and financial, legal and other services.
Purchased transportation has been increasing steadily
since the second quarter of 2009.  Clothing and footwear purchases (+1.5%) were also up in
the quarter.  Housing demand picks up  Housing investment advanced 2.6% in the third quarter,
a much faster pace than in the second quarter (+0.4%).
Ownership transfer costs related to housing resale
activity increased 1.5% after falling in the second
quarter. Renovation activity rose 1.7% following a gain of
0.2% in the previous quarter. New housing construction
rose 3.9%, matching the pace in the previous quarter.  Business investment in plant and equipment falls  Business investment in plant and equipment fell 0.9% in
the third quarter, following six consecutive quarterly
increases.  Business investment in non-residential structures
increased 1.1% in the third quarter, after falling 0.2% in
the second quarter. Business investment in engineering
structures grew 2.1%, while investment in buildings fell
1.7%, the second decline in a row.  Business investment in machinery and equipment fell
2.9%, after an unusually strong second quarter increase of
7.3% that was mainly because of the arrival of a natural
gas platform. With the exception of agricultural
machinery, software and automobiles, investment in all
major categories of machinery and equipment fell. This was
the first decline in machinery equipment since the fourth
quarter of 2009.  Business inventories register moderate buildup  There was a buildup in business inventories of $10
billion in the third quarter. Retail trade inventories
made up almost half of this increase. This was in contrast
to the second quarter buildup of $21 billion, when
manufacturers and wholesalers had built up durable goods
inventories.  Economy-wide income expands  Nominal GDP expanded 1.1% in the third quarter, more
than double the growth recorded in the previous quarter.
Corporate profits grew 4.2% after declining 2.0% in the
second quarter.  Labour income grew 0.7% in the third quarter. Wages and
salaries increased in both goods-producing and services
industries. Personal disposable income remained unchanged
in the third quarter compared with growth of 0.8% in the
previous quarter.  The personal saving rate was 3.5% in the third quarter,
down from 4.1% in the second quarter. The national saving
rate was 6.3%, and has remained above 6% since the
beginning of the year.  Purchasing power increased  Canada 's real gross domestic income, a measure of
purchasing power, increased 0.6% in the third quarter.
Canada's terms of trade, which measure export prices
relative to import prices, declined 0.8%.  The price of goods and services produced in Canada rose
0.3% in the third quarter, half of the pace in the second
quarter, as export prices slowed to 0.2% from an increase
of 1.7% in the second quarter. The price of final domestic
demand categories rose 0.5% compared with 0.3% in the
second quarter.  Financial flow accounts: Demand for funds softens  Total funds raised by domestic non-financial sectors
totalled $221 billion (seasonally adjusted at annual
rates) in the third quarter, down from $263 billion in the
second quarter. Financing activity was notably lower in
both the non-financial corporations and other levels of
government sectors.  Financing activity in non-financial private
corporations slowed to $48 billion in the third quarter,
down from $71 billion in the second quarter. Most of the
financing during the quarter occurred via equities and
mortgages, while bond issues and loans were appreciably
lower.  Federal government short-term paper issues were
significantly higher, while bond issues were lower. Other
levels of government borrowed less in the third quarter
compared with the second quarter.  Overall household borrowing (mortgages,  consumer credit 
and loans) also slowed, decreasing from $97 billion in the
second quarter to $91 billion in the third quarter. The
decrease in loans and consumer credit more than offset the
increase in mortgage borrowing.  In the third quarter, financial institutions invested
heavily in fixed income securities, notably bonds
primarily related to asset-backed securities. In
comparison, net new loan issuances slowed considerably in
the quarter.  Non-residents purchased significant amounts of Canadian
Treasury bills in the third quarter. However, the third
quarter also marked the lowest quarterly acquisitions of
Canadian bonds by non-residents in three years.  Gross domestic product by industry, September 2011  Real GDP rose 0.2% in September, following 0.4%
increases in both August and July. Output in the goods-
producing industries rose 0.5% in September as increased
activity was recorded in manufacturing, mining and oil and
gas extraction as well as utilities and construction. The
service sector edged up 0.1%, with advances in retail
trade, transportation and some tourism-related industries.
Conversely, the finance and insurance sector retreated.
The public sector (public administration, education and
health care) was essentially unchanged for a second month
in a row.  Real gross domestic product rises in September  Manufacturing output rebounded 0.6% in September from a
0.2% decline in August. Manufacturers of durable goods
increased production by 1.7%. Significant increases were
recorded in manufacturing of machinery and, to a lesser
extent, furniture and related products, non-metallic
mineral products as well as fabricated metal products. The
decline in food manufacturing accounted for most of the
0.8% decrease in non-durable goods manufacturing.  Retail trade advanced 0.7%, largely because of
increased activity at new car dealers, food and beverage
stores, and electronics and appliance stores. Wholesale
trade edged up 0.1%.  Output in the energy sector (+1.1%) progressed for a
fourth consecutive month. Oil and gas extraction, electric
power generation and support activities for mining and oil
and gas extraction accounted for most of the growth.
Increases in other metal ore mining (which includes
uranium) and refineries contributed to a lesser extent.  Construction continued to rise, up 0.2% in September.
Engineering and repair work as well as residential
building construction increased while non-residential
building construction declined. The output of real estate
agents and brokers increased 3.2%.  The finance and insurance sector fell 1.0% after rising
1.4% in August. Most of the decrease came from a lower
volume of trading on the  stock exchanges , following
strength in August and reduced sales of mutual funds.
Output of insurance carriers was up 0.6%.  Note to readers  The historical revision to the Canadian National
Accounts, originally scheduled for release in June 2012,
has been delayed to early fall 2012. This accommodates
data users who indicated that they needed more time to
prepare for the conceptual, methodological and
classification changes associated with the historical
revision.  A new schedule of releases has been posted on the
National economic accounts website. Additional information
will be posted as it becomes available.  For more information, contact the information officer
( csna-info-scnc@statcan.gc.ca ).  Percentage changes for expenditure-based and industry-
based statistics (such as personal expenditures,
investment, exports, imports and output) are calculated
from volume measures that are adjusted for price
variations. Percentage changes for income-based and flow-
of-funds statistics (such as labour income, corporate
profits, mortgage borrowing and total funds raised) are
calculated from nominal values; that is, they are not
adjusted for price variations.  There are four ways of expressing growth rates for
gross domestic product (GDP) and other time series found
in this release.  1. Unless otherwise stated, the growth rates of all
quarterly data in this article represent the percentage
change in the series from one quarter to the next, such as
from the second quarter to the third quarter of 2011.  2. Quarterly growth can be expressed at an annual rate
by using a compound growth formula, similar to the way in
which a monthly  interest rate  can be expressed at an
annual rate. Expressing growth at an annual rate
facilitates comparisons with official GDP statistics from
the United States. Both the quarterly growth rate and the
annualized quarterly growth rate should be interpreted as
an indication of the latest trend in GDP.  3. The year-over-year growth rate is the percentage
change in GDP from a given quarter in one year to the same
quarter one year later, such as from the third quarter of
2010 to the third quarter of 2011.  4. The growth rates of all monthly data in this article
represent the percentage change in the series from one
month to the next, such as from August to September 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  