-- 
Bank of Canada’s Murray Says More Coordinated Policy Needed for Recovery

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/canada-s-murray-says-more-coordinated-policy-needed-in-recovery.html
Independent actions by developed and
emerging countries have failed to maximize global economic
growth, Bank of Canada Deputy Governor  John Murray  said, making
reference to a Beatles song to suggest a way forward.  “A little help from your friends might be all you have
left,” Murray said. “Second-best strategies for staying out of
trouble, such as keeping your own house in order, may now have
to give way to third-best coordination strategies.”  Major economies are struggling to revive growth after
cutting  interest rates  close to zero and incurring budget
deficits, Murray, 63, said in  a speech  last night in
Plattsburgh,  New York . Emerging economies are also unwilling to
abandon policies that have helped them in the past, such as
keeping inflexible exchange rates, he said.  Canada helped lead talks among Group of 20 countries that
led to joint commitments for adopting more-flexible currencies
and cutting deficits, moves that Murray said are the best course
for promoting growth. Currency policy is the area where there
has been the least progress, he said.  “Regrettably, it is movement on the  exchange-rate  front
and the correction of external imbalances that are proceeding at
the most glacial pace,” he said. “A way must be found to break
this logjam to everyone’s advantage.”  Europe’s debt crisis and “strong, sustainable growth”
worldwide are the two biggest challenges, and they are related,
he said.  Expand Global Pie  “Fiscal and banking problems are not going to be solved by
deleveraging alone,” he said. “It will also be necessary to
expand the size of the global pie in a more evenly distributed
manner if long-run stability is to be achieved.”  The Ottawa-based central bank has done a simulation that
shows the cost of failing to implement reforms, Murray said.
Without China adopting a flexible exchange rate and without the
U.S.,  Europe  and Japan addressing their budget deficits, world
gross domestic product could be 8 percent lower by 2017, a loss
of $7 trillion, he said, adding “it could well be much worse.”  Murray did not make any reference to the outlook for
Canada’s economy or monetary policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Plattsburgh, New York at
   targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at   gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 