-- 
Canadian Dollar Appreciates on Move by Central Banks, Nation’s GDP Growth

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-11-30T22:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/canadian-currency-rises-as-central-banks-lower-dollar-swaps-rate.html
The Canadian currency rose the most
since May 2010 as central banks including the Bank of  Canada 
reduced the cost of emergency dollar funding to ease  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis, buoying riskier assets.  The loonie, as the currency is known, advanced to a two-
week high after a report showed Canada’s gross domestic product
grew in the third quarter at a faster pace than economists
forecast, spurred by the biggest jump in exports since 2004. The
nation’s government bonds fell earlier after a private report
showed companies in the U.S., Canada’s largest trading partner,
added more workers in November than projected.  “All the developments are building upon each other -- you
have China’s ratio cut, which was supportive of risk, you had
lower swap rates, which was extremely supportive,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in
 New York . “You saw big spikes in commodity currencies. With
data such as ADP and Canadian GDP a lot better than expected,
that’s all good for risk.”  The loonie appreciated 1.4 percent to C$1.0174 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time. It gained more than 1.9 percent
earlier, the biggest advance on an intraday basis since May 27,
2010. It touched C$1.0124, the strongest level since Nov. 14.
One Canadian dollar buys 98.29 U.S. cents. Canada’s currency
pared its monthly loss to 0.2 percent.  The Canadian dollar closing below C$1.02 per U.S. dollar
may signal further strength for the currency, Gain’s Viloria
said.  The  Bank of Canada  joined the  Federal Reserve ,  Bank of
England ,  Bank of Japan ,  European Central Bank  and Swiss National
Bank in coordinated action to reduce strains in markets and
support the global financial system.  ‘From Left Field’  “What they’re doing is insuring that there are enough
dollars in the market at a cheap price in case there is another
liquidity squeeze and it’s difficult for foreigners to make good
on their dollar commitments,” said  Kathy Lien , director of
currency research at the online foreign-exchange trader GFT
Forex in New York. “This risk rally could last a few days
because this came from left field and caught everyone by
surprise and shows central banks are willing to work together.”  Yields  on Canada’s 10-year benchmark bonds increased as
much as eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.20
percent before trading up 3 basis points at 2.15 percent. The
3.25 percent securities due in June 2021 slipped 28 cents to
C$109.41.  Economy Expands  Gross domestic product  grew at a 3.5 percent annualized
pace from July to September, compared with a 3 percent gain
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The expansion followed a revised
0.5 percent contraction the prior three months,  Statistics
Canada  said today in Ottawa. U.S. companies added 206,000
workers, ADP Employer Services said today, compared with a
prediction of 130,000 in another Bloomberg survey.  Canada’s exports of goods and services rose at a 14.4
percent annualized pace in the third quarter, the fastest since
the middle of 2004, rebounding from a 6.4 percent decline in the
second quarter.  The Canadian dollar was also supported against most of its
major counterparts after  China ’s central bank said it would
lower the reserve requirement for financial institutions.  “It’s supportive of growth, so that helps spur risk
appetite,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of
Nova Scotia in Toronto, said of China’s first policy-easing
since December 2008. “It’s a reflection that the cycle of
monetary tightening in China is coming to an end.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index surged 4.3 percent, while
the S&P/TSX Composite Index gained 4 percent. Futures on crude
oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 0.6 percent to $100.42 a
barrel in New York trading.  Canada’s dollar advanced 1.6 percent over the past month
versus nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. currency rose 1.5
percent, and the euro fell 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  