-- 
Cantor Plans to Hire 200 Next Year as Layoffs Ravage Wall Street

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-11-30T12:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/cantor-plans-to-hire-200-next-year.html
Cantor Fitzgerald  & Co. plans to add
at least 200 people next year in an expansion that defies a wave
of layoffs at the investment bank’s competitors.  “There are unbelievable opportunities as the financial
industry is deleveraging from the very large debt and real
estate bubbles,” Chief Executive Officer Shawn Matthews said in
a telephone interview.  The firm expanded 20 percent this year, boosting headcount
in areas including credit trading, leveraged loans and fixed-
income sales by more than 200. Wall Street banks are firing
staff after a combined 41 percent decline in investment-banking
revenue in the third quarter at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)  The cull has claimed 200,000 jobs this year.  “We are looking to build out our sales and trading
businesses in both debt and equity,” said Matthews, who is
based in New York. “There are a lot of qualified people looking
for an alternative to the traditional financial services model
that has made many banks act more like massive  hedge funds .”  U.S. lawmakers passed the Volcker rule last year as part of
the Dodd-Frank Act to restrict banks from making bets with
shareholder money. In  Europe , banks are unloading real-estate
and infrastructure loans to meet regulators’ requirement for a 9
percent core capital ratio earlier than planned. Lenders have
pledged to cut assets by more than $1 trillion within two years.  Faltering Growth  The capital rules, designed to prevent a rerun of the 2008
financial crisis, are being adopted as banks struggle to contain
losses on sovereign debt that dim the prospect of an economic
recovery. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development cut its 2012 global growth forecast to 1.6 percent
from 2.8 percent on Nov. 28.  “The European Union will have a hard time to remain
intact,” Matthews said. “A few countries will need to drop out
of the EU for it to be long-term viable. The repercussions of
this will affect us for at least a decade.”  The firm, majority owned by its staff, is interested in
“bolt-on” acquisitions from banks looking to reduce their
overseas and non-core businesses, Matthews said.  “We haven’t seen significant sales yet as people are still
trying to work out where we stand in the macro environment,” he
said. “Banks will start selling a lot more assets next year,
including some of their units.”  Cantor Fitzgerald lost 658 of its 960  New York  staff in the
Sept. 11 terrorist attack. It now employs about 1,400 people
worldwide.  The firm, founded in 1945 by Bernie Cantor and John
Fitzgerald, hired David Pichler this month in New York from
Gleacher & Co. as co-head of credit fixed-income. Jason King and
Jason Caamano joined from UBS AG in June as managing directors
for the risk arbitrage and relative value team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  