-- 
Krauze: Castro’s Demise Won’t Erase U.S. Legacy

-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 
2011-11-30T00:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/castro-s-demise-won-t-erase-troubled-u-s-legacy-enrique-krauze.html
Latin America ’s romantic attachment
to the idea of revolution began in Cuba and achieved its
greatest strength there. And it may well come to an end there.  The Spanish-American War of 1898 ( Theodore Roosevelt ’s
“splendid little war”) was a major chapter in the American
assertion of “manifest destiny,” which claimed the U.S.’s
right to determine governments and policies for its Latin-
American neighbors. Throughout the Spanish-speaking world, in
Latin America and  Spain  itself, the conflict was experienced as
an historical tragedy.  For much of the 19th century, Latin America’s liberal
elites had viewed the U.S. as their model and political
inspiration. After the defeat of Spain, and the stripping of
almost all the vestiges of its empire, the liberals and their
local enemies, the Catholic and conservative elites, found one
common theme of agreement: They now favored a new continental
nationalism that was explicitly anti-American.  A Uruguayan intellectual, Jose Enrique Rodo, wrote an essay
called “ Ariel ” (with its metaphors inspired by Shakespeare’s
play “The Tempest”) in which he formulated the opposition
between the Anglo-Saxon world and Latin America as a conflict of
civilizations. The U.S. was “Caliban” (barbarous, greedy,
materialist), unsuccessfully intent on dominating Latin America,
which was depicted as “Ariel” (civilized, spiritual and
inherently superior.)  ‘Iron Claws’  Nicaragua ’s  Ruben Dario , the greatest Latin-American poet
of the time, wrote “Ode to Roosevelt” in the early 1900s,
warning the American president that “a thousand cubs have
issued from the Spanish lion” and labeling U.S. domination as a
matter of “iron claws.”  Dario’s prophecy was fulfilled in 1959. The leader of the
Cuban Revolution against the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista
could accurately be described as one of the “cubs” of the
“Spanish Lion.”  Fidel Castro ’s father, Angel, was a veteran
(on the Spanish side) of the 1898 war. After the defeat of
Spain, he had settled on the island and became a rich and
prominent member of the rural upper-middle class. The conversion
of Cuba, for all practical purposes, into a U.S. protectorate
bred resentment, fueled by the U.S. Marines’ repeated
interference in the country’s politics. (It’s no accident that
the most anti-American area of Mexico is Veracruz, which was
invaded by the Marines in 1914.)  As early as 1922, the Mexican historian  Daniel Cosio
Villegas  predicted that “hatred for the Americans will become
the religion of Cubans.” In 1947, the same distinguished
liberal intellectual wrote that there is in Latin America “a
dense layer of distrust and rancor toward the  United States .”
He predicted that one day “no more than four or five agitators
in the principal countries of Latin America” would “launch a
campaign of defamation and hatred toward the United States,”
and the continent would “seethe with unrest and be ready for
anything.”  The friendship and accord between  Che Guevara  and Castro
weren’t only tactical and military but ideological. Che came
from a tradition of cultural anti-Americanism prevalent in the
Southern Cone (Argentina and Uruguay). This was an area with
very little direct contact with the U.S., but which, as a result
of an economic upsurge in the years before 1929, saw America as
a competitor and itself as a cultural alternative to “the
American way of life.”  Castro’s Caribbean anti-Americanism had more political
origins. It carried the weight of the 1898 war and its long
sequel of U.S. intrusions into the life of the island. But the
revolution that Fidel and Che constructed wasn’t just inspired
by nationalism; they also sought political redemption through an
enthusiastic reprise of the Russian Revolution.  Soviet Model  At least since 1956, the Soviet system was being criticized
in the USSR itself. In Cuba, however, the Latin-American history
of grievances toward the U.S. far outweighed any measure of
precaution. And no less than three generations of young Latin-
Americans in almost every country dedicated their lives (and
often, tragically, their deaths) to emulating the “redemptive”
exploits of the “Latin-American David” against the “American
Goliath.”  The Cuban experiment in social revolution headed by a
dictator has broken all records for longevity on the Latin-
American continent (and perhaps elsewhere as well) but it
required, for almost three decades, aid from the Russian
Goliath. When the  Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991, after an
anguished interim for Cuba, a new Goliath, rich in oil, came to
the aid of Fidel’s government: the  Venezuela  of  Hugo Chavez . But
even this flood of oil couldn’t mask an economic collapse.  Although the Cuban system still has its fervent devotees in
Latin America, a large part of the center-left (now convinced of
the advantages of democracy) has recognized that the social
achievements (in education and health) of the Cuban Revolution
didn’t require the imposition of a totalitarian regime. And the
example of  China  has surely inspired the Cuban hierarchy toward
an economic opening of the island.  No one can predict the nature of the Cuban transition after
the death of one or both Castro brothers. The possible scenarios
range from peaceful and orderly to violent and apocalyptic. But
the U.S., with an eye on the two upheavals of the past, should
recognize that modern Cuba isn’t simply a relic of the  Cold War ,
but also the product of a deep and long-rooted Iberian-American
nationalism.  It would be extremely wise of the U.S. to close the
detention center at Guantanamo Bay, to call off the trade
embargo and to form an appropriate policy for the third era of
this tangled history, one that may begin at any moment.  (Enrique Krauze, the author of “ Mexico : Biography of
Power” and “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in Latin America,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.
This article was translated from the Spanish by Hank Heifetz.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Enrique Krauze at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 