-- 
McDonald’s to Halt Free Happy Meal Toys in San Francisco

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-11-30T18:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/mcdonald-s-to-halt-free-happy-meal-toys-in-san-francisco.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, will stop giving out Hello Kitty
figurines or any other toys with its Happy Meals in  San
Francisco  starting tomorrow because of a new city ordinance.  “A law was passed recently which means we cannot give away
a free toy with our Happy Meals” at the 19 McDonald’s stores in
San Francisco, Danya Proud, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement today. Beginning tomorrow, parents will have the
option to buy a toy separately for 10 cents when they purchase a
Happy Meal or Mighty Kids Meal, she said.  Restaurant meals in San Francisco can’t include a free toy
unless they have less than 600 calories, contain fruits and
vegetables and have a beverage that isn’t excessively sugary or
fatty, according to the City and County of San Francisco
 website .  The city’s Healthy Meal Incentive law seeks to reduce
 childhood obesity  and help kids adopt healthier eating habits.
About 12.5 million, or 17 percent of U.S. children and
adolescents ages two to 19, are considered obese, almost triple
the rate in 1980, according to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.  “This clearly illustrates that McDonald’s is feeling the
public pressure,” said Sara Deon, campaign director at
 Corporate Accountability International , a Boston-based group
that advocates that companies act in the public interest.  “We’ll continue to see cities and towns across the country
address this,” she said.  Legislation pending in  Michigan  and  New York  also would ban
eateries from distributing toys with meals that don’t meet
certain nutritional standards.  Chocolate Milk  McDonald’s Happy Meals usually consist of a cheeseburger,
hamburger or Chicken McNuggets along with fries, apple slices
and a drink. The  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company started
offering fat-free chocolate milk as a beverage option recently.  In July, McDonald’s said it would start putting apple
slices and smaller packets of fries in Happy Meals in the U.S.
this year. All 14,000 U.S. locations are expected to have the
apples in the first quarter of next year, the company said. The
change reduces calories in kids’ meals by 20 percent.  Jack in the Box Inc. (JACK) , a San Diego-based fast-food
restaurant, pulled toys from its kids’ meals in June. The 2,200-
store chain also began serving 70-calorie apple bites with
caramel in its kids’ combos this year.  Burger King Holdings Inc., owned by 3G Capital Inc., and
 Yum! Brands Inc. ’s Taco Bell restaurants give away toys in
children’s meals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  