-- 
Central Banks’ Actions to Address Pressure on Global Money Markets (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-11-30T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/central-banks-actions-to-address-pressure-on-global-money-markets-text-.html
Following is the text of Coordinated
Central Bank Action to Address Pressures in Global Money Markets as
released by the  Federal Reserve :  Coordinated Central Bank Action to Address Pressures in Global
Money Markets  The Bank of Canada, the  Bank of England , the Bank of  Japan , the
European Central Bank, the Federal Reserve, and the  Swiss National
Bank  are today announcing coordinated actions to enhance their
capacity to provide liquidity support to the global financial system.
The purpose of these actions is to ease strains in financial markets
and thereby mitigate the effects of such strains on the supply of
credit to households and businesses and so help foster economic
activity.  These central banks have agreed to lower the pricing on the existing
temporary U.S. dollar liquidity swap arrangements by 50 basis points
so that the new rate will be the  U.S. dollar  overnight index swap
(OIS) rate plus 50 basis points. This pricing will be applied to all
operations conducted from December 5, 2011. The authorization of
these swap arrangements has been extended to February 1, 2013. In
addition, the Bank of  England , the  Bank of Japan , the European
Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank will continue to offer
three-month tenders until further notice.  As a contingency measure, these central banks have also agreed to
establish temporary bilateral liquidity swap arrangements so that
liquidity can be provided in each jurisdiction in any of their
currencies should market conditions so warrant. At present, there is
no need to offer liquidity in non-domestic currencies other than the
U.S. dollar, but the central banks judge it prudent to make the
necessary arrangements so that liquidity support operations could be
put into place quickly should the need arise. These swap lines are
authorized through February 1, 2013.  Federal Reserve Actions  The  Federal Open Market Committee  has authorized an extension of the
existing temporary U.S. dollar liquidity swap arrangements with the
Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the  European
Central Bank , and the Swiss National Bank through February 1, 2013.
The rate on these swap arrangements has been reduced from the U.S.
dollar OIS rate plus 100 basis points to the OIS rate plus 50 basis
points. In addition, as a contingency measure, the Federal Open
Market Committee has agreed to establish similar temporary swap
arrangements with these five central banks to provide liquidity in
any of their currencies if necessary. Further details on the revised
arrangements will be available shortly.  U.S. financial institutions currently do not face difficulty
obtaining liquidity in short-term funding markets. However, were
conditions to deteriorate, the Federal Reserve has a range of tools
available to provide an effective liquidity backstop for such
institutions and is prepared to use these tools as needed to support
financial stability and to promote the extension of credit to U.S.
households and businesses.  Information on Related Actions Being Taken by Other Central Banks  Information on the actions to be taken by other central banks is
available on the following websites:
 Bank of Canada : www.bankofcanada.ca
Bank of England: www.bankofengland.co.uk/
Bank of Japan: www.boj.or.jp/en
European Central Bank: www.ecb.int
Swiss National Bank: www.snb.ch  SOURCE: Federal Reserve  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at   atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  