-- 
Central Banks Pushed to Act on Funding Squeeze

-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 
2011-11-30T09:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/central-banks-urged-to-take-more-active-role-in-fighting-euro-debt-crisis.html
The squeeze that has driven funding
costs for European banks to the highest since the aftermath of
Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s collapse is prompting economists
and traders to urge central banks to do more to fight the
worsening debt crisis.  The Euribor-OIS spread, a measure of banks’ willingness to
lend to each other, widened to 98.2 basis points at 9:15 a.m. in
 London , the biggest gap since March 2009, up from 96.6 basis
points yesterday. The cost for European banks to fund in dollars
rose to the highest level since October 2008, a month after New
York-based Lehman filed for  bankruptcy protection .  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has resisted
pressure from politicians to backstop governments as contagion
spreads to Italy and France, confronting leaders with what
Morgan Stanley calls a “critical moment in European history.”
While the ECB is already offering banks unlimited cash and has
cooperated with the Federal Reserve to keep dollars flowing
through the financial system, other options may include cutting
its  benchmark   interest rate , expanding liquidity lines or
working with the  International Monetary Fund .  “We’re in this vicious circle in the European financial
system,” said  Jim O’Neill , the London-based chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management. “Somebody has got to take us out of it
soon.”  Swap Rate  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euros into dollars, was 159 basis points below
the euro interbank offered rate in London, compared with minus
157 yesterday. The gap has widened from as little as minus 8
basis points on May 4.  European leaders are split over the ECB’s role in the
spiraling debt crisis. The bank, backed by a German-led bloc,
refuses to do more than buy a limited amount of troubled
countries’ bonds in the market.  France  has called for the ECB to
grant the euro bailout fund a banking license to enable it to
borrow unlimited amounts.  Euro-area finance ministers meeting in Brussels yesterday
said they would seek a greater role for the IMF in fighting the
crisis, which could make it easier for the ECB to play a bigger
role, possibly by channeling loans through the Washington-based
institution.  With leaders showing no signs of reaching a breakthrough,
investors are refusing to lend the cheap liquidity handed out by
the ECB. Banks yesterday increased overnight deposits at the ECB,
placing 297 billion euros ($394 billion) with the Frankfurt-
based central bank, up from 281 billion euros on Nov 28.  ‘Lack of Trust’  “We have year-end money demand, we have a sovereign debt
crisis, and a banking crisis,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of
fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “They are
all coming together. There’s general lack of trust still,
especially in the dollar market.”  U.S. financial institutions are pulling their money back
from  Europe . In October, prime money-market funds cut holdings
of European bank debt to the lowest since at least 2006,
reducing them by 9 percent on a dollar basis,  Fitch Ratings  said
on Nov. 22. The 10 biggest funds had 34.9 percent of their $642
billion of total investments in European bank bonds and notes,
down from 37.7 percent as of end-September.  Banks are struggling to get access to dollars even after
the ECB said Sept. 15 it will coordinate with the  Federal
Reserve  and other central banks to lend dollars to euro-area
banks in a series of three-month loans. Just $400 million was
allotted in the last three-month auction on Nov. 9. Those loans
are in addition to the bank’s regular seven-day dollar offerings.  “Dollar liquidity is being held in the U.S. by money
market funds and until they” start lending little can be done,
said  Patrick Jacq , a senior fixed-income strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in Paris. “The ECB is providing dollars to European
banks but so far there has not been much demand because the cost
is expensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  