-- 
Fed, Other Central Banks Prepare to Distribute Foreign Currencies at Home

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-11-30T19:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/central-banks-prepare-to-distribute-foreign-currency-at-home-during-crises.html
The  Federal Reserve  and five other
central banks set up agreements to distribute each other’s
currencies in the event of a global funding crisis.  Central banks agreed to establish temporary bilateral
currency swap arrangements “so that liquidity can be provided
in each jurisdiction in any of their currencies should market
conditions so warrant,” the Fed said today in a press release,
calling the agreement a “contingency measure.” The  European
Central Bank  and the central banks of  Canada ,  Japan ,  Switzerland 
and the U.K. agreed to the arrangements.  The bilateral agreements were announced alongside
coordinated action by the six central banks aimed at boosting
dollar liquidity. Bilateral swaps would enable, for example, the
Fed to provide euros, Swiss francs, or British pounds to U.S.
banks if needed. The accord allows a broader distribution of
liquidity and allows a bank to deal directly with its home
central bank, said Dino Kos, a former New York Fed executive
vice president in charge of open market operations.  “At present, there is no need to offer liquidity in non-
domestic currencies other than the  U.S. dollar ,” the Fed said
in a statement. “The central banks judge it prudent to make the
necessary arrangements so that liquidity support operations
could be put into place quickly should the need arise.”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., called the bilateral arrangements “a novel step and a
curious feature of today’s announcement” that “are apparently
being set up as a backup plan in the event of a worsening in
global financial conditions.”  Tighten Funding  A sovereign default in  Europe , for example, could tighten
funding for hundreds of banks around the world. So rather than
European operations of Citigroup Inc. or Morgan Stanley seeking
euros from the ECB, the Fed could contribute to euro liquidity
by doling out loans to those institutions in the U.S.  The central banks also agreed today to lower the cost of
dollar swap arrangements. The premium banks pay to borrow
dollars overnight from central banks will fall by half a
percentage point to 50 basis points. A basis point is 0.01
percent.  The cut in the dollar swap rates is a message from central
banks that says, “Please use it, and we are going to make it
cheaper for you to use,” said Kos, now a managing director at
the New York research firm Hamiltonian Associates Limited.  The dollar swap lines will be extended by six months to
Feb. 1, 2013. The new pricing will be applied to operations
starting on Dec. 5. The bilateral swap agreement is also in
place through Feb. 1, 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this
story: Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  