-- 
Central Banks Signal Financial System Concern, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-11-30T17:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/central-banks-signal-concern-over-banking-system-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
The reduced cost of emergency dollar
funding signals the  Federal Reserve  and other central banks are
concerned about the global banking system, according to Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian.  The  interest rate  was reduced to the dollar overnight
index swap rate plus 50 basis points, or a half-percentage
point, from 100 basis points, and the program was extended to
Feb. 1, 2013, the Fed said in a statement in  Washington .  The aim is to ease strains in financial markets and
“thereby mitigate the effects of such strains on the supply of
credit to households and businesses and so help foster economic
activity,” a Fed statement said.  “I don’t think that is the main objective,” El-Erian, 53,
Pimco’s chief executive and co-chief investment officer, said in
a radio interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene   and Ken Prewitt. “The real objective is they are seeing
something in the functioning in the banking system that worries
them and they are taking preemptive measures to relieve that
pressure.”  While the stated goal of the program may help mollify
policy makers and “the person in the street,” El-Erian said,
the move is “a reaction to a break in the markets and central
banks’ realizing that they need to move before this breakage
becomes irreversible.”  The coordinated action by the Fed, the  European Central
Bank , Bank of Canada,  Bank of England , Bank of  Japan  and Swiss
National Bank came as European borrowing costs rose.  Italian Yields  Yields  on 10-year Italian  government securities  remain
above 7 percent, and 10-year German bund yields have climbed 20
basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, higher than U.S.
Treasuries of the same maturity, signaling Germany’s waning
status as a main refuge from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The cost for European banks to fund in dollars rose to the
highest levels in three years today as concern the euro currency
union may break up increased after leaders said they had failed
to boost the region’s bailout fund as much as planned.  The central banks’ action “lowers the cost of emergency
financing and increases the scope of emergency financing,” said
El-Erian. “Central banks are moving in order to relieve
pressure that they think either now or down the road may be
really detrimental to the global economy.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index surged 3.6 percent today,
while a drop in U.S. Treasuries pushed the  yields  on benchmark
10-year notes up seven basis points to 2.06 percent.  Risk Asset Rally  The risk-asset rally may stall in days to come as more
details come out to explain why the central banks undertook
their actions, according to El-Erian.  “What has forced the hands of the central banks in such a
dramatic fashion?” El-Erian asked. “We will get more about
this in the next few days.”  Pimco’s $244 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s
largest mutual fund, has returned 2 percent in the past year,
lagging behind 80 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past five years, the bond fund
has returned 7.5 percent on average, topping 97 percent of rival
funds. Pimco is a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  