-- 
CFTC to Propose Foreign Swap Reach Rules in 2012, O’Malia Says

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-11-30T01:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/cftc-to-propose-foreign-swap-reach-rules-in-2012-o-malia-says.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  next year will propose regulations that govern the
international reach of Dodd-Frank Act rules for the $708
trillion swaps market, said  Scott O’Malia , a commission member.  The over-the-counter “derivatives industry is global and
defining where United States jurisdiction starts and ends will
involve considerable debate,” O’Malia, a Republican, said in a
speech prepared for a  Futures Industry Association  conference
held in Singapore.  Wall Street’s largest swap dealers have lobbied the CFTC
and Securities and Exchange Commission to restrict the reach of
Dodd-Frank rules so their foreign-based subsidiaries aren’t put
at a disadvantage compared with overseas rivals who don’t fall
under U.S. law.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , among other firms, said in a June 29 letter that proposed
Dodd-Frank regulations threaten to “damage the
competitiveness” of the foreign-based business of U.S. banks.
Dodd-Frank, enacted in July 2010, aims to reduce risk and boost
transparency in the swaps market after largely unregulated
transactions helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The banks have argued that proposed regulations for margin,
or collateral, in non-cleared trades will encourage customers to
do business with overseas firms. International regulators,
including the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, are
planning to publish a document for common margin requirements in
non-cleared trades by the middle of next year, O’Malia said.  International agreement on margin standards is “nascent,”
O’Malia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  