-- 
Employment, Businesses Expand More Than Forecast: Economy

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-11-30T21:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/chicago-purchasing-managers-index-increased-to-62-6-in-november.html
Companies boosted payrolls in
November by the most this year and U.S. businesses expanded at
the fastest pace in seven months, giving the economy a lift as
2011 draws to a close.  Private employment, which excludes government jobs, climbed
206,000 this month, according to data today from Roseland, New
Jersey-based ADP Employer Services. The Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc.’s  business barometer  increased to 62.6
in November from 58.4 the prior month as orders and production
strengthened.  “Things are shifting in the right direction for a faster
pace of growth next year,” said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York . “New
orders are rising, production is increasing and employment will
likely improve.” In addition, “central banks are taking the
right steps,” he said.  Stocks soared as six central banks including the  Federal
Reserve  acted to make more funds available to lenders to
preserve the global expansion in the wake of Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis. Another report showed the biggest gain in home-
purchase contract signings in a year, adding to evidence the
world’s largest economy is withstanding the European slowdown.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 4.3 percent to
1,246.96 at the close in New York. The gauge rallied 7.6 percent
in three days, the most since March 2009. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.07 percent from 1.99
percent late yesterday.  Jobs Report  Economists project the Labor Department to report in two
days that private employment rose 150,000 in November, according
to the median projection in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed today said the economy expanded at a “moderate”
pace in 11 of its 12 districts, led by gains in manufacturing
and  consumer spending .  The report reinforces the central bank’s view that the
economy, while strong enough to skirt a recession, remains too
weak to bring down an  unemployment rate  stuck near 9 percent or
higher for more than two years. At their last meeting Nov. 1-2,
some Fed policy makers said the central bank should consider
easing policy further, according to minutes of the meeting.  Last month’s initial ADP figures showed a 110,000 gain,
while the Labor Department’s data showed an increase of 104,000
in private payrolls for October. Today, ADP revised the October
figure to a gain of 130,000.  German Unemployment  German unemployment dropped more than forecast in November
as companies’ resilience to the euro area’s debt woes showed no
sign of cracking. The number of people out of work fell a
seasonally adjusted 20,000 to 2.91 million, the Nuremberg-based
Federal Labor Agency said today. The adjusted jobless rate
dropped to 6.9 percent.  Companies in  Europe ’s largest economy are adding workers
even as the region’s worsening fiscal crisis clouds growth
prospects. While  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said today the euro-area economy may already be in a
recession, German business confidence rose in November and
consumers also became more optimistic.  Stronger job growth in the U.S. will make it easier to
sustain the recent gain in consumer spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy.  “Things are getting better for the economy,” said  Robert Brusca , chief economist at Fact & Opinion Economics in New York,
who projected an ADP payroll gain of 160,000. “It means the
news we have on Christmas shopping and on an increase in
 consumer confidence  may have some validity.”  Holiday Sales  Online sales increased more than 20 percent on Cyber Monday
from a year earlier as consumers flocked to the Internet to make
holiday purchases, researchers found.   Revenue jumped 33
percent, according to International Business Machines Corp.,
while ComScore Inc. put the increase at 22 percent.  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM) , a retailer of high-end home goods,
raised its annual profit forecast and will “continue to look
for a few key jobs” in online sales, Chief Executive Officer
Laura Alber said in a Nov. 17 conference call with analysts.  A pickup in consumer spending and more business investment
at a time when companies are holding fewer inventories may help
set the stage for stronger production.  Readings above 50 in the Chicago purchasers’ measure signal
growth and this month’s figure exceeded the highest estimate in
the Bloomberg survey. Economists forecast the gauge would rise
to 58.5, according to the  median  of 56 estimates. Projections
ranged from 56 to 60.7.  More Production, Orders  The Chicago group’s production gauge increased to a seven-
month high and the gauge of new orders rose to the highest level
since March. The employment measure eased.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  The ISM’s national  factory index  climbed in November to
51.8 from 50.8 the prior month, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey ahead of the group’s report
tomorrow. Like the Chicago survey, a reading greater than 50
signals expansion.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest construction and
mining-equipment maker, last month announced higher-than-
expected third-quarter profit and sales, reinforcing forecasts
that exports and  capital spending  will help the U.S. maintain
its economic expansion.  While the European debt crisis and the level of U.S. growth
are concerns, they don’t “signal the onset of recession,”
Caterpillar said in a statement.  The housing market may be starting to thaw. The National
Association of Realtors today said its index of pending home
sales increased 10.4 percent, the most since November 2010,
after falling 4.6 percent the previous months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 