-- 
Chile Central Bank Debated Rate Cut as ‘Preventative‘ Step

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-11-30T12:04:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/chile-central-bank-debated-rate-cut-as-preventative-step-1-.html
Chilean policy makers voted
unanimously to keep the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged on
Nov. 15 after debating whether to reduce borrowing costs by a
quarter point, minutes of the meeting published today showed.  All 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast rates
would be left at 5.25 percent -- the highest since January 2009.
Policy makers, who have kept the  rate unchanged  in their past
five monthly meetings, said reducing borrowing costs would have
been a “preventative” step as the global economy slows,
according to the minutes posted on the bank web site.  At 5.25 percent, Chile has the second-highest borrowing
costs behind  Brazil  among major Latin American countries that
set interest rates.  South America ’s fifth-largest economy has
space to change monetary policy if the global decline slows
growth in  Chile , central bank President Jose  De Gregorio  said
Nov. 22.  “No matter what scenario we face, the Chilean economy --
and monetary policy in particular -- has the tools, the
flexibility and the willingness needed to reduce the costs of a
deteriorated external environment,” he said on Nov. 22.  Gross domestic product will expand as much as 6.75 percent
this year, which would be the fastest expansion in more than a
decade, and 4.25 percent to 5.25 percent in 2012, according to
central bank forecasts published in September.  Policy makers may need to revise estimates in light of the
global slowdown, De Gregorio said in an interview with Chilean
newspaper El Mercurio this weekend. Industrial production fell
0.8 percent in October from the year earlier, the first
contraction since the aftermath of a devastating earthquake in
February 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 