-- 
Bordeaux, Ming Demand Cools as Hong Kong Sale Tops $370 Million

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-11-30T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/chinese-credit-crunch-cools-demand-for-bordeaux-ming-at-370-million-sale.html
A Ming dynasty flask joined cases of
Bordeaux wines and Chinese paintings on the unsold list as
 Christie’s International  wrapped up a six-day Hong Kong auction
marathon that raised more than HK$2.84 billion ($370 million).  Record prices for some lots were balanced by muted bidding
as the Asian art market’s growth slows. Tight money in  China  and
economic concerns reduced enthusiasm, said dealers.  “It has taken more than six months for the credit crunch
to filter through to art,” Cheng William Qian, a London-based
adviser specializing in Chinese ceramics, said in an interview
at the sale. “There’s a lot of uncertainty for 2012 and people
are more cautious about spending in the current climate.”  At yesterday’s auction of Chinese antiques, a 15th-century
Ming dynasty blue-and-white porcelain moon flask failed to sell.
It was estimated to fetch as much as HK$35 million. An 18th-
century white-jade vase and cover from the Qianlong era with the
same presale estimate sold for HK$33.14 million. A Meiping vase
from the Qianlong era fetched HK$46.58 million.  The six-day sale’s total, including fees, as calculated by
Bloomberg News, was in line with a Christie’s presale estimate
of HK$2.6 billion at hammer prices. In June, the London-based
auction house’s  Hong Kong  sale raised HK$3.65 billion.  The restraint displayed this week is seen by some
collectors as a welcome sign.  “A lot of Chinese buyers are just speculators,” London-
based Asian art dealer Daniel Eskenazi said. “There are really
very few genuine collectors. If they aren’t buying, then in the
long run, that’s a good thing.”  This week’s tally was boosted by a pair of unmounted
diamonds that sold for a combined $HK127.9 million and Chinese
artist Cui Ruzhuo’s eight-scroll sequence of lotus flowers
painted this year, which fetched HK$123.9 million.  While demand for Burgundy remained strong, only 84 percent
of the lots sold during the three-day wine auction. Paintings by
 Zhang Xiaogang ,  Zeng Fanzhi  and  Zhang Daqian  also failed.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 