-- 
China Lifts Electricity Prices, Caps Coal Costs Amid Power Profit Squeeze

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-01T03:36:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/china-lifts-electricity-prices-caps-coal-costs-amid-power-profit-squeeze.html
China, the world’s biggest energy
user, increased  electricity  prices for the first time in six
months and said it will cap the cost of power-station coal in an
attempt to reduce outages in coming months.  Wholesale rates charged by coal-fired power plants to
distributors, or the on-grid tariff, rose by 0.026 yuan (0.41
cent) a kilowatt-hour, and retail power prices increased by an
average 0.03 yuan a kilowatt-hour, effective today, according to
a statement on the National Development and Reform Commission
website yesterday. Price gains for contract thermal coal next
year will be limited to less than 5 percent, it said.  The increases may reduce pressure on profit margins at
power plants, encouraging them to boost generation. The nation
faces a shortage of as much as 40 gigawatts in the winter and
spring, the China Electricity Council said Oct. 27. Electricity
prices had been frozen since June as the government focused on
fighting inflation, even as the benchmark domestic coal rose to
a three-year high last month.  “The measures are aimed at easing cost pressure on
utilities and making them generate more electricity,” Dave Dai,
regional head of clean energy and utilities research at Daiwa
Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd., said by telephone. “But it will
only work in the short term without a long-term solution.”  Progressive Power Pricing   The government also increased on-grid tariffs paid to some
hydropower and gas-fired power plants, NDRC said in  statements 
on its website today.  The nation will start so-called progressive power pricing
for residential users after local governments complete
consultations, NDRC said yesterday. Retail power tariffs for 80
percent of households will remain unchanged under the pricing
mechanism, which aims to charge larger electricity users at
higher rates, the NDRC said.  Spot coal prices will also be limited. Thermal coal with an
energy value of 5,500 kilocalories per kilogram at northern
Chinese ports will be capped at 800 yuan a metric ton starting
Jan. 1, the statement said.  Benchmark prices at Qinhuangdao, the nation’s largest coal
port, rose to as much as 860 yuan a ton on Oct. 23, the highest
level since 2008, as utilities built up stocks to meet winter
demand, according to the  China  Coal Transport and Distribution
Association. The price was at 840 yuan to 850 yuan on Nov. 27.  Higher Inflation  Chinese inflation slowed the most in almost three years in
October, giving the government more room to lift electricity
tariffs. Consumer prices rose 5.5 percent, the lowest rate in
five months, compared with 6.1 percent in September, official
figures show.  The government last raised retail power prices on June 1,
together with on-grid tariffs for 15 provinces. It allowed some
on-grid adjustments to be backdated to April this year and
January 2010.  China is the world’s biggest producer and consumer of coal.
It bought record amounts of the fuel overseas in September as
importers sought cheaper regional supplies. Purchases rose 25
percent from a year earlier to 19.1 million tons, the NDRC said
Oct. 20.  Slowing Imports  “The coal price cap will slow down the nation’s imports of
the fuel as the purchase is most sensitive to prices,”  David Fang , a director at China Coal Transport and Distribution
Commission, said by telephone from Beijing today.  The nation’s power-generating capacity was 960 gigawatts
last year, with coal and oil-fired power plants accounting for
73 percent and hydropower dams 22 percent, the National Energy
Administration said in January.  The NDRC also said yesterday that it will double surcharges
on power users to 0.008 yuan a kilowatt hour to subsidize
renewable-energy projects.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  