-- 
China, Japan Clash With EU Over Aviation CO2 Curbs at Summit

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-11-30T10:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/china-japan-clash-with-eu-over-aviation-co2-curbs-at-summit-1-.html
European Union plans to impose curbs
on carbon-dioxide emissions by international airlines as of 2012
drew fire from countries including  China , Venezuela and  Japan ,
marking a new stumbling block at the climate summit this week.  The EU measure is against international civil aviation
rules,  Su Wei , China’s lead envoy, said in an interview during
the United Nations talks in Durban,  South Africa . Japan called
the European law unacceptable, echoing concerns voiced this year
by the  United States ,  India  and  Russia , and highlighting the
challenge of forging a global framework to cut greenhouse gases
blamed for global warming.  “You can’t take unilateral measures to solve a
multilateral issue,” Su Wei told reporters. “It has some
impact on the discussions here in Durban.”  The criticism boosts pressure on the 27-nation bloc, which
wants to lead the worldwide fight against  climate change , to
scale down its ambitions and emphasizes the divide between EU
aims and policies that governments outside Europe may be able to
accept to keep the increase in global temperatures below 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial
levels. Exceeding that ceiling will cause more intense heat
waves, floods and storms, a United Nations scientific panel on
climate change has said.  ‘Throw a Bomb’  The EU decided in 2008 that international aviation should
become a part of its emissions trading system, or the ETS, after
airline discharges in Europe doubled over two decades and
international organizations failed to enact emission curbs.  “The measure they’re bringing in shows what they say is
their frustration because the topic isn’t advancing,” said
Claudia Salerno, the chief Venezuelan negotiator. “I don’t
agree that when one is frustrated, one should throw a bomb that
can cause lots of problems on an international level.”  Carriers including American Airlines Inc. and United
Continental Inc. are already challenging the expansion of the
ETS in an EU court, and Chinese airlines aim to file a lawsuit
by the end of the year. The UN International Civil Aviation
Organization, or ICAO, last month called on  Europe  to exempt
international aircraft operators from its planned curbs on
carbon in a declaration that drew together 26 countries.  ‘Trade Barriers’  “Domestic law shouldn’t be applied to somebody who is not
subscribing to that law,” Kuni Shimada, special adviser to
Japanese Environment Minister  Goshi Hosono , said in an
interview. “It’s ok for the 27 EU members to comply with it,
but not for us, because we didn’t decide it.”  ICAO aims to strike a deal next year to create a global
carbon market for the industry, according to its secretary
general Raymond Benjamin. The  World Bank  may help manage the
proposed greenhouse gas market for the world’s 50 biggest
nations that would supersede the EU program around 2014 or 2015,
he said yesterday in an interview in  London .  The EU has repeatedly said that while its preferred choice
is a worldwide solution to cut greenhouse gases from aviation,
it won’t give up the first expansion of cap-and-trade beyond its
borders amid a lack of global action. The bloc’s regulatory arm
may also impose pollution curbs on shipping should international
talks fail to cut pollution from the industry.  ‘Disguised Trade Barriers’  The European plan is equivalent to “unilateral trade
measures, disguised trade barriers” that are against free trade
principles,  Venezuela ’s Salerno said. An adviser to the EU court
handling the lawsuit by U.S. carriers dismissed claims that the
expansion of the ETS is not compatible with international law,
signaling in a non-binding opinion on Oct. 6 that the suing
airlines should lose the challenge.  Meanwhile, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill
last month prohibiting the country’s airlines from participating
in the ETS after the industry estimated that participation in
the cap-and-trade system would cost U.S. airlines $3.1 billion
from 2012 to 2020. The  measure  needs backing from the Senate and
President Barack Obama to become law.  The EU ETS is the cornerstone of the region’s plan to cut
 greenhouse gases  that scientists blame for global warming. It
imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000 manufacturers and
power companies, leading to a cap in 2020 that will be 21
percent below 2005 discharges. Emitters have to submit one
emission permit for every metric ton of CO2 they discharge of
pay a fine of 100 euros per ton.  Equivalent Measures  The EU law offers a possibility of exempting incoming
flights from a particular country if that nation implements
equivalent measures to cut pollution from its air transport
sector, an option the bloc’s executive has said it puts on the
agenda during bilateral meetings with various countries.  When international carriers join the system next year they
will be given emission permits making up 85 percent of the
industry cap and will have to buy the remaining 15 percent at
auction. EU permits for delivery in December traded 1.6 percent
down at 7.85 euros as of 9:30 a.m. on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange, down 45 percent this year.  Since the annual limit for the aviation industry will begin
at 97 percent of average discharges from 2004 to 2006 and fall
to 95 percent in 2013, free permits will cover some 65 percent
of actual CO2 emissions through 2020, according to estimates by
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. As airfares rise to exceed the
cost of paid-for allowances, the industry may cover the
additional costs of participating in ETS by 2014, BNEF said last
month.  “It will detract tourists because it will raise travel
costs,” said Grenada’s envoy Ambassador Dessima Williams, who
speaks for the  Alliance of Small Island States . “Anything that
raises costs means people are not likely to do it in these
stringent economic times, and that means it will impact
negatively on our economies.”  Any increase in air fares related to the ETS will be
“modest at most,” ranging from $1.40 to $8.60 per ticket each
way on long-haul flights at current CO2 prices, the European
Commission estimated last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Alex Morales in Durban at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  