-- 
China May Halt Metals Stockpiling, Start Sales, Securities Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-30T07:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/china-may-halt-metals-stockpiling-start-sales-securities-says.html
China  may suspend stockpiling
nonferrous metals and may start to sell existing inventories to
tame prices, the Chinese-language Securities Times reported
without saying where it got the information.  The Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology 
reviewed a plan on the development of the nonferrous metals
industry and concluded that stockpiling plans should be
suspended on “elevated” prices, the newspaper said on its  web
site  late yesterday. Agencies that stockpile may sell
inventories to tame “excessively speculative markets,”
according to the newspaper report. It did not detail which
metals might be sold.  Ministry spokesman Wang Lijiang did not reply to a faxed
interview request sent by Bloomberg News.  The Adjustment and Revitalization Plan of Nonferrous Metals
Sector  released  in May 2009 stated China should set up a
national stockpiling program, according to a statement posted on
the central government’s website at that time. It did not
elaborate on the plan, which was designed after the financial
crisis in 2008 and was valid for the 2009-2011 period.  The London Metal Exchange  index (LMEX)  of six primary base metals
declined 22 percent this year, first time since 2008. Three-
month copper declined to $2,817.25 a metric ton in December
2008, the lowest level since 2004, after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The contract dropped 1.9 percent to
$7,345 a ton at 2:37 p.m. Shanghai time.  “It is not a good time for the reserve management agency
to sell as lots of producers are already running in the red,”
Che Hongyun, chief analyst at Galaxy Futures Co., said by phone
from Beijing. “As a country short of minerals with huge demand,
stockpiling should continue to be the key tone.”  China usually doesn’t release information about when state
reserve managers buy or sell nonferrous metals.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  