-- 
China Reserve-Ratio Cut May Signal Slowdown

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-30T16:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/china-cuts-reserve-requirement-for-banks-as-europe-crisis-threatens-growth.html
China’s reduction in  reserve
requirements  for banks, the first since 2008, may signal
government concern that a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest
economy is deepening.  Reserve ratios will decline by 50 basis points effective
Dec. 5, the central bank said on its website yesterday. The move
may add 350 billion yuan ($55 billion) to the financial system,
according to UBS AG.  A report due today may show that China’s  manufacturing
contracted  for the first time since February 2009, and the
nation’s stocks had their biggest decline in almost four months
yesterday. Premier Wen Jiabao aims to sustain the economic
expansion as  Europe ’s debt crisis saps exports, a credit squeeze
hits small businesses and a crackdown on real-estate speculation
sends home sales sliding.  “The deceleration of growth may have become faster than
expected on increased external uncertainty, a sagging property
market” and difficulties for smaller companies, said Liu Li- gang, a Hong Kong-based economist with Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. who previously worked for the  World Bank . The
manufacturing report may be “worse than expected,” Liu said.  The  Purchasing Managers’ Index  may dip to 49.8 for
November, a level marking a contraction, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists. That data
is due at 9 a.m. local time today.  Consumer price  gains eased to
5.5 percent in October, compared with a government target of 4
percent, as exports rose the least in almost two years.  Joint Action  The policy move yesterday came two hours before the U.S.
Federal Reserve, the  European Central Bank  and the monetary
authorities of the U.K.,  Canada ,  Japan  and  Switzerland  said they
were cutting the cost of emergency dollar funding to ease
strains in financial markets.  Spurring lending in  China , the nation that contributes most
to global growth, may boost confidence as Europe’s crisis
worsens. Stocks and the euro rallied after the moves.  China is at “the beginning of monetary easing,” said  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc,
adding that “aggressive” action is warranted. While more
reserve-ratio cuts may follow, interest rates may remain
unchanged until inflation is below 3 percent, he said.  The latest change means that reserve requirements for the
biggest lenders will fall to 21 percent from a record 21.5
percent, based on past statements.  ‘Liquidity Crunch’  Mizuho Securities  Asia  Ltd. said that the timing of the
Chinese announcement “could be linked” to the move by the Fed
and others. In October 2008, China cut  interest rates  within
minutes of reductions by the Fed and five other central banks as
the global financial crisis worsened.  “Some form of coordination may have gone into this,” said
 Ken Peng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP Paribas SA. “But I 
think China is pretty urgently in need of a reserve ratio 
requirement cut anyway -- otherwise, we’d have a liquidity 
crunch in the New Year.”  Barclays Capital yesterday forecast at least three more
reserve ratio cuts by mid-2012 and said two interest-rate
reductions are likely next year.  Yesterday’s move may have been partly a response to inflows
of foreign-exchange drying up, according to UBS’s Hong Kong-
based economist  Wang Tao . Central bank data released this month
suggested that capital has been flowing out of China.  Growth is slowing across Asia, the region that led the
world recovery, with  India  today reporting its economy expanded
the least in two years and Thailand cutting interest rates. In
China, the clampdown on property speculation has added to the
threat of a deeper slowdown after a 9.1 percent expansion in the
third quarter that was the smallest in two years.  Home Sales  Property risks are “overshadowing” the outlook as falling
sales threaten to trigger developer collapses, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said this week.  Agile
Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) , the developer in which JPMorgan Chase &
Co. owns a stake, has said it will stop buying land until at
least February and is slowing construction at some projects.  October housing transactions declined 25 percent from
September and prices fell in 33 of 70 cities, according to
government data. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 3.3 percent
yesterday after Xia Bin, an academic adviser to the central
bank, said credit should remain “relatively tight” and people
shouldn’t hope for a reversal of housing market curbs.  China hasn’t raised interest rates since July, the longest
pause since increases began in October last year. Benchmark one-
year borrowing costs stand at 6.56 percent. The last interest-
rate cut was in December 2008, during the global financial
crisis.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month the government will
fine-tune economic policies as needed to sustain growth while
pledging to maintain curbs on real estate.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  