-- 
China’s Soviet-Era Aircraft Carrier Sets Sail as Navy Boosts Pacific Reach

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-30T03:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/china-s-soviet-era-aircraft-carrier-sets-sail-as-navy-boosts-pacific-reach.html
China ’s rebuilt Soviet-era aircraft
carrier set sail for its second sea trials, the defense ministry
said, as the U.S. and China look to bolster their influence in
regional waters.  The carrier finished refitting and testing after its first
sea trial in August, and will conduct “scientific research and
experiments,” the Ministry of National Defense said in a
statement yesterday. The naval fleet of the  People’s Liberation
Army  was conducting routine training at the end of the month,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported Nov. 23.  The aircraft carrier is part of the country’s efforts to
expand its naval presence. The U.S. is also looking to exert
greater influence in the Asia-Pacific region and announced
earlier this month it would station as many as 2,500 marines in
 Australia  to boost security in sea lanes vital for trade.  The carrier was still unfinished when Ukraine sold it to
China in the late 1990s. Earlier this year, U.S. Navy Admiral
Robert Willard said China’s reconstruction of the carrier is
raising alarm in the region where it is seen as a sign of the
Asian nation’s military expansion, though it is not a concern
for the U.S.  The U.S., which has patrolled Asia-Pacific waters since
World War II, has defense treaties with  Japan ,  South Korea , the
Philippines and Thailand, and guarantees Taiwan’s security.
China has bolstered its forces over the past decade and has
procured nuclear-powered submarines, according to a U.S. Defense
Department report.  China plans to add 30 subs through 2020 out of 86 likely to
be built for the region’s fleets, according to defense
researcher IHS Jane’s.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  