-- 
China’s Stocks Drop Most in 4 Months

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-30T08:03:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/chinese-stocks-decline-on-economic-growth-higher-share-supply-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in
almost four months after a central bank adviser said he sees the
nation keeping tight monetary policies next year and Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co. forecast plunging export growth.  PetroChina Co. slid to a record low and Jiangxi Copper Co.
plunged to the lowest in 16 months before a manufacturing report
tomorrow that will likely show the first contraction since 2009.
 China Vanke Co. (000002)  and China Citic Bank Corp. led declines for
financial stocks after Xia Bin said policy fine-tuning doesn’t
mean a loosening of credit or changes in  interest rates .  Baoshan
Iron & Steel Co. (600019)  and Anhui Conch Cement Co. lost more than 3
percent after Shenyin & Wanguo estimated the export growth rate
almost halved this month while industrial output slowed.  “Investors who expected looser policies have come to
realize that’s not going to happen,” said Wang Weijun, a
strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The economy
is going to slow down. That’s bad for stocks.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  tumbled 78.98 points, or 3.3
percent, to 2,333.41 at the close, the most since Aug. 8. The
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  dropped 3.3 percent to 2,521.52. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, fell 0.8 percent in New York yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite slid 5.5 percent in November on
concern growth in China, the world’s second-largest economy, is
cooling and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is deteriorating. The
gauge is valued at 11.1 times estimated earnings, compared with
a four-year average of 17.3 times, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has tumbled 17 percent this year after
the central bank raised rates three times and lifted the
reserve-requirement ratio to curb inflation.  No RRR Cut  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on Oct. 25 that the government will
fine-tune economic policies as needed, fanning speculation the
central bank will cut the reserve-requirement ratio or interest
rates to boost growth amid cash crunch for small companies.  Fine-tuning can refer to tools other than interest rates
and  reserve requirements , said Xia, also a researcher at the
State Council’s Development Research Center, in Beijing today.
The restructuring of  China’s economy  will depend on fiscal
policy rather than on a loosening of monetary policies, he said.  Most economists expect the government to loosen some fiscal
or monetary policies without cutting interest rates through 2012
as inflation remains elevated, a Bloomberg News survey indicated
this month.  A measure of financial stocks on the CSI 300 slid 3 percent
today. Vanke, the biggest developer, fell 1.5 percent to 7.06
yuan.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the second largest, lost 1.1
percent to 9.21 yuan. China Merchants Property Development Co.
retreated 1.7 percent to 16.35 yuan.  Export Slump  Citic Bank paced declines for lenders, slumping 3.6 percent
to 4.04 yuan.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  eased 0.9 percent to
4.69 yuan even as Standard & Poor’s upgraded the credit ratings
of China’s second-biggest lender along with that of  Bank of
China Ltd. (3988) , which slid 1.7 percent to 2.88 yuan.  Industrial output may have increased 12.5 percent in
November, down from 13.2 percent a month earlier, while export
growth likely slowed to 7.7 percent in November from 15.9
percent in October, Meng Xiangjuan and  Li Huiyong , analysts at
Shenyin & Wanguo wrote in a report today.  Inflation may have slowed to 4.4 percent this month and the
government is unlikely to reverse its economic policies as the
inflation rate is still higher than the annual target of 4
percent, according to the securities firm, ranked the country’s
most influential brokerage for research by New Fortune magazine
last year. The economic figures for November are due on Dec. 9.  Tomorrow’s PMI  Baoshan Steel, the listed unit of China’s second-biggest
steelmaker, retreated 3.4 percent to 4.84 yuan. Anhui Conch, the
biggest cement maker, lost 5.3 percent to 16.30 yuan.  SAIC Motor
Corp. (600104) , the largest carmaker, dropped 4.6 percent to 13.53 yuan.  A government report due tomorrow may show manufacturing is
likely to contract for the first time since February 2009 this
month. The Purchasing Managers’ Index may fall to 49.8 from 50.4
in October, according to the median forecast of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  “There’s a consensus view that economic growth will slow
next year and companies related to investment will suffer,”
said Dai Ming,  fund manager  at Shanghai Kingsun Investment
Management & Consulting Co. “The key is whether the economy is
poised for a soft landing as is expected by the market.”  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
dropped 4.2 percent to 24.84 yuan. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.
slid 4.1 percent to 7.68 yuan.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (600188) , the
fourth-biggest coal miner, plunged 5.1 percent to 25.66 yuan.
Its share estimate was cut 17 percent to 21.84 yuan at BOC
International, which kept a “hold” rating. PetroChina, the
biggest energy company, fell 3.2 percent to 9.46 yuan.  ‘Falling Off a Cliff’  The upside for commodities is likely to be limited in 2012
as “risks to global growth are skewed to the downside,”
according to Morgan Stanley. Risk aversion and deleveraging
should boost the U.S. dollar, providing “additional headwind”
for commodities, analyst  Hussein Allidina  wrote in a report.  Slumping shipping costs show exports to Europe from China
are “falling off a cliff” as the euro-region crisis chokes off
 consumer spending , according to RS Platou Markets AS, a unit of
Norway’s biggest shipbroking group.  “European imports from China will be much, much lower
going forward,” said Rahul Kapoor, a Singapore-based analyst at
Platou Markets. “If you see falling freight rates, that would
imply that European demand is falling off a cliff.”  Cosco Shipping Co. (000428) , a unit of China’s biggest shipping
company, slumped 6.5 percent to 4.79 yuan. China Shipping
Development Co., a unit of China’s second-biggest sea-cargo
group, lost 5.5 percent to 6.53 yuan.  Supply Concerns  Europe’s effort to expand its bailout fund is falling
short, forcing euro-area finance ministers to consider greater
roles for the  International Monetary Fund  and the  European
Central Bank  to insulate Spain and Italy from the debt crisis. A
report showed that U.S. consumer confidence snapped back more
than forecast in November as Americans turned less pessimistic
on the outlook for jobs.  Europe and the U.S. make up about a total of 35 percent of
China’s exports, according to Shenyin & Wanguo.  China’s stocks may face pressure as the lock-up period on
about 160 billion yuan ($25.1 billion) of stocks ends in
December, Shanghai Securities News reported, citing unidentified
analysts.  Zheshang’s Wang said speculation that Shanghai will allow
foreign stock listings “soon” also boosted concerns about
share oversupply and diversion of funds from existing equities.  “Rumors that international board will be launched soon
have also weighed on the market,” he said.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  