-- 
Citigroup Saudi Deal Haunts Pandit

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-11-30T15:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/citigroup-saudi-deal-haunts-pandit-as-family-claims-383-million-wipeout.html
Saudi businessman Ghazi Abbar, who
claims in an affidavit he lost $383 million of his family’s
fortune on investments with Citigroup Inc., was sold one of the
transactions even though the bank questioned his ability to
properly manage them, according to an internal memo.  The memo, an exhibit in arbitration proceedings with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, warned that Abbar
didn’t have the risk-management capability of the large hedge
funds that were typical clients of the bank’s “hybrid” desk,
which in 2006 was trying to persuade him to move his family’s
money into complex derivative securities.  Soured deals struck with wealthy clients are haunting
Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit . Finra awarded
$54 million in April to customers of the New York-based bank’s
municipal-bond hedge funds, and in February, Brazilian investor
Bernardo Valentini sued the bank, claiming he lost more than $24
million on derivatives Citigroup told him had “no risk of
loss.”  “The case is a setback in Pandit’s vision of delivering
financial services with a higher sense of responsibility to
customers,” said David Knutson, a credit analyst with Legal &
General Investment Management in  Chicago . “As each issue
bubbles up, analysts or providers of capital to the firm have to
say, ‘OK, what other tape bombs are lying in the dusty lines of
Citi’s balance sheet?’”  Citigroup’s Lawsuit  Citigroup denies Abbar’s allegations, saying in a lawsuit
that he was a sophisticated investor who knew the risks when he
turned over control of his hedge-fund investments to the bank in
exchange for derivatives that mimicked their performance. The
bank has sued its former client in federal court in  Manhattan  to
block the arbitration, arguing Finra has no jurisdiction because
the deals were handled outside the U.S.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined
to comment further.  According to the Finra claim, Citigroup had never before
sold the investment idea to individual investors like Abbar, 56,
whose family made its fortune in  Saudi Arabia  importing food and
building businesses linked to tourism, aviation, cold storage,
ship bunkering and oil. The hybrid team, which also arranged
loans when clients wanted to leverage their bets, made about
$200 million for the New York-based bank in 2007, people
familiar with matter said.  Based in Jeddah, a port city on the  Red Sea  about 50 miles
from Mecca, the Abbars were among the largest merchants in Saudi
Arabia, with annual revenue of about $500 million, according to
the internal memo. Family members had served in senior positions
under the kingdom’s late rulers, kings Faisal and Saud,
according to the memo.  Pandit Meeting  Citigroup executives lined up to court Abbar, who oversaw
the family’s investments, according to the Finra complaint.
Pandit, 54, met with Abbar after joining Citigroup in 2007 as
part of the company’s effort to maintain a relationship with the
family. So did Chief Operating Officer  John Havens , former
wealth management boss Sallie Krawcheck and current global
markets head Francisco “Paco” Ybarra, according to the
complaint.  Abbar moved about $350 million of his family’s wealth to
Citigroup from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2006, and Citigroup rewarded
the banker who persuaded Abbar to make the shift, Mohanned “Ned” Noor, with a trip to  Hawaii , according to the claim.
Abbar was introduced to the hybrid desk, which was growing under
Pandit’s predecessor, Charles “Chuck” Prince. Prince was
trying to boost revenue by taking more trading risk.  Burns, Mathur  The hybrid group was run by Richard Burns, a London-based
Citigroup veteran, according to two people familiar with the
group who asked not to be named because they aren’t authorized
to speak about the matter. Burns oversaw structuring and trading
of hybrid derivatives, securities whose values are tied to
different kinds of underlying assets. Samir Mathur was head of
hybrid trading for the group.  Abbar wanted a “simple loan structure” to finance some of
the family’s hedge-fund investments, he claims. Over meals in
restaurants in  London  and  New York , the hybrid team persuaded
Abbar to instead transfer control of some of those assets to
Citigroup, according to one of the people familiar with the
matter. The desk then created the hybrid derivative that would
mimic the performance of those funds.  Abbar claims he invested $383 million in the product and a
separate private-equity financing deal, which included funds he
injected after his initial transfer from Deutsche Bank. Both
transactions collapsed after markets plunged in late 2008.  Tiger Management  Abbar had more experience with  hedge funds  than most. He
began investing his family’s fortune after he graduated with a
master’s degree in business administration from  Harvard
University  in 1978. He built close relationships with hedge-fund
managers such as  Julian Robertson  of Tiger Management LLC and
joined the board of one of the Tiger funds in 1997, according to
Fraser Seitel, a spokesman for Tiger Management. Abbar said he
also had relationships with  Stephen Cohen , founder of SAC
Capital Partners LP, billionaire  Paul Tudor Jones  and Louis Moore Bacon.  Still, as an individual, he was an unusual client for the
desk, which typically dealt with large hedge funds and so-called
fund of funds firms that make bets on other investment funds.
Customers included  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest hedge
fund; Tudor Investment Corp., Tudor Jones’s hedge fund; and
Saudi Arabian financial-services firm Saad Group, according to
the people familiar with the matter. Abbar didn’t have those
firms’ resources, the bank said in the memo.  Operates ‘Alone’  “The Client is not like the typical fund of funds client
the desk is used to dealing with,” according to the memo. “The
Client does not maintain the extensive risk, due diligence and
operational infrastructure that exists at most of the larger
fund of funds. While Ghazi is experienced with alternative
investments, he operates more or less alone with advice from his
friends and industry contacts.”  Abbar’s lack of risk management concerned some Citigroup
executives before he bought the product, according to one person
familiar with the deal. Members of the hybrid desk concluded
that his financial experience gave him the ability to manage the
risks, and the bank approved the deal.  “Ghazi has the ability to understand the risks and rewards
of the transactions,” Citigroup wrote in the internal memo.  After the deal went through, members of the hybrid team
were encouraged to sell similar products to other wealthy
individuals, according to the person, who didn’t want to be
named because the matter is private.  Hedge Funds  Abbar’s hedge-fund investment collapsed in 2008 as Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. failed and funds around the world
plunged. The  Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index  dropped almost 12
percent in the second half of the year, Bloomberg data show.
Many investors who used derivatives to multiply their bets were
wiped out, according to Satyajit Das, author of “Extreme Money:
Masters of the Universe and the Cult of Risk” (FT Press, 2011).  The leverage used to increase derivatives bets “is like
playing Russian roulette with six bullets in the chamber,” said
Das, who isn’t familiar with Abbar’s case.  The failed investments erased the “considerable family
wealth” the Abbars had placed with the bank and damaged
relationships within the family, according to the claim.
Citigroup now stands to gain $70 million as it sells off the
hedge-fund assets at the center of the product, Abbar alleges.  ‘Nuclear’ Products  “A lot of these highly leveraged, highly structured
products, I analogize them to nuclear power,” said John Lovi,
an attorney with Steptoe & Johnson LLP who handles cases
involving derivatives and isn’t involved in the Abbar case.
“There’s no doubt that it’s complicated and you better have
your best and brightest on it and be watching it closely because
when it goes bad, it goes really bad.”  The collapse of the deal came as Citigroup itself was
posting record losses caused by the financial crisis and its
investments in collateralized debt obligations, another form of
derivative. The bank lost a total of $29.3 billion in 2008 and
2009 and took a $45 billion taxpayer bailout. Senior executives
allowed their hunt for more revenue to eclipse proper risk
management, according to a 2008 Federal Reserve Bank of New York
inspection report.  Pandit, who took the top job in December 2007, disbanded
part of the hybrid team in 2008 and began to wind down the
structuring side of the business, the people said. He has since
begun an effort to convince investors that the bank’s culture
has changed to one of “responsible finance.”  New Team  “We have a new management team, a new governance
structure,” Pandit said in a video on the bank’s  website ,
called new.citi.com. “We’re completely focused around the
client. Each and every one of our businesses is structured and
always thinks about what is it that my clients need and how do I
make sure I deliver all of Citi to each and every one of my
clients.”  Citigroup advanced $1.44, or 5.7 percent, to $26.68 at
10:46 a.m. in New York trading. The shares slid 47 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 32 percent drop in the
24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Abbar is seeking $383 million. The largest award ever
granted by Finra was $406.6 million for STMicroelectronics NV
against  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  in 2009, according to Finra
records.  Citigroup was on the wrong side of the largest award for
individual investors in April, when Finra ruled in favor of a
group of wealthy, Aspen, Colorado-based customers’ $54 million
claim, the records show. The clients said Citigroup misled them
about the level of risk tied to investments in the bank’s
municipal-bond hedge funds.  ‘Guaranteed’ Investment  In a suit brought in Manhattan federal court, Brazilian
client Bernardo Valentini claims he lost more than $24 million
on derivatives the bank told him were “guaranteed.” He was
convinced of the merits of the deal by two Citigroup private
bankers, who visited his office in Curitiba and said they
“wanted to get to know him,” he said in the court filings.
Citigroup denied the allegations.  Banks that sell complex derivatives to wealthy customers
often face complaints when the deals don’t work out as planned,
said Das, the banker turned author.  “Clients are always good winners,” Das said. “The moment
they lose money, they suffer a 100-point drop in IQ.”  Food Imports  Today, Abbar runs the largest of the family’s businesses,
Abbar Cold Stores, which imports frozen foods, fresh fruits and
cheeses into Saudi Arabia, according to John Rich, an attorney
in New York with Rich, Intelisano & Katz LLP, which represents
the family.  Some of the executives mentioned in the case have since
left Citigroup, including Ned Noor, the Geneva-based private
banker who persuaded Abbar to move his money to the bank in the
first place. He declined to comment on Abbar’s claims.  Richard Burns and Samir Mathur continue to work in
derivatives for Citigroup. They also declined to comment.  The Abbar case is Citigroup Global Markets Inc. v. Abbar,
11-CV-6993; the Valentini case is Valentini et al v.  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  et al, 11-CV-01355. Both cases are in U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 