-- 
Clearwire Weighs Conserving Cash or Keeping Creditor Support

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-11-30T21:59:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/clearwire-weighs-keeping-cash-or-creditor-support-with-payment.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , facing a $237
million interest payment tomorrow, will have to decide between
conserving cash to fund its wireless business or satisfying
creditors the company may need for financing in the future.  The wireless broadband company, with almost $700 million in
cash and short-term investments at the end of September, has the
money to cover the payment. Still, making the payment would cut
into capital at Clearwire, which has said it needs about $1
billion to fund operations and transition to faster wireless
technology. The company can exercise a 30-day grace period if it
wants to push back the decision.  The company will probably pay the money because it doesn’t
want to alienate investors it may need to tap for additional
capital, said David Novosel, an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC.  “The idea of an equity infusion or raising debt is highly
unlikely given the status of the company and the capital markets
environment” if they don’t pay, Novosel, who is based in
 Chicago , said in an interview.  One consideration that may play into the decision is
whether Clearwire can complete negotiations for a new network-
sharing agreement with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  Sprint, which is the
largest shareholder in Clearwire and its largest wholesale
customer, hasn’t committed to extending their existing agreement
beyond 2012. A new agreement with Sprint would put Clearwire on
more stable financial ground and may help it raise capital.  ‘All Nervous’  Clearwire, based in Bellevue,  Washington , may be pressuring
Sprint for a new wholesale agreement before it decides whether
to make the payment, said Ping Zhao, an analyst at CreditSights
Inc. in New York. A failure or delay in paying creditors would
indicate that the two aren’t close to reaching a deal, she said.  “Right now Sprint is learning that if you don’t play nice,
everyone gets all nervous,” Zhao said in an interview.
“Usually what’s good for Clearwire is bad for Sprint. That’s
the holdup.”  Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for Clearwire, and  Scott Sloat , a
spokesman for Sprint, had no comment.  Clearwire technically has until 5 p.m. New York time
tomorrow to meet the first-day deadline, said Kevin Smithen, a
Macquarie Capital USA Inc. analyst in New York.  “At 5 p.m. the debt trustees’ office closes,” he said.
Smithen doesn’t rate Clearwire and rates Sprint a “buy.”  Outlook for Shares  A missed payment probably would send the shares down on
concern that a restructuring would follow. If Clearwire seals
its contract extension with Sprint and makes its debt payment,
the shares will likely rally, Smithen said.  “We expect a deal with Sprint will be made before the
deadline and that will enable Clearwire to make the payment,”
he said.  Clearwire Chief Executive Officer Erik Prusch told the Wall
Street Journal this month the company was evaluating whether to
pay the interest. The “very expensive payment” to creditors
would be a “significant drain” on cash, he said.  Sprint would have the most to lose in a Clearwire
bankruptcy, Zhao said. Sprint, which buys wireless capacity
wholesale from Clearwire and resells the service to its
customers, may lose access to that spectrum in a restructuring,
when creditors gain influence. Creditors may push to sell off
Clearwire’s wireless spectrum to the highest bidder, making it
more challenging for Sprint to serve its customers, she said.  Spectrum Value  Clearwire’s spectrum assets are worth more than the
company’s debt, which totaled more than $4 billion at the end of
September, Zhao said. Creditors will likely do fine if the
company can sell off its assets, she said.  Clearwire gained 13 percent to $1.78 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 65 percent this year.  The company’s bonds rallied the most in a month. Investors
demand an 18.6 percent yield to hold a Clearwire bond maturing
in December 2015. That compares with the bond’s 9.2 percent
yield on May 24, the year’s low. Clearwire is rated CCC by
 Standard & Poor’s , which means it is dependent on economic
conditions to access debt markets. Most of Clearwire’s debt is
due in 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  S&P has said it could downgrade the company’s rating to D,
for default, if it doesn’t pay within the first five days. Allyn Arden, an S&P analyst, said paying creditors would leave
Clearwire only $350 million to $400 million for next year’s
operations.  “It would still have to raise significant capital to
maintain operations in 2012 despite the cost-reduction measures
it has already achieved,” Arden said in a statement.  Clearwire’s decision on the payment will be a sign of how
hard it’s willing to push Sprint, said Gordon McKay, an analyst
at Marret Asset Management.  “It’s a strategic decision,” McKay said in an interview.
“Do they want to escalate this process? Do they want to signal
to the market that they’re willing to default if they can’t get
funding soon?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  