-- 
Cold Grips Central U.S., While East May Stay Warm Next Week

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-11-30T14:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/cold-grips-central-u-s-while-east-may-stay-warm-next-week.html
Colder air is expected to grip the
central and western U.S. next week, while the Northeast may be
warmer than normal, according to forecasters.  In his 6- to 10-day forecast, Commodity Weather Group LLC
President  Matt Rogers  called for the widest spread of colder-
than-normal weather. He said an area from southern California to
western Ohio may average 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit (1.6 to 2.7
Celsius) below normal from Dec. 5 through Dec. 9.  Weather Derivatives’  David Salmon  predicted a similar range
of areas that may see lower temperatures. Salmon said the cold
may be more intense across the Southwest, Texas and Louisiana,
as well as Iowa, northern Illinois and Wisconsin.  MDA EarthSat Weather had the tightest pattern of cold
weather, confining it mainly to Southwest, southern Rocky
Mountains and central Great Plains states.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants  use about
30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according to Energy
Department data.  All three forecasters also predicted some above-normal
temperatures in the U.S. Northeast. Salmon called for the entire
East Coast to be warmer than usual, with temperatures rising 6
degrees above normal in northern  New England  and along the Mid-
Atlantic states.  MDA had the smallest spread of warm temperatures, confining
them mainly to northern New England.  Longer-Range Models  Rogers said there is dispute among the computer forecasting
models used to predict weather out as far as 15 days. Both he
and MDA say their confidence in the forecast drops the further
out in time they go. Salmon, in Belton,  Missouri , doesn’t issue
an 11- to 15-day forecast.  “If confidence was low yesterday, it is even lower
today,” MDA said in a note to clients today.  Both MDA and Rogers, in Bethesda,  Maryland , called for
temperatures to be close to seasonal across most of the U.S.
from Dec. 10 to Dec. 14. Rogers predicted there could be warmer
weather in the northern Plains, while MDA called for the region
to be near normal.  In  New York , the normal average temperature for Dec. 7 is
about 41 degrees, according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland. In
Boston it’s 38, in Philadelphia it’s 41, in Atlanta it’s 47, in
Chicago it’s 30, in Seattle it’s 41 and in Burbank,  California ,
it’s 54.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  