-- 
Collahuasi Miners at Xstrata, Anglo’s Chile Unit End Strike

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-11-30T16:39:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/collahuasi-miners-agree-deal-to-end-strike-union-official-says.html
Workers at the Collahuasi copper mine,
a joint venture between  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  in
northern  Chile , agreed today to end a strike over job dismissals
after winning concessions from their employers.  “Early this morning, the workers carrying out an illegal
strike inside the mine stopped their action,” Collahuasi said in
a statement. “The 30 dismissals announced yesterday will be
maintained and we will review the situation of the 32
dismissals” that were scheduled to be announced today, it said.  The workers union at Collahuasi agreed to abandon the mine
site in exchange for a reduction in job dismissals, a union
official, who isn’t an authorized spokesman and declined to be
named, said by phone from the mine site. The union previously
said the company will fire 62 workers.  Workers in  Peru , Chile, Bolivia and  Indonesia  have carried
out strikes at copper, gold and zinc mines this year to push for
improved conditions and a bigger slice of profits after metal
prices surged. Workers at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s
Grasberg mine in Indonesia have been on strike since Sept. 15.  Some Collahuasi workers called for an indefinite strike on
Nov. 28 to protest the job losses. The union carried out two one-
day stoppages this year and downed tools for a month last year.  Anglo’s shares rose 5.6 percent to 2,439 pence at 4:09 p.m.
in  London  after central banks agreed to cut the cost of emergency
dollar funding for European banks. Xstrata rose 68 pence, or 7.2
percent, to 1,024 pence.  Pits Blocked  Workers had blocked the Ujina and Rosario open pits and ore
stockpiles, according to the union. Production of copper
concentrate was stopped, Collahuasi said yesterday in a statement.
Output of refined copper was partially stopped and the company’s
Pacific port was operating normally, it said.  The company said yesterday that only 10 percent of the
workforce went on strike because of the dismissals.  Anglo American and Xstrata each own 44 percent of Collahuasi
while a group led by Mitsui & Co. holds the rest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  