-- 
Commodities Rise to Two-Week High as Fed, Central Banks Boost Liquidity

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-11-30T22:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/commodities-rise-to-two-week-high-as-fed-central-banks-boost-liquidity.html
Commodities  rose to the highest in
almost two weeks after the  Federal Reserve  cut the cost of
emergency funding for banks in  Europe  as part of a global effort
to stem the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24  raw materials  rose
0.7 percent to settle at 658.02 at 4:04 p.m. New York time.
Earlier, the measure reached 664.56, the highest since Nov. 17.
Industrial and precious metals led the rally. In the two weeks
ended Nov. 25, the GSCI gauge dropped 4.5 percent as borrowing
costs surged in Europe, imperiling the euro and banks.  The Fed’s move was coordinated with the  European Central
Bank  and central banks in Canada, England,  Japan  and
Switzerland. Separately,  China  cut the amount of cash that banks
must set aside as reserves for the first time since 2008. Global
stocks rallied.  “First and foremost, the cut has a signal value,” Ole Hansen, a senior manager of trading advisory at Saxo Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, said in an e-mail. “A lower cost on liquidity is
also supportive for commodities.”  In  New York , copper futures soared 5.5 percent, and gold
climbed to the highest in almost two weeks. Crude oil topped
$101 a barrel.  In London, aluminum rose 5.7 percent, and nickel, zinc,
lead and tin gained.  The dollar dropped for the third straight day against a
currency basket including the euro and yen, enhancing the appeal
of raw materials.  “Today’s central bank intervention supports the argument
that governments are likely to try and transition the sovereign-
debt crisis by devaluing currencies,” James Dailey, who manages
$215 million at TEAM Financial Management LLC in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, said in an e-mail. “Devaluing currencies make
commodities attractive on a relative basis. I would characterize
it as a step in the inflation direction.”  The GSCI index has gained 4.1 percent this year. The gauge
is down 14 percent from a 32-month high of 762.22 on April 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  