-- 
Companies Urged to Share Cyberthreats With U.S. Under Bill

-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 
2011-11-30T21:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/companies-would-be-urged-to-share-cyber-threats-with-u-s-in-house-measure.html
The U.S. government and companies
would be encouraged to share information about cybersecurity
threats and hacker attacks under legislation unveiled by House
Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers.  The measure would shield companies from lawsuits and public
disclosure requirements when they inform federal agencies about
their security vulnerabilities and the type of cyber attacks
they experienced, Rogers, a Michigan Republican, said today.  “There is an economic cyberwar going on today against U.S.
companies,” Rogers said in a statement. “Economic predators,
including nation-states, are blatantly stealing business secrets
and innovation from private companies. This cybersecurity bill
goes a long way in helping American businesses better protect
their networks and their intellectual property.”  U.S. lawmakers have increased scrutiny of network security
in the wake of hacking incidents at companies including  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  The National Counterintelligence
Executive said this month that hackers and illicit programmers
in  China  and  Russia  are pursuing American industrial secrets,
jeopardizing an estimated $398 billion in U.S. research.  Rogers has accused the Chinese government of launching
attacks, saying at a hearing last month that attacks from China
have reached an “intolerable level.”  Under the bill, companies would be protected from civil or
criminal lawsuits for “acting in good faith” to inform the
government that hackers have attacked their computer systems or
compromised people’s personal information.  Avoiding Regulation  Trade groups representing  cable television  and Internet-
service providers praised the legislation, saying it would help
break down barriers that prevent information sharing while
sparing companies from additional government rules.  “We appreciate that this legislation avoids a prescriptive
regulatory regime that does not fit the constantly evolving
cyberthreat environment and it appropriately allows individual
companies to determine how they can best participate,”  Michael Powell , president of the Washington-based  National Cable &
Telecommunications Association , said in a statement.  Internet-service providers, including AT&T Inc. and Comcast
Corp., may be asked to create a voluntary industry standard for
fighting computer viruses known as botnets under a proposal from
U.S. regulators. The Homeland Security and Commerce departments
have said they may give companies protections from lawsuits when
they develop that standard  Market Incentives  “There is a critical role for government in security
cyberspace, and today’s bill sets forth a path that would enable
government and network providers to better share information in
real time, while relying on market incentives,” Walter McCormick, president of the U.S. Telecom Association, a
Washington-based group that represents Internet-service
providers, said in a statement.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  criticized the bill,
expressing concern that it will circumvent existing law, enable
companies to turn over people’s personal information to the
government while giving companies legal protections from
lawsuits consumer advocates or citizen groups may want to bring.  “Doesn’t it just become easier to dump information into
the government’s hands rather than taking the time to minimize
out personally identifiable or sensitive information?” Michelle
Richardson, legislative counsel for the ACLU, said in an
interview.  FOIA Exemption  Rogers disagreed with that assessment. “They’re not going
to share information about something outside of that realm,” he
said in an interview.  “The whole purpose of this is to get their IT networks
ready to stop something before it gets into their system,” he
said. “Some notion that there is wholesale content being
transferred is just blatantly wrong.”  The bill was written by Rogers and the committee’s top
Democrat, C. A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland . It doesn’t
require companies to report their cybersecurity vulnerabilities
to the government or tell businesses which agencies to contact.  Information that companies provide to the government would
be exempt from Freedom of Information Act requests and couldn’t
be used by the government for mandating regulations, according
to the bill.  The bill calls on the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence to establish procedures that allow intelligence
agencies to share classified cyberthreat information with
private companies that are certified by the government to
receive such data.  The bill would let the Director of National Intelligence
expedite issuing security clearances to certified companies so
they can receive classified information. It also calls on the
U.S. Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board to provide
Congress with an unclassified report yearly on sharing and use
of cyber threat information. The Obama administration has yet to
constitute the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  