-- 
Company Bond Sales Plunge as Trust in Banks Fades

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 
2011-11-30T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/companies-cut-bond-sales-as-trust-in-banks-fades-amid-crisis-euro-credit.html
European companies are selling the
fewest bonds in six years as the sovereign crisis sidelines
cash-rich treasurers increasingly wary of the region’s banks.  Volkswagen AG ,  Europe ’s largest automaker, Italian power
company Enel SpA and  Renault SA (RNO)  led 80 billion euros ($107
billion) of bond sales this year, the smallest amount since
2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Borrowers may cut
sales further next year to a euro-era record low of 70 billion
euros, Societe Generale SA estimates.  European companies sitting on 540 billion euros of  cash
reserves , the most in at least nine years, are shunning bond
markets even with yields near the lowest levels since November
2010. Investors who view corporate bonds as a haven because
they’re less affected by the euro-region crisis are driving
yields lower, while banks are being hurt because they’re the
biggest holders of  government securities .  “Yields are low, it’s tempting, but then when you think
what you’d do with that cash, then a lot of that temptation goes
away,” said Tony Kendall, the group treasurer for U.K. gas
supplier Centrica Plc in Windsor, England. “Almost any bank
could fail, depending on the circumstances, so for that reason
we’re less comfortable having money with banks.”  Investment-grade corporate bonds of companies from Bayer AG
to McDonald’s Corp. yield 3.6 percent, less than the 4.4 percent
average over the past five years, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s EMU Corporates, Non-Financial Index shows. The average
yield dropped to as low as 3.1 percent on Nov. 1.  Record Spread  Investors charge a record 2.5 percentage points more to
lend to banks than companies, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Euro Corporates, Banking index shows. The gap has climbed from
0.89 percentage point at the start of the year as the average
yield increased to 6.1 percent.  “You go out and raise money, that means you have more
money that’s going to be exposed to the banking system” through
deposits, said  Peter Hahn , a professor of finance at  London ’s
Cass Business School and a former managing director at  New York- 
based Citigroup Inc. “Why would you want to do that?”  Banks are suffering as Europe’s deepening debt crisis fuels
concern about lenders’ exposure to fragile debtor nations such
as Greece and  Italy . Italian 10-year bond yields climbed to a
euro-era record of 7.26 percent on Nov. 25, while the yield
 premium  over German bunds widened to 553 basis points earlier in
the month.  France’s  10-year bond yield rose to 3.72 percent this
month, while the spread on the AAA rated  nation’s debt  jumped to
a euro-era high of 190 basis points.  Fund Retreat  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may cut credit
ratings for banks in 15 European nations as cash-strapped
governments consider reducing support to creditors.  U.S. prime money-market funds cut their holdings of
European bank debt in October to 34.9 percent of their $642
billion of total investments, the lowest share since at least
2006, Fitch said on Nov. 22. Markit Group Ltd.’s index tracking
credit-default swaps linked to senior bank bonds jumped to a
record on Nov. 25. An increase signals worsening perceptions of
 credit quality .  Volkswagen (VOW)  in Wolfsburg,  Germany , raised 6.3 billion euros
from euro bond markets this year, the biggest non-financial
corporate issuer, Bloomberg data show. Rome-based Enel, Italy’s
largest power company, was the second-biggest seller with 4.2
billion euros and carmaker Renault in Boulogne-Billancourt,
 France  was third with 4.1 billion euros.  The market for corporate bonds in Europe is unlikely to
revive next year with investor concerns about the future of the
euro expected to persist into 2012, SocGen strategists  Suki Mann 
and Juan Esteban Valencia wrote in a Nov. 24 report.  ‘Defensive Mindset’  Companies may sell the fewest bonds since 2000 as a
“defensive corporate mindset dominates,” the SocGen
strategists wrote. Redemptions next year will be less than 70
billion euros, the lowest since 2002, they said. Banks are
expected to issue a “shockingly low” 50 billion euros of
senior bonds, from 121 billion euros this year, they wrote.  “The case to take on more debt into an enterprise, even if
the yields are quite low, isn’t strong,” said Andrew Sheets,
head of European credit strategy at Morgan Stanley in London.
“The uncertainty about the euro zone and the volatility in
sovereign spreads has reduced investor confidence, but it also
has to have reduced corporate confidence.”  Revenue Hurt  The slowdown in syndicated bond sales damped revenue at
European banks, which earn fees for advising on and organizing
debt issues.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the biggest underwriter of corporate
bonds in euros this year, reported a 45 percent drop to 169
million euros in income from debt origination in the three
months ended Sept. 30, the Frankfurt-based lender said Oct. 25.
Investment banking revenue at Barclays Plc suffered this year as
a fall in debt sales offset improvements in equity underwriting
and merger advice, the London-based bank said Oct. 31.  Investment-grade companies are weathering the storm by
building up reserves. Non-financial companies in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index such as Total SA and Fiat SpA amassed a total
540 billion euros in cash and cash equivalents at the end of
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with 492
billion euros in 2009 and 389 billion euros in the previous
year, the data show.  “A number of large corporates have lots of cash on the
balance sheet, like us,” said Neil Garrod, the treasury
director at Vodafone Group Plc in Newbury,  England . “We need to
see a much more certain global environment, not just European,
for corporate M&A activity to pick up materially, which will
mean that corporate bond issuance in general will likely pick
up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  