-- 
ConocoPhillips Said to Be Planning Sale of Alliance Refinery

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J e s s i c a   R e s n i c k - A u l t
-- 
2011-11-30T17:27:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/conocophillips-planning-sale-of-alliance-refinery.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the U.S. oil and gas
company that plans to spin off its refining business next year,
is seeking buyers for its Alliance refinery in Belle Chasse,
Louisiana, according to two people familiar with the company’s
plans.  The Gulf Coast plant, which can process up to 247,000
barrels a day, may fetch $700 million to $1 billion excluding
inventory, Sam Margolin, a refining analyst for Global Hunter
Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview today.  ConocoPhillips plans to create a new company called
Phillips 66 with the spinoff of its refining, chemicals and
pipeline businesses in the first half of 2012. The Alliance sale
would happen after the split, one of the people said. The two
people declined to be quoted because they weren’t authorized to
discuss the sale publicly.  Phillips 66 is poised to become the largest U.S.
independent refiner after the spinoff, even as it reduces its
global refining capacity from 2.7 million barrels a day in 2009.
An Alliance sale, together with the potential shutdown of its
Trainer, Pennsylvania, plant and recent sale of a refinery in
Wilhelmshaven,  Germany , would shrink the new company’s capacity
by about 700,000 barrels a day.  Phillips 66 will focus on growth opportunities in its
chemicals and pipelines segments, as well as investing in
“high-return” refining operations, according to a Nov. 2
ConocoPhillips presentation. ConocoPhillips and  Cenovus Energy
Inc. (CVE)  have spent $3.8 billion upgrading the jointly-owned Wood
River,  Illinois , refinery to process increasing volumes and
varieties of crude produced in  North America , including  Canada ’s
oil sands.  PBF Possible Buyer  Rich Johnson, a spokesman for Houston-based ConocoPhillips,
declined to comment on the potential sale, citing the company’s
policy of not responding to market rumors or speculation.  A possible buyer for Alliance may be private equity-backed
PBF Energy Partners LP, which has bought three refineries on the
East Coast since 2010 and may seek exposure to other
geographical areas, said Global Hunter’s Margolin, who does not
rate ConocoPhillips or own its shares. PBF is backed by private-
equity firms  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and First Reserve Corp.  The refinery may attract buyers eager to expand access to
the U.S. Gulf Coast, where the ability to export diesel fuel to
 South America  and other markets has boosted profits for
companies that process crude, Phil Weiss, an analyst for Argus
Research in  New York , said in a telephone interview today. Weiss
rates ConocoPhillips a “buy” and doesn’t own shares.  Alliance will be one of two large Gulf Coast refineries
looking for a buyer, as  BP PLC  plans to sell its Texas City,
Texas, plant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  