-- 
Cotton Futures Fall on Demand Concerns; Orange Juice Declines

-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 
2011-11-30T19:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/cotton-futures-fall-on-demand-concerns-orange-juice-declines.html
Cotton fell for the first time in
three days on speculation that efforts by central banks to
revive growth may fail to overcome increased global supplies of
the fiber.  Orange juice  also declined.  Global cotton production will rise 7.5 percent in the year
ending July 31, and demand will drop to a three-year low, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture forecast Nov. 9. Prospects of
ample supply dimmed initial optimism today over a plan by the
 Federal Reserve  and five central banks to ease monetary policy.  Policy makers “are trying, but it’s going to take much
more drastic action” to jump-start economies, Sid Love, the
president of Joe Kropf & Sid Love Consulting Services in
 Overland Park , Kansas, said in a telephone interview. “The
ideas that Europe is going to get its act together is
questionable, and this move may be more like a Band-Aid.”  Cotton for March delivery dropped 2 percent to settle at
90.91 cents a pound at 2:35 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York , after gaining as much as 1 percent. Prices are down 59
percent from a record $2.197 on March 7.  Traders are watching for signs that demand is weakening in
 China , where the need to rebuild government reserves may have
driven a jump in imports from the U.S. during the past month,
said  Tom Reardon , the president of Delta Brokerage in New York.
The U.S. government will report weekly  export  figures tomorrow.  “Even with the robust export numbers lately, cotton has
declined, so a weak number would have an impact,” Reardon said
in an interview. “People have gotten a little tired of waiting
for a rally.”  Orange-juice futures for January delivery fell 0.2 percent
to settle at $1.761 a pound in New York. The price has climbed
18 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  