-- 
Cuomo Considers Changing Tax Code as Economy Struggles

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-11-30T22:15:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/cuomo-considers-changing-n-y-tax-code.html
(Corrects Siena pollster’s name in fifth paragraph.)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  is considering
restructuring  New York’s   tax code  as he prepares a budget that
must close a deficit as large as $3.5 billion after a temporary
surcharge on those earning at least $200,000 expires Dec. 31.  Cuomo has made clear he opposes the state’s so-called
millionaire’s tax, an extra surcharge on those who earn $200,000
or more. With the levy set to expire at year’s end, he’s now
discussing a broader rethinking.  “What I’m looking at is what do you do with the tax code
and how you use the tax code to stimulate jobs,” the 53-year-
old first-term Democrat said on WGDJ in  Albany  today.  In the past few months, the state has received a stream of
bad news. The midyear update to the financial plan revealed a
 budget deficit  that’s expected to grow as revenue from Wall
Street slump amid fears of another global economic meltdown.
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  issued a report in October that said
that finance, which accounted for 23.5 percent of wages paid by
businesses in  New York , is likely to shed 10,000 jobs by the end
of 2012.  “Since April, when the budget was passed, he hasn’t had to
change what he’s been saying,” said  Steven Greenberg , a
pollster for Siena College in Loudonville. “As he’s getting
closer to having to present a balanced budget, it’s not
surprising that his words are changing.”  Josh Vlasto , Cuomo’s spokesman, declined to comment.  Cuomo closed a $10 billion budget gap this year in part by
using the threat of layoffs to get the state’s two biggest
unions to agree to furloughs and wage freezes meant to save $450
million.  Changing the Conversation  When asked previously about raising taxes on the wealthy,
Cuomo has said doing so would put the state at a competitive
disadvantage for attracting new businesses. Rather than
reiterating that position, as he has done before, Cuomo said
today “all the focus on the millionaire’s tax is in some ways
misplaced. I’m focusing on how do you turn the state’s economy
around? How do you balance the budget in that context?”  Cuomo is taking a wider view that will help him push his
agenda when the Legislature reconvenes in January, said Gerald Benjamin, a political-science professor at the  State University
of New York , New Paltz.  “He’s changing the conversation so he credibly keeps his
promise that he would let what they call the millionaire’s tax
expire, while at the same time not losing his capacity to drive
the system,” Benjamin said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  