-- 
Cytokinetics Says Experimental Lou Gehrig’s Disease Drug Safe in Study

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-11-30T22:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/cytokinetics-says-experimental-lou-gehrig-s-disease-drug-safe-in-study.html
Cytokinetics Inc.’s (CYTK)  experimental
treatment for  Lou Gehrig ’s disease didn’t cause serious side
effects in a trial, a positive step for testing the drug’s
benefits, the company said.  The therapy, CK-2017357, caused mild dizziness in some of
the 24 patients in the second of three trials typically required
for U.S. regulatory approval, the San Francisco-based company
said today in a statement. Three patients with the disease,
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, saw their symptoms decrease, said
Robert Blum, Cytokinetics chief executive officer.  “Even after two weeks, in this study we saw trends toward
improvement,” Blum said in an interview.  ALS, a fatal disease of the central nervous system also
known as Lou Gehrig’s disease after the  New York  Yankees
baseball player who died from it in 1941, has no cure. Patients
suffer a progressive loss of muscle control and typically die
within three to five years of respiratory failure. About 5
people in 100,000 worldwide will suffer from the  disease ,
according to the  National Institutes of Health .  Cytokinetics’ medicine seeks to increase muscle
responsiveness, force and endurance by  activating  a protein that
makes it more sensitive to nerve signals. The company is testing
it in patients who aren’t taking riluzole, a generic drug
approved by U.S. regulators that has shown the ability to slow
the disease’s progression and prolong life in some patients.  The company said its next trial will test the safety of its
drug in 24 patients who are on the generic medicine, also known
as Rilutek.  Partnership Discussions  Cytokinetics is in late-stage negotiations with potential
partners to help develop the treatment further, Blum said. The
company would exchange sales rights outside the U.S. for a
royalty payment or profit sharing, which would help pay for
further studies required by the  Food and Drug Administration .  “The partnership is really important to make all this
happen, and we’re pretty confident we’re moving toward closing a
deal,” Blum said.  Cytokinetics rose 6 percent to $1.02 at the close of
trading in New York, its largest single day increase since Oct.
12. The shares have declined 51 percent this year. The results
of the trial were released at the International Symposium on
ALS/MND in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 