-- 
Daimler Sees Danger of Global Economy Slipping Into Recession

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-11-30T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/daimler-sees-danger-of-global-economy-slipping-into-recession.html
Daimler AG , the world’s largest
maker of heavy-duty trucks, sees a risk that waning confidence
may drag the slowing global economy into a recession.  “The most severe threat right now is that the current
crisis of confidence persists and feeds itself, turning the
already visible slowdown in the global economy into an outright
recession,”  Andreas Renschler , Daimler’s trucks chief, said
today in a presentation prepared for the Tokyo Motor Show.  Truckmakers are bracing for softer demand in Europe because
of the debt crisis.  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , which makes Mack trucks in the
U.S. and ranks second behind Daimler globally, won’t extend
temporary contracts in 2012 for 400 to 450 workers as it trims
European production. Volvo predicted the region’s heavy-truck
market will contract by 10 percent next year.  “We are monitoring the developments very closely, but we
don’t see any reason for panic,” said Renschler. “We know
we’ve got the strength and flexibility to manage the economic
ups and downs.”  Daimler, based in Stuttgart, Germany, owns  Japan ’s
Mitsubishi Fuso Truck & Bus Corp. Last month, it predicted that
the unit’s 2011 truck sales will beat last year’s 141,000
vehicles because of growth in Asia and Brazil, even after the
March earthquake in Japan damaged factories and halted
production.  The company’s global truck division recorded a 12 percent
increase in earnings before interest and taxes in the third
quarter, fueled by a 74 percent surge in deliveries in  North
America , where Daimler operates the Freightliner brand. The
German manufacturer, which makes Mercedes-Benz vehicles, is also
the world’s third-largest maker of luxury cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  