-- 
Dangote Cement Signs Contract to Expand Nigeria Ibese Plant

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-11-30T12:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/dangote-cement-signs-contract-to-expand-nigeria-ibese-plant-1-.html
Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM) ,  Nigeria ’s
biggest company by market value, signed a contract to expand its
Ibese plant, Chief Operating Officer Joseph Makoju said.  The expansion will double output at the 6 million-metric
ton plant in southwestern Nigeria, Makoju said today at a
conference in Lagos.  Signing the agreement early helped Dangote get “a good
price for the construction for almost half of the price,”
Makoju said, without specifying the cost of the project or
saying with whom the contract was signed. Construction will be
completed in three years, he added later at a meeting with
investors.  Dangote decided to start construction early to help meet
demand for cement in Nigeria, Makoju said. Demand for cement in
Nigeria, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest economy and the
continent’s most populous nation, may rise 45 percent in 2011,
Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc said in a report in a report last year.  Dangote Cement is the biggest company traded on the
Nigerian Stock Exchange with a market value of 1.63 trillion
naira. The company’s parent, Dangote Industries Ltd., has a 64
percent stake in  Sephaku Holdings Ltd. (SEP) , a South African mineral
exploration and development company that also produces cement.  Dangote Cement said in April that its total annual
production capacity should reach 50 million tons in five years.
The company may build one  production line  with an annual
capacity for 10 million metric tons instead of two lines
producing 6 metric tons a year because “unit investment will be
cheaper than two lines doing 6 million,” Makoju said.  Dangote Cement shares were unchanged at 105.10 naira by
12:18 p.m. in Lagos. The stock has fallen 12 percent this year,
compared with a 20 percent decline in the  Nigerian Stock
Exchange  All-Share Index over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  