-- 
Deaths on Government Aircraft Exceed Commercial Toll

-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-12-01T14:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/deaths-on-u-s-government-aircraft-exceed-commercial-flight-toll.html
(Corrects spelling of name of NTSB board member in fourth
paragraph of story published Nov. 30.)  More people have died in crashes on
government aircraft, which are exempt from most U.S. safety
regulations, than on commercial airliners over the past five
years, the first time that’s happened over a similar span.  Not including flights in war zones, accidents since 2007
have killed 52 people, including a team battling a forest fire,
wildlife and forestry workers and citizens that law-enforcement
agencies were trying to rescue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Fifty people have died on scheduled passenger flights
in the same period.  U.S., state and local government agencies operate or hire
hundreds of helicopters, single-engine planes and jets,
according to National Transportation Safety Board records. These
flights aren’t regulated by the  Federal Aviation Administration ,
which oversees commercial and private flights.  “My concern is where do we find the guardians for all
these orphans,” Earl Weener, a safety-board member, said in
Washington today at a public forum on the issue, referencing
board Chairman Debbie Hersman’s description of government
flights as the “orphans of aviation safety.”  “If not the FAA, who is responsible?” Weener asked.  The FAA doesn’t want responsibility for overseeing
government flights, John Allen, the agency’s head of flight
standards, said today. Many of those operations, such as
dropping water on forest fires, wouldn’t be legal under civilian
rules, Allen said.  The FAA’s guidelines describing when a flight is considered
a government operation not subject to oversight are misleading
and being rewritten, Karen Petronis, an agency lawyer, said
today at the forum.  ‘Lack of Clarity’  Government aircraft fly about one-tenth as many hours as
each year as commercial airliners, though their relative risk is
elevated by the hazardous missions they sometimes undertake.
Government aircraft operated an estimated 1.75 million hours in
2009, according to FAA data.  Commercial aviation fatalities have fallen more than 80
percent since the 1990s, according to NTSB data. By comparison,
fatalities on government flights, which averaged 11 per year
since 2000, have stayed roughly the same.  While government agencies may impose their own safety rules
and conduct inspections, standards vary and rules are sometimes
not enforced, safety-board investigations have found.  “This has always been the black hole of aviation safety,”
 Jim Hall , a former safety-board chairman, said in an interview.
“There is absolutely no reason that the government is not
required to adhere to the same standards as everyone else in
terms of aviation regulations.”  Oversight Welcomed  The FAA is prohibited from performing inspections and
checks to ensure that flights operated by government agencies
are safe, Les Dorr, an agency spokesman, said in an interview.  Definitions of when the FAA regulates a government flight
are confusing and often violated, Bill Payne, senior air
operations manager at the California Department of Forestry and
Fire Protection, said at the forum.  Public agencies frequently take politicians and non-
governmental passengers on flights, which violates U.S. rules,
Payne said.  Some government agencies would welcome the agency’s
oversight, Keith Raley, chief of aviation safety for the  U.S.
Interior Department , said in an interview. The department has a
fleet of 105 aircraft and charters others, Raley said.  His department requires that its flights follow FAA’s
regulations though it’s not mandated to do so, he said.  Overweight Takeoff  The lack of clear authority to oversee these flights is the
reason safety improvements have lagged behind, Hall said. Little
has changed since he joined the NTSB in 1993, he said. Hall’s
tenure ran until January 2001.  “There were numerous accidents and numerous deaths where
it was just apparent that the basic regulatory responsibility
was not in anyone’s hands,” Hall said.  That was the case in an Aug. 5, 2008, crash of a helicopter
hired by the  U.S. Forest Service  to airlift a firefighting crew
from a Northern California mountaintop, the safety board  found .
The chopper crashed and burned, killing seven firefighters, a
pilot and a government inspector.  Carson Helicopters Inc.  of Perkasie,  Pennsylvania , which
operated the flight, falsified records, leading pilots to think
they had enough power to lift off when the craft was over its
weight limit, the safety board said.  The Forest Service had required that Carson be certified by
the FAA as a charter operator and follow all FAA regulations.
The NTSB found that the agency hadn’t checked to verify whether
the company was following FAA rules.  Rescue Triggers Death  After a Maryland State Police medevac helicopter crashed in
District Heights,  Maryland , on Sept. 27, 2008,  investigators
found  that the pilot hadn’t adequately checked the weather, as
required under FAA rules. Four of the five people aboard died,
including a woman being taken to a hospital after a car crash.
The FAA hadn’t inspected the state police operation in the year
prior to the accident, the safety board found.  A hiker whom New Mexico State Police were trying to rescue
in the mountains near  Santa Fe  died on June 9, 2009, when a
helicopter rolled down a rocky ridge. The pilot of the
helicopter also died. The  NTSB said  the State Police’s
“organizational culture,” which emphasized performing the
mission over safety, was partly to blame. The FAA hadn’t
inspected the operation.  Forest Service  The Helicopter Association International, the Alexandria,
Virginia-based group that represents government and non-
government charter operators, is urging more consistent
standards be applied to government flights, Matt Zuccaro, the
group’s president, said in an interview.  The Forest Service, which operates more flights than any
other agency, has added safety inspectors and improved training
and changed procedures in response to the 2008 California crash,
Tom Harbour, director of fire and aviation management at the
agency, said in an interview.  “We’ve stepped up our program in response to the need to
keep our firefighters and our pilots safe,” Harbour said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  