-- 
Denmark’s Economy Shrank More Than Estimated Last Quarter

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-11-30T08:41:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/denmark-s-economy-shrank-more-than-estimated-last-quarter-1-.html
Denmark ’s economy contracted in the
third quarter, after households spent less and the government
cut expenditure, threatening to delay the nation’s recovery as
twin housing and bank crises persist.  Gross domestic product  shrank 0.8 percent from the second
quarter, after growing 1.2 percent in the previous three-month
period, Copenhagen-based Statistics Danmark said today. The
economy contracted 0.2 percent from a year earlier, the office
said. GDP was expected to shrink 0.4 percent on the quarter and
remain unchanged from a year earlier, according to the median in
a Bloomberg survey of seven economists.  Falling  house prices  have sapped consumer demand, while
banks are calling in loans as funding markets remain closed to
all but the biggest lenders. The government cut its 2011
forecast for private spending on Nov. 3, and estimates
consumption will shrink 0.6 percent versus an earlier estimate
for growth. One third of businesses face deteriorating financing
prospects, the Confederation of Danish Industry said this week.  “It’s worrying because it’ll be more difficult to reverse
the development,” said  Steen Bocian , chief economist at Danske
Bank A/S. “In contrast to 2008-2009, there’s not much room for
a more expansive fiscal policy.”  The Social Democrat-led government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt expects the  budget deficit  to widen to 5.1
percent of GDP next year from 3.8 percent in 2011, limiting its
scope to boost growth with additional spending.  Krone Peg  The central bank targets a fixed  exchange rate  and uses
monetary policy to peg the krone to the euro. The bank this
month lowered its main lending rate to 1.20 percent, pushing the
benchmark lower than the  European Central Bank ’s rate for the
first time. The ECB on Nov. 3 cut its main rate to 1.25 percent.  Denmark’s government pays less than  Germany  to borrow for
two, five and 10 years. Two-year Danish notes yielded 10 basis
points less than similar-maturity German bunds today, versus 11
basis points yesterday.  Denmark’s GDP has contracted in nine of the past 15
quarters, adjusting for seasonal swings, making it Scandinavia’s
worst-performing economy.  “We are absolutely not optimists about Denmark’s
prospects, given that the global economy took a marked turn for
the worse over the summer, combined with signals of continued
restraint from households and of caution by businesses,” Jes Asmussen, chief economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in
Copenhagen, said in a Nov. 25 note.  Private spending fell 0.3 percent on the quarter while
government expenditure shrank 1.6 percent. Exports grew 0.4
percent and fixed investments gained 0.3 percent, the office
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  