-- 
Maple’s TMX Bid Spurs ‘Serious’ Concerns as NYSE Awaits Regulator Approval

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-11-30T09:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/deutsche-boerse-merger-decision-delayed.html
Maple Group Acquisition Corp. said
that  Canada ’s Commissioner of Competition said she has “serious
concerns” about a proposed purchase of TMX Group Inc., operator
of the Toronto stock exchange.  Canada’s competition watchdog told the companies the
concerns are “primarily in connection with equities trading and
clearing settlement services in Canada,” Maple Group said in a
statement dated Nov. 29. Maple is offering C$3.73 billion
($3.61 billion) for TMX.  Regulators from Europe and the U.S. to  Japan  and  Australia 
have scrutinized more than $30 billion in global exchange
mergers announced since October last year amid concern over who
gets to control national  capital markets . NYSE Euronext and
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  must wait until Jan. 23 to find out if
they’ve made enough concessions for  Europe  to allow them to form
the world’s biggest exchange, NYSE Group Executive Vice
President Garry Jones reiterated today.  TMX and Maple will work with the regulator to address the
concerns, including identifying possible “remedial measures,”
Maple said in the statement. The proposed deal needs approval
from the commissioner.  Deutsche Boerse ’s bid for NYSE is the only one of the
announced deals to have been approved by shareholders, while the
board of TMX has recommended owners accept Maple’s offer.  “We’re still optimistic that things will go through,”
NYSE’s Jones said in  Singapore  on the sidelines of a conference
on derivatives trading. “There’s an ongoing market consultation
process. After that, they’ll come back to us and tell us whether
they think it’s going to work or not going to work.”  ‘Purely Administrative’  The European Union’s decision on whether to approve the
deal has been postponed for about a month to Jan. 23 because of
the holiday period, said Jones, head of global derivatives at
NYSE. “It’s purely an administrative delay,” he said.  Cynthia
Wan, an information officer at the European Union office in  Hong
Kong , referred inquiries to colleagues in Brussels.  Maple Group, comprising of Canadian pension funds and
banks, made an unsolicited offer for TMX in May, challenging a
friendly bid by London Stock Exchange Group Plc. LSE and TMX
scrapped their cash-and-stock transaction on June 30 after
failing to get enough shareholder backing and amid political
opposition to the deal.  Tokyo-Osaka Bid  TMX Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Kloet  said at the time
that addressing competition concerns was a “significant
hurdle” in relation to the LSE bid.  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc., operator of Japan’s
largest bourse, last week announced a takeover bid that values
Osaka Securities Exchange Co. at 129.6 billion yen ($1.66
billion). That transaction requires regulatory approval.  TSE holds a 4.99 percent stake in  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ,
whose bid for ASX Ltd., Australia’s main bourse operator, was
rejected in April by the southern country’s Deputy Prime
Minister and Treasurer Wayne Swan because it was deemed to be
against “national interest.”  Opponents of the Deutsche Boerse and NYSE merger were asked
to give their views on a Nov. 17 offer to divest some European
single-equity derivatives units, according to a document
obtained by Bloomberg News that was sent by the European
Commission Nov. 22. Clients and competitors were also asked for
their views on Deutsche Boerse’s proposal to give rivals
temporary access to its clearinghouse, Eurex Clearing, for new
products.  EU Objections  Most of the EU’s objections focus on “the trading of
derivatives on exchange,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told lawmakers Nov. 22. Regulators told the two
companies last month that their deal would monopolize
derivatives trading in the region. The EU can block a deal or
require concessions from companies to eliminate potential
antitrust problems.  An EU antitrust complaint sent to the companies in October
rejected arguments from Deutsche Boerse and NYSE that they
aren’t direct rivals on short-term and long-term interest rate
debt products.  The concessions submitted to regulators attempted to
assuage those criticisms and EU concerns over European single-
stock equity derivatives and European equity-index derivatives,
according to the document.  The NYSE takeover would put more than 90 percent of the
region’s exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent
of European  stock trading  in the hands of one organization.  Companies potentially affected by the deal had until Nov.
28 to answer more than 70 questions on the two proposals made by
Deutsche Boerse and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , based in  New York .  “When you put together remedies, things are going to
change to allow regulators to approve the deal,” Jones said.
“Because of the holiday period, we just got delayed for a
month. There’s nothing to read into it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  