-- 
Deutsche Bank Said to Begin Talks With Bidders for Asset-Management Unit

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-11-30T16:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/deutsche-bank-said-to-begin-talks-with-bidders-for-asset-management-unit.html
Deutsche Bank AG , the biggest German
lender, has begun talks with suitors for its asset-management
arm and may be open to a breakup of the division, said people
with knowledge of the matter.  The bank, which said last week that it’s reviewing options
for the business, may fetch less than $4 billion for the
operations, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private. While  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  prefers to
sell the division as a whole, the Frankfurt-based lender would
also consider bids for parts of the unit, they said.  The move augurs a potential dismantling of a division that
Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  built up
over the last decade to help temper the company’s reliance on
 investment banking . The sale comes as  Europe ’s top financial
regulator forces the region’s banks to bolster their capital
levels by mid-2012 to withstand losses on sovereign debt.  “Deutsche Bank has been looking at the business for a long
time and decided it’s not working,” said  Dirk Becker , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. “This is an
attractive business for someone specialized in asset management
who has sufficient economies of scale.”  Among the assets for sale are the U.S. portion of DWS,
formed in part from the acquisition of the Scudder funds from
 Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  in 2002. Also included in the
review are the RREEF real-estate investment manager, and a
division that helps insurance companies manage their
investments.  Possible Buyers  Possible buyers for all or part of the assets may include
New York Life Insurance Co.,  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ,  Principal Financial
Group Inc. (PFG)  and  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP) , Becker said. The units
up for sale hold about 400 billion euros ($540 billion) in
assets, which may value the business at 2 billion euros to 4
billion euros, he said.  The review, which excludes operations of the DWS mutual
fund unit in Germany, Europe and Asia, will be conducted
“thoroughly and carefully,” said Deutsche Bank spokesman Klaus Winker. He declined to comment on possible buyers. The lender
won’t disclose the amount of assets managed by the units.  Deutsche Bank shares advanced 6.2 percent to 28.62 euros in
Frankfurt trading. They have dropped 27 percent this year.  Representatives at New York Life, Invesco, Principal
Financial, and Ameriprise declined to comment or didn’t
immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  Capital Gap  Deutsche Bank needs to fill an estimated capital gap of
about 2.8 billion euros with earnings to exceed a 9 percent core
tier 1 capital requirement by mid-2012, according to a
 presentation  on Oct. 25. Deutsche Bank has said it doesn’t need
to sell shares or take state aid and can cut risk-weighted
assets and retain earnings.  “We’re seeing all big universal banks streamline
operations and refocus their business on what they’re best at,”
said Frank Braden, a London-based equity analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s , who has a “hold” rating on the stock. “It also goes
in lockstep with solidifying the capital base without having to
issue new shares.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 