-- 
Dodgers Judge Says Fox Can’t Question McCourt, Selig on Television Rights

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-11-30T19:28:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/dodgers-judge-says-fox-can-t-question-frank-mccourt-on-television-rights.html
Los Angeles Dodgers  owner  Frank McCourt  and Major League Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  won’t
testify next week when the bankrupt team and Fox Sports begin a
court fight over the proposed sale of the club’s television
rights, a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross today rejected Fox’s
request to question Selig and McCourt under oath about what the
company called the “secret parameters” of a deal to sell the
Dodgers. Fox sought to expand a hearing about a proposal to
start marketing the team’s future TV rights to include the
agreement between MLB and the Dodgers.  “This case is rarely pure and never simple,” Gross said
at a hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware .  A two-day hearing about the TV rights will start Dec. 7 and
evidence will be limited to experts on sports-media rights and
the Dodgers’ current contract with Fox’s Prime Ticket unit,
Gross said. The ruling was a victory for the team, which said
Gross can decide on procedures for selling the TV rights without
allowing Fox to bring up unrelated issues.  “We are pleased that the court will hear the Amended
Telecast Rights Marketing Motion on Dec. 7 so that the media
rights marketing process and the sale to maximize the value of
the Los Angeles Dodgers can continue to move forward,” the team
said in an e-mailed statement after today’s hearing.  Fox Extension  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June with plans to sell
the television rights, which Fox Sports Net West 2 LLC holds
through the 2013 season. The team wants to accelerate the
marketing process for the rights by first giving Fox 45 days to
extend its contract. Should that fail, the team would seek other
bids, according to court documents.  Fox claims McCourt is wrongly trying use bankruptcy to
break the team’s current TV contract with Fox’s Prime Ticket
unit. Fox will ask Gross to dismiss the bankruptcy case at a
hearing scheduled for Dec. 27.  Gross has ordered the two sides to try to resolve their
differences through mediation. The mediator, retired U.S.
District Judge Joseph Farnan, helped the Dodgers and  Major
League Baseball  end their fight.  Under the Dodgers’ deal with MLB, McCourt agreed to sell
the team and MLB agreed not to oppose a separate bidding process
for the television rights. Under the proposed rules, no sale of
the TV rights can go forward without approval from MLB, Gross
and whoever wins the bidding for the team.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC,
11-12010 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  