-- 
Don’t Count on China Easing Curbs: PBOC Adviser

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-30T05:09:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/don-t-count-on-china-easing-curbs-pboc-adviser.html
China ’s policy “fine-tuning”
doesn’t mean credit controls will be loosened and people
shouldn’t hope for a reversal of curbs on the  property market ,
central bank adviser Xia Bin said.  Fine-tuning “will target areas where the financial system
isn’t giving effective support due to some failures in the
system,” Xia said at a forum in Beijing today, citing examples
such as ensuring lending to small businesses. It doesn’t mean
“loosening curbs on property. Don’t count on it,” he said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month that the government will
fine-tune economic policy as needed, fueling speculation that
 reserve requirements  for banks may be cut to support growth in
the world’s second-biggest economy. Most economists expect the
government to loosen some fiscal or monetary policies without
cutting  interest rates  through 2012 as inflation remains
elevated, a Bloomberg News survey indicated this month.  The Shanghai Composite Index tumbled 2.4 percent as of 1:01
p.m. local time.  “High investment growth before the financial crisis can’t
be sustained because it has led to property bubbles and huge
latent risks in local government financing vehicles,” said Xia,
an academic adviser on the People’s Bank of China monetary
policy committee. “Under such circumstances, we must maintain a
relatively tight stance on credit.”  Adequate  Money Supply   The central bank should ensure that growth in the  money
supply  can support economic expansion of 8 percent to 9 percent,
said Xia, who is also a researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center.  Banks including UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. have lowered
estimates for China’s  growth  next year as the government’s
campaign to curb property speculation damps investment and the
European debt crisis saps export demand. A slowdown in property
sales could trigger developer collapses and lead to bad loans,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development warned
this week.  China’s economy , the world’s second-biggest, grew 9.1
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier. Expansion has
slowed from 11.9 percent in the first quarter of last year.
UBS has lowered its estimate for next year to 8 percent.  “We think a sharper deceleration in property investment is
the biggest risk to China’s economy,” Johanna Chua, Hong Kong-
based chief economist for  Asia  at Citigroup, said in a report
this week. “But a hard landing can be averted in the near term
with sufficient policy flexibility to provide offsetting support
for growth, especially on the fiscal front.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  