-- 
The Cure for an Uncoordinated Economy: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-11-30T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/the-cure-for-an-uncoordinated-economy-laurence-kotlikoff.html
If a deadly virus struck our
country, scientists at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention would diagnose the problem, inform the public, and
then prescribe a cure. If only this were true for our economic
illness.  Neither President  Barack Obama  nor the disloyal opposition 
has explained what really ails the economy. But this hasn’t 
stopped them from applying highly expensive and generally
ineffective elixirs.   The Obama administration blames its predecessor, reasoning 
that President  George W. Bush  enabled the housing bubble to 
develop and stood by as  Wall Street  churned out trillions of
dollars in deeply flawed investments. The resulting financial 
panic led to a huge, ongoing slump.  The Republicans say Obama had three years to fix the
economy and failed. Had the government stopped taxing and
regulating business, and eliminated the departments of 
X, Y and ?, the logic goes, the U.S. would be booming.  Finger-pointing is no substitute for an actual diagnosis.
Instead, let’s examine the patient to see what’s wrong.  At first glance, our economy looks much the same as in
2007. The factories, equipment, houses and apartment buildings
are all still here or have been replaced with newer versions.
The same holds for our workforce, and our technology has
improved.  So our economy hasn’t lost its productive capacity, its
real wealth. We’re just not using it fully. In other words,
potential supply exceeds effective demand, leaving  29 million 
Americans either out of work or working less than desired.  Missing Customers  Where are all the missing customers, whose demand could
justify hiring these 29 million? The answer is these same 29
million Americans. They are the missing customers. If they were
working full time, their demand could support their extra supply
of goods and services.  So why aren’t these folks fully employed? After all, free
markets shouldn’t let supply exceed demand. Prices and wages are
supposed to adjust until everyone who wants to work is employed
producing something others want to buy.  Unfortunately, real world markets don’t operate by the 
textbook. As Nobel laureate and Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology economist  Peter Diamond  has  noted , in the real 
world, there are no fictional auctioneers to find just the 
right prices and quantities at which supply and demand 
meet. Buyers need to expend time and money locating suppliers, 
and suppliers must do the same finding buyers.  In bad times, people and companies lose their incentive to
search. The perceived returns to looking for jobs or customers
are too low, because everyone thinks no one is searching for
them or their products. The result is the market failure we see,
with 29 million people fully or partially out of work.  The sheer scale and rapidity of firings in the fall of 2008
and winter of 2009 support the view that the U.S. arrived at
what economists call a bad equilibrium. “Times are bad” becomes
an easy excuse for shedding hundreds of thousands of jobs a
month.  Coordinating supply and demand is even tougher when it
comes to investment, which, incidentally, is running at a
postwar low. Investing entails spending money today to make and
sell more and better products tomorrow. But there are very few
markets in which producers and consumers can register their
future supply and demand. Economists call this a case of missing
markets.  When you look at all the economy’s coordination problems --
equating, without centralized market makers, supply and demand
for hundreds of thousands of outputs and inputs -- you have to
marvel that capitalism works at all.  Coordination Failures  Economists have spent decades studying coordination
failures. The work gets little attention, partly because it
doesn’t fit into the public battle between free marketeers, who
say the government should do nothing and let the economy adjust,
and Keynesians, who say printing money or boosting  government
spending  will help demand meet supply.  President  Herbert Hoover  tried the free-market approach 
early in his administration. It didn’t work. Doing nothing 
failed to ignite what Keynes called our animal spirits 
and nudge our economy to a full-employment equilibrium.  Presidents  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  and Obama tried 
the Keynesian approach. It did better, but the activist 
fiscal and monetary policies may have reinforced the view 
that times were terrible and that waiting out the 
uncertainty was the best move.   What really worked in 1939 was Uncle Sam’s coordinating the
labor market by demanding that millions of Americans start
supplying their labor to the military, albeit at a very low
wage.  We can do the same today, without war, by coordinating a
collective increase in labor demand to meet the excess supply.
In a recent  column , I proposed five ways this can be done on the
cheap, without scaring the public about the costs.  Here’s a sixth idea that’s less crazy than it sounds: Let’s 
have the government allocate 20 of its more than 10,000 square 
miles of public land to build a charter city. We can call it
Romerton after New York University economist Paul Romer, who 
is organizing a  charter city  for  Honduras .  With our country’s population slated to explode by more
than 130 million (today’s population of  Japan ) by the middle of
this century, we’ll need new cities to avoid horrific congestion
in existing ones. Building Romerton can usefully employ 2
million out-of-work construction workers who won’t otherwise
find jobs. And our remaining 27 million unemployed or
underemployed people can readily find work with businesses that
the new town will attract or the government can establish. Over
time, the government would sell its ownership claims to the
land, buildings and companies that it helped develop, and could
even turn a profit.  Roosevelt was right that fear is our greatest enemy. We
need bold, coordinated actions that restore faith in our
economic future.  (Laurence Kotlikoff, a professor of economics at  Boston
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  