-- 
Leader of Tepco ‘Fukushima Fifty’ Steps Down

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-11-30T03:06:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/leader-of-tepco-fukushima-fifty-steps-down.html
Masao Yoshida, who led the fight to
bring  Japan ’s crippled Fukushima nuclear station under control,
steps down tomorrow for medical treatment after almost nine
months directing the disaster response from inside the plant.  Yoshida, 56, was hospitalized on Nov. 24. His employer,
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. , didn’t specify the ailment in a
statement on Nov. 28, citing privacy reasons. The company
declined to say where Yoshida is being treated.  The nuclear engineer was manager of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
station on March 11 when Japan’s strongest earthquake on record
and an ensuing tsunami hit the plant, causing the worst nuclear
disaster since Chernobyl 25 years ago.  “Yoshida certainly won the respect of his men,” said
Shigeharu Aoyama, who met him on April 22 at Fukushima Dai-Ichi
after gaining access as a special member of Japan Atomic Energy
Commission. “His decisions and courage saved lives.”  Radiation exposure  is unlikely to be the cause of Yoshida’s
illness, Tetsuo Ito, the head of Kinki University’s Atomic
Energy Research Institute, said in a phone interview. Heavy
radiation exposure would bring a quick onset of acute diseases,
while late-onset diseases from radiation, such as cancers, take
several years to develop, Ito said.  “Yoshida has been under tremendous stress given he’s taken
the lead since the accident,” Ito said.  Yoshida informed Tepco President Toshio Nishizawa on Nov.
21 that he needs treatment after undergoing medical checks
earlier this month, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at the
company, said on Nov. 28.  Fukushima Fifty  After studying nuclear engineering at the Tokyo Institute
of Technology, Yoshida joined Tepco in 1979, according to the
utility. He was appointed head of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
in June 2010.  As radiation levels spiked in the early days of the crisis,
workers were pulled out of the plant leaving behind what became
known as the Fukushima Fifty who risked their lives to bring the
reactors under control.  Spain  awarded the Fukushima Fifty the Prince of Asturias
Concord prize in September, calling them the “ heroes of
Fukushima .”  “Yoshida has made a huge contribution and I want him to
focus on curing his illness,”  Goshi Hosono , minister in charge
of the response to the nuclear disaster, told reporters in Tokyo
yesterday. “Yoshida’s leadership deserves rich praise and he
has my sincere respect.”  Order Ignored  On March 12, a day after the tsunami, Yoshida ignored an
order from Tepco headquarters to stop pumping seawater into a
reactor to try and cool it.  Tepco said it may penalize Yoshida even though Sakae Muto,
then a vice president at the utility, said it was a technically
appropriate decision. Yoshida received a verbal reprimand after
then Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  defended the plant chief, the
Yomiuri newspaper  reported .  “If Yoshida stopped pumping seawater, workers could have
died,” said Aoyama. “They won’t forget that.”  “It’s our mission to ensure stable operations of the plant
with safety as the top priority,” Yoshida said in a New Year
 greeting  about two months before the nuclear disaster.  Yoshida thought several times those at the plant were going
to die, he told reporters who visited the Fukushima station on
Nov. 12, the Mainichi newspaper  said . Yoshida told reporters he
thought plant operators may completely lose control as the
meltdowns accelerated, the Mainichi said.  Beyond Imagination  “Yoshida told me that he couldn’t imagine such a big
tsunami would come after an earthquake,” Yotaro Hatamura, an
engineering professor at the  University of Tokyo  who is
investigating the accident, said in June. “From our
discussions, I gathered that no one at the plant could imagine
that such a tsunami would occur.”  Takeshi Takahashi, 54, general manager of Tepco’s nuclear
power plant management department, will replace Yoshida, the
utility  said  in a statement. Yoshida will remain as an executive
officer of the nuclear power and plant siting division, it said.  “I feel as if my heart is breaking, leaving everyone I’ve
worked with since the disaster this way,” Yoshida wrote in a
message to workers at the plant when he left for hospital,
according to a faxed statement from the utility. “I will
concentrate on the treatment and do my best to be at work with
you again as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  