-- 
Lebanon Agrees to Fund UN Court, Averting Cabinet Collapse

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-11-30T12:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/lebanon-agrees-to-fund-un-court-averting-cabinet-collapse.html
Lebanon agreed to transfer funds to
the  United Nations -backed court probing the 2005 killing of
former Premier  Rafiq Hariri , Premier  Najib Mikati  said today,
helping avert the collapse of his government.  Mikati said in televised comments that he insisted on
paying Lebanon’s share of the court’s costs in order to protect
the country and meet its international commitments. The payment
was made today, he said.  Mikati, who became premier with the backing of the Shiite
Hezbollah movement and its allies, said last week that he would
consider resigning if his government failed to agree on the
funding for the UN court. A meeting of Mikati’s 30-member
Cabinet that was scheduled for today to discuss the funding of
the court was postponed prior to the televised speech.  The  UN  tribunal, which issued warrants on June 30, and
requested that Lebanese authorities arrest four people
affiliated with Hezbollah, has polarized Lebanon’s political
factions. Hezbollah toppled the previous government of  Saad Hariri , Rafiq’s son, amid a dispute over the tribunal, and then
backed Mikati to take over, though the premier has asserted his
independence from the group and pledged to comply with UN
resolutions.  Tensions over the investigation have raised the threat of a
return to sectarian violence in a country that emerged from a
 15-year civil war  in 1990. Hezbollah also risks losing one of
its key international backers as Syrian President Bashar al- Assad faces a growing internal revolt and international
isolation.  Non-Cooperation  Hezbollah had pressed Hariri to halt cooperation with the
UN court and end Lebanon’s financing of the tribunal, saying it
is unconstitutional, biased and part of a U.S. and Israeli plot
to target the group and  Syria . Hezbollah’s chief,  Hassan Nasrallah , pledged that the group won’t hand over any of its
members, and Lebanese authorities have said they were unable to
locate the suspects.  Lebanon is obliged to pay 49 percent of the costs of the UN
tribunal investigating Hariri’s killing. Various Lebanese
politicians and Western countries have signaled that sanctions
may be imposed if Lebanon failed to cooperate with the UN court.
U.S. Ambassador to Lebanon Maura Connelly warned this month
“that a failure by Lebanon to meet its obligations to the
tribunal could lead to serious consequences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
Or  mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 