-- 
ECB’s Stark Says Central Banks Must Maintain Focus on Price Stability

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-11-30T00:13:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/ecb-s-stark-says-central-banks-must-maintain-focus-on-price-stability.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark said central banks must guard their
independence and keep their focus on  price stability  or risk
being dominated by free-spending governments.  “Crucial challenges in this regard include the risk that
monetary policy is overburdened by fiscally dominant regimes
caused by government’s irresponsible fiscal behavior and
unsustainable public finances,” Stark said today in the text of
a lecture hosted by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.  The ECB has resisted calls for it to step up purchases of
 government bonds  to cap bond yields, saying that would
compromise its independence and credibility. Investors are
losing confidence in  Europe ’s ability to contain the two-year-
old debt crisis and are dumping bonds across the 17-nation euro
region, driving up borrowing costs.  Monetary policy also risks being “dominated by financial
stability concerns, implying that price stability would be
subjugated by financial stability,” Stark said in  Dallas . To
make policy more “robust,” Stark said central bankers “should
recognize the centrality of price stability for monetary
policy.”  While the ECB is buying the bonds of debt-strapped
governments such as Italy and  Spain , it says the purchases are
limited, temporary, and aimed solely at restoring the
effectiveness of its  interest rates  on financial markets. It has
bought 203.5 billion euros ($271 billion) of bonds since the
purchase program began in May last year.  Weaker Balance Sheets  “The crisis is still on-going,” Stark said in a lecture
about “Globalization and Monetary Policy: From Virtue to
Vice.” Since 2007, the crisis has spread to “sovereigns with
weaker balance sheets, which in turn contributed to increasing
the vulnerability of the core financial system even further.”  With renewed prodding from the U.S., European leaders are
pondering a fifth “comprehensive” fix after an October
blueprint failed to stop a widening rout in Italian markets or
quell speculation that  France  will lose its top  credit rating .
 Germany  is pushing for governance changes at a summit next week
that would tighten enforcement of budget rules, a move that
might make it easier for the ECB to step in.  “In recent months, this negative and self-reinforcing
dynamic of adverse feedback loops between weak sovereign and
financial sector balance sheets has been all too apparent in
parts of the euro area,” Stark said.  Stark used the bulk of his speech to comment on the impact
of globalization on monetary policy during the financial crisis.
Global forces require “much greater economic policy co-
ordination among monetary union members,” he said.  He differed with the U.S. policy approach, which has given
equal weight to maximum  employment  and price stability.  “The ECB has never subscribed to the view that  monetary
policy  has a primary role to play in the management of aggregate
demand and we think that this element of the pre-crisis monetary
policy paradigm should be revised,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  