-- 
Tech Books of Note

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-11-30T22:46:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/tech-books-of-note.html
Is our technology a reflection of our
humanity -- or has it become the other way around? These half-
dozen titles from 2011 explored the connection between who we
are, and what we’ve built.  “ Steve Jobs ”
By Walter Isaacson
( Simon & Schuster , 630 pages, $35)
Walter Isaacson’s warts-and-all portrait of Apple’s auteur
manages the difficult feat of capturing Jobs’s particular genius
without succumbing to his fabled “reality distortion field.”
Reserve special pity for the succession of poor saps tasked at
various times with managing the unmanageable enfant terrible.  “Ghost in the Wires”
By Kevin Mitnick with William L. Simon
(Little, Brown, 413 pages, $25.99)
Accurately subtitled “My Adventures as the World’s Most Wanted
Hacker,” this memoir tracks his exploits in cracking supposedly
secure systems at corporations, government agencies and
educational institutions. Even greater than his technical
skills, it turns out, was his ability to manipulate people,
particularly the drones and bureaucrats who unwittingly held the
door open for his invasions.  “Idea Man”
By  Paul Allen 
(Portfolio/Penguin, 358 pages, $27.95)
Microsoft’s co-founder serves up less-than-flattering portraits
not only of  Bill Gates  but also, perhaps inadvertently, of
himself. In the most memorable scene, Gates schemes to dilute
his partner’s Microsoft holdings even as Allen is battling
cancer. It’s also one of the few times Allen sheds his passive-
aggressive persona enough to stand up for himself.  “Worm: The First Digital World War”
By  Mark Bowden 
(Atlantic Monthly Press, 245 pages, $25)
The author of “Black Hawk Down” tells the story of a sort of
Justice League of Nerds assembled on the fly to battle the
enormous, potentially devastating Conficker computer worm. As a
narrative, “Worm” suffers from the fact that, like the Y2K
changeover a decade ago, Conficker has so far turned out to be a
non-event. As a cautionary tale, though, it’s distinctly
unnerving in its implications.  “I’m Feeling Lucky: The Confessions of Google Employee Number
59”
By Douglas Edwards
(Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 416 pages, $27)
Looking for a little technology startup where he can pad his
resume and grab some free sushi, a newspaper marketing man finds
himself in charge of brand management at a fledgling search
engine. It’s 1999, and he embarks on a Mr. Toad’s Wild Ride
through Silicon Valley and beyond. The ride and the book are at
their best in the early days; both become less fun as Google
grows from scrappy if arrogant underdog to digital colossus.  “Alone Together: Why We Expect More from Technology and Less
From Each Other”
By Sherry Turkle
(Basic, 360 pages, $28.95)
Having sex with robots may not turn out to be such a good idea,
MIT psychologist Sherry Turkle suggests in this disconcerting
look at humans’ continuing efforts to draw comfort and solace
from inanimate objects. She sees us approaching what she calls
“the robotic moment,” when we’re ready to accept interactions
with our technology as equal, and in some ways superior, to our
often-messy interactions with each other. You may never view
your iPad the same way again.  To contact the writer of this story:  Rich Jaroslovsky  in  San
Francisco  at   rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Marcus Chan at
   mchan239@bloomberg.net . 