-- 
Medical Devices That Help Paralyzed Move Will Get Radio Spectrum, FCC Says

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-11-30T20:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/medical-devices-that-help-paralyzed-move-will-get-radio-spectrum.html
Medical devices designed to help
paralyzed patients move  won  U.S. regulators’ approval to use a
block of radio spectrum for transmitting wireless signals to
incapacitated limbs.  The  Federal Communications Commission  adopted rules that
give access needed by so-called advanced microstimulator devices
that use implanted electrodes to stimulate muscles with the help
of a wireless controller worn outside the body.  The devices may help stroke patients and U.S. service
members suffering from spinal-cord and traumatic brain injuries,
FCC staff said in the agency’s  proposed rule . About  1.7 million 
people sustain a traumatic brain injury annually and about
 200,000  are living with spinal cord injuries in the U.S.,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
based in Atlanta.  The frequency approved “is the most efficient for
penetrating tissue with radio waves and without which the new
generation of our implantable neurostimulator technology would
be impossible to advance,” said David Hankin, chief executive
officer of the  Alfred Mann Foundation  in Santa Clarita,
 California , which funds medical device development and asked the
FCC to extend the spectrum to the products.  The airwaves at stake are in the 413-457 megahertz range
and part of a block of spectrum used primarily by the federal
government. Amateur radio operators have permission to use the
spectrum on a secondary basis and have filed objections to the
agency over the proposed use by medical devices.  Amateur Radio Opposition  The choice of frequency bands for the devices is
“unfortunate and unnecessary,” the American Radio Relay
League, the national association for amateur radio in Newington,
 Connecticut , wrote in comments to the FCC. The group said it was
concerned that interference from the devices may hinder amateur
radio operators and suggested the agency allocate a different
block of spectrum.  The  Alfred Mann  Foundation plans trials this year on people
with head and neck cancer who have difficulty swallowing and
traumatic brain injury patients with upper-limb paralysis,
according to the group’s website. The foundation didn’t return a
call for comment on the trials. Alfred Mann is founder, chairman
and chief executive officer of MannKind Corp., a biotechnology
company based in  Valencia , California.  Some electrical stimulation systems with electrodes on the
skin that activate major leg and pelvis muscles have been
approved, according the  Cleveland FES Center  in  Ohio , which
studies functional electrical stimulation to help those with
muscular skeletal or neurological impairments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 