-- 
EFG Climbs in Zurich Trading After Offering Capital Exchange

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-11-30T16:09:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/efg-advances-in-zurich-trading-after-offering-capital-exchange.html
EFG International AG (EFGN) , the Swiss
private bank controlled by Greek billionaire Spiro Latsis and
his family, climbed the most in five months in Zurich trading
after offering investors an option to exchange capital
instruments as it seeks to meet new regulatory requirements.  EFG surged as much as 11 percent, the most since June 28,
and was up 8.1 percent to 6.55 Swiss francs as at 4:20 p.m.
local time. That values the company at 960.69 million francs
($1.06 billion).  The bank will offer the holders of 400 million euros
($537.8 million) of fiduciary certificates an option to exchange
them for bonds, the firm said in a  statement  today. EFG also
plans to cancel the bons de participation -- notes that do not
carry  voting rights  -- underlying the certificates.  “The rationale is to proactively manage our regulatory
capital and its composition in light of the transition to the
Basel III framework,” Deputy Chief Executive Officer Lukas Ruflin said in a telephone interview.  Banks are switching between different types of equity, debt
and hybrid capital in order to comply with tougher crisis-
prevention rules designed to help financial firms absorb losses.  “We believe the exchange and cancellation announcement
today is positive for EFG,”  Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at
Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich, wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients today.  EFG will manage to comply in the future with minimum
regulatory  capital requirements  issued by Finma, the Swiss
financial markets regulator, and may record an accounting gain
of 200 million euros as a result of the measures, according to
Nielsen. That gain may be offset in the capital exchange
process, leaving a neutral impact on the company’s profit-and-
loss account, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  