-- 
Egan-Jones Cuts France’s Credit Rating to A on Banking System Bailout Risk

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-11-30T21:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/egan-jones-cuts-france-s-credit-rating-to-a-on-bank-bailout-risk.html
France ’s credit rating was cut to A
from AA- by Egan-Jones Ratings Co., which cited the risk that
the country’s government will have to bail out its banks.  “It’s increasingly obvious that France is going to have to
support its banks,”  Sean Egan , the Haverford, Pennsylvania-
based firm’s president, said today in a telephone interview.  The sovereign debt crisis that began more than two years
ago in Greece is putting more pressure on France as European
Union political leaders struggle to convince investors they’ll
be able to stem its spread. The extra yield investors demand to
lend for 10 years to France instead of  Germany  has climbed to
111 basis points today from as low as 28 basis points in April.  “The EU to date hasn’t directly addressed the fundamental
problems in the periphery countries,” Egan said. France’s
borrowing costs will rise as the crisis continues, Egan wrote
today in a report.  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings, the three largest providers of credit ratings, all
assign France their highest grades. On Nov. 10, after S&P sent
and then corrected an erroneous message to subscribers
suggesting France’s rating had been cut, French 10-year bond
yields surged and European stocks dropped.  France’s rising debt also contributed to the decision, Egan
said. The country’s debt reached 100 percent of its gross
domestic product in June, up from 76 percent two years earlier,
according to Egan-Jones. President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who faces an
election in April and May of next year, has announced two sets
of tax increases and spending cuts since August and pledged to
do whatever it takes to cut the  budget deficit  to 3 percent of
GDP in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  