-- 
Egypt Elections: Facts and Figures on the Muslim Brotherhood

-- B y   D i g b y   L i d s t o n e
-- 
2011-11-30T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/egypt-elections-facts-and-figures-on-the-muslim-brotherhood.html
Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood, which set
up the Freedom and Justice Party, is expected to emerge as the
strongest player in parliamentary elections that end in January.
Following are facts and figures on one of the world’s oldest
Islamist groups:  Origins: The Brotherhood was founded in 1928 in Ismailia by
Hassan al-Banna, a teacher, and workers from the Suez Canal
Company. Initially a social organization that set up hospitals
and teaching programs, its opposition to colonialist rule gained
it widespread popular support across the  Middle East . By the
late 1940s it had grown branches in Syria, Lebanon and Jordan.
It has come into conflict with the secular governments of
several Middle Eastern countries.  Ideology: The movement’s earliest stated mission was to
promote Islamic laws, values and morals in Egyptian society,
adopting slogans such as “Islam is the Solution.” Brotherhood
members have espoused a wide variety of views since the movement
was founded. While the group officially opposes violent means to
achieving its goals, the writings of Sayyid Qutub, a prominent
Brotherhood member in the 1950s and 1960s, helped shape the
ideologies of later jihadist groups such as al-Qaeda and
splinter parties such as Hamas.  Policies: The Brotherhood has adopted a pro-business stance
in the run-up to parliamentary elections, saying it supports
private enterprise and engagement with the global economy. The
group said it would create jobs by directing more investment
than the previous regime did toward industries, agriculture and
information technology. It also said it wants to trim the  budget
deficit  and increase the use of Islamic bonds.  Organization: The highest body of the Ikhwan, as the
Brotherhood is known in Arabic, is the General Organizational
Conference, formed of deputies elected by local branches of the
party. The Shura Council has the task of setting out policies
while the Executive Office implements them. The Brotherhood is
financed by contributions from its members and supporters.  Elections: Brotherhood candidates first ran for parliament
in the 1980s, standing as independents due to a ban on the
organization. Its most successful electoral showing was in 2005,
when its candidates won 88 seats, or about 20 percent of the
total. Following the first round of voting this week, the
Brotherhood claimed an early lead for the Freedom and Justice
Party, its proxy, saying it may have won at least 40 percent of
ballots.  Given the complexity of the Egyptian electoral system,
which stipulates that half the elected members are registered as
“workers and farmers” and uses a closed proportional list
system for two-thirds of the seats in parliament, the
Brotherhood’s parliamentary strength is unlikely to become clear
until final election results are announced in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Digby Lidstone in Cairo at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 