-- 
Egypt’s Ascendant Islamists on Collision Course With Generals After Vote

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-12-01T17:52:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/egypt-s-ascendant-islamists-on-collision-course-with-generals-after-vote.html
The Muslim Brotherhood may need to
wrest power from  Egypt ’s generals to meet the expectations of
voters, whose backing helped the group claim it’s on course for
a historic election victory.  Ali al-Korey, a self-proclaimed secularist, voted for the
Brotherhood’s surrogate party because, he said, it’s “capable
of helping build Egypt.” So did Fatma Azzam, for a different
reason: she said it can help the country get “closer to God.”
And Mona Rida was impressed by the free medical services the
group offers in her working-class neighborhood.  Such support helped propel the Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice Party into an early lead, according to the group, which
said it is set to win 40 percent of ballots counted so far. Even
if the group secures a strong presence in the new parliament, it
may not be able to fulfill its pledges to voters without beefing
up the powers of the assembly.  “There’s going to be a confrontation between the
Brotherhood and the military,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of
research at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar. “The
Brotherhood wants a strong parliament and the military council
wants a weak one. The reason the Brotherhood fought for
parliament is because they’re going to use it as an agent of
change.”  Economic Turmoil  Results from the first of three rounds of voting in Egypt’s
first election since the toppling of  Hosni Mubarak , originally
due today, will be delayed as vote counting hasn’t concluded,
state television reported. They may be announced tomorrow, Al
Arabiya television said.  The Brotherhood’s parliamentary
strength is unlikely to become clear until final election
results are announced in January.  After that, voters will be entitled to judge the party by
its actions, said Moustafa Gamal, a campaigner in Cairo’s Sayeda
Zainab suburb. “Once we’re in, hold us accountable,” he said.
“If we don’t deliver then, don’t give us your vote again.”  The party campaigned on a platform to trim the  budget
deficit , link subsidies to  job creation  and help bring back the
investors who shunned the country amid the turmoil that
accompanied Mubarak’s ouster.  Egypt’s economy grew 1.8 percent in the fiscal year through
June, the slowest in at least a decade. Dollar bonds due April
2020 are trading to yield 6.95 percent, close to a 10-month
high. The  benchmark stock exchange  has rallied more than 7
percent this week, boosted by the high voter turnout and lack of
violence, yet it’s still down 43 percent this year.  Business-Friendly  The Brotherhood’s party adopts a largely pro-market stance,
supporting private enterprise and promising to create jobs by
directing more investment toward industries, agriculture and
information technology. Aware of fears surrounding its political
ascent after decades of suppression, officials of the once-
banned Brotherhood, some accomplished businessmen in their own
right, have been greeting investors and bankers at their offices
with business-friendly messages.  The Egyptian Bloc, the main secular alliance contesting the
vote, said today that preliminary results show it ranked second
in most polling stations. “This is a very satisfactory result
given the difficulties that the bloc has faced,” it said in an
e-mailed statement. “We expect a stronger performance and
higher percentages in the coming two phases.”  The alliance said it filed complaints against some
“violations” marring the process, such as “electoral bribes”
and the use of “religious slogans” in some polling stations
where it wants a repeat.  Violent Clashes  The run-up to the poll was marred by a week of clashes
between security forces and protesters demanding an end to
military rule that left more than 40 dead. The Brotherhood
stayed away from the latest rallies in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square .
Volunteers instead marched through the pot-holed and garbage-
strewn streets of the capital’s poorest districts, thrusting
group literature into the palms of passersby and going door-to-
door to canvass votes.  “I saw no other party on the scene that has a campaign
like ours,” said Rofayda Hatem el-Shazly, a volunteer sitting
under a party banner on a muddied sidewalk outside a voting
station in the Basateen neighborhood. “The Brotherhood has an
edge because of its long experience in public work.”  Founded in 1928 in Ismailia by Hassan al-Banna, a teacher,
and workers from the Suez Canal Company, the Brotherhood began
as a social organization that set up hospitals and teaching
programs. Its opposition to colonialist rule gained it
widespread popular support across the  Middle East . By the late
1940s it had grown branches in Syria, Lebanon and Jordan, and
would be banned by most secular governments in the region.  Services, Charities  Under Mubarak, Brotherhood members continued to run a
widespread network of services and charities that endeared them
to many Egyptians fed up with a government they saw as corrupt
and aloof.  In a scene mirrored outside many other polling stations,
el-Shazly and volunteers tapped on laptops as would-be voters
asked for guidance on exactly where to cast ballots and how the
complex voting system worked.  Inside, Mona Rida waited to vote. She had been impressed by
the Brotherhood’s provision of services and medical aid in her
neighborhood, she said. “They say they will help people learn
industries and establish projects for the youth. People are
scraping by. It’s not a religious thing. We need someone to
extend a hand to the poor and the unemployed.”  ‘Task of Building’  Speaking from the nearby, affluent suburb of Maadi, al-
Korey said the group offered candidates who can “shoulder the
task of building.” Many secular groups and the youths behind
the anti-Mubarak revolt lack experience, said al-Korey, who also
described himself as an “observant Muslim.” “At this stage,
we cannot afford to experiment.”  Many Egyptian Christians, who make up about 10 percent of
the population, say they’re troubled by the prospect of a
Brotherhood with more political clout, and headed to the polls
to counter that weight. Christian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ,
co-founder of the secular Free Egyptians Party which a member of
the Egyptian bloc, warned this week that the political
exploitation of religion is “the most dangerous thing for
Egypt.”  Following Mubarak’s departure, some protesters said the
military-drafted timeline for elections favored established
forces such as the Brotherhood, prompting accusations of a
secret alliance between the group and the ruling generals.
Military officials have said they struck no deals with the
Brotherhood.  “There was a temporary convergence of interest in the
early months after the revolution but there was no real
alliance,” Hamid said. “The interests no longer converge.”  Mass Rallies  The Brotherhood led mass rallies on Nov. 18 to protest a
military-backed draft of constitutional guidelines. It includes
articles protesters said aim to enshrine a political role for
the army, shield its budget from civilian scrutiny and curb the
power of the upcoming parliament.  “We reject any kind of guardianship over parliament,”
said Mohammed el-Beltagy, an official with the Freedom and
Justice party. The military, which has a network of economic
interests to protect, has said it will stay at the helm until a
new constitution is written and a president is elected by the
end of June.  El-Beltagy said parliament should have the right to form a
government.  “Having had a revolution, we must demand full powers to
parliament, the government and the president,” he said. “This
is what transferring power to a civilian authority means.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  