-- 
Telecoms Posting Monthly Gain as Futures Rise: Russia Overnight

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-11-30T03:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/telecoms-posting-monthly-gain-as-futures-rise-russia-overnight.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , Russia’s
largest mobile operator, and competitor  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  are
headed for a second straight monthly advance on prospects usage
of digital services will increase next year.  U.S.-traded shares of Mobile TeleSystems, known as MTS,
jumped 4.1 percent in  New York  yesterday and are up 14 percent
this month, while VimpelCom climbed 0.1 percent, extending the
November advance to 3.6 percent. The  Bloomberg Russia-US 14
Index  of Russian companies traded in the U.S. is down 4 percent
for the month after adding 0.4 percent to 95.41 yesterday.  Russian telecom company earnings may jump 13 percent next
year as the country’s middle class uses more digital services on
hand-held devices, said Chris Osborne, chief executive officer
of Troika Dialog USA, a unit of Russia’s oldest investment bank.
Mobile TeleSystems trades at 11 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, compared with 23 times for  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,
 India ’s largest mobile-phone operator, and 13 for Mexico City-
based  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “MTS has been a big underperformer and a cheap stock for a
long time,” said Osborne in a phone interview in New York
yesterday. “Yet on overall multiples and growth, there are many
telecoms trading at a premium to MTS but don’t have the same
growth profile. As more people enter the middle class, you’ll
get more minutes of usage and more people using digital, and
that’s what drives growth.”   Futures  expiring in December on Russia’s dollar-
denominated RTS index rose 1 percent to 147,795 by 2:50 p.m. in
New York yesterday. The measure in Moscow has dropped 5.3
percent this month, while the ruble-denominated Micex index lost
2.9 percent. The  RTS Volatility Index , which measures expected
swings in the index futures, dropped for the second time in
three days, falling 2 percent to 49.51 points.  Bank Downgrades  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, was little changed at 29.33, while the
 Bank of New York Mellon Russia ADR Index  rose for a second day,
gaining 1.9 percent to 800.33.  The Hong Kong-traded shares of United Co. Rusal, the
world’s largest aluminum producer, lost 0.9 percent to HK$5.47
as of 11:17 a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
declined 0.6 percent after  Standard & Poor’s  reduced credit
ratings for lenders from Bank of America Corp. to Citigroup Inc.  S&P cut Bank of America, Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s long-term credit grades to A- from A after the
ratings firm revised criteria for dozens of the largest global
lenders. S&P made the same cut to Morgan Stanley and Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit.  MTS Outlook  MTS’ American depositary receipts advanced to $16.27 by the
close of trading in New York, leading gainers on the Bloomberg
Russia-US 14, while VimpelCom, a telecom provider formed last
year after shareholders  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and  Alfa Group  combined
their Russian and Ukrainian wireless holdings, rose to $11.38.  Fitch Ratings  cut MTS’ outlook to “stable” from
“positive” yesterday, citing risks associated with holding
company  AFK Sistema , which has a  51.2 percent  stake in the
mobile-phone operator. “On a stand-alone basis, MTS’s credit
profile continues to conform to low investment grade,” Fitch’s
analysts led by Moscow-based Nikolai Lukashevich wrote in an e-
mailed report.  MTS stock in Moscow slid 1.6 percent to 205.48 rubles, or
the equivalent of $6.57. One ADR represents two ordinary shares.  Sberbank Earnings  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s biggest lender, rose 2.1 percent to
$10.77 in New York, ahead of reporting third-quarter earnings
results in Moscow today. Sberbank is expected to report third-
quarter net income of 74.6 billion rubles ($2.4 billion) under
international accounting standards, according to nine analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  Sberbank shares  on the Micex fell 0.5
percent to 82.60 rubles, or equivalent of $2.64.  Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. had long-term credit grades reduced to A- from A
by Standard & Poor’s after the ratings firm revised criteria for
dozens of the largest global lenders. S&P made the same cut to
Morgan Stanley and Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. was reduced one level to A from A+.  Yandex NV , operator of  Russia ’s most popular Internet
search engine, gained 2.6 percent to $21.54, the highest level
since Nov. 18, as Renaissance Capital analysts David Ferguson
and Anastasia Demidova in Moscow said that the company’s market
share has stabilized at above 60 percent after plunging in
August and September, according to LiveInternet data.  Oil Prices   Oil rose for a third day in New York after U.S. consumer
confidence climbed by the most in more than eight years,
boosting the outlook for energy demand in the world’s biggest
economy. Reports Iranian protesters broke into and vandalized
the British Embassy’s compound in Tehran also bolstered prices
for Russia’s biggest export earner.  Crude for January delivery dropped 0.5 percent to $99.25 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in after-hours
trading following a three-day, 3.8 percent jump. Brent oil for
January settlement added 1.7 percent to $110.82 on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals crude, Russia’s chief
export blend, climbed 1.9 percent to $110.84. Oil and natural
gas contribute about 17 percent of Russia’s economy.  The Micex has lost 14 percent in 2011 and trades at 5.1
times analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies. That
compares with the 20 percent slide for  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index,
which trades at 10 times estimated earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  trades at 11
times, and the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has a ratio of 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net , or
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  