-- 
English Rugby’s RFU to Name Interim Head Coach for Six Nations Tournament

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-11-30T18:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/english-rugby-s-rfu-to-name-interim-head-coach-for-six-nations-tournament.html
An interim coach will be appointed
for  England ’s national rugby team before next year’s Six Nations
championship, with a permanent successor to Martin Johnson
picked by June, the Rugby Football Union said today.  An interim appointment will be made “in the next few
weeks,” Professional Game Board Chairman Ian Metcalfe said at a
news conference at Twickenham Stadium in west  London . He said
there isn’t anyone lined up for the permanent role and the
organization will “take as much time as we need.”  Johnson quit as coach on Nov. 16 following the World Cup in
New Zealand. England reached the quarterfinals of the
tournament, one step short of its goal, as it dealt with off-
field events involving players and staff.  Former captain  Mike Tindall  was dropped from the squad and
fined 25,000 pounds ($39,430) by the RFU after being recorded in
a bar with an ex-girlfriend and misleading team officials. He
was reinstated to the roster this week following an appeal.  Players Chris Ashton and  James Haskell  were also fined for
allegedly harassing a female staff member at their hotel, while
Manu Tuilagi was fined by the RFU and detained by police after
jumping off a ferry. Coaches Dave Alred and Paul Stridgeon were
suspended for one match for illegally switching balls used for
conversions in a win over Romania.  “The standard of performance and discipline was not good
enough,” Stephen Brown, who was appointed yesterday as the
RFU’s acting chief executive officer, said at the news
conference.  England entered the  World Cup  after winning the Six Nations
for the first time in eight years. It starts its defense of the
title on  Feb. 4 against Scotland .  A long-term appointment will then be in place before
England’s tour to  South Africa  in June. A new position is to be
created to handle non-playing aspects of future tours, while Rob Andrew will become professional rugby director.  Andrew, who is currently elite director of rugby, will no
longer have direct contact with the senior national team.
Metcalfe denied that Andrew was being demoted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 