-- 
EPA Rules Won’t Cause Major Power-Grid Woes, McCarthy Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-11-30T23:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/epa-rules-won-t-cause-major-power-grid-woes-agency-s-mccarthy-says.html
U.S. regulators should give
utilities upgrading their plants at least four years to meet
restrictions on power-plant pollution,  Dominion Resources Inc. 
Chief Executive Officer Thomas F. Farrell said.  “The compressed three-year time frame for compliance is
not sufficient,” Farrell, who is also the company’s chairman,
said today at a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission conference
in  Washington . The EPA has authority to extend the deadline for
four years for plants that need upgrades, and President  Barack Obama  can delay it further by executive order, Farrell said.  FERC, which regulates the interstate transport of
electricity, is examining the effect on the grid’s reliability
of rules planned by the Environmental Protection Agency. The
agency will issue power-plant standards for mercury and air
toxics by Dec. 16,  Gina McCarthy , the EPA’s assistant
administrator for the Office of Air and Radiation, said at
today’s conference.  The EPA has proposed letting individual  power plants  apply
for more time to meet the pollution standards, according to
people familiar with the process. The agency’s plan could still
be changed or rejected by the White House before it is issued.  The process for delaying compliance “must be in place at
the time the rule is issued,” Farrell said. He is also chairman
of the Edison Electric Institute, a Washington-based industry
group.  FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff said after the meeting that
he doesn’t intend to ask the EPA to delay the deadline.  Coal, Oil Generators  Dominion, of Richmond,  Virginia , is among coal-dependent
utilities that would be most affected by the emissions limits.
The mercury and air toxics rule will affect 1,350 generators
that run on coal or oil at 525 U.S. power plants, Farrell said.  The Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator Inc.,
which runs a regional electric grid, would support a so-called
safety valve to give some power plants additional time to comply
with the EPA’s rules, Clair Moeller, vice president for
transmission asset management for the group said.  “The compliance calendar of three years is likely
unachievable by the majority” of generators in Midwest, he
said.  Wellinghoff said he supports the general concept of the
safety valve to ensure that specific risks to electric
reliability are effectively resolved. Implementing such a
measure is up to EPA, he said.  The discussion at the conference shows “we don’t even have
the answers,” while EPA’s air-pollution rules are pending, said
Nicholas Akins, chief executive officer of  American Electric
Power Co. (AEP)  of Columbus,  Ohio , who is seeking more time to comply.  Closing Plants  Power companies have said they may close aging coal-fired
plants instead of investing in pollution controls. Utilities may
be unable to build enough high-voltage transmission lines to
deliver electricity to take up the slack, FERC Commissioner
Philip Moeller told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee in
September.  “Generators should not have to choose between violating
reliability standards and clean-air standards,” Moeller said
today.  The commission doesn’t have the authority to delay EPA
regulations. Utility executives want FERC to encourage the
administration to extend the period to meet the standards.  “More time for compliance is absolutely required, at least
six years in our perspective,” said Anthony Topazi, chief
operating officer of Atlanta-based Southern Co.  ‘Not Go Out’  In the 40 years since the  Clean Air Act  took effect, “EPA
rules have never caused the lights to go out,” McCarthy said.
“The lights will not go out in the future.”  The actions are required under the law and will result in a
“modest level” of power-plant closures, he said.  Companies will seek low-cost and innovative ways to install
pollution controls, McCarthy said.  “Generally speaking, the new EPA rules will not create a
widespread resource adequacy issue,” Patricia Hoffman, the
Energy Department’s assistant secretary for electricity delivery
and energy reliability, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  