-- 
Met Set Pay $97 for Crown’s Good Duck, Bad Service: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/met-set-pay-97-for-crown-s-good-duck-bad-service-ryan-sutton.html
When you’re paying $125 for cote de
boeuf for two in a converted Upper East Side townhouse, you
reasonably expect a certain level of service.  Diners at  Crown , however, are likely to encounter eager
staff members who aren’t trained well enough to get the job done
properly.  After you fill up on sweet, pristine Nantucket bay scallops
or a great, flaky turbot, you’ll still leave Crown hungry for
some Danny Meyer-style hospitality.  The proprietor here is John DeLucie, the chef who opened
Waverly Inn with Vanity Fair’s Graydon Carter. Carter now also
runs Monkey Bar, superior to Crown in every way. DeLucie, who
also runs The Lion, is decent enough as a chef, not-so-great as
a restaurateur.  The party starts in the long, narrow front room, where a
bartender took away my wine list before I’d ordered.  A Stork Club cocktail mixes gin with lime, orange and
mandarin liquor and tastes like a screwdriver made with a can of
frozen Minute Maid. A mint julep doesn’t get the proper upfront
chill, resulting in room-temperature rye and cognac that slowly
turn into watery sidewalk slush.  Pay Up Front  Bartenders won’t transfer checks, so settle up and move to
the dining room. Table side candles (or your iPhone screen) will
help you read the menu. Everyone struggles to hear amid the ear-
piercing noise levels.  Curried squash soup, heady and soothingly warm, is a
brilliant foil for a glass of $29  Pol Roger , the cheapest
champagne by the glass. A flute of  Dom Ruinart  Rose is $40 and
bottles start at $150.  Sometimes, that bubbly arrives when you’re halfway done
with your appetizers. Waiters are as likely to steal glasses
when there’s still a sip left as they are to leave empty glasses
untouched.  Then you watch your $46 lamb chops get cold. They come with
braised shoulder and chanterelles; the ruby port Bordelaise begs
to be paired with a glass of Chateau Rayas Cotes du Rhone ($25),
with luscious notes of green olives. Wine director  Jordan
Salcito  has put together a solid, expensive list that includes
22 offerings by the glass, with whites averaging $17 and reds
around $22.  Fishy Wagyu  Soaring skylight windows, fireplaces, sketches of nudes,
and wood-paneled walls warrant steak or game, so you order Wagyu
tartare ($25). The waiter misinterprets this as ocean trout
tartare, which you start eating, because no one had the good
sense to announce the dish upon presentation. It tasted like
ceviche gone bad.  The beef tartare (the order was quickly corrected) is
another miss. Mouthfuls of unctuous, almost greasy meat, with no
tang to cut the fat or wake up the palate. Silky foie gras ($23)
is better, as is DeLucie’s sturgeon caviar from  California  ($85-
$110).  Silk handkerchief pasta ($26) is your go-to middle course.
Layers of broad fazzoletti noodles are topped with a meaty white
Bolognese sauce. Avoid short-rib tortellini ($28), in a red
wine brodo that tastes like what would happen if you heated up
red wine and accidentally called it a broth.  Grilled lobster is served, inexplicably, in a cast-iron pot
that’s too narrow to allow for knife work; it also traps the
heat so the $48 crustacean becomes rubbery as the meal goes on.
Chardonnay nage at the bottom adds the flavor of movie theater
popcorn oil.  Juicy Steak  Eat red meat. The $55 sirloin is a fine cut. Don’t expect
any grass-fed notes of iodine or offal. It’s just a charred,
juicy steak for entry-level carnivores.  Smarter guests will opt for DeLucie’s killer duck. The bird
is exactly what it should be, a rare breast with perfectly
rendered fat, confit leg and drumsticks. Splurge for
supplemental fries to sop up the drippings. Cost: $97 for two.  End with pastry chef  Heather Bertinetti ’s tasting of apples
or her competent souffle.  Crown is a decent enough place for an after-work  Manhattan 
and a steak with friends. It’s not quite ready for courting
museum donors.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Easily more than $100 per person with wine.  Sound Level: Loud, often over 80 decibels.  Date Place: Flagging down our waiter was not sexy.  Inside Tip: The bartenders stir a fine Manhattan.  Special feature: Good bread, especially the spicy lavash.  Will I be back? For a quick, late night duck.  Crown is at 24 E. 81st St. Information: +1-646-559-4880;
 http://www.crown81.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 