-- 
Tethyan Halts $3.4 Billion Project as Pakistan Rejects Lease

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-11-30T16:48:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/tethyan-halts-3-4-billion-mine-work-as-pakistan-rejects-lease.html
Tethyan Copper Co., a venture
between  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  to build a $3.4
billion Pakistan copper and gold mine, mothballed operations
that will cost 150 jobs after its mining lease was rejected.  The company filed arbitration against the government of
Baluchistan province, which refused the mining lease, and the
federal government of Pakistan in Washington and Paris, Tim
Livesey, chief executive officer of Tethyan, said today in a
telephone interview. The company has invested about $500
million, including $214 million of expenses until the end of the
feasibility study in August 2010, he said.  “We aren’t packing up and leaving the country,” Livesey
said. “We are going to mothball the exploration camp and we
have a voluntary redundancy program at the moment and majority
of the workers accepted that very openly.” About 150 jobs are
affected, he said.  The Baluchistan government on Nov. 16 refused Tethyan’s
application to mine at Reko Diq, a rocky desert location in far
southwest  Pakistan . The government in September asked the
company to explain 10 issues, including why Tethyan hadn’t
submitted plans to build a smelter in the area. While Tethyan
has proposed exporting copper ore concentrate from its mining
operations, Baluchistan wants a copper smelter built locally.  A call to the Baluchistan Ministry of Mines and Minerals
during regular working hours wasn’t answered.  Shares Advance  Antofagasta shares climbed 9.2 percent to 1,184 pence at
the close of London trading. Barrick Gold shares were 3 percent
higher at C$53 in Toronto.  “We can see no realistic reason why the license should be
rejected,” Livesey said. “We haven’t been able to get to meet
them to discuss the rejection to better understand it. Until
that happens, we are pretty much in dark as to what the real
reason is.”  Tethyan filed arbitration at the International Center for
Settlement of Investment Disputes in  Washington  and at
 International Chamber of Commerce  in Paris, Livesey said.  “It’s our hope and desire still to meet with the
government and regulators to find a solution to all this,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  