-- 
EU Ministers Back National Bank Guarantees With Common Rules

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-11-30T17:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/eu-ministers-back-national-bank-guarantees-with-common-criteria.html
European Union finance ministers
agreed on measures to coordinate national guarantees for banks’
debt issuance.  The decision today at a meeting in Brussels followed an
agreement by EU leaders last month to temporarily guarantee bank
debt in an effort to open up the funding market and prevent a
seizing up of banks’ lending to the real economy. The guarantees
are part of a package of measures agreed by the EU to bolster
confidence in financial firms that also included requiring 70
lenders to boost their core capital to 9 percent of their risk-
weighted assets.  There will be “maximum comparability,” between the
national programs, which will have to satisfy EU state-aid rules
to be published tomorrow, Polish Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said after the meeting today in Brussels. Those rules
take effect in January and the European Commission “will review
the situation” after 6 months and issue new principles, he
said.  The ministers decided that a system of coodinated national
guarantees could be set up more quickly than a syndicated or
mutualized approach, the EU said. Earlier this month, ministers
were weighing such options.  Some nations are of the view that syndicated guarantees may
present “a number of critical risks,” according to an EU
document prepared for the finance ministers’ meeting and
obtained by Bloomberg News. “There is a clear and strong link
between access to term funding and continued lending into the
real economy.”  ‘Deteriorating Market Circumstances’  “Against a background of rapidly deteriorating market
circumstances and increasing time pressure, a coordinating
mechanism should be in place in early 2012” for the guarantees,
according to the document. The guarantees should apply from
Jan. 1, 2012.  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said yesterday that banks in
15 European nations, including the largest lenders in France,
Italy and  Spain , may have their subordinated debt ratings cut to
reflect the potential removal of government support.  The guarantees are needed “to help banks continue their
lending activities in 2012,” the European Banking Authority
said last month.  Ministers had agreed that banks should not seek to meet the
9 percent capital threshold through winding up parts of their
business or scaling back their activities, Rostowski said.  “Deleveraging is not a way to achieve the required level
of capital strength,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  