-- 
EU Seeks to Split Big Four Auditing Firms in Rule Overhaul

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-11-30T18:47:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/eu-seeks-rotation-of-company-auditors-in-regulatory-overhaul.html
The big four auditing firms would be
required to split off their consulting arms under European Union
proposals aimed at reining in their market dominance and
preventing conflicts of interest.  The plans published by the  European Commission  today would
also force banks and listed companies to rotate the auditors
they use.  It’s “critical” that audits are carried out “in an
independent manner without any pollution from other commercial
interests,” the Brussels-based regulator said in a statement on
its website.  The EU is reviewing audit rules following the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which the commission said raised
questions about the quality of company audits. Regional arms of
the top four auditing firms -- KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers,
Ernst & Young, and  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  -- have a market
share that exceeds 85 percent in the majority of EU member
states, the commission said.  “Investor confidence in audit has been shaken by the
crisis,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
commissioner, said in a statement. “We need to restore
confidence in the financial statements of companies.”  The requirement for large firms to separate audit
activities from non-audit activities would amount to “a
complete ban on the provision of non-audit services,” the
commission said.  Auditing firms criticized the proposals, saying customers
would suffer.  ‘Detrimental Effect’  The “detrimental effect” of the commission plans “would
be most severe for financial institutions,” David Sproul, U.K.
chief executive officer of Deloitte, said in an e-mail.  “The capability of firms to provide quality audits will be
diminished if auditors are separated from wide ranging advisory
expertise,” Rolf Nonnenmacher, co-chairman of KPMG  Europe  LLP,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Banks, insurers and listed companies would be required to
rotate the audit firm they use every six years, with a four year
gap before the firm could be rehired, the commission said.  Such rotation “would cause serious disruption to major
corporates, and have no positive effect on audit quality,”
Nonnenmacher said.  Rotation Period  The rotation period could be extended to nine years if a
company uses more than one auditor, the commission said.  “Many of the measures proposed by the commission threaten
to reduce audit quality and raise costs for businesses,”
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in an e-mailed statement. They
“risk putting Europe at a competitive disadvantage.”  Today’s proposals will have “little or no added value
while increasing the cost of audit at a time of economic
uncertainty,” Ernst & Young said in an e-mail.  Firms would be banned from providing consulting services to
their audit clients in order to avoid conflict of interest, the
commission said.  “Today’s proposals address the current weaknesses in the
EU audit market by eliminating conflicts of interest, ensuring
independence and robust supervision and by facilitating more
diversity in what is an overly concentrated market,” Barnier
said.  The proposals “are the latest in a long line of
unnecessary distractions coming out of Brussels,” Matthew Fell,
director for competitive markets at the  Confederation of British
Industry , said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  