-- 
EU Short-Term Creditors, SEC Fines, HSBC Hire: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-11-30T14:05:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/eu-short-term-creditors-sec-fines-hsbc-hire-compliance.html
Short-term creditors of failing
banks may face losses as a last resort under draft plans from
the European Union to allow cross-border lenders to fail without
resorting to public money.  Regulators should write down only debt of a less than one-
year maturity or derivatives if losses from longer-term debt
aren’t “sufficient to restore the capital of the institution
and enable it to operate as a going concern,” according to a
draft  European Commission  proposal obtained by Bloomberg News.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services commissioner,
had delayed proposing the law, which was originally scheduled
for September and allows for creditors of banks to take losses,
because of recent market turbulence. World leaders in the Group
of 20 nations are seeking to agree on measures to wind down
failing lenders without the need for public bailouts.  Banks would have to pay into national funds to help cover
the costs of bank failure, under the measures.  The euro area’s bail-out fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, or EFSF, could be used to top up these funds
in exceptional circumstances, the draft says.  Europe ’s effort to expand its bailout fund is falling
short, forcing euro-area finance ministers to consider greater
roles for the  International Monetary Fund  and the  European
Central Bank  to insulate Spain and Italy from the debt crisis.  With prodding from the U.S. after a series of stopgap
accords failed to protect Italy and Spain from market turmoil,
the ministers started talks on channeling ECB loans to cash-
strapped euro nations through the IMF, aiming to bring the
central bank on to the front lines without violating its ban on
direct lending to governments.  For more, click here, click here, and click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC’s Schapiro Asks Congress to Raise Limits on Securities Fines  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking
congressional authorization to impose bigger penalties for
wrongdoing amid criticism that the agency hasn’t done enough to
punish misdeeds tied to the credit crisis.  Fines against individuals would be capped at $1 million per
violation instead of $150,000 and penalties for firms could rise
to $10 million from $725,000 for each act under a proposal
included in a letter dated yesterday from SEC Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  to Senator Jack Reed, the Rhode Island Democrat who
leads a subcommittee that oversees the agency.  The SEC proposal, which would also triple the amount the
agency could seek under an alternative formula based on the
violator’s gains, was issued the day that U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff in  New York  rejected a proposed $285 million
settlement with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  The proposal also contains
provisions aimed at curbing repeat offenses.  Rakoff criticized the agreement, aimed at resolving claims
the Wall Street bank misled investors in a $1 billion financial
product linked to souring mortgages, saying it was “a very good
deal for Citigroup” and represented “a mild and modest cost of
doing business.”  For more, click here.  Bank Regulator Proposes Risk Measures to Replace Credit Ratings  U.S. banking regulators proposed a rule required by the
Dodd-Frank Act that would strip credit-ratings references from
quality standards used in evaluating investment portfolios.  Under the proposal released yesterday by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, banks would have to seek
alternative measures of creditworthiness in investment
securities, securities offerings, and foreign bank capital
equivalency deposits. The agency said in a  statement  that it
would take public comments on the proposal for the next 30 days.  For national banks purchasing securities, the proposal
replaces credit ratings with a demonstration that the security
issuer can “meet financial commitments under the security for
the projected life of the asset or exposure.”  Most EU States Prefer National Bank Guarantees, Draft Shows  European Union nations prefer to set up bank-guarantee
plans at the national level rather than through a central
coordinator or syndicated program, a draft EU document shows.  National efforts to support the banking industry are the
only option “that could be activated swiftly,” according to
the document, which was prepared for meetings of EU finance
ministers yesterday and today in Brussels. The document, dated
Nov. 28, assesses other options for more closely linked banking
aid that failed to draw broad support.  As governments try to regain the confidence of financial
markets, ministers will seek to agree this week on the best way
to support Europe’s banks, in line with an October agreement by
EU leaders to aid the banking industry.  For more, click here.  EU Seeks Rotation of Company Auditors in Regulatory Overhaul  Banks and listed companies would be required to rotate
their auditors under European Union proposals aimed at improving
audit quality and boosting competition in the industry.  The plans published by the  European Commission  yesterday
include curbs on large audit companies’ right to offer
consultancy services, the Brussels-based regulator said in a
statement on its website.  The EU is reviewing audit rules following the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which the commission said raised
questions about the quality of company audits.  Banks, insurers and listed companies would be required to
rotate the audit firm they use every six years, with a four-year
gap before the firm could be rehired, the commission said. The
rotation period could be extended to nine years if a company
uses more than one auditor, the commission said.  Audit companies would be banned from providing consulting
services to their clients to avoid conflict of interest, the
commission said.  Large audit firms would also be obliged to “separate audit
activities from non-audit activities,” the commission said.
This separation would amount to “a complete ban on the
provision of non-audit services,” it said.  Compliance Action  NYSE Reviews AMR Listing on Bankruptcy Filing; Shares Plunge  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  is reviewing the  listing status  of  AMR Corp. (AMR) 
stock, which plunged yesterday after the company filed for
bankruptcy.  AMR stock was halted for more than three hours after the
company announced the filing. Swings in the stock triggered at
least 15 more five-minute pauses under exchange circuit breakers
designed to limit volatility.  While shares were trading yesterday, the NYSE said it may
move to suspend AMR should it receive evidence that the price
will be “abnormally low,” or it gets “authoritative advice
that the securities are without value,” or fall below the
exchange’s listing requirements, according to a statement.  American Airlines parent AMR Corp. filed for bankruptcy
yesterday.  Courts  Schaeuble Defends EFSF Panel at German Constitutional Court  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble defended giving
a parliamentary subcommittee the ability to quickly approve
emergency or classified euro rescue-fund actions at the nation’s
top court.  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe heard
arguments in a case filed by two opposition lawmakers, who say
the rules curb their parliamentary rights and put power in the
hands of too small a group.  The government argues the subcommittee must be allowed to
make decisions privately so that the  European Financial
Stability Facility , or EFSF, can take actions requiring strict
confidentiality, such as bond purchases on the secondary market.  The court on Sept. 7 cleared Germany’s participation in the
EFSF while stressing the legislature, the Bundestag, must keep
authority over budgetary aspects of the rescue plan. The court’s
judges in October halted committee activities while the suit is
pending. The judges are expected to issue a ruling later this
year.  The case is: BVerfG, 2 BvE 8/11.  Del Monte, KKR Deal Faces U.S. Antitrust Probe, Lawyer Says  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM) ’s $5.3 billion sale to a group of
private-equity firms led by KKR & Co. is the target of a U.S.
Justice Department antitrust probe, a lawyer who sued over the
deal said in a court filing.  Federal prosecutors have been “investigating the facts and
circumstances surrounding the sale of Del Monte,”  Stuart Grant ,
a lawyer for Del Monte shareholders, said in a Nov. 23 court
filing as part of an $89.4 million settlement of investors’
claims over the deal.  Investors in San Francisco-based Del Monte argued in the
lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington they weren’t
getting enough for their shares in the buyout. Other
shareholders, who filed a related federal court suit in San
Francisco, questioned whether private-equity firms rigged bids
to artificially lower the price paid for the maker of Meow Mix
cat food and Milk Bone dog biscuits.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment yesterday on whether the antitrust division was
investigating the Del Monte buyout. Kristi Huller, a KKR
spokeswoman, and Chrissy Stengel, a Del Monte spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment on the filing
Nov. 28.  The Delaware case is In re Del Monte Foods Co. Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Australian Regulator Loses Bid to Overturn Metcash Ruling  An Australian appeal court upheld  Metcash Ltd. (MTS) ’s
acquisition of the Franklins supermarket chain from  Pick n Pay
Stores Ltd. (PIK) , raising the bar for the country’s competition
regulator to justify denials of mergers.  Federal Court Justice David Yates dismissed the Australian
Competition & Consumer Commission’s appeal against a court
approval of the acquisition. Yates ordered the regulator to pay
Metcash’s legal costs as he announced the ruling today in Sydney
on behalf of a three-member appeal panel.  Metcash’s purchase of the stores was allowed to go ahead
Sept. 20 when Federal Court Justice Peter Jacobson denied the
ACCC’s request to delay the acquisition until the appeal was
heard. Today’s decision upholds a higher standard for ACCC to
follow in assessing the effects of future mergers.  Federal Court Justice Arthur Emmett had ruled the ACCC must
prove that its view of what a market would look like with and
without a proposed acquisition must be more probable than any
competing argument. The regulator failed to prove it would be
more likely than not that an alternative buyer would be found
for Franklins, he said at the time.  Franklins has 80 stores and 10 franchise outlets in
Australia.  The case is Australian Competition & Consumer Commission v.
Metcash Trading Ltd. NSD1533/2011. Full Court of the Federal
Court of Australia (Sydney).  Interviews/Speeches  Coffee Says MF Showed ‘Very Weak’ Risk Management  John Coffee , a Columbia University law professor, talked
about  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) ’s trading practices and risk
management and former Chief Executive Officer Jon Corzine’s
involvement in trades.  Coffee spoke on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With
Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  ESMA’s Maijoor Comments on Short-Selling, Other Rules  Steven Maijoor, the chairman of the  European Securities and
Markets Authority , said that an “end-March” deadline for ESMA
to issue rules on short selling was “very unfortunate.”  “Hopefully in future we will have much longer,” he said
at a Brussels conference yesterday. The  European Parliament 
voted this month on a draft European Union short-selling law.
ESMA would be tasked with providing technical guidance on how to
implement the measures.  ESMA is “determined to introduce some rules” for
exchange-traded funds, Maijoor said yesterday.  The rules should reduce risks for retail investors, he
said. ESMA plans to have draft guidance ready by “around” the
end of this year, he said. The ESMA chairman said he will meet
at the beginning of December with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and “a number of Asian regulators” to
discuss central clearing rules for derivatives.  Maijoor also said the agency will publish guidance on
hedge-fund pay as well as leverage levels.  Comings and Goings  HSBC Said to Hire Senior Stress-Test Official From U.K.’s FSA  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  plans to hire a senior official from the
U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  who worked on banking stress
tests as head of capital management, according to two people
familiar with the situation.  Alan Cathcart is scheduled to start work at the lender at
the beginning of next year, said one of the people, who declined
to be identified because the appointment isn’t public.  The European Banking Authority will release as soon as next
week updated stress-test recommendations for banks to raise
additional capital in the wake of the euro-area debt crisis.
U.K. banks probably won’t have to raise more capital,  Andrew
Bailey , head of banking supervision at the FSA said Nov. 24.  Cathcart, is at least the eighth senior official to leave
the regulator since the government said in 2010 it would abolish
the agency.  The FSA has restructured into two divisions to prepare for
a government-mandated handover of lender supervision to the  Bank
of England . The supervisor has split internally into a
prudential regulatory authority and a consumer protection
agency.  Spokesmen for the FSA and HSBC in  London  declined to
immediately comment. Cathcart didn’t immediately return a voice-
mail at his office at the FSA.  France’s Coeure Backed by Euro-Area Ministers for ECB Board  France’s Benoit Coeure has been backed by euro-area finance
ministers to succeed Italy’s Lorenzo Bini Smaghi on the European
Central Bank’s Executive Board.  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of
finance chiefs from the 17 euro nations, said at a press
briefing yesterday after a meeting in Brussels that the groups
unanimously backed Coeure. His nomination must now be approved
by European Union leaders, which is likely to happen when they
meet on Dec. 8.  Coeure, currently chief economist at the French Treasury,
would give Europe’s second-largest economy a voice on the ECB
board, which it has lacked since Jean-Claude Trichet’s term as
the central bank’s president ended last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 