-- 
EU to Overhaul Bank State-Aid Rules Amid Sovereign-Debt Crisis

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-11-30T14:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/eu-to-overhaul-bank-state-aid-rules-amid-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
European Union regulators may shield
banks from paying extra costs for guarantees from governments
embroiled in  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis under an overhaul of
state-aid rules to be published tomorrow.  The European Commission’s updated rules on state aid for
lenders may dilute the effect of turmoil in the euro area on the
fees that banks have to pay for guarantees on their loans and
bonds, two people familiar with the situation said last week.
Under the plans, the formula for setting the fees would reduce
the impact of soaring debt-insurance costs faced by the country
giving the backstops, one of the people said.  “Renewed tensions” in financial markets are forcing EU
regulators to extend into 2012 special state aid rules for banks
that have allowed governments to inject billions of euros into
the industry, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia   said 
this month. He said he was planning to “clarify and update the
rules on pricing and other conditions.”  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said this week that banks in
15 European nations, including the largest lenders in France,
Italy and  Spain , may have their subordinated debt ratings cut to
reflect the potential removal of government support.  The EU may ease restructuring requirements for banks with
capital shortfalls that are a direct result of European
sovereign debt losses, the Financial Times Deutschland  reported 
today, citing details of the draft measures.  Pricing of Guarantees  Cristina Arigho, a spokeswoman for the commission in
Brussels, declined to comment on the content of EU measures.  Some EU governments are calling for regulators to
reconsider the planned changes to pricing bank guarantees,
according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News yesterday.  EU governments spent 757 billion euros ($1 trillion) in
state guarantees for banks from October 2008 until December
2010. EU regulators have ordered banks that received bailouts to
shrink their balance sheets and change their business models.  Under current rules, a bank that gets a state guarantee
pays a fee to the government according to a pricing formula
partly based on the lender’s credit-default swaps between
January 2007 and August 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 