-- 
EU Banks Jump After Central Banks Cut Rate on Dollar Swaps

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-11-30T14:29:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/european-banks-jump-after-central-banks-cut-rate-on-dollar-swaps.html
Deutsche Bank AG  and Barclays Plc
led a rally in European bank stocks after the world’s most
powerful central banks lowered the cost of emergency dollar
funding in response to  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Barclays  climbed (BARC)  as much as 9.4 percent in  London  trading,
and was 10.7 pence higher at 179.7 pence at 2:26 p.m. local
time. Deutsche Bank  rose  5.2 percent in Frankfurt, while BNP
Paribas SA and Credit Agricole SA gained in Paris. The 46-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index jumped
almost 5 percent.  European banks have had to pay rising costs for dollar
funding after U.S. money market funds progressively curbed their
lending amid concerns over the region’s debt crisis. Those
higher costs have in turn led banks, including BNP Paribas and
 Societe Generale , to scale back their own lending operations in
the U.S. currency, threatening to worsen an economic slowdown.  “This demonstrates that central banks recognize the
difficult situation and are willing to act in concert,” said
Peter Braendle, who helps manage about $60 billion at Swisscanto
Asset Management in Zurich. “The market thinks it’s a great idea
-- but for how long is the question.”  Funding Costs  The cost for European banks to fund in dollars rose earlier
today to the highest level since October 2008, a month after New
York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for  bankruptcy
protection . Banks are also more reluctant to lend to one
another, driving the Euribor-OIS spread to 98.2 basis points at
9:15 a.m. in London, the widest gap since March 2009 and up from
96.6 basis points yesterday.  The U.S. Federal Reserve and five more central banks agreed
to reduce the  interest rate  on dollar liquidity swap lines, a
move designed to make it cheaper for banks to borrow in dollars.  “The central banks are clearly responding to the surge in
dollar costs,” said  Patrick Jacq , a senior fixed-income
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in Paris. “This is good news.”  The central banks lowered the interest rate to the dollar
overnight index swap rate plus 50 basis points, or half a
percentage point, from 100 basis points, the Fed said in a
statement in  Washington . The authorization of the swap
arrangements has been extended through Feb. 1, 2013. The Bank of
Canada, Bank of England, Bank of Japan,  European Central Bank 
and Swiss National Bank are involved in the coordinated action.  “Concerted action by central banks to tackle what has
become an increasingly debilitating crisis in the eurozone is a
breath of fresh air,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of
Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London, said in an interview. “This
move is in response to the severity of the funding squeeze in
the banking sector and is designed to forestall a credit
crunch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 