-- 
Euro Ministers Seek Greater IMF Role as Bailout-Fund Expansion Falls Short

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-11-30T17:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/euro-ministers-seek-greater-imf-role-as-bailout-fund-expansion-falls-short.html
European finance ministers said they
would seek a greater role for the  International Monetary Fund 
alongside their own bailout fund in their latest gamble at
taming the  euro zone ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Ministers turned to the IMF after conceding that higher
 interest rates  and lower appetite for European bonds made it
impossible for the  European Financial Stability Facility  to be
leveraged up to its 1 trillion euro ($1.3 trillion) target.
Meeting in Brussels, the ministers also suggested that any IMF
help or increase in bond purchases by the EFSF, and possibly by
the ECB, depends on a Dec. 9 summit of heads of government
accepting German demands for  governance changes  that would
tighten enforcement of budget rules.  “The feasibility of interventions by both bodies depends
on making progress on institutional matters such as moving
toward fiscal union,” new Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said after the meeting. “The euro summit of next week will be
fundamental because further progress has to achieved on the
governance of the euro zone.”  The finance chiefs of the 17 nations using the euro agreed
to work on boosting the resources of the IMF so it can
“cooperate more closely” with the  EFSF , Luxembourg’s Jean- Claude Juncker said yesterday. Today, speaking to RTL Luxembourg
radio, he said 750 billion euros was a more likely target.  ‘Very, Very Credible’  “If we could see the proposed combination of IMF and ECB
action, obviously that would be very, very credible to the
market,” Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said today.  Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said in an
interview that “if there’s nothing else left on the table” and
the crisis continues, “then I’m ready to think about
strengthening the role of the ECB, but as I already mentioned
earlier, I prefer strengthening the role of the IMF.”  After a series of stop-gap accords failed to protect  Italy 
and  Spain  from surging bond yields, Europe is under growing
pressure from U.S. leaders and international financial markets
to find ways to boost the EFSF’s effectiveness. The finance
chiefs agreed on a plan yesterday to guarantee up to 30 percent
of bond issues from troubled governments and to develop
investment vehicles that would boost the facility’s ability to
intervene in primary and secondary bond markets.  IMF Resources  The combination will guarantee that all euro region members
will meet their financing needs going into next year, German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said. “We know what the
refinancing needs are,” he said. “The placement of bonds in
the primary market has to be assured, but that’s something we
can manage by means of the instruments of the EFSF and in
cooperation with the IMF, and well beyond the first quarter.”  With about $390 billion currently available for lending,
the Washington-based IMF may not have enough money to meet
demand if the global outlook worsens, managing director
 Christine Lagarde  has said. The IMF is co-funding the bailouts
of Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  and is preparing to send a team
to Italy for an unprecedented audit of that country’s efforts to
cut its debt.  “We’re ready in general to increase the IMF’s funds by
means of bilateral loans,” Schaeuble told reporters. “If the
IMF, to widen its leeway to act, wants to increase its Special
Drawing Rights, then that’s something we’re ready to talk
about.”  ‘Comprehensive’ Proposals  Boosting the IMF’s resources may not be so simple, said
 Tony Fratto , former White House and Treasury Department
spokesman in the George W. Bush administration. “It will be
very difficult if not impossible for the U.S. to contribute
fresh resources to the IMF,” he said in an e-mailed comment.  Lagarde, a former French finance minister, said this week
in  Lima ,  Peru , that  Europe  needs “a comprehensive, rapid set of
proposals that would form part of a comprehensive solution, and
the IMF can be a party to that.”  Italy’s Monti, who also holds the finance ministry
portfolio in his government, said the Dec. 9 summit will be
“fundamental” for calming financial turmoil which has driven
Italian to Spanish bond yields to euro-era record highs,
threatened  France ’s top debt rating, and even resulted in the
German government having trouble placing its debt.  ‘Optimum Currency Area’  “Dec. 9 will be an important step towards the construction
of an optimum currency area,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said. “For that, we need more surveillance, more
budgetary consolidation, as well as fiscal and economic
convergence and regional solidarity.”  The issue of the ECB stepping up its purchases of Spanish
and Italian debt to bring down their borrowing costs was
discussed “at the margins” of today’s meeting, said Ireland’s
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan .  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter today expressed some
flexibility on her previous opposition to ECB buying.  “There is a discussion on how the ECB can be better
enabled to buy bonds,” said Fekter, whose country along with
 Germany  has been one of the main opponents of a greater role for
the ECB. “The ECB has a very strong role already. Since we need
an instrument that can act flexibly with regard to the
refinancing of banks and states, I can imagine an evolution.”  Monti denied that Italy has made any approach for help to
the IMF. He said his partners responded positively to his plans
for cutting pension spending, loosening  labor laws , and raising
some taxes. The package will be presented Dec. 5.  The euro-region finance ministers last night approved a 5.8
billion-euro loan to  Greece  under last year’s bailout after
eliciting budget-austerity pledges from Greek political leaders
backing a unity government. The ministers also agreed to appoint
France’s Benoit Coeure to a soon-to-be empty spot on the ECB’s
board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Brussels at  gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Brussels at  abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  