-- 
ECB’s Stark Says Euro Area Nations Must Reduce Wages to Help Exit Crisis

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-11-30T04:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/euro-area-must-cut-wages-to-exit-crisis-stark.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark said the only way for the region to
exit its debt crisis is for governments to reduce budget
deficits and embrace wage cuts and other structural changes.  “There is only one instrument left, which is adjustment in
relative prices in wages, in salaries, in costs,” Stark said in
remarks after a speech hosted by the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Dallas  yesterday. “The ECB does not have the powers to support
governments.”  The ECB has resisted calls to become a lender of last
resort, saying its mandate prevents the bank from propping up
irresponsible  government spending . Even so,  Germany  is pushing
for governance changes at a summit next week that would tighten
enforcement of budget rules, a move that might make it easier
for the ECB to play a bigger part in supporting euro-area
nations.  Euro-area finance ministers approved enhancements to their
bailout fund yesterday while backing off from setting a target
for its firepower and seeking a greater role for the
 International Monetary Fund  in fighting the debt crisis.  The finance chiefs of the 17 nations using the euro agreed
to work on boosting the resources of the IMF so it can
“cooperate more closely” with the European Financial Stability
Facility, Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters late
yesterday in Brussels after leading the meeting.  Greater roles for both the ECB and the IMF are “on the
table,” Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said as he
left the meeting.  Channeling Loans  The ministers have started talks on channeling ECB loans to
cash-strapped euro nations through the IMF, aiming to bring the
central bank on to the front lines without violating its ban on
direct lending to governments, according to two officials
familiar with the discussions.  Stark, asked yesterday if the ECB could lend to the IMF,
said, “we are not a member of the IMF.”  Stark said that while “many countries in the euro area
have not adjusted to the conditions in the monetary Union,” he
is “very optimistic” that the euro will survive the crisis.  In prepared remarks, Stark said central banks must guard
their independence and keep their focus on price stability or
risk being dominated by free-spending governments.  ‘Crucial Challenges’  “Crucial challenges in this regard include the risk that
monetary policy is overburdened by fiscally dominant regimes
caused by government’s irresponsible fiscal behavior and
unsustainable public finances,” Stark said.  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said separately
that any lasting euro-area backstop must come from governments,
while the ECB sticks to its mandate of ensuring price stability.
Reiterating a speech delivered in  Tokyo  earlier this week, Noyer
said in  Singapore  that it’s essential to stabilize European bond
markets and the ECB’s current bond-buying program is “totally
justified.”  The ECB needs to ensure the euro-area banking system has
access to liquidity, Noyer also said.  Stark used the bulk of his speech to discuss the impact of
globalization on monetary policy during the financial crisis.
Global forces require “much greater economic policy co-
ordination among monetary union members,” he said.  He differed with the U.S. policy approach, which has given
equal weight to maximum employment and  price stability .  “The ECB has never subscribed to the view that monetary
policy has a primary role to play in the management of aggregate
demand and we think that this element of the pre-crisis monetary
policy paradigm should be revised,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Dallas at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  