-- 
Euro Gains as Central Banks Ease Dollar Funding; Yen Falls as Rand Climbs

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-11-30T22:21:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/euro-falls-on-concern-leaders-failing-to-stop-contagion-dollar-yen-gain.html
The euro gained the most in a month
against the dollar after the  Federal Reserve  and five other
central banks acted to make more funds available to lenders as
Europe’s debt crisis threatens global economic growth.  The dollar fell versus all of its 16 most-traded peers and
the yen declined against most as investors sought higher-
yielding assets.  China  lowered  reserve requirements  for banks
earlier for the first time since 2008.  South Africa ’s rand and
 Australia ’s dollar climbed.  “It’s been a major risk-positive move,” said  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York. “This addresses the funding issue, but if
this was it, the market would become disillusioned quite quickly
again. There’s going to need to be follow-up of a more
substantial order.”  The euro strengthened 1 percent to $1.3446 at 5 p.m. in  New
York  and reached $1.3533, the strongest level since Nov. 22. It
fell 3 percent this month after gaining 3.5 percent in October,
and was headed for a 2011 gain of 0.4 percent. The yen fell 0.6
percent to 104.37 per euro. The Japanese currency rose 0.4
percent to 77.62 per dollar, extending its November gain to 0.7
percent. It was poised for a 4.5 percent advance this year.  Europe’s 17-nation currency gained as much as 1.6 percent
today, the biggest intraday jump since Oct. 27, when European
leaders agreed to expand their rescue fund and reached an accord
with lenders on 50 percent writedowns for Greek debt.  Dollar Swap Lines  The premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight from
central banks will fall by half a percentage point to 50 basis
points, the Fed said today in a statement. The so-called dollar
swap lines will be extended by six months to Feb. 1, 2013. The
Fed coordinated the move with the  European Central Bank  and the
central banks of  Canada , Switzerland, Japan and the U.K.  The six central banks also agreed to create temporary
bilateral swap programs so funding can be provided in any of the
currencies “should market conditions so warrant.” Those swap
lines were also authorized through Feb. 1, 2013.  The cost for European banks to fund in dollars fell for the
first time in six days. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap, the rate banks pay to convert euro payments into dollars,
fell to 1.31 percentage points below the euro interbank offer
rate. It touched 1.63 percentage points earlier, the most
expensive on an intraday basis since October 2008.  “It doesn’t solve all of the euro zone’s problems, but it
reduces some of the financial-system concern,”  Greg Anderson , a
currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said of the
banks’ action.  Finance Ministers  European Union finance ministers agreed today in Brussels
on measures to coordinate national guarantees for banks’ debt
issuance. There will be “maximum comparability” between the
national programs, which will have to satisfy EU state-aid rules
to be published tomorrow, Polish Finance Minister  Jacek
Rostowski  said after a meeting.  Europe ’s shared currency weakened earlier after euro-area
finance ministers conceded yesterday that efforts to expand
their bailout fund missed the target. They agreed at a meeting
to work on boosting the resources of the  International Monetary
Fund  so it can “cooperate more closely” with the European
Financial Stability Facility, Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker
told reporters.  The euro declined 1.3 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar gained 6.4
percent, and the yen appreciated 3.4 percent.  China’s Move  The dollar and yen slid earlier today as China, in a move
to encourage growth, cut the amount of cash banks must set aside
as reserves, damping demand for safer assets. The People’s Bank
of China said reserve ratios will decline by 50 basis points
effective Dec. 5. That may add 350 billion yuan ($55 billion) to
the nation’s financial system, according to UBS AG.  Stocks climbed, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
surging 4.3 percent.  South Africa’s rand and Australia’s dollar were the biggest
winners against the greenback among major currencies. The rand
gained 2.9 percent to 8.1089, and the Aussie advanced 2.8
percent to $1.0283.  Canada’s dollar rose after the nation’s economy grew at a
3.5 percent annualized pace in the third quarter, beating the 3
percent expansion forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. It
strengthened 1.4 percent to C$1.0174.  Dollar Index (DXY)   The Dollar Index dropped 0.9 percent to 78.373. It remained
lower after an ADP Employer Services report showed U.S.
companies added 206,000 workers to payrolls in November, more
than the 130,000 gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The
Chicago Purchasing Managers Index for November and pending home
sales in October also increased more than forecast.  The Fed’s Beige Book survey released today said the  U.S.
economy  expanded at a “moderate” pace in 11 of 12 districts,
led by gains in manufacturing and consumer spending. The report
covers October and the first half of November. It reinforces the
central bank’s view that the economy, while strong enough to
skirt a recession, remains too weak to bring down a jobless rate
stuck near 9 percent or higher for more than two years.  Japan  sold 9.09 trillion yen ($116.5 billion) in the
foreign-exchange market from Oct. 28 to Nov. 28, the Ministry of
Finance said on its website today.  The intervention to stem yen gains was the biggest on a
monthly basis, surpassing the sale of 4.51 trillion yen in
August, according to ministry data dating to 1991. The yen rose
to a post-World War II record of 75.35 per dollar on Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  