-- 
Euro-Region Inflation Steady; Jobless Increase

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-11-30T10:11:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/euro-region-inflation-steady-unemployment-rises.html
European inflation  remained at a
three-year high and unemployment increased to the highest in
more than 13 years, undermining an economy already hit by a
worsening fiscal crisis.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro area held at 3
percent in November, the European Union’s  statistics office  in
Luxembourg said in an initial estimate today. The region’s
unemployment rate rose to 10.3 percent in October from 10.2
percent in the previous month, according to a separate report.
That’s the highest since June 1998, before the euro was
introduced, according to Eurostat.  The  European Central Bank  earlier this month unexpectedly
cut interest rates as the region’s worsening fiscal crisis
pushed the economy toward its second recession in as many years.
While the euro area is showing signs of a deepening slump and
companies including  Deutsche Bank AG  are cutting jobs, policy
makers have rejected calls to counter the turmoil by printing
money.  “The very serious possibility of  euro zone  gross domestic
product contraction in the fourth quarter, coupled with recent
overall signs that underlying inflationary pressures are easing,
provides a compelling case for the ECB to cut interest rates
again” next week, said  Howard Archer , chief European economist
at IHS Global Insight in  London . “It’s evident that both
businesses and consumers are very worried.”  IMF Role  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.3276 at 11:07 a.m. in Brussels.  Economists had forecast euro-region unemployment to hold at
10.2 percent in October, according to the median of 29 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. In the 27-member European Union, the
jobless rate was 9.8 percent last month.  Euro-region finance ministers said at a meeting in Brussels
late yesterday that they would seek a greater role for the
 International Monetary Fund  in fighting the worsening debt
crisis. European heads of governments meet on Dec. 9.  The European Commission said on Nov. 10 that euro-region
inflation may average 2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent in
2012. It also cut its growth forecasts for this year and next,
citing the turmoil among the biggest risks. The ECB, which aims
to keep annual gains in consumer prices just below 2 percent,
will release its latest estimates on Dec. 8.  Financial Job Losses  With tougher budget cuts eroding  consumer spending  and
global export demand cooling, the economy is showing increasing
signs of slowdown. European  economic confidence  dropped more
than economists forecast in November to the lowest in two years,
while services and manufacturing output contracted.  About 16.29 million people were unemployed in October in
the euro region, up 126,000 from the previous month, today’s
report showed. At 22.8 percent,  Spain  had the highest jobless
rate. Austria and Luxembourg had the lowest rates of 4.1 percent
and 4.7 percent, respectively.  Job losses in the global financial services industry this
year are close to surpassing 200,000 as Citigroup Inc.,  France ’s
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Bank of America Corp. eliminate jobs to lower
costs. BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank, said on Nov. 16 it
will trim about 1,400 positions. Deutsche Bank last month
announced 500 job cuts and further writedowns of Greek bond
holdings in the wake of the crisis.  Rate Cut  The ECB stepped up bond purchases last week as yields rose
across the area. While officials were forced to resume purchases
of covered bonds and extend cash provisions to banks, they have
pushed back against investors and governments calling them to
backstop the currency bloc by boosting bond-market
interventions.  ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark from  Germany 
resigned in September to protest the central bank’s purchases of
 government bonds  and new President Mario Draghi has called on
governments to step up efforts to contain the turmoil.  “The ECB will continue to cut  interest rates  next week,”
said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in  Frankfurt .
“It finds it easier to lower borrowing costs than pledge large
packages on government bonds and may cut the benchmark below 1
percent if the situation continues to worsen.”  The statistics office will release a breakdown of November
consumer prices next month. Euro-area  core inflation , which
excludes volatile costs such as energy, held at 1.6 percent in
October from the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  