-- 
European Stocks Rally After Central Banks Ease Dollar Funding

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-11-30T16:51:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/european-stock-index-futures-decline-on-s-p-downgrades-of-global-banks.html
European stocks  jumped, posting
their biggest four-day rally since November 2008, as the  Federal
Reserve  and five other central banks lowered the cost of dollar
funding and China cut its reserve ratio for banks.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rallied.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, paced gains in
 commodity shares .  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-largest oil company,
rose the most in two months.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 3.6 percent to 240.08
at the close. The  benchmark measure  has increased 9.1 percent
over the last four days. The Stoxx 600 fell as much as 1.1
percent earlier today, after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the credit
ratings of global banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   “You have central banks acting in a coordinated manner,”
said Henrik Drusebjerg, who helps oversee $230 billion as senior
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “You had  China 
moving today too and you have the hope that European politicians
will use their next meeting to get in front of the problem
instead of being behind.”  The Fed, Bank of Canada, Bank of England, Bank of Japan,
 European Central Bank  and Swiss National Bank agreed to reduce
the  interest rate  on dollar liquidity swap lines by 50 basis
points and extend their authorization through Feb. 1, 2013.  Chinese Reserve Ratio  China said it will cut the reserve requirement ratio for
banks by 0.5 percentage points from Dec. 5.  “This measure shows that authorities are controlling the
evolution of the economy to avoid a collapse in China,” said
Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas SA
in Luxembourg. “It’s good news. It means China will avoid the
worst scenario of a hard landing.”  Euro-area finance ministers approved enhancements to their
bailout fund at their meeting in Brussels yesterday.  The Stoxx 600 has still dropped 1.4 percent in November,
declining for the sixth month in seven, as Italian bond yields
surged and euro-area policy makers struggled to agree on a plan
to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  National benchmark equity indexes advanced in every
western-European market except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index increased 3.2 percent,  France ’s CAC 40 Index jumped 4.2
percent and  Germany ’s DAX Index surged 5 percent.  Bank Bonds  Finance ministers of the 27-nation European Union are
meeting in Brussels today to seek agreement on how to
temporarily guarantee banks’ bond issuance in order to improve
funding conditions for lending. EU leaders agreed last month to
provide the guarantees to restore investor confidence in banks.  “I’m optimistic in the short term, until year end,” said
Guillaume Chaloin, a fund manager at Meeschaert Asset Management
in Paris, which oversees $3.3 billion in assets. “We’re waiting
for a clear decision from European policy makers. The meeting of
finance ministers wasn’t too bad.”  European heads of government meet on Dec. 9 in Brussels,
with Germany pushing for governance changes that would tighten
enforcement of budget rules. The move might make it easier for
the European Central Bank to play a bigger part in supporting
euro-area nations, possibly channeling loans through the
 International Monetary Fund , two officials familiar with the
matter said yesterday.  In the U.S., companies added 206,000 workers in November,
according to a report by ADP Employer Services. That surpassed
economist estimates.  Banks Rebound  A gauge of  European banks , which had earlier declined on
S&P rating cuts, jumped 4.4 percent. Barclays, Britain’s second-
largest lender by assets, surged 6.7 percent to 180.25 pence.
Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, soared 6.2 percent to
28.62 pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  jumped 7.1 percent to
24.83 pence.  BHP advanced 6.2 percent to 1,949 pence. Rio Tinto Group,
the world’s second-biggest mining company, climbed 6.4 percent
to 3,339 pence.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  jumped 6.5 percent to 1,017 pence.  A
gauge of mining shares  rose 6 percent for the best performance
in the Stoxx 600.  BP rose 5 percent to 460.75 pence for the largest
contribution to the Stoxx 600 index’s advance.  Grifols SA (GRF)  increased 5.4 percent to 12.01 euros for the
biggest jump this year. The stock was rated “buy” in new
coverage at Deutsche Bank AG.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  climbed 8.3 percent to 11.57 Swiss
francs.  Wendel SA soared 16 percent to 53.33 euros, the biggest
gain since at least 1989, for the biggest gain in the Stoxx 600.
TE Connectivity Ltd., the world’s largest electrical-connections
maker, agreed to buy Deutsch Group SAS from  Wendel (MF)  for about
$2.1 billion.  Saab AB (SAABB)  surged 11 percent to 120.50 kronor, the biggest
rally since July 2009, after Switzerland said it decided to buy
22 Gripen fighter jets from Sweden’s Saab AB. The plan will cost
about 3.1 billion francs, the country’s defense minister Ueli Maurer said at a press briefing today, adding that the actual
order to Saab will be lower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  