-- 
Europe Faces Repeat of Credit Crunch, Liikanen Tells Kauppalehti

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-11-30T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/europe-faces-repeat-of-credit-crunch-liikanen-tells-kauppalehti.html
Europe risks descending into a new
credit crunch as it lacks the tools to stamp out the spread of
the debt crisis, European Central Bank council member  Erkki Liikanen  told Finnish business newspaper Kauppalehti.  “If the sovereign debt crisis isn’t contained, a negative
spiral may start again through banks,” Liikanen said in an
interview with the Helsinki-based newspaper conducted yesterday
and published today. “Great financial crises traditionally go
through this phase.”  European leaders are struggling to win investor confidence
amid rising debt yields across the single currency area and
after  Germany  last week failed to sell all bonds in an auction.
Signs of deteriorating bank lending are emerging in the
interbank markets.  The difference between the 12-month secured Eurepo and same
maturity unsecured Euribor rates that banks charge each other
was at a post-Lehman high of 170 basis points yesterday, or 60
basis points lower than its high of 230 basis points on Oct. 31,
2008. One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Across  Europe , 87 banks in 15 nations, including the
largest lenders in France, Italy and  Spain , may have their
subordinated debt ratings cut to reflect the potential removal
of government support, Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday.  The ECB has stepped in and provided banks with cash to keep
them lending money to companies and homeowners across Europe.  “The ECB is tasked with ensuring  price stability  and
liquidity for banks, which it has done in a notably innovative
way,” Liikanen said.  ECB Bond Purchases  The ECB, which began buying peripheral debt after Europe’s
debt crisis showed signs of spreading, says the purchases are
aimed at ensuring the transmission of its  interest rates  through
to financial markets. The transactions have failed to stem
rising bond yields across the 17-nation euro region as investors
lose confidence in Europe’s ability to contain the crisis.  The ECB, which has bought Italian and Spanish bonds since
August, failed yesterday to fully offset the extra liquidity
created by its purchases, a sign of mounting tensions among
euro-area banks. The Frankfurt-based central bank, which  cut
rates  this month, tries to drain the same amount from the
banking system each week that its purchases have created to
ensure they don’t swell the  money supply  and fuel inflation.  The ECB lent banks 265.5 billion euros ($354 billion) in
its seven-day main refinancing operation yesterday, the most in
more than two years. The number of bidders was 192 compared with
last week’s 178.  Common euro bonds won’t come soon enough to help resolve
the crisis as “many great obstacles” stand in the way of
introducing joint borrowing in the region, Liikanen said.  Liikanen answered “yes” when asked whether the euro area
can remain intact. The region is living through “a very
difficult phase,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  