-- 
HP Rating Cut by S&P After Autonomy Acquisition Boosts Debt

-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-12-01T01:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/hewlett-packard-rating-cut-to-bbb-by-s-p-on-reduced-financial-flexibility.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  had its credit
ratings cut by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, which cited
increased debt caused by the acquisition of Autonomy Corp. and
strategic shifts by the world’s largest computer maker.  S&P reduced the company’s corporate credit and senior
unsecured ratings to BBB+ from A, saying “major strategic
reversals,” management turnover and share buybacks may have
raised its risks. S&P also lowered Hewlett-Packard’s short-term
rating to A-2 from A-1. The outlook on the ratings is stable,
S&P said today in a statement.  Hewlett-Packard is trying to rebound from sluggish sales
and the ouster of two chief executive officers in 14 months. The
$10.3 billion Autonomy acquisition, announced under ex-CEO  Leo Apotheker , drew the ire of investors and contributed to his
replacement by  Meg Whitman  in September. He also shook up the
board during his tenure.  “They need to strengthen their balance sheet by generating
cash and paying back their debt,” Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc. in  San Francisco , said of the ratings cut. Wu
has a “buy” rating on the shares.  Mylene Mangalindan, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto ,
California-based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment.  Hewlett-Packard fell 14 cents to $27.81 in extended trading
after S&P posted its report. The shares, down 34 percent this
year, had climbed 3.9 percent to $27.95 at the close in  New
York .  Saving Cash  Hewlett-Packard’s first-quarter profit forecast and full-
year earnings outlook both missed analysts’ estimates this
month. Whitman’s plan for fixing Hewlett-Packard’s ailing
businesses, such as PCs and information-technology services,
includes boosting research spending and limiting the size of
acquisitions.  The idea is to placate customers, conserve cash and spur
homegrown innovation -- something the company neglected over the
past decade. Whitman also decided to keep the company’s $39.6
billion PC division after Apotheker said he was considering a
spinoff. The new CEO has said she will unveil more plans in the
first half of next year.  “We have concerns that HP’s inconsistent growth strategies
and high levels of board of director and senior management
turnover have elevated the level of operational and execution
risk in the near term,” Martha Toll-Reed, an analyst at New
York-based S&P, said in the report.  ‘Too Harsh’  The S&P cuts may make it more expensive for Hewlett-Packard
to issue short-term commercial paper and long-term bonds, said
 Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York. The reduction
may be excessive given Hewlett-Packard’s cash flow and debt in
relation to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or EBITDA, he said.  “I don’t think an action was unwarranted -- I think the
degree of action was way too harsh,” Levington said. “To take
a two-notch downgrade and remove them from the ‘A’ category is
incredibly pessimistic.”  Moody’s Investors Service’s said on Oct. 28 that it placed
the computer maker’s credit ratings on review for possible
downgrade.  On Nov. 17, Hewlett-Packard appointed activist shareholder
Ralph Whitworth to its board. Whitworth, whose investment firm
oversees $6.5 billion, told management his appointment would
burnish credibility and that he’d press for share buybacks,
higher dividends or more investment in research, a person with
knowledge of the situation said.  Hewlett-Packard also lost its title as the world’s biggest
maker of server computers to  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  in the third quarter, Gartner Inc. said this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  