-- 
Ex-Goldman, Mizuho Bankers at Edgebell Will Start Global Macro Hedge Fund

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-11-30T04:39:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/ex-goldman-mizuho-bankers-plan-edgebell-global-macro-hedge-fund-next-year.html
Edgebell Capital Co., run by former
bankers at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd., aims to start a global macro hedge fund in February that
will wager on trends in stocks, bonds and currencies.  The Edgebell Capital Global Macro Strategy plans to start
with at least 2 billion yen ($26 million) raised from high-net-
worth individuals in Japan, said Masaru Koibuchi, chief
investment officer of the Tokyo-based firm. Koibuchi and Chief
Operating Officer Kazuho Suzuki are making the strategy
available to outside investors by setting up an offshore fund
after only offering it to domestic individuals, they said.  Former bankers at major financial institutions globally are
starting  hedge funds  with strategies that can outperform during
market turmoil. The Edgebell fund, under limited offering,
returned 3.9 percent from April 14 through Sept. 30, beating the
10 percent drop by the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  in the period.  “While choppy equity markets have tormented the
performance of a large number of hedge funds throughout the year,
the appetite and demand for more fixed-income strategies, and in
particular macro funds, has consistently increased,” said Skip
Hashimoto, the Tokyo-based Japan representative at Ogier
Fiduciary Services, which provides administrative services to
hedge funds. “Many investors are looking to diversify away from
equity strategies.”  In the U.S., Ex-Goldman Sachs proprietary traders Bennett
Grau and Mark Mallon are teaming up with former colleague Marc
Mezvinsky to start a global macro hedge fund, according to a
person with knowledge of their plans.  Demand Abroad  Koibuchi, the former head of corporate derivatives
structuring at Goldman Sachs in  Japan , and Suzuki, who used to
head equity index investments at Mizuho Corporate, are teaming
up to tap demand for global hedge-fund strategies in a nation
where long-short equity funds dominate.  “We are seeing demand from investors abroad who are
looking to invest in global macro funds that are based in yen,”
said Suzuki, 41, in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “Because
not many are running a global macro fund, this is the time for
us to start.”  The fund, which targets a 10 percent to 20 percent annual
return, invests in stock indexes, including options and futures
worldwide, bond markets mainly of the Group of Seven countries,
currencies and exchange-traded funds of commodities, according
to Koibuchi and Suzuki. It employs a strict loss-cut rule to
minimize losses, and during the six months it ran for limited
investors, the biggest daily drawdown was 0.4 percent, said
Suzuki.  Outperforming  Global macro hedge funds declined 0.9 percent through
October this year, compared with the 2.9 percent drop by the
 Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index  that tracks more than 2,800 funds
worldwide. The Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund Index fell 0.8
percent in the same period.  Koibuchi, 41, who worked at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
as the head of derivative structuring in  Tokyo , met Suzuki in
early 1990s at Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd., now part of Mizuho
Financial Group Inc.  Edgebell, stemming from the two Chinese characters of
Koibuchi and Suzuki, signifies the concept of “edge of bell
curve” that enables the fund to provide stable returns
regardless of market directions, according to the firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 