-- 
Ex-Lehman Executive Freidheim Said to Lead Investcorp Bank’s Europe Unit

-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 
2011-11-30T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/ex-lehman-executive-scott-freidheim-said-to-lead-investcorp-s-europe-unit.html
Scott J. Freidheim, the former
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  executive, will run European
operations of  Investcorp Bank BSC (INVCORP)  after three years at  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , said a person with knowledge of the decision.  Freidheim, 46, will be chief executive officer of Europe
for Bahrain-based  Investcorp , said the person, who requested
anonymity because the appointment hasn’t been announced.
Freidheim will be based in London and report to Investcorp
founder and CEO Nemir Amin Kirdar, an Iraqi businessman who
lives in London. Deborah Botwood Smith, Investcorp’s
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Freidheim worked for New York-based Lehman from 1991 until
its collapse in September 2008. In his last post at the
investment bank as chief administrative officer, he was close to
CEO Richard Fuld and ran the firm’s media relations among other
areas. At Sears, Freidheim managed the Kenmore, Craftsman and
DieHard brands. Kenmore’s market share rose to No. 1 from No. 3
among major appliances in the U.S. during his tenure, according
to Traqline market research.  Investcorp manages funds of wealthy Persian Gulf investors,
channeling their savings into investments in  Europe , the U.S.
and other Middle Eastern countries. One of its investments was
buying Gucci in 1993 and selling it in public offerings a few
years later. While the Gulf firm also has real estate
investments and runs hedge funds, its largest operations are in
private equity.  Buyers of distressed assets are gearing up for sales by
European banks that are being pressed by their regulators to
improve their  capital ratios .  European lenders (BEBANKS)  may have to sell
as much as 3 trillion euros ($3.99 trillion) of assets in the
next few years, according to Barclays Plc.  Freidheim resigned from Sears in August, following the
departures of other top executives, including Chief Financial
Officer  Michael Collins  in May. The company, which has lost
sales to competitors, has had six CFOs and four chief executive
officers since Chairman Edward Lampert combined Sears and Kmart
in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or @yalman_bn on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  