-- 
Ex-News of the World Reporter Arrested in Northumberland in Hacking Probe

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T18:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/ex-news-of-the-world-reporter-said-to-be-arrested-in-phone-hacking-probe.html
(Corrects name of reporter in fourth paragraph.)  A former reporter at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
News of the World was arrested by U.K. police as part of an
investigation into phone hacking at the now-defunct tabloid, a
person familiar with the case said.  Bethany Usher left the News of the World in 2007, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the arrest isn’t
public information. Police said they arrested a 31-year old
woman on suspicion of conspiring to intercept voice-mail
messages and wouldn’t identify the person.  It’s at least the 19th arrest this year since police opened
three separate probes into phone hacking, police bribery and
computer hacking at News International. New York-based News
Corp. shuttered the News of the World in July to contain the
five-year-old scandal, which involved reporters targeting
celebrities, politicians and victims of crime and terrorism.  Usher didn’t immediately respond to a phone and e-mail
message left at Teesside University where she teaches.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International, which published
the tabloid, declined to comment. The arrested woman is in
custody at a police station in Northumbria in northeast  England ,
the Metropolitan Police said today in an e-mailed statement.  A separate judge-led inquiry into the ethics of U.K.
newspapers heard testimony yesterday from a former News of the
World reporter, Paul McMullan, who said phone-hacking at the
tabloid was widespread and that editors knew of the practice and
sometimes listened to messages.  ‘Former Screws Journo’  “I managed to get plenty of bylines without breaking
PCC,” Usher wrote yesterday on her Twitter account, referring
to the Press Complaints Commission, a voluntary regulatory body
for British newspapers. “I probably have a different
perspective being a former Screws journo. He is not
representative of the people I worked with.”  Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson , former editors at the
tabloid, were arrested in July and haven’t been charged. Both
have denied knowing about phone hacking.  The two-week-old inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, is
hearing testimony from former  Alastair Campbell , who was former
U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair ’s director of communications.
Campbell has sued News Corp. over claims his phone was hacked.  Hacking Denials  Leveson previously heard testimony that phone hacking may
have extended to other tabloids, including News Corp.’s Sun,
 Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) ’s Daily Mirror and the  Daily Mail & General
Trust Plc (DMGO) ’s Mail on Sunday. News Corp. has admitted liability in
some cases, while the other publishers have denied the claims.  The News of the World’s former private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  and ex-reporter Clive Goodman were jailed in 2007 for
intercepting phone messages meant for members of Prince Charles’
staff and a handful of other public figures.  Police reopened the probe in January after revelations that
phone-hacking wasn’t limited to Mulcaire and Goodman, as News
International claimed. Since then, police have said more than
5,000 people may have been targeted, based on Mulcaire’s notes
seized in 2006.  The evidence that led police to restart the investigation
was brought to light in civil lawsuits filed by celebrities
including British actor  Sienna Miller , who was one of the first
to sue News International for damages and accepted a 100,000-
pound ($155,300) settlement.  Miller told the press inquiry on Nov. 24 that articles
revealing personal details about her caused her to wrongfully
accuse friends and family of leaking information to the press,
when in reality her phone had been hacked. Similar claims were
made by actor  Hugh Grant  and author  J.K. Rowling , among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  