-- 
Ex-Ropes & Gray Lawyer Gets 6 Months in Goffer Tipping Case

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-11-30T23:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/ex-ropes-gray-lawyer-santarlas-gets-six-months-in-prison-in-insider-case.html
Brien Santarlas, a former lawyer at
Ropes & Gray LLP, was sentenced to six months in prison for
passing information on pending mergers to stock traders.  Santarlas, 34, pleaded guilty to insider trading charges in
December 2009 and cooperated with the U.S. investigation of
illegal tips to hedge funds.  Calling that cooperation “very, very important,” U.S.
District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan  today said that as
a lawyer, Santarlas should be held to a high standard and his
sentence should send a message to other attorneys.  “It’s important that those legal professionals understand
they breach those duties at their peril,” Sullivan said before
he handed down Santarlas’s sentence. “You don’t get a pass.”  Santarlas and Arthur Cutillo, a fellow attorney at Ropes &
Gray, passed tips about two pending mergers that the firm was
working on to Cutillo’s college roommate, Jason Goldfarb, who
passed along the information to Zvi Goffer, a former trader at
Galleon Group LLC. The deals were Bain Capital Partners’
acquisition of 3Com Corp. and TPG Capital’s purchase of Axcan
Pharma Inc.  Santarlas pleaded guilty to  securities fraud  and agreed to
forfeit $32,500.  ‘Violated My Oath’  “I’ll never forgive myself,” Santarlas told the judge
today. “I violated my oath as an attorney.”  “Please know this is not how I was raised,” said
Santarlas, whose parents, wife, in-laws and friends attended the
90-minute hearing.  Sullivan replied, “This doesn’t define you. It was a
tremendous error.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish told the judge that
Santarlas agreed to cooperate with the authorities as soon as
they approached him and to record a conversation with Cutillo.
Santarlas testified at the trial of Goffer, who was convicted of
14 counts in June and sentenced to 10 years in prison.  “It really was critical to the way this case played out,”
Fish said of Santarlas’s cooperation.  Robert Stahl, Santarlas’s lawyer, had asked the judge to
sentence him to home confinement. Sullivan replied that he would
be “rewarded” for his cooperation.  Cutillo received a 30-month sentence in June. Goldfarb
pleaded guilty and was sentenced in August to three years in
prison.  Goffer worked for Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the
Galleon hedge fund, who was sentenced to 11 years in prison, the
longest prison term for  insider trading . He was sentenced to 10
years in September.  Another former Galleon trader, Craig Drimal, pleaded guilty
in April 2010 to trading on secret inside information from
Santarlas and Cutillo and was sentenced to 5 1/2 years in
prison.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  