-- 
Mexico Won’t Implement Additional Measures to Bolster Peso, Rodriguez Says

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-11-30T04:07:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/mexico-won-t-implement-additional-measures-to-bolster-peso-rodriguez-says.html
Mexico ’s government doesn’t plan to
implement additional measures to support the peso, Deputy
Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said today.  Mexico’s currency exchange commission announced today that
the central bank will start auctioning $400 million daily of its
reserves at a peso exchange rate at least 2 percent weaker than
the previous day’s level, providing support for the currency.
Investors would likely only participate in the auctions when the
peso weakens 2 percent or more in intraday trading, the exchange
commission said.  Mexico’s market “has been evolving with relative order and
good liquidity given what’s happening in the world,” Rodriguez
said in a telephone interview today from Mexico City. “We
believe that with this measure we’ll contribute to preserving
these conditions and for now we don’t have additional measures.”  Mexico’s peso was the worst performing major Latin American
currency over the past six months, losing 16 percent against the
 U.S. dollar . The currency’s decline has helped fuel a 12 percent
decline in dollar terms for Mexican government peso debt over
the same period, according to data from Bank of America Corp.  The yield on benchmark government peso bonds due in 2024
has risen 40 basis points, or 0.40 percentage point, to 6.76
percent, over the last three weeks.  The auction mechanism, which was last used to shore up the
peso following the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., is a “preventative” measure designed to provide
liquidity to the foreign exchange market during times of
volatility, the commission said in a  statement  earlier today.  The peso should have “less volatility going forward,”
Rodriguez said.  Fix Rate  The central bank will use the so-called fix rate, the
official daily  exchange rate  published by the bank, as the
reference to conduct the following day’s auction, Rodriguez
said.  The government expects limited demand for the dollar
auctions because the peso has only infrequently declined more
than 2 percent in daily trading, Rodriguez said.  Mexico doesn’t plan to request any changes to its flexible
credit line of $72 billion with the  International Monetary Fund ,
he said.  “The line is valid until 2013 and at this time we don’t
contemplate any changes,” he said.  Mexico’s peso surged the most in three weeks after the
auction mechanism was announced today. The currency climbed 1.5
percent to 13.8230 per U.S. dollar at the close in Mexico City
from 14.0258 yesterday. It was the biggest increase since Nov. 3
for the currency, which has lost 10.7 percent this year.  Auctions will take place daily from 9 am to 9:05 a.m., 12
to 12:05 p.m. and 3 p.m. to 3:05 p.m. in Mexico City, the
central bank said on  its website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  