-- 
MF Global Trustee to Sell Securities Accounts

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-12-01T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/mf-global-brokerage-trustee-to-sell-330-securities-accounts-1-.html
The trustee for the  MF Global Inc. 
brokerage plans to sell 330 customers’ securities accounts to
Perrin, Holden & Davenport Capital Corp., a sale that will bring
the bankrupt firm revenue from the accounts for two years.  Most of MF Global’s smaller securities customers should
have access to all of their funds, trustee James Giddens said in
a filing yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan , citing
indemnity from the Securities Investor Protection Corp. Larger
customers, such as those with net equity claims of about
$5 million, would get about 70 percent of their assets, he said.  Giddens has transferred about 38,000 customer commodity
accounts to futures brokers, and was seeking a home for about
400 securities accounts, he said. The accounts and all of
customers’ collateral were frozen on Oct. 31, after the
brokerage’s parent company, MF Global Holdings Ltd., filed the
eighth-largest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  At a court session on the parent company’s case yesterday,
Judge Martin Glenn asked for a status report at a future
hearing, saying those involved in the case are entitled to know
more. Glenn reads regularly in the media about the fallout from
the bankruptcy, while there is “very little said in court,”
and the court has been “flooded” with communications from
customers of the firm, he said.  Freeh’s Work  Louis Freeh , the former  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
director who was appointed trustee for the parent company, said
his work is “under way.” He has met with representatives of
New York-based MF Global Holdings and understands the
“urgency” of those involved in the collapse of the firm, he
told the judge.  Yesterday, Giddens said he would return as much as $2.1
billion in assets to commodity customers, who aren’t protected
by SIPC and have been demanding their collateral. The latest,
and third, transfer to commodity customers will bring total
distributions to $4.1 billion, he said in a statement.  Perrin Holden, based in  New York , describes itself on its
 website  as a full-service brokerage and investment bank. A
member of SIPC, it clears trades through Legent Clearing LLC.  The sale to Perrin Holden will give the MF Global brokerage
estate about 20 percent of trading revenue from the securities
accounts for 13 months, and 10 percent of account revenue for
the following 12 months, according to court papers. Any customer
who wants to move to another firm within three months of the
transfer can do so without paying any charges, he said.  The shortfall in the MF Global brokerage’s U.S. segregated
customer commodity accounts may exceed $1.2 billion, more than
double what was previously estimated, Giddens has said. That
would mean commodity customers are missing about 22 percent of
their total assets of $5.4 billion.  ‘Conservative Approach’  “The trustee continues to take a conservative approach to
the shortfall,” spokesman  Kent Jarrell  said in an e-mail
yesterday, responding to questions about reports that some of
the missing money may have been found. “These have always been
presented as preliminary numbers that may well change, and we of
course hope for the benefit of customers that the number comes
down.”  Separately, Glenn signed an order yesterday allowing
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , agent for a $1.2 billion loan to the
parent, to file a proof of claim on behalf of itself and its
fellow lenders. Interest on the loan, fees, expenses and other
charges also are owed to the lenders, according to court papers.  The bankruptcy filing of MF Global Holdings listed assets
of $41 billion.  Jon Corzine , the former co-chief executive
officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and ex-governor of  New
Jersey , quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  