-- 
MF Global Trustee Giddens Says JPMorgan Work Was Limited

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-11-30T18:51:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/mf-global-trustee-james-giddens-says-jpmorgan-work-by-law-firm-was-limited.html
The liquidator of brokerage  MF
Global Inc. , accused by some customers of having a conflict of
interest because of past work done for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
said revenue from such jobs in 2009 and 2010 was less than one-
tenth of 1 percent of his law firm’s total.  Trustee James Giddens disclosed the revenue from JPMorgan,
a lender to MF Global’s parent company, in court papers after
the judge handling the bankruptcies ordered him to describe his
relationship with the biggest U.S. bank. Customers have said he
may have interests opposed to theirs because of such work.  “The trustee and HHR do not hold or represent an interest
that is adverse to the MFGI estate,” Giddens said yesterday in
a filing, referring to his firm Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP. By
contrast, Giddens said that he had “investigated and actively
pursued claims” against the bank in his role as trustee of the
Lehman Brothers Inc. brokerage, settling for $860 million.  Giddens gave no details of the work he performed for the
bank. His firm has “historically” represented JPMorgan or
affiliates or syndicates in “certain corporate and other
matters,” he said. The firm’s revenue from the work this year
is projected to be less than 1/1000 of 1 percent of revenue and
the trustee himself wasn’t involved in the work, he said.  JPMorgan is agent to a $1.2 billion loan to the brokerage’s
parent, MF Global Holdings Ltd., and is allowing the company to
use cash securing a loan.  Dominion Objection  Dominion Resources  Inc., whose Virginia Electric & Power
Co. and other affiliates are creditors of the MF Global
brokerage, said in court papers that the bankrupt parent company
shouldn’t be allowed to use cash, because brokerage customers
may need to obtain assets from the parent to make up for an
apparent shortfall in their collateral.  Yesterday, Giddens said he would return as much as $2.1
billion to commodity customers, an amount that’s 66 percent of
U.S. customers’ segregated assets.  The latest, and third, transfer to customers of the defunct
brokerage will bring total distributions to $4.1 billion, or
about three-quarters of customer assets, he said in a statement.
The Securities Investor Protection Corp., which hired Giddens
for the MF Global brokerage liquidation, said it supported the
transfer. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn signed an order
yesterday setting a hearing on the distribution for Dec. 9.  The shortfall in the MF Global brokerage’s U.S. segregated
customer accounts may exceed $1.2 billion, more than double what
was previously estimated, Giddens has said. That would mean
customer accounts are missing about 22 percent of their total of
$5.4 billion. A shortfall of 11 percent had been previously
estimated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  ‘Conservative Approach’  “The trustee continues to take a conservative approach to
the shortfall,” spokesman  Kent Jarrell  said in an e-mail
yesterday, responding to questions about reports that some of
the missing money may have been found. “These have always been
presented as preliminary numbers that may well change, and we of
course hope for the benefit of customers that the number comes
down.”  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion. The firm
said it has about $26 million in cash. Corzine, the former co-
chief executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , quit as MF
Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  