-- 
Facebook, EU Privacy, HTC, Zynga: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-11-30T13:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/facebook-eu-privacy-htc-rating-apps-intellectual-property.html
Facebook  Inc., the world’s biggest
social networking site, agreed to settle complaints by the
Federal Trade Commission that it failed to protect users’
privacy or disclose how their data could be used.  The proposed 20-year agreement would require Palo Alto,
California-based Facebook to get clear consent from users before
sharing material posted under earlier, more restrictive terms,
the FTC said yesterday in a statement. It would also compel
independent reviews of Facebook’s privacy practices.  “Companies must live up to their promises about privacy,”
FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz said on a conference call with
reporters. The settlement “will protect consumer choices and
ensure they have full and truthful information about their
data.”  The settlement is part of an effort to resolve legal issues
that could be a distraction as Facebook moves toward an initial
public offering, said  Francis Gaskins , president of Los Angeles-
based IPODesktop.com, a Web site that tracks IPOs. Facebook is
considering an IPO that would raise $10 billion and value the
company at more than $100 billion, a person familiar with the
matter said.  In a blog  posting , Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said the company should have been more vigilant in
protecting users’ privacy.  “I’m the first to admit that we’ve made a bunch of
mistakes,” he said.  The FTC is stepping up enforcement of privacy requirements
at Internet companies and this year has settled complaints with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Twitter Inc.  Zuckerberg said the company already has addressed many of
the FTC’s concerns. Yesterday he appointed Erin Egan, a former
partner at  Covington & Burling  who specialized in data security,
as chief privacy officer, policy, and Michael Richter, the
company’s head privacy counsel, as chief privacy officer,
products, Zuckerberg said.  The settlement, which the FTC’s commissioners approved 4-0,
requires Facebook to establish a “comprehensive privacy
program” and block access to a user’s account within 30 days of
it being deleted, according to the FTC’s statement. The company
also is barred from making any deceptive claims about its
privacy practices.  For more, click here.  EU Privacy Watchdogs Will Get Powers to Sanction, Reding Says  Data-protection authorities in the European Union will be
equipped with powers allowing them to levy similar
administrative sanctions in their countries, the EU’s justice
commissioner said.  In cases where privacy law “is seriously breached” some
data protection authorities in the EU “are unable to do
anything but address recommendations to the responsible data
controller,” EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding said
yesterday.  “I plan to strengthen the powers of data protection
authorities so that they can all use administrative sanctions
whenever there is a breach,” Reding said in prepared remarks of
a speech in Paris. “As companies operate across borders in
 Europe , the data protection rules and their enforcement must be
more consistent.”  Reding last year proposed an overhaul of the EU’s 16-year-
old data-protection policies to address online advertising and
social-networking sites. The law, which the European Commission
intends to formally propose by February, may include stricter
sanctions, such as criminal penalties, and the option for
consumer groups to file lawsuits.  Patents  HTC’s Victory in FlashPoint Patent Case Upheld by Full ITC Panel  HTC Corp. (2498) , the largest seller of smartphones in the U.S.,
won a patent-infringement case brought by FlashPoint Technology
Inc. over digital-camera features.  The U.S. International Trade Commission backed a ruling
from July that FlashPoint’s patent rights hadn’t been violated,
and the agency denied the closely held licensing company’s
request to halt sales of some HTC phones. Notice of the decision
was posted online yesterday, and the full opinion will be made
public after both companies get a chance to redact confidential
information.  The dispute centered on technology related to how digital
cameras work, including focus and flash settings, and automatic
rotation of an image, according to Peterborough, New Hampshire-
based FlashPoint’s complaint. An ITC judge in July said HTC
phones that run Google Inc.’s Android system and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 7 weren’t infringing the patents.  The commission review centered on infringement of the
patent covering the rotation of images and whether FlashPoint
had met the agency’s requirements that the invention be in use
in the U.S. The six-member commission has the power to block
imports of products that violate U.S. patent rights.  LG Electronics Inc. , RIM and Nokia had also been targeted
by FlashPoint. They settled their cases before the July ruling.  HTC, which makes phones such as the Droid Incredible and
EVO 4G that use Android, sold the most smartphones in the U.S.
in the third quarter, according to market researcher Canalys.  FlashPoint, whose founders include former employees of
Apple’s imaging business, said it developed its own digital
operating system for cameras, and ceased research in 2007 to
focus on licensing its patents.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Imaging
Devices, Complaint 337-726, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  Federal Circuit Denies RJR’s Request for Rehearing of Case  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington yesterday denied  R.J. Reynolds  Tobacco Co.’s motion
for a rehearing of a patent case brought by  Star Scientific Inc. (CIGX)   The case stems from Star’s decade-long effort to extract
patent royalties from Reynolds on a way to reduce carcinogens in
cigarettes.  In August, the Federal Circuit  upheld  the validity of two
Star patents. It didn’t overturn the infringement case against
Reynolds that Star lost in 2009. Chief Circuit Judge Randall Rader said in the 2-1 opinion that a new trial wouldn’t change
the outcome as “there was substantial untainted evidence before
the jury to support a verdict of non-infringement.”  “These two patents, whose validity has been upheld twice
by the Federal Circuit Court, also have been affirmed after
reexamination by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office,” Star
Chairman Paul L. Perito said in a statement. "We view them as
rock-solid, and we are considering all options to leverage their
value as we move forward.’’  R.J. Reynolds Tobacco is the cigarette unit of Winston-
Salem, North Carolina-based  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , the second-
largest U.S. tobacco company. Reynolds makes Camel, Winston and
Salem brand cigarettes.  R.J. Reynolds is “considering our options in light of the
court’s decision,” company spokesman  David Howard  said in an e-
mail. “It’s important to note that the courts have found that
R.J. Reynolds did not infringe on Star’s patents.”  The case is Star Scientific v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.,
10-1183, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  European, Chinese Patent Offices to Speed Up Patent Translation  The European and Chinese patent agencies signed an accord
that will speed up translations of patents in a bid to improve
access to the offices’ information for researchers, scientists
and inventors.  The  European Patent Office  and the State  Intellectual
Property  Office of the People’s Republic of  China  agreed to
cooperate to give access to a free Chinese-English translation
service through the Internet by next year, according to a joint
e-mailed statement yesterday.  “The agreement breaks new ground in the relationship
between both regions in that it will bring the wealth of
technology contained in patents to the fingertips of innovators
on both sides, removing language as a delimiting factor,” said
Benoit Battistelli, president of the Munich, Germany-based EPO.  The  EPO  isn’t part of the European Union and has 38 member
countries. The EPO offers the closest thing currently available
to an EU-wide patent.  Smith & Wesson Settles ITC Case over its Rifle Technology  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC)  settled patent-infringement
complaints it brought against Traditions Sporting Goods Inc. and
Ardesa SA before the U.S. International Trade Commission.
Traditions and Ardesa agreed to a multiyear license for
muzzleloader-rifle technology made by Smith & Wesson’s
Thompson/Center Arms unit, according to a statement yesterday.
Terms weren’t disclosed.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Campaign Against Fake Products Begun by Obama Administration  The Obama administration is starting a public education
campaign to fight the purchase and sale of counterfeit and
pirated products.  The campaign, announced at the White House yesterday, is
aimed at highlighting the ways intellectual property theft, such
as counterfeit pharmaceuticals and illegal Internet downloads,
harm the economy and threaten consumer safety, according to a
U.S. Justice Department statement.  “For far too long, the sale of counterfeit, defective, and
dangerous goods has been perceived as business as usual,”
Attorney General Eric Holder said in a prepared statement. “But
these and other IP crimes can destroy jobs, suppress innovation,
and jeopardize the health and safety of consumers.”  The campaign will include radio and print ads, online
videos, podcasts and a television public service announcement.  Paramount Sued Over Profit on ‘Dreamgirls,’ ‘Transformers’  Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount Pictures Corp. was sued by an
investment group that said it put up $375 million to help
produce 29 films including “Dreamgirls” and “Transformers”
and claimed the studio has failed to share any profit from the
movies.  The films have grossed almost $7 billion and Paramount has
underreported revenue and overstated production and distribution
costs for the films to withhold money from equity partners,
Melrose Investors 2 LP said in a complaint filed yesterday in
state court in  Los Angeles , where Paramount is based.  Paramount, DreamWorks Studios, now known as DW Studios LLC,
and Melrose entered into an agreement in 2006 under which
Melrose would own as much as 25 percent copyright interest in as
many as 30 movies in exchange for financing 25 percent of
production costs, the investors said in the complaint, which
also names DW Studios as a defendant.  Melrose alleges breach of contract and unfair competition
and seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.  Steven Rubenstein, a spokesman for Paramount, and Chip Sullivan, a DW spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to phone
messages seeking comment.  The case is Melrose Investors 2 v. Paramount, BC474310, Los
Angeles Superior Court.  SAS Should Lose Extended Copyright Bid, EU Court Aide Says  SAS Institute Inc. should lose a bid at the European
Union’s highest court to extend copyright protection to the
functions of a computer program, an adviser to the EU court
said.  While the source code, or method, used by a computer
program to achieve a certain result can be protected, the result
itself can’t, Advocate General Yves Bot of the EU Court of
Justice said in a non-binding opinion yesterday. The Luxembourg-
based court follows this advice in a majority of cases.  World Programming Ltd. infringed SAS’s copyright by
developing a system that copied the company’s manuals, SAS told
the EU court at a hearing in September. The case seeks to
clarify the scope of copyright protection where software copies
the functions of a competing program without access to its
source code.  “To accept that a functionality of a computer program can
be protected as such would amount to making it possible to
monopolize ideas, to the detriment of technological progress and
industrial development,” Bot said in the advisory opinion. He
left it up to a national court to decide whether WPL, in copying
functionalities of the SAS system, reproduced a “substantial
part” of the elements that are SAS’s own creation.  It’s the first time the EU’s top court has been asked to
define the scope of copyright protection for computer software.
The  High Court  in  London  in 2010  referred the case  to the EU
tribunal for guidance on how to interpret the region’s  software 
and  copyright  laws. The court said WPL’s system didn’t breach
SAS’s copyright.  Rulings by the EU court usually follow within six months of
an opinion.  The case is:  C-406/10 , SAS Institute Inc. v. World
Programming Ltd.  For more, click here.  China Seizes 250,000 ‘Illegal’ Compact Discs, Xinhua Reports  Chinese police seized more than 250,000 illegally made
compact discs from a legally registered plant in Guangdong
province, Xinhua News Agency said, citing the National Office
Against Pornographic and Illegal Publications.  Police detained four people and seized seven production
lines on Sept. 26, and an employee of the plant involved in the
production of the discs was captured in Hubei province on Nov.
1, the official news service said. It didn’t say what made the
discs illegal.  For more copyright news, click here.  For trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets  Florida Company Targets Zynga in Trade Secrets Case  Hob Knob LLC, a Plantation, Florida-based company that
develops social-networking applications, sued Zynga Inc. for
allegedly misappropriating its trade secrets.  The lawsuit, filed Nov. 23 in federal court in  Fort
Lauderdale , alleges that Zynga, the biggest maker of games on
Facebook Inc.’s site, entered into a non-disclosure agreement
with Hob Knob before reviewing its technology. Hob Knob claims
that Zynga, the creator of games such as Cityville, used the
information to create Zygna Direct, which will allow users to
connect with others without going through Facebook.  Lisa Chan, a spokeswoman for Zynga, didn’t respond to an e-
mail and a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Hob Knob Technology LLC v. Zynga Inc., 11-
cv-62513, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale).  Technology  Smartphone App Rating System Proceeds Without Apple, Google  Mobile applications for smartphones and tablet computers
may carry new ratings for violence and sexual content under a
wireless industry-sponsored system awaiting backing from  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc.  Under the policy unveiled yesterday by CTIA-The Wireless
Association, mobile apps for games and social networking will be
rated for age-appropriate content on a five-point scale from
“everyone” to “adults only.” The voluntary program will be
operated by the Entertainment Software Rating Board, which has
run similar  ratings  for computer and video games since 1994.  The app program is aimed at helping parents monitor
children’s increasing use of wireless technology, an issue
drawing lawmakers’ attention this year. About 52 percent of
children ages 8 and under have access to mobile devices
including smartphones and tablets, according to a  survey  of
parents by San Francisco-based children’s advocacy group Common
Sense Media.  “The mobile application rating system is easy for parents
and consumers to understand while being simple, fast and free
for developers,” Steve Largent, president of Washington-based
CTIA, said at a news conference. He said the move helps avoid
“unnecessary government regulation.”  Apple, maker of the iPhone and iPad, and Google, whose
Android software is the most widely used mobile operating
software in the U.S., aren’t taking part in the program and have
their own ratings systems.  “We’ve put a lot of effort into Android Market’s rating
system, which now works well globally,” Christopher Katsaros, a
Google spokesman, said in an e-mail. “While we support other
systems, we think it’s best for Android users and developers to
stick with Android’s existing ratings.”  Tom Neumayr , an Apple spokesman, declined to comment. The
Apple App Store currently offers 500,000 apps, while Google’s
Android Market has more than 300,000.  For more, click here.  Government Regulation  FDA to Appeal Order Barring Graphic Cigarette-Pack Warnings  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration said it will appeal a
judge’s order temporarily blocking rules requiring cigarette
makers to put pictures of diseased lungs and other graphic
images on packaging.  President Barack Obama signed the Family Smoking Prevention
and Tobacco Control Act into law in June 2009, empowering the
FDA to regulate the manufacture and sale of tobacco products.
The cigarette makers asked U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in
Washington to halt the rules, saying the requirement violates
their free-speech rights.  Leon on Nov. 7 found that  Lorillard (LO)  Inc., Reynolds American
Inc.’s R.J. Reynolds and three other cigarette makers
challenging the measure were likely to prevail on their claims
that the “mandatory graphic images unconstitutionally compel
speech” and would cause them irreparable harm if not blocked.  The FDA, in a filing yesterday, said it would challenge
that decision before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia.  The agency rule includes nine different images -- including
a man exhaling smoke from a tracheotomy hole in his throat and a
male cadaver with staples in its chest -- to be displayed on
cigarette packages on a rotating basis, together with text
warnings, the judge said.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-cv-1482, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 