-- 
Fed Supervision Director Parkinson to Retire Jan. 1; Gibson to Replace Him

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-11-30T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/fed-supervision-head-parkinson-to-retire-gibson-to-replace-him.html
Patrick Parkinson , the  Federal
Reserve ’s head of bank supervision, plans to retire on Jan. 1,
to be replaced by  Michael Gibson , a deputy director in the
division of research and statistics, the central bank said.  Gibson, 45, will oversee U.S. bank holding companies and
state chartered banks and will also represent the Fed on the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which is coordinating
the global effort to strengthen capital, liquidity and risk
management standards in the financial system.  Gibson’s “expert knowledge of risk management and
financial markets make him an excellent choice at a time when we
are drawing on a wide range of expertise in bank supervision and
regulation to focus not just on the health of individual
institutions, but on the financial system as a whole,” Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said today in a statement.  The bank supervision head at the central bank is growing in
prominence as the Fed implements new regulatory rules created by
the Dodd-Frank act and carries out stress tests for the largest
U.S. bank holding companies. Global bank regulators have
increased cooperation following the financial crisis that
intensified in 2008 with the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Gibson, like Parkinson, is a Ph.D. economist who spent most
of his career in the Fed’s division of research and statistics.
He earned his doctorate in economics from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and his bachelor’s degree from  Stanford
University .  Parkinson, 59, joined the Fed in 1980 and became head of
supervision in October 2009. From January to July of 2009, he
was detailed to the Treasury Department to help draft its plan
for overhauling financial regulation.  Parkinson “has been an exemplary leader, helping to build
a more multidisciplinary and analytical approach to supervision
and regulation,” Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  