-- 
Central Banks Cut Cost of Borrowing Dollars to Ease Crisis

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-11-30T21:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/fed-five-central-banks-lower-interest-rate-on-dollar-swaps.html
Six central banks led by the Federal
Reserve made it cheaper for banks to borrow dollars in
emergencies in a global effort to ease  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  Stocks rallied, driving the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  up
the most since March 2009, commodities surged and yields on most
European debt fell on the show of force from central banks aimed
at easing strains in financial markets. The cost for European
banks to borrow dollars dropped from the highest in three years,
tempering concerns about the euro’s worsening crisis after
leaders said they’d failed to boost the region’s bailout fund as
much as planned.  “It’s supportive but not necessarily a game changer,”
said Michelle Girard, senior U.S. economist at RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The impact is more
psychological than anything else” as investors take heart from
policy makers’ coordination, Girard said.  The premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight from
central banks will fall by half a percentage point to 50 basis
points, the Fed said today in a statement in Washington. The so-
called dollar swap lines will be extended by six months to Feb.
1, 2013. The Fed coordinated the move with the  European Central
Bank  and the central banks of Canada, Switzerland, Japan and the
U.K.  The six central banks also agreed to create temporary
bilateral swap programs so funding can be provided in any of the
currencies “should market conditions so warrant.” Those swap
lines were also authorized through Feb. 1, 2013.  Starting December  The swap lines were previously set to expire Aug. 1, 2012.
The new pricing will be applied to operations starting on Dec.
5. Seven-day loans would carry an  interest rate  of about 0.58
percent, down from 1.08 percent, based on the current one-week
overnight index swap rate of 0.08 percent. OIS is a measure of
expectations for the benchmark federal funds rate.  “This was in response to increased tension in global
financial markets,” Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
said at a press conference in  Tokyo  today. “Coordinated action
will give markets a sense of security.”  The action wasn’t aimed at supporting any specific
financial institution, Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in  New York .  The Dow jumped 490.05 points, or 4.2 percent, to 12,045.68
at 4 p.m. in New York, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index earlier
surged 3.6 percent. The euro strengthened to $1.3444 from
$1.3317 late yesterday. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
climbed to 2.08 percent from 1.99 percent.  Game Changer?  “When there’s concerted action by central banks, it’s
definitely good,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European
economist at Nomura International Plc in  London . “But are
liquidity injections a game changer when the heart of the
problem is in European sovereign debt markets?”  European banks gained, with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  climbing as much
as 9.4 percent in London trading. Deutsche Bank rose as much as
7.3 percent in  Frankfurt , while BNP Paribas SA and Credit
Agricole SA gained in Paris.  Today’s move echoes coordinated actions from the financial
panic starting in 2007 to create and expand the currency-swap
lines, whose use peaked at about $583 billion in December 2008.
The central banks also jointly lowered their benchmark interest
rates in October 2008.  Fed policy makers voted 9-1 for the swap action in a Nov.
28 videoconference, with Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker 
dissenting, Michelle Smith, a Fed spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. Lacker voted in place of Philadelphia Fed President
 Charles Plosser , who was unavailable for the meeting, Smith
said. Laura Fortunato, a spokeswoman for Lacker at the Richmond
Fed, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  No Current Difficulties  The Fed said U.S. financial companies “currently do not
face difficulty obtaining liquidity in short-term funding
markets.”  “However, were conditions to deteriorate, the  Federal
Reserve  has a range of tools available to provide an effective
liquidity backstop for such institutions and is prepared to use
these tools as needed to support financial stability and to
promote the extension of credit to U.S. households and
businesses,” the central bank said in the statement.  U.S. House Financial Services Committee Chairman Spencer Bachus, an Alabama Republican, said in a statement that the move
“is a recognition of the interconnected nature of the global
economy” and that it’s in America’s interest to see Europe
recover. At the same time, the action “should not and cannot
absolve European policymakers from the need to resolve their own
problems,” Bachus said.  China  Move  Two hours before the Fed announcement, China cut the amount
of cash that the nation’s banks must set aside as reserves for
the first time since 2008. The level for the biggest lenders
falls to 21 percent from a record 21.5 percent, based on past
statements.  While today’s move by the six central banks is likely to
ease tensions in money markets, it falls short of some calls for
the ECB to step up and act as lender of last resort for the
governments of the 17-member euro area and buy unlimited amounts
of  government bonds .  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, has
resisted the idea, arguing it isn’t the ECB’s job to do so and
would only be a temporary fix.  The ECB unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest rate Nov. 3
by 25 basis points to 1.25 percent as the turmoil threatened to
drag the euro area into recession. ECB policy makers next meet
Dec. 8, while Fed officials gather Dec. 13.  Seven-Day Refinancing  Yesterday, the ECB allotted the most to banks in its
regular seven-day refinancing operation in more than two years,
lending 265.5 billion euros ($357.5 billion). The ECB offers
unlimited funding to euro-area banks against eligible
collateral.  “The purpose of these actions is to ease strains in
financial markets and thereby mitigate the effects of such
strains on the supply of credit to households and businesses and
so help foster economic activity,” the Fed statement said.  Under the dollar liquidity-swap program, the Fed lends
dollars to the ECB and other central banks in exchange for
currencies including euros. The central banks lend dollars to
commercial banks in their jurisdictions through an auction
process.  The swap arrangements were revived in May 2010 when the
debt crisis in Europe worsened. The Fed three months earlier had
closed all swap lines opened during the financial crisis
triggered by the subprime-mortgage meltdown in 2007.  Dollar Tender  European lenders asked for a total of $395 million in the
ECB’s 84-day dollar tender conducted in coordination with the
Fed on Nov. 9. In the first offering on Oct. 12, the ECB lent
six banks $1.35 billion for three months. The next three-month
loan will be offered on Dec. 7.  The coordinated action “lowers the cost of emergency
funding and increases the scope,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer, of Pacific Investment Management Co. said in
a radio interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken
Prewitt and  Tom Keene .  Central banks “are seeing something in the functioning of
the banking system that worries them,” El-Erian said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  