-- 
Fed’s Discount Rate Among Tools to Offset European Sovereign-Debt Crisis

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-12-01T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/fed-has-tools-beyond-swaps-for-countering-europe-s-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
The Federal Reserve could if
necessary dig deeper into its toolkit to ease the sovereign-debt
crisis in  Europe , by cutting the U.S. discount lending rate or
restarting a program that auctions loans to banks.  Six central banks led by the Fed yesterday lowered the cost
of emergency dollar funding for financial companies, reducing
the premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight from central
banks by half a percentage point to 50 basis points.  The Fed may reduce what it charges on emergency loans to
banks by a quarter point to 0.5 percent by early next week, said
 Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest rate strategy at  RBC
Capital Markets . It probably won’t resort to its other options,
including reopening the Term Auction Facility to give U.S. banks
more access to funding, without a worsening in Europe’s crisis,
said  Charles Lieberman , chief investment officer with Advisors
Capital Management LLC in Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey.  “The Fed is willing to be active if it thinks that’s
necessary,” said Lieberman, a former head of monetary analysis
at the New York Fed. “But I think the Fed will move a bit more
cautiously, unless conditions weaken further in Europe. The U.S.
side is looking much better.”  The U.S. central bank raised the so-called discount rate to
0.75 percent in February 2010. Yesterday’s cut in the swap rate,
which takes effect Dec. 5, means European banks will pay about
0.60 percent to borrow dollars, cheaper than what U.S. banks
would pay. The Fed is unlikely to let that situation persist,
Cloherty said.  “Just to level the playing field, we would expect a 25
basis point cut” in the discount rate, he said.  Coordinated Action  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker , who dissented from
the coordinated action, said yesterday that he opposed making
the swap rate lower than the discount rate.  The Fed will want to avoid the appearance of bailing out
foreign banks or shifting U.S. monetary policy, said  Robert Eisenbeis , former research director at the Atlanta Fed and now
chief monetary economist in Atlanta for Sarasota, Florida-based
Cumberland Advisors Inc. He put “zero probability” on buying
foreign debt.  “I think the liquidity problem is one in Europe and the
swaps will deal with that,” he said. “A domestic move would be
seen as a monetary-policy move and also a move to bail out
foreign banks, whereas the swaps program is viewed differently
and done with zero risk and without requiring collateral.”  While the  European Central Bank  is buying the bonds of
debt-strapped governments such as Italy and Spain, it says the
purchases are limited, temporary and aimed solely at restoring
the effectiveness of its interest rates on financial markets. It
has bought 203.5 billion euros ($273.5 billion) of bonds since
the purchase program began in May last year.  ‘What’s Necessary’  “Most of what’s necessary right now is in European
hands,” Lieberman said. “I find it hard to understand how the
Fed would justify buying European sovereign debt if the ECB is
reluctant to do so.”  Bringing back the Fed’s Term Auction Facility would allow
U.S. banks to get funding if needed, while avoiding the stigma
of borrowing at the Fed’s discount window, said Michelle Girard,
senior U.S. economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  “If there end up being funding difficulties for U.S.
institutions, I do think that the Fed in the past obviously has
employed various liquidity facilities, and some of those could
be reopened if in fact we saw U.S. institutions facing some
difficulties in funding,” Girard said.  Coordinated Effort  The new  interest rate  instituted by central banks is the
dollar overnight index swap rate plus 50 basis points, and the
program was extended by six months to Feb. 1, 2013, the Fed said
yesterday in a statement in  Washington . The Fed coordinated the
move with the European Central Bank as well as the Bank of
Canada,  Bank of England , Bank of  Japan , and Swiss National Bank.  “Everything is on the table right now, but I think they
will try to wait to have bigger impact with or without other
banks,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist for Mesirow Financial
Inc. in  Chicago . “Right now, our banks are doing OK on funding,
so an immediate cut in discount rate shouldn’t be necessary.”  The Fed said in its statement that U.S. financial companies
“currently do not face difficulty obtaining liquidity in short-
term funding markets.”  “However, were conditions to deteriorate, the  Federal
Reserve  has a range of tools available to provide an effective
liquidity backstop for such institutions and is prepared to use
these tools as needed to support financial stability and to
promote the extension of credit to U.S. households and
businesses,” the central bank said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  