-- 
Federal Reserve Reports ‘Slow to Moderate’ Expansion in 11 of 12 Districts

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-11-30T19:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/federal-reserve-reports-slow-to-moderate-expansion-in-11-of-12-districts.html
The  Federal Reserve  said the economy
expanded at a “moderate” pace in 11 of 12 districts, led by
gains in manufacturing and consumer spending.  “Overall economic activity increased at a slow to moderate
pace since the previous report across all Federal Reserve
districts except St. Louis, which reported a decline in economic
activity,” the Fed said in its Beige Book survey released today
in  Washington  covering October and the first half of November.  The report reinforces the central bank’s view that the
economy, while strong enough to skirt a recession, remains too
weak to bring down an  unemployment rate  stuck near 9 percent or
higher for more than two years. At their last meeting Nov. 1-2,
some Fed policy makers said the central bank should consider
easing policy further, according to minutes of the meeting.  Today’s report said “hiring was generally subdued” and
residential real estate “generally remained sluggish.” In the
previous  Beige Book  report released Oct. 19, the Fed said that
the economy was expanding “although many districts described
the pace of growth as ‘modest’ or ‘slight.’”  The Beige Book underscores other recent reports showing
that “the U.S. economy is in a much better place, no chance of
a double dip recession,”  Allen Sinai , president of Decision
Economics Inc. in New York, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “Jobs will keep going up, the unemployment rate
will keep going down, but very, very slowly.”  FOMC Meeting  The anecdotal survey, released two weeks before each  policy
meeting , is based on information gathered by officials at the
Fed’s 12 regional banks. Today’s report was compiled by staff at
the  Minneapolis  Fed.  The Fed, along with five other central banks, today said it
will make it cheaper for banks to borrow dollars in emergencies
in a global effort to ease  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The Fed said in its Nov. 2 statement that “there are
significant downside risks to the economic outlook, including
strains in global financial markets.” Policy makers have
identified the European sovereign debt crisis as one of the
risks to the U.S. economy.  Stocks rallied worldwide, commodities surged and yields on
most European debt fell on the show of force from central banks
aimed at easing strains in financial markets. The cost for
European banks to borrow dollars dropped from the highest in
three years, tempering concerns about the euro’s worsening
crisis.  Stocks Rise  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 3.3 percent to
1,234.28 at 2:18 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note climbed 0.08 percentage point to 2.07 percent.  The  U.S. economy  has been roiled this year by other
international shocks, including the earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan  that disrupted global supply chains, and a surge in  oil
prices  exacerbated by political upheaval in the  Middle East .  The economy expanded at a 2 percent annual pace in the
third quarter. That compares with growth of 1.3 percent in the
second quarter and 0.4 percent in the first three months of the
year.  The Labor Department will report Friday that the economy
added 125,000 jobs in November, according to the median estimate
of a Bloomberg Survey of 82 economists. A separate report from
ADP Employer Services today showed private companies added
206,000 jobs in November, the best month for hiring this year.  The Beige Book said “wages and salaries remained stable
across districts” and that “some firms with open positions
reported difficulty finding qualified applicants.”  Car Production Increased  Fed banks in Philadelphia,  Cleveland , Richmond, Atlanta,
 St. Louis  and Minneapolis reported increasing auto sales, and
Cleveland and  Chicago  said car production increased.  Auto purchases ran at a 13.2 million annual rate in
October, the highest since February and up from a 13.04 million
pace in September, according to data from Ward’s Information
Products.  “Consumers are just saying it’s time to get a new
vehicle,”  Ken Czubay , Ford Motor Co.’s U.S. sales chief, said
on a conference call this month. “We’re seeing that more and
more everyday from our dealers.”  All districts except St. Louis reported that manufacturers
saw increased orders, shipments and production. St. Louis
reported more plant closures than openings or expansions.  “Consumer spending increased modestly, on balance, during
the reporting period,” the report said. Cleveland, Atlanta, St.
Louis, Minneapolis,  Dallas  and  San Francisco  said holiday sales
were “expected to be flat or to increase modestly over a year
ago.”  Higher Demand  Sales at electronics stores advanced 3.7 percent in
October, the most since November 2009, according to a Nov. 15
report from the Commerce Department. Demand at non-store
retailers, including Internet and mail-order companies, rose 1.5
percent, the most in nine months. Both may reflect demand for
the next generation of Apple Inc. iPhones.  Bank lending “increased slightly since the previous
report,” the Fed said today. Philadelphia, Dallas and San
Francisco saw improving  credit quality , while Cleveland, Chicago
and St. Louis said it was “relatively unchanged.”  President Barack Obama said this week that resolving the
European debt crisis is of “huge importance” to the U.S., and
his administration is “ready to do our part” in stabilizing
the global economy.  “If Europe is contracting or if Europe is having
difficulties, then it is much more difficult for us to create
good jobs here at home because we send so many of our products
and services to Europe,” Obama said at the White House, after a
meeting with European Union officials.  -- With assistance from Mark Crumpton in  New York . Editors:
James Tyson, Christopher Wellisz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  