-- 
FIFA is Trying to Pull Itself ‘Out of Swamp,’ Says New Reform Head Pieth

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-11-30T16:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/fifa-is-trying-to-pull-itself-out-of-swamp-says-new-reform-head-pieth.html
The man charged with helping  FIFA 
recover from a series of corruption scandals likened his task to
Baron Munchhausen “pulling himself out of the swamp” by his
hair in Rudolph Raspe’s story about the 18th century nobleman.  The soccer body asked Swiss anti-corruption specialist Mark Pieth to help reform its statutes following a year of turmoil in
which several top executives have either been found guilty, or
accused of wrongdoing, during the selection process for the $4
billion World Cup and the organization’s presidency.  In his first press conference since being named chairman of
FIFA’s 18-member independent governance committee last week,
Pieth unveiled a 39-page document listing recommendations for
change. It includes limiting  term limits  for members of FIFA’s
executive committee, background checks and a conflict of
interest policy.  “We’re coaches in bringing them back to the road of
virtue,” said Pieth, chairman of the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development ’s working group on Bribery in
International Business Transactions. “We are talking about
serious stuff here. Not everyone will like this.”  The 107-year-old soccer body generates billions of dollars
from sponsors and broadcasters for sports most-watched event,
the  World Cup .  The sponsors, along with fans, governments and national
federations, expressed concern after a vote-buying election
scandal connected to the 2018 and 2022 World Cups led to the
suspicion of two senior officials. Months later, Mohamed Bin Hammam, the only candidate to challenge Sepp Blatter for FIFA’s
presidency, withdrew after being accused of offering $40,000 to
Caribbean soccer officials. He’s appealing a life ban, denying
any wrongdoing. Several others have been given bans of up to two
years.  December Meeting  FIFA will announce the other members of Pieth’s group at a
meeting in December when a document naming officials who took
money from the organization’s bankrupt former marketing partner
International Sports & Leisure will be released.  Pieth, who is a professor of criminal law at Basel
University, was chosen by the  United Nations  in 2004 to serve on
an independent inquiry team examining alleged corruption in the
Iraqi oil-for-food program. He said he’ll walk away from the
FIFA project if the body isn’t serious about the reforms.  “We are trying to change something, but of course there’s
a bottom line,” Pieth said. “If we are seriously unhappy I can
say, ‘this is it, I’ve had it.’”  Blatter Tenure  Blatter has been FIFA president since 1998. He says his
next four year term will be his last. Other members of the
executive body have held their posts for more than two decades.  That length of tenure creates risks, Pieth said.  “They start owing each other,” he said. “In future one
will probably have to ask oneself how much time should one spend
in such a job?”  Pieth said he wouldn’t be looking at allegations of past
wrongdoing, saying that was for others. Former Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director  Louis Freeh  is still looking into FIFA
officials for alleged misdeeds. Freeh’s report led to Bin
Hammam’s life ban, while  Jack Warner , a FIFA vice president,
quit the sport in the middle of the inquiry.  Blatter said he expects the reforms to be completed by June
2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
4104 or  cbandel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  