-- 
Finland Wants Bigger ECB Role to Be Included as Option in Euro Rescue Plan

-- B y   N e j r a   C e h i c   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-12-01T08:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/finland-wants-bigger-ecb-role-to-be-included-as-option-in-euro-rescue-plan.html
Finland wants to include a bigger
role for the  European Central Bank  in the toolkit of options
available to the euro region to help end its debt crisis,
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said.  “If there’s nothing else left on the table and we’re still
in crisis, then I’m ready to think about strengthening the role
of the ECB,” Urpilainen said in an interview in Brussels
yesterday. “I prefer strengthening the role of the
 International Monetary Fund .”  The ECB, the  Federal Reserve  and four other central banks
yesterday made it cheaper for banks to borrow dollars in a
coordinated action to stem the global turmoil. While the move
may help ease tensions in money markets, it doesn’t address some
calls for the ECB to take on a lender-of-last-resort role, a
move advocated by Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman.  The ECB has resisted the calls, arguing that such monetary
financing would spur inflation. Urpilainen said her preferred
model for tackling  Europe ’s debt crisis is giving a more active
role to the IMF. Euro-area finance ministers’ focus on continued
talks over the IMF’s role was a “good decision,” she said.  The ECB has argued that its mandate is to ensure  price
stability  in the euro region, and that its actions should always
have that goal without coming under pressure from governments to
delve into measures that support fiscal strength.  Inflation Mandate  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said that, given
stable inflation expectations, and “if we would see further
measures to stabilize fiscal policy, then obviously that would
open up room to maneuver for the ECB,” in an interview in
Brussels yesterday. “Many member states realize that this is
one of the ways forward that could be promising, but there needs
then to be further delivery from particularly the Italian
government. It is an option that is obviously on the table.”  Borg also underlined the need to involve the IMF in any
European rescue scenario. Sweden hasn’t adopted the euro.  “It’s crucial to mention the IMF,” he said. “The IMF has
both the resources but also the surveillance capacity so if we
could see further steps from  Italy  and also some assessment from
the IMF, obviously that would increase the room for the ECB to
act without jeopardizing price stability and the inflation level
in the eurozone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nejra Cehic in Brussels at 
 ncehic@bloomberg.net ;
Kati Pohjanpalo at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  