-- 
First Woman Elected to Run Cook County Invades Illinois Paradise of Graft

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-11-30T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/first-woman-elected-to-run-cook-county-invades-illinois-paradise-of-graft.html
Toni Preckwinkle runs the second-
largest U.S. county, a storied sewer of corruption whose embrace
of the dark side began more than 140 years ago when
commissioners accepted bribes for a contract to paint the seat
of local government in  Chicago  -- with whitewash.  Burying this legacy of malfeasance is just the start of
Preckwinkle’s challenge as Cook County’s chief executive. While
two state lawmakers have proposed separating the county from
 Illinois  and creating the 51st state, the board president’s
problems are more serious: She recently closed a $316 million
deficit in a $3.1 billion budget that mainly covers the cost of
tossing people in jail and providing health care for those who
can’t pay for it.  Preckwinkle, 64, a self-described progressive Democrat,
former high-school history teacher and the first woman elected
to lead the county of 5.2 million, is following a new script
dictated by political realities. She’s rolling back sales taxes,
pushing for the release of 1,000 nonviolent inmates and, in a
departure from the take-care-of-your-pals heritage, laying off
800 employees.  “This is a terrible time to be in government, especially a
terrible time to be a chief executive,” Preckwinkle said in a
Nov. 21 interview in her fifth-floor office at the City and
County Building, 175 steps down a corridor from her more famous
colleague, Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel .  ‘Hard Truths’  Preckwinkle, who will complete her first year in office on
Dec. 6, inherited a $487 million deficit from her predecessor,
Democrat Todd Stroger, son of the late, longtime board president
John Stroger. She presented a 2012 fiscal year budget on Oct. 25
that cut spending to recognize what she called the “hard
truths” needed to change the culture of Cook County. The board
of commissioners approved the budget Nov. 18.  The financial strains aren’t unusual, said Jackie Byers,
research director at the  National Association of Counties . Home
foreclosures and unemployment have eaten into two primary
sources of revenue, sales and property taxes, Byers said in a
telephone interview from  Washington .  “Nothing’s recovering,” Byers said. “Have counties
bottomed out yet? No.”  For Preckwinkle, the financial challenge is magnified by
corruption. Between 1971 and 2009, almost 150 Cook County
politicians and government officials were convicted of bribery
and other offenses, according to a 2010 report from the
University of  Illinois  at Chicago and the Better Government
Association.  “Criminal convictions are just the tip of the iceberg,”
the report said, pointing to contracts being awarded to the
“friends, family and political cronies of public officials.”  Librarian’s Daughter  Like Emanuel, Toni Reed Preckwinkle represents a break from
the lineage of Chicago power. Born and raised in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , the daughter of a librarian and a federal government
worker, she represented Hyde Park on the City Council for almost
two decades. The South Side neighborhood, home to President
 Barack Obama , is best known for producing self-styled reformers
who harass mayors and county board presidents.  By one measure, Preckwinkle fits the profile of
invisibility for officials who run the nation’s 3,100 counties.
Big-city mayors get the Sunday morning interviews on Meet the
Press; they get mentioned as possible presidential candidates.
County executives, supervisors and board presidents oversee the
un-sexy business of tax collections, road paving and dealing
with people who get in trouble.  Tower of Blunt  The 6-foot Preckwinkle -- “stature is an advantage,” she
says -- is blunt, outspoken and sometimes scolding when
discussing county matters and her ability to govern.  “She sort of tells it like it is,” said  Dick Simpson , a
former Chicago alderman who teaches political science at the
 University of Illinois  at Chicago and was co-author of the
public-corruption study.  At public appearances, Preckwinkle typically devotes more
time to questions from her audience than delivering her speech.
She’s one of the few Chicago Democrats to criticize the city’s
most famous son, President Barack Obama.  On immigration, which has made Chicago one of the nation’s
most diverse cities, Preckwinkle is “embarrassed” that this
year the Obama administration will be “deporting more people
than  George Bush  did,” she said at a Union League Club of
Chicago gathering in September.  Poking Emanuel  She also doesn’t shrink from poking Emanuel, who has backed
a proposal to bring casinos to Chicago. Government financial
reliance on gambling is “distressful” because it takes
advantage of residents, she said.  “I play the lottery sometimes, just for fun,” she said in
the interview. “And I would tell you right off the bat that
it’s stupid and dumb.”  Every adult “ought to be ashamed” that 45 percent of the
students in Chicago Public Schools don’t graduate, she said in a
Nov. 3 appearance before a community development group. “His
public schools,” she said, referring to Emanuel, “are feeding
my jails, and I don’t like that much.”  Preckwinkle devotes her strongest words to the jailing of
nonviolent offenders, who make up 70 percent of the 8,500 to
9,000 daily inmate population in Cook County. Each costs the
county $143 a day to house. Many are in jail getting no help
while they should be receiving drug treatment, she said.  “These crazy ideas have drained our coffers and destroyed
our communities,” Preckwinkle told the Union League audience.
“It’s very hard for elected officials to talk about this
because the environment for a very long time has been, ‘Damn it,
you’d better be tough on crime.’ ”  Christie Echo  She’s not alone in her criticism of the handling of drug
cases. New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  this week criticized
the “warehousing” of nonviolent offenders, saying it “makes
no sense.”  Preckwinkle has become a portrait of a progressive in an
age of austerity. The county can’t support the workforce as it
has for several decades, she said, adding that employees must
pay more for their pensions or have them cut.  The county health-care system, in which 58 percent of those
treated don’t have insurance or don’t qualify for Medicaid or
Medicare, is headed for collapse without more money, she said.  Second Woman  Preckwinkle is the second woman to lead the county.
Commissioner Bobbie Steele was appointed to fill out the term of
John Stroger after his death in 2006. Steele’s four months as
interim president allowed her to double her annual pension to
$136,000.  The county’s reputation for waste as well as corruption
makes it impossible to simply boost revenue to fix the problem,
Preckwinkle said.  “You’ve got to go a ways before you can put that behind
you and talk about taxes,” she said at the Nov. 3 appearance.
“Raising taxes across the board is not something you can do
until you’ve built up the credibility that you’re managing well
and that you’ve cut the fat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  