-- 
Food Prices Would Rise With U.S. Truck Rule, Executive Says

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-11-30T20:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/food-prices-would-rise-with-u-s-truck-hour-rule-executive-says.html
U.S. consumers would pay higher  food
prices  under a proposed regulation limiting truck drivers’
hours, a grocery executive told a House panel.  Food stores would pay 3 percent more for shipping, Glen
Keysaw, executive director of transportation and logistics of
 Associated Food Stores Inc. , a retail cooperative based in  Salt
Lake City , told the House oversight committee’s regulatory
subcommittee in  Washington  today.  “This industry operates on a razor-thin margin,” Keysaw
said. “Any increase in operating costs will have to be passed
on to customers in the form of higher prices.”  The U.S. Transportation Department is seeking to shorten
the amount of time a trucker can be behind the wheel to 10 hours
from 11. The changes would cost the trucking industry $1
billion, the agency estimates. A final version of the
regulations, proposed last December, may be released by the end
of this year.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio  Republican, is among
lawmakers asking the White House to keep the 11-hour daily
limit, saying fatalities have fallen since it took effect in
2004 and that the cost of a shorter driving day is too high.  Refrigerated Trucks  The rules would boost fixed costs to $90 a truck from $75,
said Ed Nagle, chief executive officer of Nagle Cos, which runs
temperature-controlled trucks outside Toledo, Ohio, for  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT) ,  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)   W.S. Badcock Corp., a closely held furniture chain, would
see transportation costs increase between 10 percent and 20
percent a year, said Frank Miller, the Mulberry, Florida-based
company’s director of logistics.  Business expenses must be weighed against an estimated $1.4
billion in costs to society as a whole, said Anne Ferro, head of
the U.S. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. About 500
of almost 4,000 large-truck fatalities were related to fatigue,
she said.  Those costs include damage to property, cargo, roads and
bridges, as well as lost productivity, workers’ compensation and
medical care, Ferro said. The costs of lost lives and
debilitating injuries are difficult to quantify, she said.  Industry Pressures  “These costs do not discriminate between safety advocate
and small-business owner,” Ferro said. “They impact
everybody.”  Ed Slattery, whose wife was killed in 2010 when a truck
driver fell asleep at the wheel, said Congress can’t underplay
the human costs. His two sons were were severely injured in the
crash, and one was permanently disabled. The crash will end up
causing more than $18 million in medical costs, he said.  “I don’t hate truckers,” said Slattery, of Cockeysville,
 Maryland . “I don’t even hate the driver who did this to us. I
hate the situation where they have to make choices that are not
good for them, they’re not good for their family, and they’re
not good for the motoring public.  ‘‘I am here to urge Congress and the White House not to
cave to the political pressures of the trucking industry,”
Slattery said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  