-- 
France Examines Environmental Risks of French Guiana Drilling

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-11-30T16:43:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/france-examines-environmental-risks-of-french-guiana-drilling.html
The French government ordered a
study into the environmental repercussions of drilling for oil
in French Guiana following a landmark discovery by  Tullow Oil
Plc (TLW)  earlier this year.  Initial findings on infrastructure, a tax regime and the
environment will be ready by the end of the year before a final
report in June, Industry Minister Eric Besson and Environment
Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet said today in a statement.  Tullow, along with partners  Total SA (FP)  and  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , announced the first oil find in French Guiana in September,
opening a new frontier in  Latin America  that has the potential
to almost double the annual economic output of the overseas
region of France. The discovery could eclipse Tullow’s Jubilee
field in  Ghana , which propelled the West African nation into the
ranks of the top 50 oil states.  Plans to drill off  French Guiana  have drawn criticism from
local environmental groups including  Guyane Nature
Environnement , which has called for tougher anti-spill measures
and warned of the danger to the environment and fisheries.  The government mission is “aimed at anticipating steps
that will allow development of hydrocarbon production in Guiana
so that it respects the environment, is profitable for the
territory and is a creator of economic wealth,” according to
today’s statement.  The French probe will also examine infrastructure and
logistical needs for  oil companies  as well as the creation of a
“balanced” tax regime, the ministers said.  The results from the Zaedyus well will help test the
“Atlantic mirror” theory of whether the Jubilee field can be
replicated on the other side of the  Atlantic , dating from when
the African and South American land masses began to separate
millions of years ago. Tullow and partners spent more than $200
million drilling the offshore well, which found light and heavy
oil. The field could hold 700 million barrels of gross reserves
in the  Demerara Plateau’s Eastern Slope  frontier, Tullow said.  French Guiana is an overseas region of  France  with a
population of about 230,000. Tullow is the operator of the
Guyane Maritime license with a 27.5 percent stake, while Shell
has 45 percent, Total 25 percent and Northpet 2.5 percent.  Charles-Etienne Lebatard, a spokesman for Total, declined
to comment, as did George Cazenove, a spokesman at Tullow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  