-- 
France Won’t ‘Sharply’ Raise Household Natural-Gas Prices

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-11-30T16:19:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/france-won-t-sharply-raise-household-gas-prices-besson-says.html
The French government won’t
“sharply” increase regulated natural-gas prices for
households, according to Industry Minister Eric Besson.  “There are several scenarios on the table,” including
that prices rise slightly or moderately, Besson told RTL radio
today. “The only scenario that I have pushed aside is a sharp
rise in the price of gas.”  Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  will likely decide on new
rates by the end of the week, he said.  France ’s highest court has suspended a government decision
to freeze regulated gas prices for consumers and ordered the
energy ministry to set new tariffs within a month.  The ruling has thrown into question the way regulated
prices are set in France for  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , the former monopoly
that is still 36 percent state-owned. The government, facing
presidential elections next April and May, is under pressure
from consumers not to raise tariffs.  “Between the possibilities of a slight increase or a
moderate one, it’s up to the prime minister to decide,” Besson
said, adding that the government will respect the court’s
decision.  The government in April froze household gas prices for a
year, a decision the country’s energy regulator ruled should be
reversed from Oct. 1 to allow GDF Suez to cover supply costs.
The regulator said the rates should have been raised Oct. 1 by
8.8 percent and 10 percent, depending on the type of household
consumer. Instead the government kept prices unchanged for
households and raised them 4.9 percent for businesses.  Price Cap  Suppliers competing with GDF Suez, grouped under an
organization called Anode and including Direct Energie SA and
 Poweo (ALPWO) , have asked the court to lift the price cap because
regulated rates weren’t high enough to cover costs of supply and
hindered competition.  “What counts for us is that we get a clear set of rules on
rates. The current system is impossible,” Fabien Chone, deputy
chief executive officer of power retailer Direct Energie, said
in an interview today. “Under the best case scenario we think
we will get an increase of 5 percent or 6 percent as a result of
this court case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  