-- 
Fremantle Ports Says 48-Hour Strike by Maritime Union of Australia Begins

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-12-01T07:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/fremantle-ports-says-48-hour-strike-by-maritime-union-of-australia-begins.html
Fremantle Ports , the operator of the
harbor servicing the Western Australian state capital of Perth,
said a 48-hour strike by a labor union demanding higher wages
began today. Shipping movements haven’t been affected.  “We’ve maintained the schedule,” Fremantle Ports
spokeswoman Ainslie de Vos said in a phone interview. About 34
movements, including  container ships , general cargo vessels and
bulk commodity carriers, were scheduled for the duration of the
strike, which started at 5 a.m. local time today, she said.  Stoppages in Australia have increased since then-Employment
Minister  Julia Gillard  led passage of the Fair Work Act two
years ago. Days lost to industrial disputes tripled in the three
months to June 30, according to government data, as unions
sought higher pay and job security amid rising living costs.  Fremantle Ports operates Fremantle harbor, which handles
almost all container trade for Western  Australia , livestock
exports and general cargo imports, and Kwinana, which processes
bulk-commodity exports including grain, petroleum, liquid
petroleum gas, alumina, mineral sands, fertilizers and coal.  Fremantle Ports handles A$26 billion ($26.7 billion) in
trade a year, it said. Shipping disruptions due to the strike
couldn’t be ruled out, de Vos said today.  Western Australian Minister for Transport Troy Buswell
wrote to Prime Minister Gillard on Nov. 29 asking her to
intervene to suspend the Maritime Union of Australia action
through Fair Work Australia, the nation’s labor regulator.  Fremantle Ports’ offer to increase wages 4.75 percent
annually over three years has been rejected by unionists,
according to a copy of a letter e-mailed to Bloomberg News by
the transport department.  Will Tracey, a spokesman for Maritime Union of Australia,
didn’t respond to voicemail requests sent yesterday and today
for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  