-- 
Fremantle Ports Warns 48-Hour Strike Will Affect Retailers

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-11-30T06:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/fremantle-ports-warns-48-hour-strike-will-affect-retailers-1-.html
Fremantle Ports, which operates the
harbor servicing Western Australian state capital Perth, said a
planned 48-hour strike from tomorrow may affect A$144 million
($144 million) worth of  trade .  About 34 shipping movements, including  container ships ,
general cargo vessels and bulk commodity carriers, will be
affected should the strike proceed from 5 a.m. tomorrow to 5
a.m. Dec. 3, Perth time, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. Fremantle Ports handles A$26 billion in trade a year,
it said.  “A 48-hour stoppage would be a major blow for retailers
depending on timely pre-Christmas deliveries of imported goods
for department stores and supermarkets,” Chief Executive
Officer Chris Leatt-Hayter said in the statement. “It would be
a major concern, also, for exporters operating in highly
competitive markets.”  Stoppages in Australia have increased since then-Employment
Minister  Julia Gillard  led passage of the Fair Work Act two
years ago. Days lost to industrial disputes tripled in the three
months to June 30, according to government data, as unions
sought pay rises and job-security measures amid higher living
costs.  Fremantle Ports  operates Fremantle harbor, which handles
almost all container trade for Western  Australia , livestock
exports and general cargo imports, and Kwinana, which processes
bulk-commodity exports including grain, petroleum, liquid
petroleum gas, alumina, mineral sands, fertilizers and coal.  Labor Regulator  Western Australian Minister for Transport Troy Buswell sent
a letter to Prime Minister Gillard yesterday asking her to
intervene to suspend the  Maritime Union of Australia  action
through Fair Work Australia, the nation’s labor regulator.  Fremantle Ports’ offer of increasing wages 4.75 percent
annually over three years has been rejected by unionists,
according to a copy of the letter e-mailed to Bloomberg News by
the transport department.  Will Tracey, a spokesman for  Maritime Union of Australia ,
didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ; 