-- 
Rajaratnam Asks Court to Let Him Remain Free During Appeal

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-11-30T18:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/galleon-s-rajaratnam-challenges-wiretap-bail-denial-in-u-s-appeals-court.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the former Galleon
Group LLC hedge  fund manager  convicted of directing the biggest
insider-trading ring in a generation, asked a federal appeals
court to let him remain free while he challenges the
government’s use of wiretaps in his trial.  Rajaratnam, 54, scheduled to begin an 11-year sentence in a
Massachusetts prison next week, claims improper wiretapping of
his phone conversations will lead to reversal of his May
conviction and that he should remain free in the meantime. A
panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York  declined to rule
immediately after a 20-minute hearing today.  Patricia Millett, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, told the court
his appeal presents a “substantial question of law” and said
he’s unlikely to flee to his native  Sri Lanka  before the appeal
is decided.  “His passport was surrendered ages ago. All his family are
here,” Millett told a three-judge panel of the court.  “He has
nothing to go to in Sri Lanka.”  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who presided over the
case and sentenced Rajaratnam last month, rejected his request
for bail pending the appeal. Rajaratnam claims a March 7, 2008,
wiretap application by FBI special agent B.J. Kang contained
“glaring omissions” that would likely lead the appeals court
to reverse his conviction, justifying his release on bail.  Constitutional Rights  Millett argued the omissions violated Rajaratnam’s
constitutional rights and the legal requirement that the
government show wiretapping is necessary before getting a
warrant.  “There is no substantial question of law likely to result
in a new trial,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan
Streeter, who argued that the court should let Rajaratnam begin
his prison term.  Streeter told the panel that no defendants have ever been
returned to the U.S. under its 22-year-old extradition treaty
with Sri Lanka. And the home detention and electronic monitoring
ordered by Holwell is no guarantee that Rajaratnam won’t run, he
said.  “I do know that people successfully flee all the time,”
he said.  $72 Million  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam made more than $72 million by
using illegal tips to trade in stocks of companies including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp ., Google Inc., ATI
Technologies Inc. and Clearwire Corp.  Last November, Holwell ruled the government had complied
with federal wiretapping laws in its investigation. Prosecutors
said it was the first insider-trading case in which the
government made extensive use of wiretaps to prove its case.  Prosecutors, who introduced 45 wiretap recordings into
evidence during the trial, opposed Rajaratnam’s request for
release while his appeal is in progress.  Prosecutors said the fund manager still has “significant
net worth” even after U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is
presiding over a lawsuit against Rajaratnam by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, directed Rajaratnam to pay a
record $92.8 million penalty while Holwell ordered Rajaratnam to
pay a $10 million fine and forfeit $53.8 million.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-4416, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ). The lower-court case
is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  