-- 
Cutler’s General Catalyst Seeks to Raise $650 Million for Technology Fund

-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 
2011-11-30T19:32:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/general-catalyst-seeks-to-raise-650-million-for-technology-fund.html
General Catalyst Partners, the
venture-capital firm co-founded by Joel Cutler, is seeking to
raise $650 million for a new fund that will invest in technology
companies.  The firm, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , is targeting
about $450 million for its General Catalyst Group VI LP fund,
which will focus on consumer Internet, social media and
technology businesses, according to marketing materials sent to
investors in October and reviewed by Bloomberg News. It is also
attempting to gather about $200 million for a supplemental
vehicle that will invest in larger deals with the main fund,
according to the marketing document.  General Catalyst, which also has offices in  Palo Alto ,
 California , is trying to raise money following the slowest
quarter for venture-capital fundraising in eight years. Venture
firms collected $1.72 billion in the third quarter, down 53
percent from the same period a year earlier, according to the
 National Venture Capital Association .  “Since July, when publicly traded market volatility
increased dramatically, venture-capital fundraising has been
quite slow, as it has been in all areas of private equity,”
said Kelly DePonte, a partner at Probitas Partners LLC in  San
Francisco , which raises money for alternative-investment firms.  General Catalyst expects a December close for the fund,
according to two prospective investors who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. Its previous fund
and supplemental vehicle collected about $722 million in 2007.  Targeting Software, IT  Michelle Daubar, a spokeswoman for the firm, didn’t return
phone calls or e-mails seeking comment on the fundraising.  In addition to consumer Internet and new-media companies,
the latest fund will target software and information technology
firms, as well as companies “that create fundamentally new
breakthrough-oriented ways” of doing business, according to the
document. General Catalyst could increase the amount on both the
main and supplemental funds by 10 percent each.  Since its founding in 1999, the firm has raised five funds
and invested about $1.2 billion in 143 companies and start-ups,
according to the document. They include ProfitLogic Inc., which
was sold to Oracle Corp. in 2005; UPromise Inc., later sold to
 Sallie Mae ; SiteAdvisor Inc., which was sold to McAfee Inc. in
2006; and GroupMe Inc., which was bought by Skype Technologies
SA in August.  While General Catalyst lacks a stable of hot social-media
companies such as Twitter Inc., Zynga Inc. and Facebook Inc. to
help boost fundraising, investors point to Kayak Software Corp.,
the online travel website, as one of the firm’s more promising
holdings.  Kayak Investment  Kayak, which first registered for an initial public
offering in November 2010, was generating a 41 percent gross
internal rate of return and 5.65 times multiple for Fund III as
of Sept. 30, according to the marketing document.  General Catalyst first invested in Norwalk, Connecticut-
based Kayak from its third fund in 2004, with additional
investments from its fifth fund and supplemental vehicle in
December 2007. The firm said in its marketing document that it’s
weighing market conditions before taking Kayak public.  “While the company is actively in the registration period,
it is assessing current market conditions before it proceeds
with its offering,” according to the document.  General Catalyst has investments in several other companies
that have filed for IPOs, according to the document. They
include Brightcove Inc., an online video-management company;
Demandware Inc., an e-commerce platform; and Mascoma Corp., a
biofuels producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  