-- 
Germans’ Righteous Stand Fans Flames in Euro Crisis: Clive Crook

-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 
2011-11-30T00:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/germans-righteous-stand-fans-flames-in-euro-crisis-clive-crook.html
Radoslaw Sikorski made a  striking
comment  in Berlin on Monday night. “I will probably be the first
Polish foreign minister in history to say so, but here it is: I
fear German power less than I am beginning to fear German
inactivity.”  I see his point, though “inactivity” doesn’t quite do
justice to Germany’s impressive dedication to deepening the euro
area’s crisis. This isn’t mere inactivity. This is zeal in
pursuit of catastrophe.  The German government sees itself as standing up for fiscal
and monetary rectitude. The euro area’s problems, it believes,
have been brought on by lack of discipline in countries with
lower standards. This is true, of course -- yet one wonders how
much scorched earth  Germany  thinks is needed to drive the point
home.  Let’s put it another way: Germany owns the biggest house --
fully insured and with the best fire prevention money can buy --
in a tight cluster of dwellings in the European subdivision. One
of those houses caught fire because the owner, despite repeated
warnings, refused to fix a broken heater. Conditions are
parched, and a hot, dry wind is picking up. The flames have
spread, and several other houses are burning.  A rational person might say, “Call the fire department.”
Germany says, “Hang on. Didn’t we tell you this would happen?
Let’s get clear on how it started before we start spraying water
everywhere. You can do a lot of damage that way. Plus, what’s
the rush? If we put fires out the instant they start, then why
would anyone take fire prevention seriously in the first place?  “Also, we’ll need a joint insurance policy (watch out for
that flaming debris over there) with a tough inspection system
to avoid any future free riding.  “Actually, maybe we can use this fire to improve the
neighborhood. Honestly, it’s the only way to get anything done
around here.”  Germany’s thinking would be easier to understand if it were
narrowly self-serving. But it isn’t. If the euro comes apart,
and with it most likely the European Union itself, Germany will
see its export markets collapse and be a principal loser. None
of the houses in this subdivision is fireproof. Germany’s
struggle to sell bonds last week was a gentle reminder that, if
the worst happens, it will not emerge unscathed.  There’s no mystery about the steps needed to stop the
crisis -- if it’s not already too late. To cut the risk of  bank
failures , the danger of sovereign default needs to be contained.
Default in  Greece  is pretty much unavoidable, so acknowledge the
fact and get on with it. But the debts of  Italy ,  Spain  and other
countries in jeopardy are perfectly manageable so long as the
current scare subsides. If it doesn’t subside, no country in the
euro area is safe.  Collective Steps  Two main things are needed to stop the panic. Europe’s
governments must collectively underwrite an impressive
proportion of euro-area sovereign debt, through the issuance of
euro bonds or otherwise, and the  European Central Bank  must step
forward as lender of last resort to distressed governments.  Would that work? Remember that the euro-area countries are
not as a group dangerously over-indebted. Taken together they
are creditworthy, which is why the impending catastrophe was
easily avoidable. It can still be avoided -- though no longer as
easily -- so long as Germany relaxes its determination to make a
point.  Germany is right that the design of the EU needs to be
looked at afresh, but first things first, for heaven’s sake.
Proper debate and consultation about closer fiscal union, which
Germany wants to see, will take time, which the EU does not
have. Constitutional innovation as a species of  crisis
management  -- for too long the EU’s preferred method of advance
-- doesn’t guarantee good results. If you question that, look
around.  Moreover, Germany is hopelessly confused over what it
wants. It seeks closer fiscal union for the purpose of
tightening fiscal discipline. But the loss of sovereignty
entailed by closer fiscal union will not be confined, as Germany
seems to think, to the others. Greater formal pooling of
political power has the potential to diminish the clout Germany
derives from its economic and financial might. In other words,
closer fiscal union does not guarantee greater fiscal rectitude.
Everything depends on the details.  What’s more, new fiscal rules are only part of the longer-
term reform that  Europe  needs. Greece’s debt crisis has become
an EU-wide emergency because of the risk of contagion through
banks. If Europe’s banks had been adequately capitalized, a
Greek default would have been less threatening. The best cure
for moral hazard in sovereign debt is a financial system strong
enough to let a fraudulent overborrower go bust.  Misplaced Emphasis  Europe needs both new fiscal rules and a stricter, more
coherent system of EU-wide bank regulation. The first is getting
too much emphasis, the second too little.  The deepest contradiction in Germany’s approach to Europe’s
future, though, is not economic or financial but political. Its
government calls for closer political union just as the crisis
has exposed how little sense of shared purpose and identity the
EU has yet developed. And the worse the crisis gets -- thanks to
Germany’s reckless inflexibility -- the further this sense of
shared purpose, such as it is, will be eroded.  You must agree, the German government’s logic is
perplexing. Its citizens are understandably furious at the
thought that their taxes might bail out profligate governments
elsewhere in the euro area. Therefore, let’s move to closer
political union. (a) There’s nothing you can do with those
people; they’re hopeless, so don’t ask us to help. (b) Let’s be
one big happy family.  My watchword for the next European constitution -- if it’s
not too late to undergo such mending -- would be: greater
political integration where necessary, less where possible. But
that is a debate for another time. Right now the neighborhood is
on fire.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Shipley at   djshipley@bloomberg.net . 