-- 
German Jobless Slip as Companies Defy Crisis

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-11-30T10:59:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/german-unemployment-declines-more-than-forecast-as-companies-defy-crisis.html
German  unemployment  dropped more
than economists forecast in November, as companies’ resilience
to the euro area’s debt woes showed no sign of cracking.  The number of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted
20,000 to 2.91 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. Economists forecast a decline of 5,000, the median
of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. The adjusted
 jobless rate  dropped to 6.9 percent.  Companies in  Europe ’s largest economy are adding workers
even as the region’s worsening fiscal crisis clouds growth
prospects. While  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said today the euro-area economy may already be in a
recession, German  business confidence  rose in November and
consumers also became more optimistic.  “The German labor market is proving robust,” Heinrich Alt, the labor agency’s deputy head, told reporters in
Nuremberg. “The financial and political turbulence of the debt
crisis hasn’t worked its way to the real economy. Exports are
functioning. Let’s hope it stays that way.”  The euro declined 0.2 percent to $1.3286 as of 11:41 a.m.
in Berlin. The single currency has depreciated about 8 percent
against the dollar over the past three months.  European Slowdown  Euro-area finance ministers approved enhancements to their
bailout fund at their  meeting in Brussels yesterday, while
backing off from setting a target for its firepower and seeking
a greater role for the  International Monetary Fund  in fighting
the region’s turmoil. Leaders agreed last month to provide the
guarantees to restore investor confidence in banks.  Euro-region unemployment rose to 10.3 percent in October
from 10.2 percent in the previous month, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. That’s the highest
since June 1998, before the euro was introduced.  With governments cutting spending to plug their budget
gaps, the European Commission on Nov. 10 lowered euro-region
growth forecasts for this year and next to 1.5 percent and 0.5
percent, respectively.  Germany ’s economy may outpace growth in
the region, with gross domestic product rising 2.9 percent and
0.8 percent, the Brussels-based commission said.  Sports-car maker  Porsche AG (PAH3)  plans to add as many as 1,000
jobs a year through 2018 to sustain an expansion in models and
sales, personnel chief Thomas Edig said on Nov. 25. Airbus SAS,
whose German production sites include Hamburg, wants to hire a
total of 4,000 workers next year, Boersen-Zeitung cited Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Enders as saying Nov. 24.  ‘Impressive Upswing’  The labor agency’s BA-X index, a measure of employment
intentions, jumped 8 points to 179 in November, the highest
since the gauge was introduced in 2004. Demand for lease workers
accounts for one third of openings, the agency said yesterday.
That contrasts with a gauge of euro-region manufacturers’
employment expectations slumping in November.  “The impressive labor market upswing is not over yet,”
said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich.
“The solid employment situation remains the key support factor
for household demand in Germany.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles  based in Munich, remains “confident for 2012,”
Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on Nov. 15. He
also predicted “double-digit” percentage sales growth next
year in the U.S., which will likely overtake Germany as the
carmaker’s largest maker in the near future.  German Exports  German exports will probably breach the 1 trillion euro
($1.3 trillion) level this year for the first time as demand
from developing states offsets waning sales in Europe, the BGA
exporters and wholesalers group said yesterday.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. may
say today that its business barometer for the world’s largest
economy rose to 58.5 in November from 58.4 in the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg survey. The number of contracts
to purchase previously owned homes probably rose in October,
according to a separate survey.  This month’s drop in German joblessness resumes a decline
that only ended in October with the first unemployment increase
since June 2009. The labor agency revised that figure down today
to 6,000 in adjusted terms from the 10,000 initially reported.  The latest figures show that last month “is likely to have
been a blip,” said  Christian Schulz , a former European Central
Bank economist now working for Berenberg Bank in London.  “If the crisis is resolved soon, the impact on the labor
market may remain negligible as companies learned the value of
hanging on to their staff in the last recession,” Schulz said
in an e-mailed comment. “If the rescue fails, the labor market
will not escape unscathed.”  ‘Extremely Weak’  Companies may struggle to maintain their sales growth as
the euro-region economy shows signs of a deepening slowdown just
as global demand falters.  South Korea ’s industrial output fell,
 India’s economy  grew the least in more than two years and
Thailand cut  interest rates , reports showed today.  Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing maker that controls
 Continental AG (CON) , said on Nov. 22 revenue growth in the fourth
quarter may be restrained because of slowing demand for machine
parts in Europe. The company said it’s monitoring the current
financial crisis “very closely.”  The euro region is in a “mild” recession, with the area
likely to grow 1.6 percent this year and 0.2 percent in 2012,
the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said Nov. 28, citing the turmoil as the main risk.  Germany’s jobless rate was 5.8 percent in September,
according to the latest harmonized OECD figures. That compared
with 9.1 percent in the U.S., 9.9 percent in  France , 8.3 percent
in  Italy  and a EU average of 9.7 percent.  “European growth is extremely weak, we’re probably already
in a recession,” O’Neill told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” in  London  today. “We need proper
leadership in the European crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  