-- 
German Note Yields Fall Below Zero on ECB Rate Outlook, Demand for Safety

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-11-30T16:35:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/german-one-year-note-yield-falls-below-zero-for-the-first-time-on-record.html
German one-year notes rallied,
pushing the yield below zero for the first time, amid
speculation the  European Central Bank  will intensify its
economic stimulus and crisis-fighting measures.  Two-year German yields fell to a record after the ECB and
five other central banks agreed to reduce the  interest rate  on
dollar liquidity swap lines to ease strains in financial
markets. Euribor futures advanced, signaling investors were
adding to bets for lower borrowing costs. Belgian and Italian
bonds rallied.  The negative yield on one-year notes means investors are
“willing to take a loss on the price just for the security of
owning  Germany ,” said  Harvinder Sian , a fixed-income strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in London. “It’s an illustration
of the fact the  euro zone  has far fewer fireproof securities,
and it’s an indication of the current situation, that the ECB is
going to cut rates to record levels.”  The one-year  yield  fell nine basis points to minus 0.01
percent at 4:15 p.m.  London  time after dropping to minus 0.07
percent, the first time it has declined below zero since
Bloomberg began collecting data on the notes in 1995. The 1
percent security due December 2012 climbed 0.09, or 90 euro
cents per 1,000-euro ($1,347) face amount, to 101.035.  Two-year yields declined as much as 16 basis points to a
record low 0.277 percent. The rate has fallen 21 basis points
this month.  Rate Outlook  Investors are paying money to lend to Germany for the first
time as demand for the safest securities swells while Europe’s
debt crisis deepens, similar to the rates on U.S. Treasury
bills, which turned negative for the first time in December
2008.  The demand for shorter-dated assets is increasing the
difference in yield between two-year notes and 10-year bonds,
which climbed to 196 basis points today, the most since January.  At the same time, central banks are making cash available
to lenders, boosting the allure of short-dated notes. The
 Federal Reserve  said today it will cut the cost of emergency
dollar funding for European banks as part of globally
coordinated action.  The ECB bought Italian and Irish bonds, according to at
least two people with knowledge of the deals, who declined to be
identified because the trades are private. The central bank
unexpectedly cut its key interest rate by a quarter percentage
point to 1.25 percent on Nov. 3, after raising rates twice this
year from a record-low 1 percent. The next meeting is on Dec. 8.  Euribor Futures  Euribor futures rallied, pushing the yield on the March
2012 contract down 14 basis points to 1 percent.  There are two factors for the gain in German notes, “one
is a debt crisis reason and one is an ECB policy reason,” said
 John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in London.
“That’s unleashed some extra buying at the short end.”  Euro-area finance ministers meeting yesterday said they
would seek a greater role for the  International Monetary Fund 
and ECB in fighting the debt crisis after conceding the effort
to expand their bailout fund missed its target.  European heads of government meet on Dec. 9 in Brussels,
with Germany pushing for governance changes that would tighten
enforcement of budget rules. The move might make it easier for
the ECB to play a bigger part in supporting euro-area nations,
possibly channeling loans through the IMF, two officials
familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Euro Rallies  The euro rallied 1.2 percent to $1.3476 and the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index of equities climbed 3.5 percent after the
central banks announced their plan. Ten-year bonds from  Belgium 
to  Italy  outperformed German bunds.  “This reduces the funding strains in the banking system,”
said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole SA in London. “That’s risk-positive and bad for
bunds.”  Volatility on Belgian sovereign debt was the highest in
euro-area markets today followed by the Netherlands, according
to measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and
credit-default swaps.  Portugal ’s government bonds slumped even as the nation’s
parliament approved the government’s 2012 budget proposal in a
final vote today.  Portuguese Bonds  Some investors may be selling Portuguese securities before
the end of this month after the nation’s credit ranking was
downgraded to non-investment grade by  Fitch Ratings  on Nov. 24,
said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG
in London. Barclays Plc said on Nov. 24 that it will cut
Portuguese  government bonds  from its Euro Treasury Index at the
end of November.  Ten-year Portuguese yields climbed 45 basis points to 14.05
percent after touching a record 14.13 percent. Two-year note
yields were 69 basis points higher at 18.77 percent. They have
risen more than four percentage points since this time last
week.  German bonds have returned 6.1 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian bonds have lost 11 percent
and Spanish debt has fallen 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  