-- 
Germans, Stop Bawling; Euro Rescue Is Your Gain Not Loss: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-11-30T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/germans-stop-bawling-euro-rescue-is-your-gain-not-loss-books.html
Germany , a towering beneficiary of
the euro, keeps sabotaging efforts to save the single currency.
To understand why, pick up  Daniel Kahneman ’s imposing new book,
“Thinking, Fast and Slow.”  Kahneman, an influential Princeton psychologist who won a
 Nobel Prize   in economics , doesn’t discuss the euro debacle in
this masterwork on intuition and decision making. He does
describe a human trait that has helped drive the sovereign-debt
crisis from  Athens  to  Rome  and on to Berlin: loss aversion.  The phrase is shorthand for an ingrained psychological
quirk that surfaces in experiment after experiment. Simply put,
people dislike losses more than they like gains. That instinct
warps any negotiation, be it bargaining over labor contracts or
deciding the fate of the European Union. Germans, seen in this
light, are primed by history and psychology to believe they have
more to lose than to gain from euro bailouts.  “Loss aversion creates an asymmetry that makes agreements
difficult to reach,” Kahneman writes. “The concessions you
make to me are my gains, but they are your losses; they cause
you much more pain than they give me pleasure.”  This is only one slice of a highly readable and richly
empirical study of our “mental machinery,” as Kahneman and his
late collaborator Amos Tversky called it. The book, a sweeping
synthesis of Kahneman’s research and thinking, offers plenty of
other intellectual meat to be savored -- observations on hapless
stock pickers and overrated chief executives, and an algorithm
that predicts the future value of Bordeaux wines.  Systems 1 and 2  Yet I kept coming back to loss aversion, which is tripping
up European ministers and keeping the bond vigilantes on their
backs. If German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  wants to save the
euro, she would do well to heed what Kahneman and other pioneers
of behavioral economics have learned.  Our cognitive equipment is composed, in Kahneman’s extended
metaphor, of two systems that determine how we think and make
choices. System 1 is fast, but runs on intuition and emotion.
(Do we trust that Neanderthal with the baseball bat in the dark
alley?) System 2 is slower, more critical and more logical.
(What’s the product of 17 x 24?) No points for guessing which
system has the upper hand in loss aversion.  Throughout our lives, we face choices that combine the risk
of loss with the opportunity of gain. Should you take that job
in Dubai? Would you buy shares of Facebook Inc. in a private
sale before the company goes public? In each case, you must
decide whether to accept a gamble or reject it, Kahneman writes.  Coin Toss  He likens such choices to a coin toss. Tails, you lose
$100; heads, you win $150. Though the expected value of the
gamble is positive, most people dislike it, he says. Their fear
of losing $100 overpowers their hope of gaining $150. Many
demand a potential gain of at least $200 to balance the
possibility of losing $100.  Our loss aversion is rooted in evolution, Kahneman says:
“Organisms that treat threats as more urgent than opportunities
have a better chance to survive and reproduce,” he writes.  Which helps explain why Germany bridles at suggestions that
it should make a bigger contribution to save the single
currency, support the introduction of joint euro bonds, or allow
the  European Central Bank  to become a lender of last resort.  Germany should be praising the euro, not burying it. The
ECB, after all, kept  interest rates  at levels more appropriate
to Germany than to Ireland or  Spain  in the euro’s first decade.
That helped pull Germany out of a balance-sheet recession and
aided its exports. Think of Greeks buying Porsche Cayennes as
the good times rolled.  Bund Auction  When the bubble burst, the Germans benefitted from the
currency union yet again, as  Sebastian Mallaby , author of hedge-
fund history “More Money Than God,” has noted. Imagine what
would have happened to Germany’s  resurging exports  in 2009 and
2010 if the country had, like  Switzerland , been outside the euro
and seen its currency surge on an influx of hot money.  Instead, capital flowed into German  government bonds  from
the periphery, driving down the country’s borrowing costs.
Heads, Germany wins; tails, its euro partners lose. Until, of
course, investors got so nervous about the euro that Germany
itself struggled to sell 10-year bonds at an auction last week.  Reading Kahneman’s book has deepened my appreciation of
Germany’s reservations. Germans are right to be vigilant about
the moral hazard engendered by transfer unions. Nor should we
brush off their historical fears of hyperinflation, the subject
of a timely reissue of Adam Fergusson’s classic history, “When
Money Dies.”  Yet Germans would be wise to stifle their System 1 long
enough to allow their System 2 to calculate the real value of
saving or losing the euro. Is this a risky gamble? Yes. But
Germans have far more to gain than to lose.  “Thinking, Fast and Slow” is from  Farrar, Straus and
Giroux  in the U.S. and from  Allen Lane  in the U.K. (499 pages,
$30, 25 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 