-- 
German Retail Sales Increased More Than Economists Forecast in October

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-11-30T07:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/germany-s-retail-sales-increased-more-than-economists-forecast-in-october.html
German  retail sales  rose more than
economists forecast in October as shoppers maintained their
willingness to spend ahead of the year-end holiday season.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings,
increased 0.7 percent from September, when they advanced 0.3
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
That’s the biggest increase since June. Economists forecast a
gain of 0.1 percent, the median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey  showed.  Sales  dropped 0.4 percent from a year ago.  German shoppers plan to increase spending over the holiday
season by 4.3 percent, according to a study by Deloitte LLP,
helping  Europe ’s largest economy weather the impact of the
region’s debt crisis. Unemployment held near the lowest in more
than two years in October and business confidence unexpectedly
increased this month.  “That’s a good start to the fourth quarter,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Looking ahead,
consumption should at least remain stable. It looks as if
consumers have found their own therapy to cope with the debt
crisis trauma: comfort shopping under the Christmas tree?”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.3293 at 8:12 a.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.2 percent on the day.  Rising Confidence  German  consumer confidence  will rise for a third month in
December as higher wages and stable unemployment offset debt-
crisis concerns, GfK SE said on Nov. 28. It said its gauge of
households’ willingness to spend jumped to 40.3 in November from
31.2 the previous month, while a measure of economic
expectations fell to minus 7.2 from minus 6.2.  Retailers were satisfied with sales over the Nov. 26-27
weekend, the HDE association  said  on its website, citing a
survey among 400 outlets. Store managers are optimistic and
consumer sentiment is stable, it said, forecasting December
sales to rise 1.5 percent from a year ago.  The country’s third-quarter economic rebound was driven by
consumer and company spending, the statistics office said on
Nov. 24. Growth accelerated to 0.5 percent from 0.3 percent in
the previous three months.  German business confidence rose for the first time in five
months in November, the Munich-based Ifo economic institute said
the same day, citing its survey of 7,000 executives.  Still, there are signs the German economy is cooling as the
escalating debt crisis damps demand for its goods across the 17-
nation euro region. The Bundesbank last week slashed its growth
forecast for 2012 to between 0.5 percent and 1 percent from 1.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  