-- 
Spanish Government Bonds Drop on Euro Crisis Concern; German Bunds Advance

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T10:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/german-bunds-advance-as-euro-leaders-say-more-work-is-needed-on-imf-role.html
Spanish  government bonds  fell for
the first time in three days on concern lawmakers’ efforts to
counter the region’s debt crisis are falling short.  Italian 10-year bonds also slid after euro-area finance
ministers said more work was needed to enhance the role of the
 International Monetary Fund  in fighting  Europe ’s debt crisis.
German bonds snapped a six-day drop after  Standard & Poor’s  cut
the ratings of lenders including Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Portuguese yields increased to euro-era
records. The European  Central Bank  bought Irish and Italian
debt, said people with knowledge of the trades.  “There were a lot of points that were rather
disappointing” from the ministers’ meeting yesterday, saidDavid Schnautz, a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 London . “It could be the disappointment is feeding in” to the
government bond markets, he said.  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds rose seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.46 percent at 10:35 a.m. London
time. The 5.5 percent securities maturing in April 2021 fell
0.465, or 4.65 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,327) face amount, to
93.32.  The yield on Italian bonds of similar maturity rose five
basis points to 7.29 percent. Benchmark German bunds rose,
pushing the yield down three basis points to 2.30 percent.  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.3287 and the Stoxx Europe
600 Index of equities slid 0.4 percent.  Breakeven Rate  Euro-area finance ministers conceded their effort to expand
their bailout fund missed the target and said they would seek a
greater role for the IMF in fighting the crisis after yields in
the region’s high-deficit nations surged this month. The rate on
five-year Italian notes has climbed 190 basis points in
November, the biggest jump since Bloomberg began collecting the
data in 1993.  The euro-area ministers will be joined today by their
counterparts from the rest of the 27-nation European Union and
will seek agreement on how to temporarily guarantee banks’ bond
issuance in order to improve funding conditions for lending.  The  European Central bank  bought Italian bonds today,
according to four people with knowledge of the trades, who
declined to be identified because they’re private. It also
bought Irish debt, said two of the people. An ECB spokesman in
 Frankfurt  declined to comment.  Irish five-year note yields were little changed at 9.44
percent after climbing about 1.63 percentage points this month.  Euro-Area Inflation  German 10-year yields also fell from near the highest in
three months after S&P lowered credit ratings on banks as part
of criteria changes started three years ago.  Euro-area inflation held at a three-year high of 3 percent
in October, the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.  Germany ’s 10-year  breakeven rate , a measure of inflation
expectations derived from the difference in yield between
conventional and index-linked securities, was at 141 basis
points, after narrowing to 128 basis points on Nov. 24, a record
low according to Bloomberg data.  Other reports today showed German retail sales rose more
than economists estimated in October, and German unemployment
fell a seasonally adjusted 20,000 to 2.91 million in November,
according to the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency today.  Portuguese 10-year bond yields jumped 46 basis points to
14.06 percent, the most in the euro era.  Fitch Ratings  cut the
country’s credit ranking to non-investment grade on Nov. 24,
leading to its removal from a Barclays Plc index of European
debt at the end of this month.  German government bonds have returned 6.1 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
bonds have lost 11 percent and Spanish debt has fallen 1.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  