-- 
Gingrich Works to Avoid Rivals’ Boom-Bust Fate After Rising in Voter Polls

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/gingrich-works-to-avoid-rivals-boom-bust-fate-after-rising-in-voter-polls.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  is trying to prove he’s got something his rivals
don’t: staying power.  After a surge in the polls that revived a candidacy long
dismissed as nothing more than a promotional book tour, the
former House speaker is positioning himself as the party’s
strongest alternative to front-runner  Mitt Romney .  “When you have a 90 percent  American Conservative Union 
rating for your entire lifetime,” he told reporters yesterday
in Bluffton, South Carolina, where he was opening a new campaign
office, “there’s a clear contrast.”  Gingrich’s jab at the former Massachusetts governor, coming
after months of urging his rivals to focus their criticism
solely on President  Barack Obama , signaled the start of a new
phase of his campaign in a primary that has been notable for its
lack of friendly fire.  On a three-day campaign swing through  South Carolina ,
Gingrich packed town-hall meetings, wooed fundraisers, courted
state party officials and served notice to his rivals that he is
prepared to fight to hold his newfound front-runner status.  An American Research Group  survey  released yesterday showed
33 percent of likely South Carolina Republican primary voters
backing Gingrich, up from 8 percent in October, compared with 22
percent supporting Romney.  Romney made his first direct attack on Gingrich last night,
signaling the growing threat posed by his candidacy. “I think
to get President Obama out of office, you’re going to have to
bring something to the race that’s different than what he
brings,” Romney said. “He’s a lifelong politician.”  Re-energized National Strategy  Gingrich’s South Carolina visit illustrated the campaign’s
re-energized national strategy. Book signings have been replaced
with town-hall meetings. Field teams and state-specific websites
are being launched in New Hampshire, Iowa, and South Carolina.
And the campaign says it has raised more than $4 million since
the end of September, enough to infuse a new sense of confidence
about its ability to compete in a drawn-out primary.  “If we do well in South Carolina and win in  Florida , down
goes Willard,” said R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s campaign spokesman,
referring to Romney by his formal first name.  Gingrich is working to avoid the fate of some of his rivals,
who surged in the polls only to plummet after weak debate
performances or other self-inflicted errors.  Herman Cain , the
former chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza who is
facing sexual misconduct allegations, has been the latest victim
of that boom-bust cycle. A Nov. 14 CNN poll found that Cain’s
support among Republicans fell to 14 percent from 25 percent in
October.  Cain Reassessing Candidacy  A new accusation this week that Cain was involved in a
sporadic, 13-year affair prompted the Atlanta businessman to
announce that he is reassessing his candidacy, a move that could
benefit a rising Gingrich.  Evidence of the former speaker’s revival since June, when
more than a dozen top advisers quit citing disputes over
campaign strategy, is growing.  Some aides who remained, such as Hammond, had resorted to
sleeping in supporters’ homes, bunking together above garages or
in spare bedrooms, when fundraising slowed to a trickle in the
summer. As of Sept. 30, Gingrich was $1.2 million in debt,
according to campaign disclosure  reports .  South Carolina Offices  Today, the Gingrich campaign has 10 paid staff and has
opened five offices in South Carolina. In New Hampshire, six
aides are working out of a new office in the center of downtown
Manchester. And in  Iowa , Craig Schoenfeld and Katie Koberg, two
of six staffers in the state who resigned on June 9,  rejoined 
the campaign mid-November as senior advisers. Hammond has now
stayed in enough hotels to earn frequent guest status with
Marriott Hotels.  “We first started going across the state in early
September,” said James Epley, the campaign chairman for
Beaufort County, South Carolina. “We’ve seen it grow from
there.”  Still, with less than five weeks before the first round of
voting in Iowa, some Republicans question whether Gingrich has
enough time to build an effective operation.  “The short time frame will make whatever it is less
effective,” said Jim Dyke, a South Carolina-based Republican
strategist. “Highly motivated volunteers can trump a lot of
things -- just not time.”  Immigration Issue  As Gingrich works to catch up organizationally, he also
must defend the sort of debate remarks that have gotten his
competitors into trouble. When Texas Governor  Rick Perry  was
deemed too soft on illegal immigration after a Sept. 22 debate
that highlighted his support for in-state tuition of American-
born children of undocumented workers, he lost his front-runner
status and has never recovered.  Gingrich spent much of the week defending his plan to grant
legal status to some immigrants who entered the country
illegally long ago, after Romney and Minnesota Representative
 Michele Bachmann  labeled it “amnesty” during a Nov. 23
candidate forum in  Washington .  “It is an absolute falsehood to say that I favor amnesty
for 11 million people. Period,” Gingrich told voters gathered
on a town green in Bluffton, South Carolina.  “Anybody who says it from now on has been served notice
that they are saying something which is not true, which in
itself should disqualify them as a candidate,” he said.  The former speaker also emphasized to voters that he didn’t
work as a lobbyist after leaving office. Gingrich made millions
through a network of advocacy organizations, think tanks and
consulting firms he founded after resigning the speakership and
his House seat in 1999.  Freddie Mac  Ties  His clients included Freddie Mac, a mortgage company taken
into government conservatorship in 2008 after its stake in
failed subprime loans pushed it to the brink of collapse.  “I can’t tell you which distortion my opponents are going
to raise,” he said. “I can tell you this: I will be prepared
to answer every one of them.”  Republican Representative  Tim Scott , who hosted a town-hall
meeting with Gingrich in Charleston, said the presidential
hopeful’s immigration position will likely be a liability with
the state’s conservative Republican voters.  To ease that opposition, Scott is urging voters to take a
broader look at Gingrich’s experience. “You don’t have to find
the perfect candidate,” he said, in an interview on CNN’s
“State of The Union.” “What we need is someone who can beat
President Obama.”  Newspaper Endorsement  New Hampshire ’s Manchester Union Leader’s Nov. 27
endorsement of Gingrich took a similar position. “We would
rather back someone with whom we may sometimes disagree than one
who tells us what he thinks we want to hear,” the newspaper
wrote.  In appearances across South Carolina, Gingrich said that
his shortcomings don’t mean that he isn’t the best candidate to
take on Obama.  “I don’t claim to be the perfect candidate,” he told WSC-
FM radio on Nov. 28. “I just claim to be a lot more
conservative than Mitt Romney, and a lot more electable than
anybody else,”  Gingrich promised retirees in  Bluffton , a few miles from
Hilton Head, that his general election campaign would deliver a
“crushing defeat” to Obama.  Still, the former speaker’s background bothered some voters,
who said his past advocacy work, two divorces and admissions of
infidelity would make it difficult for him to win in 2012.  “My concern is that Gingrich has had a high negative image
in many, many areas in the past,” said Jim McGrath, of Sun City,
South Carolina. “How is he going to overcome that with the
independent voter?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  