-- 
Goldman, Morgan Stanley, Anglo Irish Bank in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-11-30T11:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/goldman-morgan-stanley-efsf-anglo-irish-bank-in-court-news.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices debated
an effort to make investment banks, including units of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , pay back money they earned
by allegedly manipulating dozens of initial public offerings.  Hearing arguments yesterday in  Washington , the justices
questioned whether Vanessa Simmonds could press ahead with what
originally were 55 lawsuits filed in federal court in Seattle.  The dispute stems from a provision in federal securities
law that requires corporate insiders to give back “short-
swing” profits -- money from the sale of stock held for less
than six months. The 1934 Securities Exchange Act gives
investors two years to sue over violations.  In letting some of the suits go forward, a federal appeals
court said the time limit hadn’t kicked in because the
defendants didn’t file required disclosure forms. The panel
threw out 30 of the suits on other grounds.  In an hour-long session in Washington, the justices
signaled they were reluctant to erect a rigid rule on the time
limit. Justice  Elena Kagan  suggested the court might return the
dispute to the lower courts to determine whether Simmonds had
enough information about the alleged wrongdoing to file her suit
earlier, even without the disclosure forms.  The justices are considering an appeal filed by units of
Citigroup Inc.,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , as well as
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs.  Simmonds was a college student when she bought the stock in
55 companies that went public at the height of the IPO boom in
the late 1990s and 2000. Her father, David Simmonds, is one of
the lawyers pressing the case.  The case is Credit Suisse v. Simmonds, 10-1261, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Schaeuble Defends EFSF Panel at German Constitutional Court  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  defended giving
a parliamentary subcommittee the ability to quickly approve
emergency or classified euro rescue-fund actions at the nation’s
top court.  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe heard
arguments in a case filed by two opposition lawmakers, who say
the rules curb their parliamentary rights and put power in the
hands of too small a group.  The government argues the subcommittee must be allowed to
make decisions privately so that the European Financial
Stability Facility can take actions requiring strict
confidentiality, such as bond purchases on the secondary market.  “Confidentiality is the prerequisite that you can use
those instruments at all,” Schaeuble told the judges.
“Announcing beforehand that you’ll buy bonds in the secondary
market may be suitable at a Carnival speech, but not for
responsible operation of the EFSF.”  The court on Sept. 7 cleared Germany’s participation in the
EFSF while stressing the legislature, the Bundestag, must keep
authority over budgetary aspects of the rescue plan. The nine-
member, all-party subcommittee was established to comply with
the ruling while giving the panel powers to approve emergency or
classified decisions. The 41-member budgetary committee must
have a say in EFSF decisions, the court said in its ruling.  The court’s judges in October halted committee activities
while the suit is pending.  The judges are expected to issue a ruling later this year.  The case is: BVerfG, 2 BvE 8/11.  For more, click here.  Consultant Made $780,000 on Julius Baer, Swatch Bets, FSA Says  A management consultant on trial for  insider trading  made
about 500,000 pounds ($780,000) betting on tips from a hedge-
fund employee about companies including Julius Baer Group Ltd.
and  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , prosecutors said.  Rupinder Sidhu, who faces 23 counts of insider trading,
used Hotmail accounts and MSN Messenger to covertly communicate
with Anjam Ahmad, a trader at AKO Capital LLP, Michael Brompton,
a prosecutor for the Financial Services Authority, told a jury
in  London .  Ahmad told Sidhu, a childhood friend, when AKO was about to
buy or sell a stock so he could benefit from the effect on its
share price, Brompton said. This was “carried out on an
increasingly large scale and for increasingly large profits”
between June and August in 2009.  The 40-year-old, who also faces one count of money
laundering, pleaded not guilty in April. The trial is expected
to last for three weeks.  Sidhu is accused of using spread-betting sites to speculate
on stocks including Julius Baer, Swatch, Reed Elsevier Plc and
Michael Page International Plc, making sums ranging from 1,600
pounds to 137,000 pounds, Brompton said  It is a “classic example of insider trading,” Brompton
told jurors yesterday.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Cargill Accused of Job Discrimination at Arkansas Plant  Cargill Meat Solutions, processor of Honeysuckle White and
Riverside turkeys, discriminated against 4,069 qualified job
applicants, the Labor Department said as it sought to strip the
company of its U.S. contracts.  Female, white, black, Hispanic and American Indian
applicants at the Cargill Inc. unit were denied entry-level jobs
at a production plant in Springdale, Arkansas, according to a
statement yesterday on an agency complaint. The company has $550
million in contracts to supply the U.S. military, the department
said in the statement.  The department filed the complaint after it was unable to
arrange back pay, with interest, for the rejected job
applicants, according to the statement. The Wichita, Kansas-
based company didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  “This is an unfortunate case in which thousands of
qualified workers were denied the opportunity to compete fairly
for jobs in a tough economy,” said Patricia Shiu, director of
the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs.  The Labor Department is seeking to cancel Cargill Meat
Solutions’ government contracts and bar it from future work
until the company resolves violations and changes employment
practices, according to the statement.  Glencore Unit Should Be Liquidated, Thai Bitumen Says  Glencore International Plc’s  Singapore unit should be
liquidated after failing to pay a $20.2 million arbitration
award, Thai Bitumen Co. said in a lawsuit.  Glencore Singapore, a unit of the largest publicly traded
commodities company, is “therefore deemed to be insolvent and
unable to pay its debts,” Thai Bitumen director Chaiwat
Srivalwat said in the Nov. 23 winding-up petition filed in the
Singapore High Court. A closed hearing is scheduled for Dec. 9.  The Singapore unit of Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore was
ordered to pay $20.2 million and interest to Thai Bitumen by
arbitrator Kenneth Rokison on Sept. 21, according to the
lawsuit. Glencore failed to deliver 600,000 barrels of
Venezuelan crude oil to Thai Bitumen, breaching an October 2008
sale contract, Rokison ruled in the London arbitration
proceedings.  Glencore hasn’t filed its reply to the Singapore lawsuit.
Spokesman Charles Watenphul declined to comment on the lawsuit.
Thai Bitumen’s Chaiwat and the company’s lawyer Cavinder Bull
didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Thai Bitumen, a unit of Thailand’s biggest asphalt producer
 Tipco Asphalt Pcl. (TASCO) , and Glencore couldn’t agree on the interest
amount to be paid on the arbitration award, according to court
papers. Glencore’s lawyers claimed Thai Bitumen had over-
calculated the interest by $42,785, according to court filings.  Glencore declared force majeure on the delivery to Thai
Bitumen, a legal clause that allows delays because of an
incident outside a supplier’s control, after a decision by
Venezuelan state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  to cut
production in 2008, according to the filing.  The case is Thai Bitumen Co. v Glencore Singapore Ltd.
CWU152/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Olympus Whistle-Blower Woodford Meets With U.S. Prosecutors  Olympus Corp. (7733)  whistle-blower Michael Woodford said he met
for two hours yesterday with U.S. prosecutors and investigators
for the Securities and Exchange Commission in  New York .  The former head of the Tokyo-based camera maker arrived at
the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Lower Manhattan for a briefing
with eight investigators from the  Justice Department , the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the SEC, he said in an
interview. It was Woodford’s second meeting with prosecutors; a
prior meeting lasted three hours, he said.  “Different elements or parts of the Olympus story appeal
to different jurisdictions,” Woodford said, declining to detail
his talks with the U.S. government. “I’ve passed on everything
I know.”  Woodford was fired as president and chief executive officer
on Oct. 14 after he confronted the Olympus board about oversized
payments made to advisers in the acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc
in 2008. Olympus revealed this month that it used the purchase
of Gyrus and three other takeovers to hide decades-old
investment losses.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in New York, and SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to
comment on yesterday’s meeting.  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo Challenges NCUA’s Claims Over Failed Credit Unions  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  said it will challenge a U.S. regulator’s
claim that  Wachovia Corp . misrepresented mortgage-backed
securities in 2006 sales to a pair of credit unions that later
collapsed.  The National Credit Union Administration sued Wachovia,
accusing the lender acquired by Wells Fargo during the subprime
mortgage crisis of “pervasive disregard of underwriting
standards” and issuing offering documents with “material
untrue statements,” according to a  statement  released
yesterday.  The  complaint , filed in U.S. District Court in Kansas,
details about $200 million in purchases by the U.S. Central
Federal Credit Union and Western Corporate Federal Credit Union,
which were placed under conservatorship in 2009. NCUA, which is
serving as liquidating agent for the failed lenders, has filed
similar suits against firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Ancel Martinez, a spokesman for Wells Fargo, said the San
Francisco-based bank believes the claims are without merit.  “We look forward to defending ourselves vigorously in this
matter,” Martinez said yesterday in a telephone interview.  For more, click here.  BP Pipeline Rupture May Force It to Pay More for 2006 Spill  BP Plc , still facing fallout from the 2010 explosion of its
Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico, is fighting a U.S. bid to
revoke its probation over a five-year-old spill in Alaska
following a more recent pipeline rupture.  BP pleaded guilty in 2007 to violating the  Clean Water Act 
by spilling 200,000 gallons of oil from its Prudhoe Bay field
into water on Alaska’s North Slope in 2006. It paid a $12
million fine and $8 million for restitution and community
service and was put on three years’ probation.  The U.S. government began arguing yesterday in federal
court in Anchorage that the U.K.-based company violated its
probation by allowing a pipeline rupture two years ago in the
same area.  Authorities last year filed a petition to revoke BP’s
probation 12 days before it was to expire, claiming the company
failed to take precautions and implement safeguards. Prosecutors
may seek more money from the company if the judge agrees the
terms of the probation were violated.  “BP’s 2006 spill was the result of a lack of maintenance
and a failure to heed warning alarms indicating that the
pipeline was leaking oil,” U.S. lawyers said in a Nov. 14
filing. “The 2009 spill vividly demonstrates that BP has not
adequately addressed the management and environmental compliance
problems that have plagued it for many years.”  The spill “was an unfortunate incident, but it was not a
crime,” the company said in court papers.  “It was an accident,”  Steve Rinehart , a BP spokesman,
said in a phone interview. “No one was hurt, and there was
minimal environmental impact.”  BP didn’t violate any conditions of its probation, the
company said in court filings. BP wasn’t negligent and didn’t
discharge oil in the waters of the U.S., the company said.  BP spilled about 13,500 gallons of oil near Prudhoe Bay in
November 2009 when a section of the company’s pipeline at its
Lisburne Processing Center ruptured, “creating a two-foot hole
in the pipe that allowed the contents to spill onto the tundra
and surrounding wetlands,” the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc., 3:07-
cr-00125, U.S. District Court, District of Alaska (Anchorage).  For more, click here.  Anglo Irish Bank  Noteholder’s Lawsuit Dismissed by U.S. Judge  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , the bank nationalized by the Irish
government in 2009, won dismissal of a noteholder lawsuit that
sought to block the sale of its U.S. loan portfolio.  U.S. District Judge Paul G. Gardephe in Manhattan said in
an order Nov. 28 that the claims were prohibited by the Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act.  “Defendant is a ‘foreign state’ within the meaning of
the” act, Gardephe said. “Plaintiffs have not demonstrated
that Ireland has waived sovereign immunity for purposes of this
action or that any exception to sovereign immunity is
applicable.”  Fir Tree Partners, a New York investment firm, sued Anglo
Irish Bank in February, claiming it owns $200 million of notes
the bank issued in the U.S. Fir Tree sought an order blocking
Anglo Irish Bank from transferring any U.S. assets out of the
country so it can force the bank to honor its debt obligations.  Paul Smith, a lawyer for Fir Tree, didn’t return a call to
his office seeking comment on the ruling after regular business
hours Nov. 28.  The case is Fir Tree Capital Opportunity Master Fund LP v.
Anglo Irish Bank Corp., 11-CV-0955, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Del Monte, KKR Deal Faces U.S. Antitrust Probe, Lawyer Says  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM) ’s $5.3 billion sale to a group of
private-equity firms led by KKR & Co. is the target of a U.S.
Justice Department antitrust probe, a lawyer who sued over the
deal said in a court filing.  Federal prosecutors have been “investigating the facts and
circumstances surrounding the sale of Del Monte,” Stuart Grant,
a lawyer for Del Monte shareholders, said in a Nov. 23 court
filing as part of an $89.4 million settlement of investors’
claims over the deal.  Investors in San Francisco-based Del Monte argued in the
lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington they weren’t
getting enough for their shares in the buyout. Other
shareholders, who filed a related federal court suit in  San
Francisco , questioned whether private-equity firms rigged bids
to artificially lower the price paid for the maker of Meow Mix
cat food and Milk Bone dog biscuits.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment Nov. 28 on whether the antitrust division was
investigating the Del Monte buyout. Kristi Huller, a KKR
spokeswoman, and Chrissy Stengel, a Del Monte spokeswoman,
didn’t return calls seeking comment on the filing Nov. 28.  The settlement also resolves investors’ claims that
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , which served as Del Monte’s financial adviser
while providing some financing for the buyers, had conflicting
interests in the deal. The private-equity group led by New York-
based KKR included  Vestar Capital Partners  and Centerview
Partners LLP.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster ordered Del
Monte in February to delay a shareholder vote on the deal so
investors could consider whether to back it in light of
disclosures about London-based Barclays’s dual roles. Laster
will decide whether to approve the settlement at a hearing
tomorrow.  The Delaware case is In re Del Monte Foods Co. Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Facebook Settles Privacy Complaints of U.S. Regulator  Facebook Inc., the world’s biggest social-networking site,
agreed to settle complaints by the Federal Trade Commission that
it failed to protect users’ privacy or disclose how their data
could be used.  The proposed 20-year agreement would require Palo Alto,
California-based Facebook to get clear consent from users before
sharing material posted under earlier, more restrictive terms,
the FTC said yesterday in a statement. It would also compel
independent reviews of Facebook’s privacy practices.  “Companies must live up to their promises about privacy,”
FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz said on a conference call with
reporters. The settlement “will protect consumer choices and
ensure they have full and truthful information about their
data.”  The settlement is part of an effort to resolve legal issues
that could be a distraction as Facebook moves toward an initial
public offering, said  Francis Gaskins , president of Los Angeles-
based IPODesktop.com, a Web site that tracks IPOs. Facebook is
considering an IPO that would raise $10 billion and value the
company at more than $100 billion, a person familiar with the
matter said.  In a blog  posting , Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark
Zuckerberg  said the company should have been more vigilant in
protecting users’ privacy.  “I’m the first to admit that we’ve made a bunch of
mistakes,” he said.  For more, click here.  Geronzi, Arpe Convicted in Parmalat-Related Case  An Italian court convicted bankers Cesare Geronzi and
Matteo Arpe in a case related to the 2003 bankruptcy of  Parmalat
SpA (PLT) , Radiocor news agency reported.  Geronzi was sentenced to five years in jail, while Arpe was
given a sentence of three years and seven months by the court in
Parma, Radiocor said. The bankers were accused of fraudulent
bankruptcy connected to the sale of water company Ciappazzi to
Parmalat.  Ennio Amodio, a lawyer for Geronzi, termed the sentencing
“profoundly unfair,” Radiocor said. Both of the bankers
previously have denied any wrongdoing. Spokesmen for Geronzi and
Arpe weren’t immediately available for comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Fortress Credit Suit Against Dechert Thrown Out on Appeal  Dechert  LLP won an appeal dismissing a lawsuit by  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  that claimed the law firm issued a false
opinion letter endorsing a transaction with convicted lawyer
 Marc Dreier .  Fortress claimed the 2008 letter caused it to lend $50
million to what it believed was the firm of Sheldon Solow, a New
York developer who was a client of Dreier’s defunct firm, Dreier
LLP. Dreier, 61, is serving a 20-year sentence in federal prison
after pleading guilty to selling more than $400 million in phony
notes to hedge funds.  A state appeals court in Manhattan yesterday reversed a
ruling in which a lower-court judge declined to dismiss
Fortress’s claims.  “As Dreier was Solow Realty’s attorney and the guarantor
of the loan, defendant had no reason to suspect that Solow
Realty was not in fact a party to the loan transaction or that
Dreier forged the signatures of its principal and CEO,” a
unanimous five-judge panel said yesterday in an opinion.  “This decision is of tremendous importance to the lawyers
and law firms who give closing legal opinions, a fundamental
aspect of many financial transactions,” said Joel Miller, lead
counsel for Dechert. Miller said Fortress tried to use the
Dechert letter as an “insurance policy against anything going
wrong with the transaction, including Fortress’s own lack of due
diligence which allowed it be defrauded by Marc Dreier.”  “Dechert told Fortress that it was acting as ‘special
corporate counsel’ to Solow Realty in the transaction -- a
statement that Fortress relied on in entering into the
transaction and that proved to be utterly false,” Marc
Kasowitz, who represents Fortress in the case, said in a
statement yesterday.  Dreier’s firm, which had 250 attorneys, filed for
bankruptcy protection in December 2008.  The case is Fortress Credit Corp. v. Dechert, 603819/2009,
New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First
Department (Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  On The Docket  Allen Stanford Mental Fitness Hearing Scheduled for Dec. 20  R. Allen Stanford, the Texas financier accused of leading a
$7 billion investment fraud, faces a Dec. 20 hearing to
determine whether he is mentally fit to stand trial next year.  Stanford, 61, returned to Houston earlier this month after
an almost nine-month stay at a U.S. Bureau of Prisons hospital
at Butner, North Carolina. He was treated there for a dependency
on anti-anxiety drugs given to him in prison and evaluated for
the after-effects of a head injury sustained in a jailhouse
assault.  Houston U.S. District Judge David Hittner yesterday
scheduled the competency hearing to determine if Stanford can
assist in his defense. In a separate order, the judge said
Stanford’s criminal trial would start with jury selection on
Jan. 23.  The former chairman and chief executive officer of Houston-
based Stanford Group Co. is accused of misleading investors
about the nature and oversight of certificates of deposit issued
by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Stanford, who maintains his innocence, has been in custody
since June 2009, when he was indicted by a federal grand jury in
Houston. The court has twice postponed previously scheduled
trial dates.  Ali Fazel, one of his defense attorneys, yesterday declined
to comment on the hearing and trial dates, citing an earlier
order from Hittner barring attorneys from discussing the case
publicly.  Justice Department spokeswoman Laura Sweeney didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment on the trial date.
She has previously declined to comment because of the gag order.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  BP’s Macondo Legal Proceedings May Last to 2014  BP Plc ’s legal proceedings over the Macondo well that
caused the worst U.S. oil spill may last into 2014,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  said, citing the company’s lead lawyer.  Blame for the accident will likely be apportioned in late
2013, with punishment decided the following year. That’s later
than analyst Alastair Syme had expected and is “slightly more
favorable” for the company than an earlier decision, he said in
a research note published yesterday.  BP has set aside about $40 billion for costs from the
disaster that spewed almost 5 million barrels of oil into the
Gulf of Mexico last year. Shares are down more than 30 percent
since the spill.  “There is still a risk that ultimate fines and penalties
could be above BP’s current financial provisioning,” Syme
wrote.  The company is counting on $5 billion in fines and $7
billion in compensation. If BP is found to be grossly negligent,
its costs may rise by another $10 billion, Syme said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 