-- 
Goldman Sachs Chief Lloyd Blankfein May Be Deposed in Gupta SEC Lawsuit

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-12-01T01:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/goldman-s-blankfein-may-be-deposed-in-gupta-case.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and six others may be
questioned under oath by lawyers for the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Rajat Gupta, who was charged with insider trading
as part of the Galleon Group LLC investigation.  Lawyers for Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director, sought
to depose Blankfein and other firm executives including Chief
Financial Officer David Viniar, President Gary Cohn, Managing
Director David Loeb and  John Bryan , as part of a related suit
brought by the SEC. While U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New
York authorized the questioning of Blankfein before the April 9
criminal trial, he said depositions of the other officers must
be conducted afterwards.  Gupta, who also sat on the board of  Procter & Gamble Co .
and led McKinsey & Co., was indicted by a federal grand jury
last month on five counts of  securities fraud  and one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud for passing inside
information to Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Rakoff is
presiding over Gupta’s criminal case as well as the SEC lawsuit.  In addition to Blankfein, Rakoff granted SEC requests to
question Gary Rosenbach, Galleon’s co-founder, and  Ian Horowitz ,
a former trader who worked for Rajaratnam and was recorded on a
U.S. wiretap. The judge said lawyers may also depose three other
individuals associated with Galleon -- Ananth Muniyappa, Brock
Vandervliet and Leon Shaulov. Also to be deposed is Greg Ormond
of Exemplar Wealth.  ‘No Material Argument’  “The court sees no material argument whatsoever for
delaying the depositions,” Rakoff said in his ruling.  Gupta, 62, of Westport,  Connecticut , was a close friend and
business associate of Rajaratnam, prosecutors said. He made
multimillion-dollar investments with the hedge fund manager and
also passed him inside information after attending Goldman Sachs
board meetings from 2008 through January 2009, according to the
indictment.  Rakoff today said the SEC couldn’t depose Ragakanthan
Rajaratnam, the younger brother of Raj Rajaratnam’s who once
worked as a Galleon portfolio manager.  The judge today also delayed a request to question Caryn
Eisenberg, the former assistant to Rajaratnam; ex-Galleon trader
Michael Cardillo; and James McNerney, presiding director of
Procter & Gamble.  Eleven Years  David Wells , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment on Rakoff’s ruling.  John Nester , a spokesman
for the SEC, declined to immediately comment on the judge’s
decision.  Raj Rajaratnam was sentenced to 11 years in prison, the
longest ever for  insider trading , after he was convicted earlier
this year. He is set to surrender to prison officials Dec. 5.  Rajaratnam, who has also been sued in the SEC case, had
sought to depose Cohen and Loeb, as well as Goldman Sachs board
member Jon Winkelried, Managing Director Jennifer Padovani and
five former Galleon employees. Rakoff also delayed those
depositions until after Gupta’s criminal trial.  On Oct. 26, the same day Gupta was indicted, the SEC sued
him in Manhattan federal court, accusing the former Goldman
Sachs director of engaging in an “extensive insider-trading
scheme” with Rajaratnam.  The cases are U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, and SEC v. Gupta,
11-cv-07566, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  