-- 
Gold Producers Poised Like ‘Coiled Spring’ to Rally: Commodities

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-11-30T15:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/gold-shares-cheapest-since-2002-are-coiled-spring-for-rally-commodities.html
Gold mining stocks are trading at
their cheapest level in at least nine years even as the
industry’s profits are estimated to almost double this year and
bullion trades close to its historic high.  The benchmark  NYSE Arca Gold BUGS Index (HUI)  that includes
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and  AngloGold Ashanti 
Ltd. ended last week at 17 times earnings, the lowest since at
least November 2002 and below a five-year average of 37 times.  Investors sold equities across the board as  Europe ’s debt
crisis soured the corporate profit outlook, and they’re ignoring
analyst projections for bullion and gold producers. The gold
index’s 16 members will increase combined per-share earnings 94
percent this year, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “When you look back in history, you will say this was a
buying opportunity,” said John Wong, a portfolio manager at CQS
Group’s New City Investment Managers in London and lead manager
of the $200 million Golden Prospect Precious Metals Ltd., a fund
holding gold and silver stocks. “It’s like a coiled spring.”  Gold equities have fallen 4.7 percent this year, heading
for the first annual decline since 2008. Gold reached a record
$1,921.15 on Sept. 6 and is set for an 11th annual gain.  “The market doesn’t trust big spikes,” said Jon Bergtheil, an analyst at Citigroup. “People will wait to see if
gold holds above $1,600 for a while.”  ‘Substantial Disconnect’  Gold averaged about $1,706 an ounce in the third quarter,
39 percent more than a year earlier, and is forecast to average
$1,859 next year, according to the median estimate of 18
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 0.5 percent to
$1706.74 at 10:49 a.m. London time.  Hedge fund manager  David Einhorn  said Nov. 1 that a
“substantial disconnect has developed between the price of gold
and the mining companies.” Einhorn’s Greenlight Capital Re cut
holdings of the commodity in the third quarter and moved funds
into the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF, which tries to
replicate the  Arca Gold Miners Index (GDM)  of metal producers. Bullion
has more than doubled since the start of 2008 while gold stocks
have advanced about 33 percent.  Gold miners’ earnings per share and per-share  cash flow 
reached the highest levels in at least nine years during the
third quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “When earnings are reported, the market will be all
goggle-eyed about how much cash is flowing in to these companies
and what their balance sheets look like,” said Bergtheil. You
tend to get a response at that time.’’  Debt Crisis  Gold equities have been dragged down as investors seek a
haven from market turmoil stoked by the sovereign debt crisis.
The  MSCI All-Country World Index  has fallen 12 percent this year
while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index has sunk  16 percent .  Barrick Gold, the world’s biggest producer, has slipped 6.1
percent in 2011, even after posting record earnings in the third
quarter.  AngloGold Ashanti (ANG) ,  Africa ’s biggest supplier, has
slipped 10 percent, while Newmont Mining has advanced 6.3
percent.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  and  Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI)  are the
only members of the Gold BUGS Index to have outperformed the
metal this year, up 27 percent and 22 percent, respectively.  The Gold BUGS index today rose as much as 4.7 percent, the
most in eight weeks.  Investors have been increasing holdings in exchange-traded
products physically backed by gold to bet on gains in prices for
the precious metal, without accepting the potential negatives
that come with holding company shares.  Record Gold Hoard  “Investors are voting with their feet,” said Ian Preston,
a resources analyst with Goldman Sachs Australia Pty in
 Melbourne . “They can get all of the leverage they want out of
going straight into an ETF without any of the operational risk,
or political risks, or general risks associated with equities.”  Holdings in gold ETFs on Nov. 23 reached a record 2,350.8
metric tons, valued at $127.6 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hedge funds  and other speculators
increased their net-long position, or bets on higher prices, for
four weeks, the longest stretch since March, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show.  “Gold equities will come back,” Norm Pitcher, chief
operating officer of Vancouver-based  Eldorado Gold Corp. (ELD) , said
in an interview yesterday. “The one thing you don’t have when
you are buying an ETF is any upside to exploration, and I think
the companies that have good exploration assets are the ones
that will probably be valued a little higher.”  That attraction of ETFs over stocks may also fade when
concerns ease that the European debt crisis will ravage
corporate profits, said New City’s Wong.  “Gold mining shares are still equities, so they are
determined by the equity market as a whole, not just gold,”
said Wong. “The performance of equities in a  bear market  is
bad. Once there is some stability and people are prepared to
take risks, I see that there will be a massive move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  