-- 
Goldman Sachs Urges Bet Against European Junk Bonds in Top Trade for 2012

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-11-30T23:14:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/goldman-urges-bet-against-euro-junk-debt.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., after this
year’s losing endorsement of U.S. bank stocks, recommends as its
top trade for 2012 a bet against European high-yield corporate
debt and forecasts a “deeper recession” for the region.  The fifth-biggest U.S. bank in terms of assets recommended
in a research note that investors speculate on the rising cost
of insuring against the default of European  junk bonds  by using
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with mostly
high-yield credit ratings. The gauge of derivatives will climb
to 950 basis points, or 9.5 percentage points, from 770 basis
points, according to Goldman Sachs, which urges investors to
exit the trade if the index falls to 680 basis points.  “The ongoing shocks from the region’s sovereign crisis --
and policy responses to them -- are likely to be the biggest
determinant of the outlook over the next few months,”  Dominic Wilson  and Jan Hatzius, economists at Goldman Sachs, wrote in
the research note, published today.  Goldman Sachs said a year ago that the U.S. economy would
expand 2.7 percent in 2011, and U.S. bank stocks, junk bonds,
commodities, Japanese equities and  China ’s currency were its top
recommendations. America’s gross domestic product is forecast to
grow 1.8 percent in 2011, according to the median forecast of 63
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Drop in Financials  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Financials Index has lost 18
percent this year in the worst performance among 10 industry
groups. U.S. banks, measured by the 24-company KBW Bank Index,
have fallen 26 percent on a total return basis.  America’s high-yield corporate debt has returned 1.4
percent as of yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return  Index 
of commodities has gained 1 percent.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average has dropped 16 percent, while China’s yuan has
appreciated 3.6 percent against the dollar this year, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The  U.S. economy  will expand 1.5 percent next year, while
 Europe ’s will contract 0.8 percent, according to Goldman Sachs.
The bank lowered its worldwide economic growth estimate to 3.2
percent from 3.4 percent.  The financial crisis in the euro zone will weigh on the
U.S. economy through early 2012, according to Hatzius.  Hatzius on Crisis  “There will be an intensification over the next few
months,” Hatzius said today in a conference call with clients.
A “tightening of financial conditions” will limit the
“willingness of banks to lend,” he said.  Europe may stem its debt crisis by moving to a “full
fiscal union” in which all countries assume responsibility for
the euro area’s sovereign debt or by “a much larger
commitment” by the  European Central Bank  to support sovereign-
debt markets, according to the Goldman Sachs note.  The bank’s European growth estimate “is conditional on
major policy changes in the region, probably involving a partial
‘mutualization’ of the existing debt stock supported by the
ECB,” the Goldman Sachs economists wrote. “The alternative
scenario is that the euro area breaks up and there is a much
deeper recession.”  Junk, or high-yield, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Goldman Sachs also recommended betting on German 10-year
bund  yields  climbing to 2.8 percent from 2.3 percent and exiting
the trade if they fall to 2 percent. The bank predicted the euro
will rise to 1.35 Swiss francs from 1.2260 and said investors
should abandon the trade if the euro falls to 1.20 francs.  Investors should go long on Canadian stocks versus Japanese
equities, bet on the Malaysian ringgit and the yuan against the
dollar and pound and speculate on a gain in Brent crude oil,
according to Goldman Sachs. A long is a bet an asset will gain
in value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  