-- 
Icahn’s Lowest Steel Bid in Four Years Sets Nucor Lure: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-11-30T21:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/icahn-bids-lowest-steel-takeover-value-in-4-years-enticing-nucor-real-m-a.html
Carl Icahn ’s offer to purchase
Commercial Metals Co. at the lowest valuation for a steel
takeover since 2007 is leaving the door open for rival bidders
to snap up a recycling bargain.  The billionaire investor’s $2.6 billion proposal for the 90
percent he doesn’t already own values the steel-scrap recycler
and distributor at a 67 percent discount to its estimated 2012
sales, making it the second-cheapest steel deal on record,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that includes net debt.
While the 18 percent premium to Commercial Metals’ 20-day
trading average is in line with past takeovers in the industry,
the $15-a-share bid is less than the $15.83 that  analysts
estimate (CMC)  the company will reach on its own in the next year.  With Icahn planning to combine the Irving, Texas-based
recycler with his existing metals operations, the bid may be low
enough to entice  Nucor Corp. (NEU) , the biggest U.S. steelmaker by
market value, to make an offer to add more plants and cut costs,
according to CRT Capital Group LLC. While Commercial Metals had
lost 71 percent of its value since June 2008 after a global
recession depressed demand for steel used in construction, the
company that melts scrap into reinforcing steel bars for
buildings is projected to return to profitability in 2012.  “I look at 15 bucks as a starting point,” Kuni Chen, an
analyst for CRT Capital in Stamford,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. The offer “could be enticing to some
shareholders who have been frustrated, but there’s potential to
go higher than that, whether it’s from Icahn or someone else.
 Nucor (NUE)  is the one that would come to mind,” he said.  Poison Pill  Susan Gordon , a spokeswoman for Icahn, didn’t respond to an
e-mail requesting comment. Chris Kittredge, an outside spokesman
for Commercial Metals, declined to comment. Katherine Miller, a
spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Nucor, didn’t
respond to a phone call or e-mail seeking comment.  Commercial Metals fell 1 cent to $13.98 today. Nucor rose
7.1 percent to $39.43, the biggest gain since May 2009.  Icahn, 75, disclosed in July that he bought an almost 10
percent stake in Commercial Metals and may seek conversations
with management. That prompted the company to adopt a so-called
poison pill to cap investors at 10 percent and prevent hostile
takeover attempts.  This week  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP)  offered to acquire the 90
percent of shares that it didn’t already own for $1.56 billion
plus $1.01 billion in net debt without any financing or due
diligence conditions, according to a Nov. 28 letter. Icahn said
he will sell “non-core” assets, appoint a new management team
and combine the company with its North American scrap metal
processor  PSC Metals Inc.   ‘Permanent Risks’  “Unfortunately, a below average operating performance
fueled by a distracting and misguided international growth plan,
combined with a disastrous investment record, has become the
defining characteristic of Commercial Metals,” Icahn said in
the letter. “Because the company has been so poorly managed,
shareholders are exposed not only to cyclical industry risks,
but also to permanent risks.”  Before Icahn’s proposal was disclosed, Commercial Metals’
shares were down 71 percent from their peak of $39.41 in June
2008. The decline wiped out $3.2 billion in market value as
slumping economic growth in the U.S. and  Europe  hampered sales
of steel used in everything from cars to construction.  About 50 percent of its U.S. sales are from non-residential
construction, which is “pretty depressed,” according to Arun Viswanathan, an analyst with Susquehanna International Group LLP
in  New York . The company has posted two straight annual losses
and earlier this month had its investment grade credit ratings
cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service.  Steel Downturn  “Because of the slowdown in the U.S. manufacturing
economy, there’s less prime scrap available for these guys so
you saw them really hit with higher scrap costs and low
demand,” Ken Hoffman, a steel analyst for Bloomberg Industries,
said in a phone interview from Skillman,  New Jersey . Residential
and commercial construction “obviously has been massively hit
over the past three or four years,” he said.  With analysts estimating sales will climb 5.7 percent to
$8.37 billion in the year ending August 2012, the proposal
values Commercial Metals at 0.33 times revenue. That’s the
cheapest revenue multiple for a takeover of a steel producer
greater than $500 million since buyout firm Platinum Equity LLC
paid 0.31 times revenue for Ryerson Inc. in 2007, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  ‘Swinging and Fighting’  Commercial Metals said in a statement that its board will
review Icahn’s letter. The company, which said it has improved
financial results and cut costs including jobs, also plans to
close or sell a mill in  Croatia  and shut five rebar-fabrication
plants.  Commercial Metals is projected to return to profit in 2012
with analysts forecasting net income of $158 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Analysts also estimate the shares to
climb to $15.83 within the next 12 months as a standalone
company, 5.5 percent higher than the current offer.  Even as the shares dropped to a three-year low in October,
Commercial Metals has averaged $14.19 this year through Nov. 25.
That means Icahn’s $15-a-share bid is only a 5.7 percent premium
to the stock’s 2011 average.  “The board is probably going to come out swinging and
fighting,”  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at Stamford,
Connecticut-based MKM Partners, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s very likely that they will reject it, say it’s inadequate
and say now’s not the time to sell the company. The question is
whether you believe those forward earnings or not.”  Nucor as Bidder  The bid from Icahn, who never pays “top dollar,” is low
enough that it leaves room for other potential bidders to step
in with a higher price, he said.  Nucor, which had a market value of $11.7 billion as of
yesterday, may be interested in acquiring Commercial Metals
because of potential cost cuts from overlapping products and
mill  locations , CRT Capital’s Chen said. Commercial Metals may
be worth as much as $25 a share, based on a sum-of-the-parts
valuation, he said.  While Nucor may be the most “logical” buyer, a
combination may face antitrust scrutiny because it would give
them more than 60 percent of the North American rebar market,
said Viswanathan of Susquehanna. A rebar is a steel bar used to
reinforce building structures.  Icahn’s Track Record  Instead,  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker, or
Cherepovets, Russia-based OAO Severstal, may be interested in
buying Commercial Metals to shut down some production capacity,
which is outstripping demand in  North America , Viswanathan said.
An e-mail sent outside normal business hours to Luxembourg-based
ArcelorMittal’s press office wasn’t immediately returned. Andrew
Hayes, a spokesman for Severstal, said the company doesn’t
comment on market speculation.  Commercial Metals closed yesterday at $13.99, 6.7 percent
below Icahn’s proposal, indicating many traders who wager on
acquisitions aren’t confident the proposal will lead to a deal
or that another bidder will emerge. Investors may be hesitant
because of Icahn’s recent track record, according to Louis Meyer, a special situations analyst for Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.  Icahn, who made millions in the 1980s pressuring companies
from USX Corp. to Texaco Inc. to split up or increase dividends
and buybacks, failed in advocating for a takeover of  Clorox Co. (CLX) 
this year, even after offering to backstop an auction. Power
producer  Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , film maker  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) 
and software maker  Mentor Graphics Corp. (MENT)  also received
acquisition offers from Icahn that were never consummated.  ‘It’s Carl Icahn’  “The stock’s trading at a discount because it’s Carl
Icahn,” New York-based Meyer said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve been through the drill before and we’ve seen some
successes and we’ve also seen some failures.”  While it’s still unclear if another bidder will step in,
Icahn’s activism will probably instigate a sale of Commercial
Metals, said MKM’s Moore.  “As to whether he’ll ultimately buy it, it’s more likely
that he’d buy this one than several of the last few that he’s
looked at,” Moore said. “I still think his primary objective
would be to tee this thing up and hopefully have the company run
out and find another buyer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 