-- 
High-Frequency Company Tradebot Names Eric Boles CEO, President

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-11-30T22:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/high-frequency-company-tradebot-names-eric-boles-ceo-president.html
Tradebot Systems LLC, one of the
largest U.S. high-frequency trading firms, promoted Eric Boles
to president and chief executive officer, according to an e-
mailed notice from Chairman Dave Cummings.  Boles, who joined the company as a trader in 2003, was
global head of trading at the Kansas City, Missouri-based firm,
Cummings said in the message. He replaces Rob Alumbaugh, who
became president in 2002 and CEO three years later. Alumbaugh
remains on the staff, will attend strategy meetings and mentor
employees while pursuing projects, the letter said.  “When you reach a certain level, time becomes more
important than the money,” Cummings wrote. Cummings said
Alumbaugh ran Tradebot while he founded the company that became
 Bats Global Markets Inc.  in 2005. Bats is the third-largest U.S.
stock exchange operator.  Tradebot buys and sells more than 5 percent of U.S.
equities on some days, according to the company’s  website .
Cummings founded the firm in 1999 out of a spare bedroom with a
$10,000 investment, according to information on the website.  As part of management changes, Will Bryson will become
global head of trading. Andy O’Hara will be vice president for
business development in addition to his role involving the
company’s international business.  Alumbaugh will get a “minimal” salary while continuing to
get bonuses from Tradebot, Cummings said.  Bats Founding  Cummings said he took half the 30-person company with him
to start Bats more than six years ago. The Lenexa, Kansas-based
venue began trading U.S. equities in January 2006, European
shares in 2008 and U.S. options in 2010. It’s owned by 11
brokers and financial firms including Tradebot, Bank of America
Corp. in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ; Citigroup Inc. and Morgan
Stanley in  New York ; Getco LLC in  Chicago  and Zurich-based
Credit Suisse Group AG.  Bats accounted for 12 percent of U.S. stock trading in
October. It received approval from U.K. antitrust authorities
last week to acquire Chi-X Europe Ltd., the largest European
alternative trading venue. The combined company will account for
about a quarter of European equities trading, Bats said.  Joseph Ratterman, the current chairman, president and CEO
of Bats, was a Tradebot employee who took over the company after
Cummings returned to Tradebot in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 