-- 
Time Warner Names Digitas Chief Laura Lang Head of Time Inc.

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-11-30T21:24:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/time-warner-said-to-name-digitas-chief-lang-head-of-time-inc-.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  named Laura Lang
head of Time Inc., ending a nine-month search and tapping a
digital-advertising executive to steer the magazine-publishing
business amid intensifying online competition.  Lang, 56, has run Digitas, a digital-ad agency owned by
 Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , as chief executive officer since 2008 after
joining the firm in 1999. She will start in her new role in
January, Time Warner said today in a statement.  Lang, who will oversee magazines including Time, Fortune
and  Sports Illustrated , will work to reverse sales declines at
the division as readers and advertisers are increasingly
attracted to online publications. Time Inc. sales fell to $3.68
billion last year, accounting for 13 percent of New York-based
Time Warner’s revenue.  “Time Inc. has amazing titles, really great content,”
Lang said in an interview. “That’s what I was getting excited
about. Great content matters, it always will.”  Even amid falling sales, Time Inc. has stemmed the decline
in earnings. In the first nine months of this year, the unit’s
profit rose 3.5 percent to $356 million as sales were little
changed at $2.63 billion.  ‘Define Publishing’  Prior to joining Digitas, Lang was president of ad-
consultancy firm Marketing Corporation of America and an
executive at Yankelovich Clancy Shulman. A graduate of the
Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania , Lang sits on
the boards of ad agency Vivaki, also owned by Paris-based
Publicis, as well as  VF Corp. (VFC)  and  Benchmark Electronics Inc. (BHE)   Lang, who has no experience leading magazines, said the
disruptive effects of digital media have fundamentally altered
the nature of publishing.  “As to my lack of publishing background, I say, ‘Define
publishing,’” she said. “In the broader sense at Digitas, I’ve
been very involved in media and publishing.”  Lang cited the work her agency has done with advertisers to
create and manage content for their brands, whether on the Web,
or social-networking services Facebook and Twitter.  “I’ve always been about how will digital be transforming
established businesses, and that’s what I’ve done,” she said.  Predecessor’s Exit  Lang is replacing  Jack Griffin , who left in February, less
than six months after being appointed to the top job. His
“leadership style and approach did not mesh with Time Inc. and
Time Warner,” Time Warner CEO  Jeff Bewkes  said in a memo to
employees at the time.  Griffin, the former head of Meredith Corp.’s publishing
division, defended his leadership, saying at the time that his
exit “clearly was not about management style or results.” In
September, he founded Empirical Strategic Advisors, a media and
technology consulting firm with offices in New York and  Boston .  After Griffin’s departure, Bewkes installed a triumvirate
to run the division, composed of editor-in-chief John Huey,
Chief Financial Officer Howard Averill and general counsel
Maurice Edelson.  Lang, who will move from Boston to New York for the job,
said she met with Bewkes recently.  “We had great conversations and we see the world in a very
similar way,” she said. “We both have the same sense of the
assets of Time Inc.”  Lang said she isn’t aware of any plan to separate Time Inc.
from the parent company. “My mission is to become part of Time
Inc. and push the business forward,” she said.  Time Warner, which also owns Warner Bros. studios and
Turner Network Television, rose 4.3 percent to $34.82 at the
close in  New York . The stock has gained 8.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  