-- 
IMF Ready to Help Europe While Keeping Funds to Aid Others

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 
2011-11-30T22:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/imf-ready-to-help-europe-while-keeping-funds-to-aid-others-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  is
ready to help the euro area battle its debt crisis while setting
aside enough resources to help countries outside the region,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  “The IMF will be available, will stand ready, will
participate as part of its mission in the current crisis but not
exclusively to the benefit of the euro zone,” Lagarde told
reporters in Mexico City today. “It will have to be attentive
and will have to spare resources for those countries that are
the bystanders of the crisis.”  The Washington-based IMF is co-financing bailouts to
 Greece , Portugal and Ireland and is preparing to send a team to
Italy for an unprecedented audit of the country’s efforts to cut
its debt. European finance ministers said this week they would
seek a greater role for the IMF alongside their own bailout fund
in their latest gamble at taming the  euro zone ’s sovereign debt
turmoil.  Lagarde has said that the $390 billion the IMF currently
has available for lending may not suffice to meet loan demand
should the global outlook worsen. The new-found wealth of Mexico
and Brazil, where she will be tomorrow, could help boost the
fund’s war chest. Group of 20 nations’ leaders this month
stopped short of pledging more funds because the Europeans
hadn’t given enough details on how they would fight their
crisis.  Mexico’s Carstens  “Mexico, as member of the G-20, will be more than willing
to collaborate and offer resources to support a greater range of
action” by the IMF, central bank chief Agustin Carstens said
during the same press conference.  Still, the boost may not be imminent.  Brazil , which has indicated over the past weeks it is ready
to help  Europe  through the IMF, will not pledge extra resources
during Lagarde’s visit, finance ministry official Carlos Cozendey said today, adding that the matter would be discussed
at a G-20 meeting in February.  European ministers in Brussels turned to the IMF after
conceding that higher  interest rates  and lower appetite for
European bonds made it impossible for the bailout fund, the
European Financial Stability Facility, to be leveraged up to its
1 trillion euro ($1.3 trillion) target.  European Resources  Europe should devote more of its resources to tackle its
crisis before seeking additional funding from the IMF, Canadian
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in  New York  today.  Lagarde told reporters today that “timing is of the
essence” to solve the current turmoil and welcomed today’s
coordinated move by six central banks to make it cheaper for
banks to borrow dollars in emergencies.  The IMF “is particularly pleased to see in numerous
countries of the euro zone a determination to address the root
causes of the crisis and to proceed with the necessary
adjustments that are required to restore the confidence that is
currently needed and that has been lacking recently,” she said.  She reiterated that the fund has had “no discussions
whatsoever with  Italy  and Spain” to negotiate financial aid.  With a new  credit line  created last week, the IMF is well
equipped to help countries that are hit by shocks without being
at the core of the crisis, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  