-- 
InBev Set to Win Approval for Brazil Beer Sales During World Cup

-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 
2011-11-30T19:50:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/inbev-set-to-win-approval-for-brazil-beer-sales-during-world-cup.html
Brazil intends to give Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV, the world’s largest brewer, the green light to
sell beer in stadiums during the 2014 soccer  World Cup , a senior
lawmaker said.  Vicente Candido, sponsor of a special World Cup bill, said
the government has enough support in Congress to lift a ban on
the sale of alcoholic beverages in stadiums during the
tournament. He expects the proposal to pass both houses of the
government-controlled legislature early next year.  The announcement marks a breakthrough after weeks of
standoff between the five-time world champion and the global
soccer authority  FIFA  on issues stemming from an accord signed
when the World Cup was awarded to Brazil in 2007. InBev last
month extended its beer sponsorship for the FIFA World Cup
through 2022.  “Evidently we have to and will comply with the
agreement,” Candido, a lower-house legislator of the ruling
Workers’ Party, said by telephone from Brasilia. “In the
culture of  Brazil , a tropical country of football and
carnival,” it makes no sense to prohibit the sale of beer in
stadiums, Candido said. “It’s not a problem.”  FIFA this year balked at Brazil’s demands to grant students
and the elderly discount tickets to the matches, as is required
under national law.  The two sides have also squabbled over
intellectual property right enforcement and public security.  “FIFA is very strict, very rigid,” said Candido.  Controlling Stake  Brazilian billionaires  Jorge Paulo Lemann , Marcel Herrmann Telles and Carlos Alberto da Veiga Sicupira own a controlling
stake in InBev through Stichting AK, a Netherlands-based firm.
InBev CEO Carlos Alves de Brito is also Brazilian.  InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium , said in an e-mailed
comment that it would not speculate on expected beer sales
during the tournament and would respect any decisions that FIFA
and the Brazilian organizing committee take regarding beer
sales.  Brazil’s Sports Ministry declined to comment.  Brazilians including former soccer star Romario de Souza Faria, now a lower house representative from  Rio de Janeiro ,
have called FIFA’s commercial demands an infringement on
national sovereignty. The consumption of alcoholic beverages is
banned in Brazil due to concern that it fuels violence in
stadiums.  “I’m going to fight until the end so that FIFA doesn’t
mount a state within a state,” Romario said earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  