-- 
India’s Economy Expands Least Since 2009 as Fastest BRIC Inflation Bites

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-11-30T12:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/india-gdp-grows-least-since-2009-as-inflation-bites.html
India ’s economy grew last quarter at
the slowest pace in more than two years after the nation’s
central bank raised interest rates by a record to tame the
fastest inflation among so-called BRIC nations.  Gross domestic product  rose 6.9 percent in the three months
through September, the Central Statistical Office said in a
statement in New Delhi today. That’s the weakest expansion since
the second quarter of 2009, and matches the median of 6.9
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s efforts to stimulate growth
are being hamstrung by corruption scandals that have stalled
legislation for a year, and political outcry against foreign
investment in retail. The  Reserve Bank of India  has also been
constrained in supporting the economy as it struggles with
inflation that’s almost twice the rate in China and higher than
in  Brazil  and  Russia .  “High interest rates, uncertainty about reforms,
allegations of corruption and recessionary global conditions are
casting a deep shadow over India’s growth story,” said  Rohini Malkani , a Mumbai-based economist at Citigroup Inc. “What is
worrying is that growth prospects do not seem sunny for the next
year either.”  Citigroup this week cut its estimate for the Indian
economy’s expansion to 7.1 percent for the year ending March 31
from 7.6 percent earlier.  Rupee Drops  The Indian rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 52.21 per  U.S.
dollar  at the close in Mumbai, while the  BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  advanced 0.7 percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent note
due November 2021 fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 8.74 percent.  The currency has slumped 14.4 percent against the dollar
this year, making it  Asia ’s worst performer as risks to global
growth posed by  Europe ’s debt crisis prompted investors to sell
stocks. The Sensex has lost a fifth of its value in 2011.  India’s stock index, the third-worst performer among major
Asian indexes this year, may be hurt the most among emerging-
market equities from global risk aversion because of a slowing
economy and a weak rupee, Tata Asset Management Ltd. said on Nov.
28.  BRICs Falter  While India’s growth is still the fastest after  China  among
major economies, expansion in BRIC nations is starting to falter
as demand from Europe wanes.  China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, the least since 2009.  Manufacturing in India grew 2.7 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, slower than the 7.2
percent gain in the previous quarter, today’s report showed.
Mining fell 2.9 percent, farm output rose 3.2 percent and
construction grew 4.3 percent.  Investment by companies and the government declined 0.6
percent in the three months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier
after a 7.9 percent gain in the previous three months, according
to the report.  “The slippage in investment that we are seeing doesn’t
jeopardize the medium-to-long term story at all,” Kaushik Basu,
chief economic adviser in India’s finance ministry, told
reporters in  New Delhi  today. He expects India’s economy to
expand about 7.5 percent in the year ending March 31.  Reduced Scope  “Price pressures have reduced the RBI’s scope to ease
rates anytime soon and prop up growth,” Shubhada Rao, Mumbai-
based chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd., said before the report.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price  inflation  was 9.73
percent in October. By comparison, consumer prices rose 7
percent in Brazil, 5.5 percent in China and 7.2 percent in
Russia in the same month.  The  Reserve Bank  signaled last month it’s nearing the end
of monetary tightening, provided inflation slows. The central
bank has boosted the  repurchase rate  by 375 basis points in 13
moves since the start of 2010, the fastest round of increases
since the monetary authority was established in 1935, according
to Bloomberg data.  Higher borrowing costs have damped car demand,  Arvind
Saxena , New Delhi-based director of marketing and sales at
Hyundai Motor India Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply on Nov. 25.
Sales may grow about 5 percent in 2011 from a year earlier,
compared with a 23 percent gain in 2010, Saxena said.  Monetary Stimulus  Meanwhile, central banks across five continents are
undertaking the broadest reduction in borrowing costs since 2009
to avert a global economic slump stemming from Europe’s debt
turmoil. The U.S., the U.K. and nine other nations along with
the  European Central Bank  have bolstered monetary stimulus.  In Asia,  Thailand  cut  interest rates  today, while  Indonesia 
reduced its reference rate on Nov. 10. The Reserve Bank of
 Australia  on Nov. 1 lowered its benchmark rate for the first
time in 31 months, a quarter percentage point reduction from a
developed-world high of 4.75 percent.  “Economic sentiment has now turned sharply negative,”
 Indranil Pan , chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. in
Mumbai, said before the report. “The current situation of
domestic and global headwinds to growth provides the government
with a good opportunity to carry out reforms.”  Singh, halfway through his second term, is under pressure
to revive a legislative agenda derailed by corruption
allegations in the award of telephone licenses and street
protests against inflation. His government faces at least five
regional elections next year, including one in  Uttar Pradesh ,
India’s most populous state.  Retail Business  Still, the cabinet’s decision last week to open India’s
retail business to overseas companies such as Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. has stirred protests from the opposition as well as key
allies, who say the move would close down local shops.  The cabinet’s directive, which doesn’t need parliamentary
approval, would allow foreign companies to own as much as 51
percent of retailers selling more than one brand. It would also
permit companies that sell a single brand such as Nike Inc. to
own 100 percent of their operations, removing a cap previously
set at 51 percent.  Debate in parliament was suspended for a seventh successive
day today as lawmakers demanded the government reverse the
policy. Parliament has now seen repeated disruptions over four
sessions. Last year’s winter sitting was the least productive in
25 years.  “Reforms like easing FDI in retail is vital for the
economy,” Dipankar Mitra, an economist at Motilal Oswal
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, said before the report. “Or else
India’s growth momentum will face huge roadblocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal at   kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  