-- 
Reserve Bank of India Introduces Credit-Default Swaps, Limits Market Scope

-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 
2011-11-30T18:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/india-rbi-introduces-trading-in-credit-default-swaps-limits-market-scope.html
India  introduced trading in credit-
default swaps and set rules limiting the scope of the market,
eight years after first proposing the derivatives to lure 
investors to the nation’s corporate bond market.  Local lenders and units of foreign banks will be allowed to
buy CDS contracts to “hedge” assets and trading positions 
effective immediately, the  Reserve Bank of India  said in a 
notification yesterday. The central bank postponed a decision 
in 2003, citing the need for banks to improve risk management, 
and held off again in 2008 as global credit markets seized up 
following the financial crisis.  Confining trading in the derivative contracts to lenders
based in India may not help attract capital needed to build
roads, ports and  power plants , and policy makers need to throw
open the market to overseas traders, according to Bank of
America Corp. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans to spend $1
trillion by 2017 to upgrade the nation’s infrastructure and
boost growth.  “The guidelines are restrictive in the first phase,”
Jayesh Mehta, the Mumbai-based managing director of the Indian
unit of Bank of America said in an interview yesterday. “The
market needs to open to foreign investors for CDS to be more
effective.”  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 a year on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt for five years.  State Bank  CDS  In privately negotiated markets overseas, the cost of
protecting the debt of  State Bank of India (SBIN)  against non-payment
has more than doubled this year on concern the government may
miss its budget-deficit target.  Five-year credit-default swaps on State Bank, viewed as a
proxy for the nation, costs 358 basis points on Nov. 29,
compared with 161 basis points at the end of last year,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.  The RBI said it introduced default-swaps “to provide
market participants a tool to transfer and manage credit risk
associated with corporate bonds.”  India has been easing rules to lure investors to the  debt
market . The government this month raised the limit on rupee-
denominated debt foreigners can purchase. The  finance ministry 
increased the cap on government and corporate debt by $5 billion
each to $15 billion and $45 billion respectively.  The  Reserve Bank , which was expected to start CDS on Oct.
24, delayed the start pending setting up of infrastructure
including “trade repository, documentation, publication of CDS
curve for valuation and standardization of contracts,” it said
on Oct. 20.  The central bank said banks shouldn’t sell CDS on corporate
bonds on the issue date and these contracts can’t be used as a
bank guarantee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  