-- 
IQ Test for CEOs Picks Smart Chiefs Over Know-It-Alls: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/iq-test-for-ceos-picks-smart-chiefs-over-know-it-alls-interview.html
Every company can use a charismatic
superstar at the top, right?  Not so, says James Citrin, who for 18 years has been
finding CEOs, board directors and other top managers for media,
tech and consumer firms at Spencer Stuart Inc.  A star at one company can easily flame out at another.
Finding the right leader, says Citrin, is like solving a
dynamic, multi-dimensional puzzle, where age, experience,
industry expertise and ethnicity can all be red herrings.  Citrin’s latest book, co-written with colleague Julie Hembrock Daum, is “You Need a Leader -- Now What?”  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: A good CEO is hard to find, like a puzzle piece?  Citrin: It’s more like a moving ecosystem.  I can’t tell you how many times I’ve heard, “We want
someone who’s been there, done that.”  But that might just be wrong. “Where do things need to
change?” is an important question.  Lundborg: At the top, surely no one wants the bean counter
over the visionary?  Citrin: Sometimes what you need is great execution, good
marketing, smart products. You need an inspiring operating
leader rather than the world’s greatest visionary.  Lundborg: Superstar to flameout, do CEOs fall on a bell
curve?  Citrin: There’s a bell curve of performance. But the lesson
is that looking for the savior, the hero, is the big mistake,
versus really diagnosing the situation and figuring out who’s
best for what the company’s need is going forward.  Steve Jobs   Lundborg: You say in your book that you look for someone
“self-aware and well-adjusted.” Wouldn’t that have short-
circuited, say, the return of Steve Jobs to  Apple (AAPL) ?  Citrin: Steve broke lots of molds and lots of precepts. But
in general, some of the biggest problems come from basic human
interpersonal relations. CEOs are not all cut from the same
cloth as the rest of us.  Lundborg: Don’t they tend to be Type-A, driven,
workaholics?  Citrin: There are plenty of CEOs who fit that description.  But you really don’t want a know-it-all. The hard-driven
leader is okay if he has enough self-awareness to know what he
doesn’t know, to know when he needs a CFO for a check and
balance.  The Flip Point  Lundborg: How can you tell the different between self-
confidence and hubris?  Citrin: It’s a continuum, but the flip point comes when
someone is closed to any alternate point of view.  In our flatter world, jerks are sussed out more quickly and
leadership via fear is not sustainable any more.  Lundborg: You administer an executive IQ test -- what’s
that?  Citrin: We have developed a series of business cases about
which we engage candidates in a conversation -- we’ve done it
with 4-5,000 top executives.  Based on this, we’re able to discern problem solving
capability, the ability to be open to additional information, to
change points of view -- we score all kinds of things that
create executive success.  It’s in addition to interviews and referencing.  Lundborg: You did a CEO transition study. What was the
biggest surprise?  Citrin: For one, insiders do not categorically outperform
outsiders.  When companies are healthy, insiders do outperform
outsiders at a rate of three to one. When companies are in
crisis, outsiders outperform since there’s a mandate for change.  Lundborg: Who fares the worst?  Citrin: Saying “We’re not ready to turn over the keys just
yet,” and bringing in a number two from outside is usually an
unmitigated disaster.  You’ve got the lame duck, no mandate, and the person is in
perpetual audition mode, damned if he does and damned if he
doesn’t.  Impact, Adventure  Lundborg: What’s your most seductive argument for
attracting a CEO candidate?  Citrin: “Impact” is something I talk about a lot -- what
their legacy is going to be. “Adventure” is another one.  Lundborg: Not money?  Citrin: Money is important, but at high levels, people who
do jobs for the money don’t work out.  Lundborg: Compensation is skyrocketing -- are all those
CEOs earning their keep?  Citrin: A leader does add value, and participating in that
value is a great thing. A lot of pay is based on looking at
peers, and that tends to drive compensation up.  What I find offensive is when executives negotiate big
severance agreements up front.  Lundborg: Will change in  executive compensation  be hard to
implement?  Citrin: It’s coming more and more. But there’s a cottage
industry surrounding compensation that makes change difficult.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 