-- 
Turkey Yields Fall Most Since 2010 After Fed Cuts Funding Cost

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-11-30T17:10:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/lira-depreciates-for-first-day-in-three-bond-yields-increase.html
Turkish bond yields fell to their
lowest since May 2010 after the  Federal Reserve  cut the cost of
emergency dollar funding for European banks and Turkey’s central
bank said its monetary policy could control inflation.  Yields on the two-year benchmark bond dropped 46 basis
points, or 0.46 percentage point, to 10.39 percent at the 5 p.m.
close in Istanbul. The lira gained 1.3 percent to 1.8278 per
dollar, advancing to the strongest level in nine days and paring
this year’s losses to 16 percent.  The central banks of the U.S., the euro region,  Canada , the
U.K.,  Japan  and  Switzerland  agreed to cut the cost of providing
dollar funding via swap arrangements, the Federal Reserve said,
and agreed to make other currencies available as needed.
 Turkey ’s central bank chief Erdem Basci said the bank has tight
monetary policies in place to deal with a “significant”
acceleration in inflation in the next two months and sees no
need to adjust its interest-rate corridor.  “We see no need to widen the rates corridor” within which
the bank adjusts borrowing costs for lenders, Basci said. “The
measures to tighten monetary policy will achieve the 5 percent
goal for 2012 inflation, which will start slowing at the start
of next year.”  Basci “is saying the liquidity is tight enough to reduce
inflation,” Ugur N. Kucuk, a fixed-income strategist at Is
Securities said in e-mailed comments. “This is not bad news for
the  bond market .”  Positive Statement  Since Basci took office in April, the central bank has
sought to combine inflation targeting with measures designed to
absorb the shock of volatile capital inflows sparked by Europe’s
debt crisis. Basci on Oct. 26 announced new policies that enable
him to vary bank borrowing costs on a daily basis in the
corridor between the benchmark rate of 5.75 percent and 12.5
percent.  “The central bank’s statement is positive because it in a
way determined the ceiling for  interest rates ,” Yagiz Oral, a
fixed-income trader at Denizbank AS, said in e-mailed comments.  The  extra yield investors  demand to hold Turkish debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 10 basis points to 380 today,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMB Global Index.  Yields on Turkish government two-year notes climbed to 10.9
percent yesterday from 8.4 percent at the end of September, the
largest increase among 16 developing nations tracked by JPMorgan
Chase & Co., on concern policy makers won’t curb inflation and
will keep benchmark borrowing costs on hold. Investors withdrew
as inflation exceeded the central bank’s target and policy
makers introduced a dual interest-rate system to reduce lending,
support the lira and shield Turkey’s economy from  Europe ’s woes.  Fastest Inflation  Turkey, the seventh-largest developing nation by gross
domestic product, faces the same challenges as other  emerging
markets  as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis slows the region’s
economy and reduces investor demand for riskier assets. What
makes Turkey different is the central bank’s attempt to stem the
fastest inflation in a year without damping GDP growth that
slowed to 8.8 percent in the second quarter from 11.6 percent in
the first three months of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  