-- 
Is Gingrich Romney’s Speed Bump or Roadblock?: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T00:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/is-gingrich-romney-s-speed-bump-or-roadblock-margaret-carlson.html
We don’t know if the editorial board
of the New Hampshire Union Leader had to hold its nose and
squeeze its eyes shut in order to  endorse   Newt Gingrich  for
president this week. But there were hints. “Republican primary
voters too often make the mistake of preferring an unattainable
ideal to the best candidate who is actually running,” wrote
Union Leader publisher Joseph W. McQuaid.  After months of exposure to the presidential candidates, no
one in the  Republican Party  is worried about unattainable
ideals. The race has settled down to two less-than-ideal
politicians giving voters a distasteful choice: Which one of us
do you dislike the least?  In a mixed blessing, Gingrich got props from former
President  Bill Clinton , who predicted a comeback for Gingrich
back in September and paid him a relative compliment last
weekend. “I think he’s doing well just because he’s thinking,”
said Clinton, intentionally establishing a low standard for the
opposition party, “and people are hungry for ideas that make
some sense.”  Meanwhile, Romney was offering fresh reasons not to trust
him. At the CNN  debate  last week, moderator Wolf Blitzer
announced, “I’m Wolf Blitzer and yes, that’s my real name.”
Then Willard Mitt Romney declared, “I’m Mitt Romney and yes,
Wolf, that’s also my first name.”  It seemed a peculiar thing for someone whose first name is
not Mitt to say -- an effort, like the time he called himself
“unemployed,” to ingratiate himself with the hoi polloi and
show he’s a normal person. But no normal person would tell such
a gratuitous whopper. It highlighted his weakness: the reflexive
shape-shifting and the desire to make things into whatever he
wants them to be at any given time.  Deceptive Ad  Then Romney  unleashed  a blatantly deceptive ad attacking
Obama. His aides crowed that it was a winner, and perhaps it
was. It signaled to the base that Romney could be counted on to
play dirty to win. And because it was unusually deceptive, even
for a political ad, it generated substantial news media
coverage. “We’re not going to take our foot off the gas
pedal,” Romney aide Eric Fehrnstrom said. Even so, nothing
about the episode was likely to reassure voters who worry that
Romney talks out of both sides of his mouth (and perhaps drives
on both sides of the street).  Because of his multiplex political history, Romney’s
attacks have a propensity to boomerang. Last week, Romney jumped
on Gingrich for supporting “amnesty” for illegal immigrants
who have long lived in the U.S., whom Gingrich said he would be
unwilling to deport.  In a 2006  interview  with Bloomberg News, however, Romney
went beyond Gingrich’s stand, calling for citizenship for some
illegal residents. “We need to begin a process of registering
those people, some being returned, and some beginning the
process of applying for citizenship and establishing legal
status,” Romney said.  Gingrich is no less of a moveable feast. His years of
lucrative  consulting  to the dark forces of  Washington  have
lowered expectations about his ethics to a bare minimum. Yet the
fractious Republican base now congealing around this latest Un-
Mitt seems to have chewed over and digested Newt’s serial
adultery and other sins and appears willing to ignore new ones
if that’s what it will take to deny Romney the nomination. Yes,
Gingrich has a steamer trunk full of personal faults, but a
recent Bloomberg poll  revealed  that likely caucusgoers in  Iowa 
are more upset by an individual mandate for health insurance (58
percent) than by multiple marriages (46 percent). It seems
Romney’s years of clean living can’t make up for the sin of
providing health insurance to the residents of  Massachusetts .
(Much of the Republican base hasn’t yet registered that
Gingrich, too, used to support an individual mandate.)  Endorsement Boost  Romney’s aides pooh-poohed the Union Leader endorsement,
pointing to previous endorsees such as Presidents Pierre du Pont
and Pat Buchanan. But Romney had courted the paper’s publisher,
whose 2008 endorsement of Senator  John McCain  helped propel
McCain to a surprise victory in New Hampshire and the eventual
nomination. New York Times analyst Nate Silver  found  that, on
average, Republican candidates endorsed by the conservative
newspaper finished with 29 percent of the primary vote in New
Hampshire -- an 11 percentage point boost from where they stood
before the endorsement. If Gingrich gains 11 points, he could
finish first in  New Hampshire  or a newsworthy second.  Romney’s primary plan has been to take no chances and
commit no errors. He has run as an accomplished manager, largely
avoided the media and waited for a series of less capable
opponents to crash to the ground. Romney no doubt expects
Gingrich to experience a similar fate.  With his money, his organization and his skills, Romney is
likely to win. But time is not his friend. Delegates for the
early primary states are awarded to candidates proportionally,
rather than winner-take-all. If Romney cannot achieve a quick
knockout, a lengthy, painstaking battle is possible, during
which the Stop Romney coalition will have time to rally around a
single candidate.  The longer the contest goes on, the harder it may be for
Romney to wrap up the nomination. Gingrich may hold it together
for five weeks and become a speed bump on Romney’s fast track to
the nomination. If he hangs around for months, as  Hillary Clinton  did in 2008, he could turn Romney’s cakewalk to the
party’s convention in Tampa,  Florida , into the Bataan Death
March.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 