-- 
Israel’s Banks Report Lower Profit on Provisions, Slower Growth

-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 
2011-11-30T10:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/israel-s-banks-report-lower-profit-on-provisions-slower-growth.html
Israel’s three biggest lenders,  Bank
Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) ,  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI)  and  Israel Discount
Bank Ltd. (DSCT) , reported a decline in third-quarter profit as the
economy slowed and they set aside more money for bad loans.  Net income at Bank Leumi fell 74 percent to 155 million
shekels ($40.8 million) from a year earlier, missing the average
208 million-shekel estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Profit at Hapoalim dropped 9.1 percent to 471 million
shekels, the Tel Aviv-based bank said today in a statement,
matching analyst estimates.  The Bank of Israel on Nov. 28 cut its benchmark  interest
rate  for the second time in three months to cushion the economy
from the impact of a European debt crisis that it said is
“becoming more severe.” All three Tel Aviv-based lenders
boosted bad-loan provisions during the third quarter.  “We see a decline in profitability which reflects a
slowdown in economic activity,” said Adi Scop, a financial-
services analyst at IBI-Israel Brokerage and Investments Ltd. in
 Tel Aviv . While the position of the country’s banks is
“sound,” a base scenario would see the economy slipping into a
recession, Scop wrote in a note released on Nov. 27.  Provisions at Bank Leumi rose more than eightfold to 378
million shekels, while those at Hapoalim climbed 72 percent to
498 million shekels in the quarter. Israel Discount said net
income fell by more than half to 121 million shekels in the
third quarter as the bank increased provisions by a third to 226
million shekels.  First International Bank of Israel Ltd. (FTIN) , which also
reported earnings today, said third-quarter profit slumped 84
percent to 21 million shekels from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  