-- 
Lithuanian Central Bank Fires Regulator After Snoras Takeover

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-11-30T14:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/lithuanian-central-bank-fires-regulator-after-snoras-takeover.html
Lithuania’s Central Bank Governor
Vitas Vasiliauskas fired Kazimieras Ramonas, head of the banking
supervision department, after seizing  Bankas Snoras AB (SRS1L) , the
country’s third-biggest deposit bank.  Ramonas was fired for “inappropriate performance and
excessive bureaucracy while performing his official duties,”
the central bank said in a  statement  on its website today.  Ramonas became the third regulator in Lithuania and  Latvia 
to leave his job after the failure of Snoras and its Latvian
subsidiary Latvijas Krajbanka AS. Latvia’s chief banking
regulator, Irena Krumane, said she would resign on Nov. 28 and
Janis Placis, head of supervision at the country’s regulator,
submitted his resignation on Nov. 25.  The Lithuanian central bank last week decided to liquidate
Snoras after the estimated size of missing assets rose to 3.4
billion litai ($1.3 billion). Krajbanka may be missing about 100
million lati ($193 million), according to Latvia’s bank
regulator. Krajbanka depositors yesterday began to receive
payouts from a state deposit insurance fund for deposits held at
the lender.  The Lithuanian government took over Snoras on Nov. 16 after
the central bank discovered that assets reported on the bank’s
balance sheet were missing. Former owners  Vladimir Antonov  and
Raimondas Baranauskas were released on bail by a U.K. court on
Nov. 24 after being detained in  London  on a Lithuanian arrest
warrant.  Antonov “strenuously denies dishonesty in any of his
dealings,” Rachel Scott, his lawyer, told the court. “He
doesn’t impose a serious flight risk.”  The men are accused of stealing about 879 million litai
through forgery and misappropriation, U.K. prosecutor Natalie
Soule said. They allegedly forged documents to show false
deposits in unspecified Swiss banks, according to Soule.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  