-- 
Liverpool Beats Chelsea in Carling Cup as Manchester City Defeats Arsenal

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-11-30T01:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/liverpool-beats-chelsea-2-0-in-carling-cup-manchester-city-cardiff-win.html
Liverpool beat Chelsea 2-0 to reach
the semifinals of English soccer’s Carling Cup, while a Sergio Aguero goal gave  Manchester City  a 1-0 victory against Arsenal.  Maxi Rodriguez  and  Martin Kelly  scored yesterday for
Liverpool as it won at Chelsea’s Stamford Bridge stadium nine
days after a victory in the Premier League there.  “Liverpool were superior all the way through,” Chelsea
manager Andre Villas-Boas told Sky Sports. “They had a strong
desire to kill the game off and we couldn’t match it.”  In yesterday’s other game, Cardiff City, which plays in the
second-tier Championship, defeated the Premier League’s bottom
club Blackburn 2-0.  Manchester United  hosts Crystal Palace today
in the remaining quarterfinal tie.  Liverpool, the record seven-time champion, continued its
bid for a first trophy since its F.A. Cup success in 2006 with a
victory that increases the pressure on Villas-Boas.  The Reds should have taken a 22nd-minute lead when they
were awarded a penalty kick as Chelsea center-back Alex handled
the ball. Andy Carroll hit his effort straight at goalkeeper
Ross Turnbull.  The first goal arrived after 58 minutes.  Craig Bellamy 
crossed the ball for Maxi to tap-in from close range.  Bellamy was also involved in the second goal, with his free
kick headed into the net by Kelly.  Kenny Dalglish has never lost in 13 meetings as Liverpool
manager against Chelsea. The Scot returned as manager in January,
20 years after his previous spell in charge.  Chelsea’s Blues  Chelsea has lost three of its past four matches, is fifth
in the Premier League and may need to win its final group match
in Europe’s Champions League to advance in that competition.  Aguero’s 83rd-minute goal at the Emirates Stadium
maintained Manchester City’s unbeaten domestic record this
season.  There were few clear chances in north  London , with both
managers making changes from their regular lineups for the match
in England’s second-tier cup competition.  City goalkeeper Costel Pantilimon turned away a Park Ju-
Young shot and dived to tip away a long-range effort by Alex
Oxlade-Chamberlain in the first half.  City coach  Roberto Mancini  replaced Aleksandar Kolarov with
Aguero only 32 minutes into the match.  It was Aguero who finally separated the teams, sliding the
ball past goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski after Edin Dzeko srtared a
breakaway from an Arsenal corner.  “For me and the lads who are playing in this competition,
it’s a chance to try and get in the team week in, week out,”
City’s Adam Johnson told  Sky Sports . “And if we can get into
the final and win another trophy, it’s important for the club.”  The win for City, which last won the competition in 1976,
ends a 10-game unbeaten run for the Gunners.  Kenny Miller and Anthony Gerrard scored to take Cardiff
into the semifinals for the first time since 1966, while
extending Blackburn’s winless run to five matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 