-- 
Topix Declines First Time in Four Days After S&P Cuts Banks’ Ratings

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-11-30T06:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/japan-s-topix-index-declines-after-s-p-cuts-banks-ratings-olympus-slumps.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, with the Topix
Index dropping for the first time in four days, after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut credit ratings for U.S. lenders including Bank of
America Corp. and a European official said the region’s bailout
fund may fall short of its goal.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s No. 2 bank by
market value, fell 1 percent.  Sony Corp. (6758) , the country’s biggest
exporter of consumer electronics, lost 1.4 percent. Nippon Yusen
K.K., Japan’s top shipping line by sales, dropped 4.5 percent
after Moody’s Investors Service put the company on review for a
possible downgrade.  Nippon Electric Glass Co.  slipped 4.4
percent after industry leader  Corning Inc. (GLW)  cut its earnings
forecast.  The Topix lost 0.2 percent to 728.46 at the 3 p.m. in  Tokyo .
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  dropped 0.5 percent to 8,434.61.
The gauge declined 6.2 percent this month, erasing October’s
gains, as signs emerged that Europe’s debt crisis is spreading
to major economies.  “The rating cuts for the banks may have a negative impact
on investor sentiment,” said Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at
Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “What investors are really paying
attention to is whether policy makers are going to take steps to
resolve the European debt situation.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  fell 0.7 percent
today. The index rose 0.2 percent yesterday in  New York  as
 consumer confidence  increased by the most since 2003,
overshadowing reports showing less-than-forecast new home sales
and a bigger-than-expected drop in some U.S. housing prices.  Bank Downgrades  Bank of America, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc.
had long-term credit grades reduced to A- from A by Standard &
Poor’s after the ratings firm revised criteria for dozens of the
largest global lenders.  Japanese lenders dropped after the downgrades.  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group  fell 1 percent to 2,089 yen. Larger
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. lost 0.9 percent to 328 yen.  Stocks (TPX)  fell even after Japan’s industrial production
increased more than analysts expected in October. Factory output
rose 2.4 percent from September, the trade ministry said. The
number compares with the median economist prediction for a 1.1
percent gain.  Exporters declined on concern Europe will struggle to
contain its debt crisis.  Nikon Corp. (7731) , a camera maker that
depends on the region for about a quarter of its sales, slid 1
percent to 1,771 yen. Sony fell 1.4 percent to 1,372 yen.  ‘Difficult To Reach’  An agreement hammered out last month to expand the European
Financial Stability Facility’s firepower to 1 trillion euros
with leveraging will be “very difficult to reach,” Luxembourg
Finance Minister Luc Frieden told reporters before euro-area
finance chiefs met in Brussels.  “The European situation is still at the center of market
concerns,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager in Tokyo at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Investors will likely sell shares
to lock into profit after recent gains.”  Shipping lines declined the most among the Topix’s 33
industry groups after surging 14 percent in the previous three
trading sessions.  Nippon Yusen (9101)  sank 4.5 percent to 169 yen, extending an
earlier decline after Moody’s placed the company’s credit rating
on review for a possible downgrade. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and
 Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , Japan’s No. 2 and 3 shipping
companies, both fell at least 3.6 percent.  Glassmakers Drop  Nippon Electric Glass led a drop among glassmakers after
Corning, the world’s largest maker of glass for flat-panel
televisions, cut its fourth-quarter earnings forecast because of
a lost contract and price declines.  Nippon Electric  slumped 4.4 percent to 770 yen.  Asahi Glass
Co. (5201)  fell 2.7 percent to 644 yen.  Scandal-hit Olympus gained 2.2 percent to 1,025 yen,
rebounding from earlier losses of as much 13 percent after the
company said it is preparing to file a corrected financial
report to the stock exchange by Dec. 14. The optical equipment
maker was responding to a Wall Street Journal report that it
might miss the deadline, causing the firm to be delisted.  Power companies advanced as investors turned to so-called
“defensive stocks,” according to Angus Gluskie, who manages
about $300 million at White Funds Management in Sydney.  Tokyo Electric Power Co ., Japan’s largest utility, climbed
1.4 percent to 284 yen. Smaller  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) 
increased 2.1 percent to 1,144 yen. The Nikkei newspaper
reported Kansai Electric plans to add 12 financial institutions
to the ranks of its lenders as it seeks overcome difficulty in
selling bonds.  “People who are selling off cyclicals are also positioning
themselves in stocks with defensive tilt, such as utilities and
consumer staples,” Gluskie said. “People are very concerned
where things are at the present economically around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  