-- 
Jive Pushes Ahead With IPO, Seeking to Raise $117 Million

-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-11-30T18:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/jive-seeks-to-raise-up-to-117-million-in-social-networking-supplier-s-ipo.html
Jive Software Inc., the maker of
social-networking software for businesses, pushed ahead with
plans for an initial public offering, seeking to raise as much
as $117 million.  The  Palo Alto , California-based company will sell 8.33
million shares, with stockholders offering an additional 3.37
million, according to  a filing today . The price will be $8 to
$10. That would put Jive’s valuation at as much as $573 million.  Jive is counting on IPO investors still having an appetite
for an unprofitable Internet company, even as many recent IPOs
see their stocks get battered. Shares of  Groupon Inc. , an
online-coupon provider that went public earlier this month, have
tumbled below their IPO price, though the stock has regained
some ground in the past two days.  Jive, founded in 2001, builds social-networking software
for business customers, aiming to apply Facebook-style tools to
help workers collaborate. The company’s losses have grown this
year as it steps up spending on research, product development,
marketing and overhead. Its net loss was $38.1 million in the
first nine months of the year, compared with $20.9 million in
the year-earlier period.  Big Rivals  Jive faces competition from established business-software
makers, including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  Earlier today, Salesforce
introduced software that helps companies create online marketing
campaigns -- and tightens ties between its social-media tools
and flagship customer-management software.  About $20 million from the IPO proceeds will be used to pay
down loans, the company said. The shares will list on the Nasdaq
Stock Market under the ticker symbol JIVE, according to the
filing.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are leading
the offering.  Sequoia Capital  is the biggest Jive shareholder, with a
stake of about 35 percent, followed by Kleiner Perkins Caufield
& Byers, which owns 14 percent, according to the filing. Co-
founders Matthew Tucker and Bill Lynch own about 14 percent
each, while Chief Executive Officer Anthony Zingale controls 7
percent, the filing showed.  Facebook Inc., the world’s largest social-networking
service, is making preparations for its own IPO, a person with
knowledge of the matter said this week. The company is said to
be considering raising about $10 billion in a deal that would
value it at more than $100 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  