-- 
JPMorgan Bonuses May Drop as Bank Wraps Up Performance Reviews

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-11-30T05:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/jpmorgan-bonuses-may-drop-as-bank-wraps-up-performance-reviews.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest
and most-profitable U.S. bank, is damping employees’ salary and
bonus expectations as the lender wraps up year-end performance
reviews, said three executives familiar with the process.  Managers are telling workers at the New York-based firm
that total average compensation may be lower to unchanged from
last year and that year-end bonuses mostly will depend on the
company’s  profit (JPM)  and the performance of their divisions.  JPMorgan, which posted a record $17.4 billion in net income
last year, may earn $19.1 billion in 2011 even as revenue and
profit margins shrink, according to projections by 12 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. Average 2011 compensation for the bank’s
256,000 employees will drop or stagnate as the company resists
an industry trend of mass layoffs, the people said. Financial
companies have cut more than 200,000 jobs worldwide this year.  “Firms are going to have to base bonuses much more on
merit than strategy,” Paul Sorbera, president of Wall
Street executive search firm Alliance Consulting, said yesterday
in a phone interview. “There are groups and departments that
will do well, and groups and departments not doing well, that’s
where you see challenges to the bonus pool.”  Employees in JPMorgan’s investment bank are bracing for a
smaller-than-usual share of the bonus pool, even as net income
for the division during the first nine months of the year
climbed 18 percent to $6.1 billion from a year earlier, said one
of the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
company’s compensation practices aren’t public.  Paper Gains  The board of directors, led by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon , opted to exclude certain paper gains from
its performance equations, such as a so-called debt-valuation
adjustment that added $1.9 billion of pretax profit to the
investment bank’s third-quarter results, two of the people said.  The unit, which had 26,615 employees at the end of
September, set aside $7.71 billion for compensation in the first
three quarters, a 2 percent drop from a year earlier. The
expense, which includes salaries, bonuses and benefits, was
enough to give each of the division’s employees $289,611 for the
first nine months of this year, compared with average
compensation of $298,866 for the same period last year.  While the bank isn’t planning layoffs, “we always trim our
sails,” Dimon, 55, told reporters during an Oct. 13 conference
call. The unit reduced its workforce 4 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three-month period.  JPMorgan will be “squeezing a little bit here and
squeezing a little bit there” to further trim staff at the
investment bank by about 1,000 people, or “maybe a little bit
more,” in the next 18 months, Dimon said.  Credit-Card Unit  Average bonuses for employees in JPMorgan’s asset
management division, which is projected to have weaker year-end
results, also will be lower than last year, one of the people
said. Executives in JPMorgan’s credit-card unit, where profit
more than doubled, may see bonuses rise slightly due to their
division’s stronger overall performance, the person said.  Average compensation figures are derived by dividing the
overall compensation pool by the number of employees, and they
don’t represent individual workers’ actual pay. Investment banks
set aside revenue throughout the year for pay and typically
decide bonuses at year-end.  Almost every week since August has brought news of firings
by the world’s biggest banks. HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s
biggest lender, announced that month it would eliminate 30,000
jobs by the end of 2013. In September, Bank of America Corp.,
the second-biggest U.S. lender, said it would cut the same
number of jobs. Both banks are trimming about 10 percent of
their employees.  BNP Paribas,  France ’s largest bank, said this month that it
will cut about 1,400 jobs at its corporate and investment-
banking unit, and UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s biggest lender, said it
plans to eliminate 6,150 positions by 2015.  “The firms that are stable and are performing well overall
have some retention strength versus firms that are struggling,
so that gives them a little flexibility on how deep they have to
go on layoffs and how much they’re able to allocate to
bonuses,” Sorbera said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  