-- 
Kennedy, Reagan, Loved for All the Wrong Reasons: Robert Dallek

-- B y   R o b e r t   D a l l e k
-- 
2011-11-30T00:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/kennedy-reagan-loved-for-all-the-wrong-reasons-robert-dallek.html
The historian Richard
Hofstadter said that the U.S. is the only country in
history that believes it was born perfect and strives for
improvement. The idea that we are a nation without flaws or
that we can permanently eliminate our very human failings
is, of course, delusional.  But America’s current political divide has produced
equally ludicrous notions of outsized defects. The
contemporary conservative idea that government is the
source of all the country’s woes is reductionist and worse.
The Tea Party crowd seems incapable of understanding that
New Deal and Great Society programs humanized the U.S.
industrial system and saved free enterprise from its worst
excesses.  On the other side, the Occupiers have decried the
greatest  concentration of wealth  since the 19th-century
Gilded Age, but they have been too quick to strike out at
symbols of the national malaise without advancing a
coherent agenda for righting social and economic wrongs.  The country is unquestionably struggling with large
economic problems that jeopardize its domestic tranquility
and future prosperity. But anti-government rhetoric and
anti-Wall Street complaints hardly provide credible
answers. The opposing sides see nothing ahead but doom and
gloom unless they win command of the nation’s power centers
and enact their programs of change.  Simplistic Slogans  One great drawback of American democracy is the
difficulty we have accepting that every country -- however
blessed with great resources and a generally well-
functioning government -- suffers some economic and social
ills. Another is our inability to accept that national
problems cannot be wished away by simplistic slogans and
nostrums.  Herman Cain ’s 999 plan and Texas Governor  Rick Perry ’s promise to cure current ills by shutting two -- or
is it three? -- federal agencies are just the most recent
vintages of an old, familiar snake oil.  The affinity for quick fixes is as old as the country
itself. The witchcraft trials of the 1690s were supposed to
cure several Massachusetts communities of their sins.  The
Know Nothings of the 1840s and 1850s sought to bar
Catholics from coming to the U.S. in order to save American
freedom from papal directives. The Populists of the 1890s
promoted the free and unlimited coinage of silver to rescue
suffering farmers and laborers. The anti-Communists of the
1950s insisted on loyalty oaths to ferret out subversives.
Republican Senator  Barry Goldwater  and his followers in the
1960s demanded the repeal of Social Security and the
jettisoning of federal regulatory agencies to head off
socialism. Now  Grover Norquist , the president of Americans
for  Tax Reform , and his ilk demand that members of Congress
pledge not to raise taxes, the latest surefire solution to
economic ills.  The attraction to easy answers is echoed in a 2010
Gallup poll that asked Americans to assess the last nine
presidents from  John F. Kennedy  to George W. Bush. Kennedy
topped the list with an 85 percent approval rating. Only
 Ronald Reagan  was in hailing distance of him, with 74
percent. Deciphering these results presents a challenge:
Kennedy’s thousand days comprised one of the briefest
presidencies in U.S. history. His slight record, devoid of
major domestic legislative achievements, seems smothered by
the country’s overwhelming regard.  High Esteem  Nor do Reagan’s White House accomplishments square
with so robust a public endorsement. Yes, the  Cold War 
sputtered toward its conclusion on his watch, but
historians see Harry S. Truman’s containment policy as the
principal cause of this national success -- not Reagan’s
policies. Given current anxieties over economic
uncertainties, including unprecedented sums of federal,
state and local debt, Reagan’s eight-year presidency, which
nearly tripled the nation’s  debt , seems at odds with the
public’s high esteem.  Few Americans know much about presidential
accomplishments. How much could the average American say
about the three greatest presidents in U.S. history --
George  Washington ,  Abraham Lincoln  and  Franklin Delano Roosevelt ? Washington won the revolution and launched the
federal government; Lincoln led us through the Civil War;
FDR overcame the Depression and won World War II. That’s
probably the sum of what most people know about these
presidencies.  What gives Kennedy and Reagan such a strong hold on
American imaginations is not what they did but what they
said and still stand for. Both presidents are remembered as
optimists promising better futures. Kennedy had the New
Frontier; for Reagan, it was Morning in America. Both
remain inspirational voices that in a time of doubt give
people hope. And when you put either man alongside  Richard Nixon ,  Gerald Ford ,  Jimmy Carter  and  George W. Bush , they
seem especially appealing.  The national embrace of Kennedy and Reagan is at one
with the attraction to nostrums. All we need is the right
man with the right formula and all will be well again. If
only it were that easy.  (Robert Dallek’s latest book, “The Lost Peace:
Leadership in a Time of Horror and Hope, 1945-1953,” has
just been published in paperback.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Dallek at  rdallek@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 