-- 
Kenyan Shilling Gains for 2nd Day Ahead of Central Bank Meeting

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-11-30T14:40:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/kenyan-shilling-gains-for-2nd-day-ahead-of-central-bank-meeting.html
Kenya ’s shilling, the world’s best-
performing currency this month, gained for a second day against
the dollar on expectations that  interest rates  will remain high
after the central bank’s monetary policy committee meeting.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy advanced 0.1
percent to 89.63 per dollar by 3:05 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital.  “After the inflation numbers came out yesterday, we can
now expect central bank to increase interest rates or retain
them where they are tomorrow,” Bernard Matimu, chief dealer at
Nairobi-based  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB) , said by phone today. “Whenever
inflation increases the shilling gains, there is an inverse
relationship.”  The central bank may keep its benchmark interest rate
unchanged tomorrow at 16.5 percent after a record boost of 9.25
percentage points in the past three months helped to reverse a
slide in the shilling, according to seven of the 10 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation accelerated to 19.72 percent in November from
18.91 percent in October as food and fuel costs increased.  Tanzania’s currency climbed 0.3 percent to 1,680 as of 2:04
p.m.  “We have seen significant inflows from especially mining
companies today,” Alex Ngurusu, Head Treasurer at CRDB Bank
Plc.  said today by phone from  Dar es Salaam , the Tanzanian
commercial capital.  Uganda’s shilling strengthened for a third day, gaining 0.6
percent to 2,560 as of 3:14 p.m.  “The demand of the dollar is low in the market because of
low economic activities by major buyers due to the hard economic
conditions in the country,” Faisal Bukenya, the head of
 currency trading  at  Barclays Bank  of Uganda Ltd., said by phone
from Kampala. “We also had a Treasury bills auction today and
the anticipation was that it would attract in dollars from
offshore investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at  