-- 
Kenyan Stocks Continue to Decline on Higher Rates, Inflation

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-11-30T12:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/kenyan-stocks-continue-to-decline-on-higher-rates-inflation.html
Kenyan stocks extended their decline
into the fifth day on rising inflation and interest rates.  The  Nairobi Stock Exchange’s All Share Index (NSEASI)  fell 2.7
percent to 53.70 points as at 2:05 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi.
This is the biggest decline since Sept. 26.  The central bank may keep its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged tomorrow at 16.5 percent after a 10.25 percentage
points rise over the last several months helped to reverse a
slide in the shilling, according to seven of the 10 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation accelerated to 19.72 percent in November from
18.91 percent in October as food and fuel costs increased,
adding to the possibility of an interest rate rise this week.  “Nothing is favouring our stock market at the moment from
interest rates to inflationary pressures and currency woes,”
Alistair Gould, head of trading and business development at
Nairobi-based Old Mutual Securities Ltd., said on Bloomberg IB
Chat today.  Kenya Power Ltd. (KPLL) , the state-run monopoly electricity
distributor,  Bamburi Cement Ltd. (BMBC) , the biggest maker of the
building material, and  Standard Chartered Bank Ltd. (SCBL)  the fourth-
largest lender by market value, were among the biggest losing
stocks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Its really disappointing but for any smart and wealthy
guy or investor with a bit of risk appetite, there are massive
bargains” Gould said. “We are seeing several counters trading
way below their book value.”  Foreign investors account for more than 60 percent of the
traded Kenyan stocks, he said.  Kenya’s shilling, the world’s best-performing currency this
month, gained for a second day against the dollar on
expectations that interest rates will remain high after the
central bank’s next monetary policy committee meeting tomorrow.
The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy advanced 0.2
percent to 89.60 per dollar by 12:56 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 