-- 
Kenyan Foreign Minister to Meet al-Bashir Over Arrest Ruling

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-11-30T12:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/kenyan-foreign-minister-to-meet-al-bashir-over-arrest-ruling.html
Kenyan Foreign Affairs Minister
Moses Wetangula said he will meet Sudanese President Umar al- Bashir tomorrow to defuse tensions over a Kenyan court ruling
calling for al-Bashir’s arrest.  Kenya  plans to “immediately” appeal the decision that
threatens to destabilize regional security and damage relations
with a trading partner and ally, Wetangula said in an interview
in Bujumbura, the Burundian capital, today.  “We don’t support the ruling because you cannot arrest a
sitting president of a neighboring country regardless of the
circumstances,” he said. “It’s an insensitive ruling.”  Sudan  expelled Kenya’s ambassador this week after the court
called for the arrest of al-Bashir, 67, who is wanted by the
 International Criminal Court  on charges of genocide and war
crimes in the western Sudanese region of Darfur. Foreign
observers and human-rights groups previously criticized Kenya
after it failed to detain al-Bashir when he attended a ceremony
in August 2010 to enact Kenya’s new constitution.  Kenya, as a member of the Hague-based war crimes court, is
obliged to cooperate with the ICC arrest warrant if al-Bashir
enters Kenyan territory. Al-Bashir denies the charges.  The 54-nation  African Union  and the Intergovernmental
Authority on Development, a political grouping of seven eastern
African nations, have called for the suspension of the arrest
warrant.  Since his initial indictment in March 2009, al-Bashir has
been forced to cancel trips abroad as human-rights groups,
including  Amnesty International  and  Human Rights Watch , pressed
countries to withdraw invitations or arrest him on arrival.  Fighting between rebels and government forces in Darfur
since 2003 has led to the deaths of as many as 300,000 people,
mainly due to illness and starvation, and forced about 2.7
million to flee their homes, according to  United Nations 
estimates. The Sudanese government has put the death toll at
about 10,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Bujumbura via Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 