-- 
Kocherlakota Says Fed May Need to Reduce Accommodation

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-11-30T02:10:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/kocherlakota-says-fed-may-need-to-reduce-accommodation-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said policy makers should begin
removing accommodation in 2012, assuming their forecasts for
lower unemployment and stable inflation are on target.  “It would be simplest to reduce the level of accommodation
by changing” the Fed’s pledge to hold rates low through at
least mid-2013 “to a shorter period of time,” Kocherlakota
said in a speech today in Stanford,  California . He told
reporters beforehand that the Fed needs to be “clearer” and
“sharper” about its objectives.  The bank president’s remarks underscore divisions within a
central bank that’s struggling to reduce a jobless level stuck
near 9 percent or higher for more than two years. Four officials
have dissented at policy-making meetings this year, with Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  calling for more stimulus while
Kocherlakota,  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia voted against further easing.  Today, Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said in  San Francisco  the
Fed has leeway to spur the U.S. recovery and cut unemployment by
buying more assets or clarifying its plan to sustain record-low
borrowing costs. San Francisco Fed President John Williams told
reporters that he supports the idea of an asset-purchase program
that can be altered over time.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said during a speech
at the University of Georgia that expanding securities purchases
is unlikely to give a sufficient boost to U.S. growth. He didn’t
rule out the strategy or other easing options.  Sufficient Boost  The Federal Open Market Committee’s efforts to push down
unemployment by easing policy this year, while appearing to
place less emphasis on inflation risks, “served to weaken the
committee’s credibility,” Kocherlakota said at the Stanford
Institute for Economic Policy Research. He reiterated his
support for a “public contingency plan” that would detail Fed
policy actions under various economic scenarios.  Stocks in the U.S. rose following a report that U.S.
consumer confidence increased by the most since 2003. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2 percent to 1,195.19 in
 New York .  Data released since the Fed’s most recent gathering show
the U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly fell in October to a six-
month low of 9 percent, from 9.1 percent a month earlier. An
80,000 increase in payrolls followed gains in the prior two
months that were revised up by 102,000, Labor Department figures
showed in  Washington .  Previously Estimated  The economy expanded less than previously estimated in the
third quarter, reflecting a drop in inventories that points to a
pickup in growth as 2011 comes to a close. Gross domestic
product climbed at a 2 percent annual rate from July through
September, less than projected and down from a 2.5 percent prior
estimate, revised Commerce Department figures showed last week.  Fed officials currently expect unemployment to fall to 8.6
percent in 2012 and 8 percent in 2013, while inflation excluding
food and energy should drop from 1.9 percent to 1.7 percent over
the next two years, Kocherlakota said.  A comparison of those projections with estimates of how the
economy will evolve next year suggests that “the committee
should reduce the level of monetary accommodation over the
course of 2012,” he said. That would mean shrinking the amount
of time it takes for the Fed to begin its exit strategy, he
said.  The regional chief added that he sees unemployment falling
more gradually than he previously thought, and the impact of any
future accommodation by the Fed is likely to be “marginal.”  Stay Very Low  The FOMC at its Nov. 1-2 meeting left the benchmark
 interest rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s
been since December 2008, and reiterated language that said the
rate is likely to stay very low through at least mid-2013. The
central bank also continued its so-called Operation Twist
program to buy $400 billion of longer-term securities and sell
$400 billion of short-term debt.  Additional asset purchases would constitute a third round
of so-called quantitative easing after the Fed bought $2.3
trillion in housing and government debt in two rounds from
December 2008 to June 2011.  Kocherlakota, who has led the  Minneapolis  Fed since
October 2009, built his career in academia and is former
chairman of the economics department at the  University of
Minnesota  in Minneapolis. He dissented in August and September
to the mid-2013 pledge and Operation Twist, saying economic
conditions had actually improved -- not worsened -- over the
past year.  The 48-year-old policy maker reiterated his concern that
the FOMC’s accommodative actions suggest that its objectives for
 price stability  have “shifted upward.” He also said the pace
of events in  Europe  suggest a “greater risk” of adverse
economic outcomes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  