-- 
Komatsu CEO Looks for Acquisition Targets in U.S., Europe

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   B r i a n   F o w l e r
-- 
2011-12-01T09:10:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/komatsu-looks-for-acquisition-targets-in-u-s-europe-ceo-says.html
Komatsu Ltd. , the world’s second-
largest construction machinery maker, is looking for potential
acquisition targets in the U.S. and  Europe  and plans to conclude
a deal within three years, President Kunio Noji said.  The company is keen on parts producers and technology
ventures that make electronic components and systems to upgrade
its hybrid earth-moving machines and mining trucks, Noji said in
an interview at the company’s headquarters in Tokyo. Komatsu is
also looking for a manufacturer of underground mining equipment
to expand its products, he said.  “There are lots of good companies,” Noji said. “Right
now it’s difficult to persuade targeted companies to be part of
our company, and we don’t do hostile takeovers, but I think one
day in two or three years they’ll come to us,” he said.  The yen, which reached a postwar high of 75.35 on Oct. 31,
is boosting the purchasing power of Japanese companies looking
to expand globally.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , Komatsu’s larger U.S.
rival, last month offered as much as HK$6.89 billion ($884
million) to buy  China ’s  ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. (8043)  to expand
sales in China, following its $8.8 billion acquisition of
Bucyrus International Inc. in July.  Komatsu is seeking to fend off competition from rivals
including China’s  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  by developing value-
added products and services. Komatsu installs GPS devices on its
machines, enabling workers in Tokyo to monitor how the machines
are used at construction sites and to advise customers on fuel-
saving strategies and parts replacement needs. It has sold 1,100
hybrid excavators that use less fuel than conventional models in
Japan and China since their debut in 2008.  Driverless Trucks  In 1996, Komatsu bought Moduler Mining Systems Inc., a U.S.
maker of electronic systems that increase mine efficiency,
helping it develop driverless mining trucks. Komatsu last month
won an order from Rio Tinto Group to supply at least 150
driverless trucks to  Australia ’s Pilbara iron ore mines by 2015.  Komatsu  closed  up 7.2 percent at 2,032 yen in Tokyo, the
biggest gain since May 2009. The stock has shed 17 percent of
its value since the beginning of the year.  Noji expects workers won’t be able to continue open-pit
copper mining in 10 to 20 years even as demand for the metal
rises. Komatsu is seeking to add underground mining equipment to
its products in anticipation of more underground mining.  Copper prices have more than tripled over the past decade.
The metal for three-month delivery on the London Metal Exchange
fell 0.6 percent to $7,835 a metric ton at 1:07 p.m. in  Tokyo 
after reaching a record of $10,190 in February.  Raising Prices  Komatsu plans to raise prices in China, its largest market,
by about 2 percent next year even as the government’s policy
tightening slashed demand for construction machinery, Noji said.
Sales of excavators fell by 50 to 60 percent from levels last
year in November and will decline at a similar pace through
December at least, Noji said.  “It’s not easy to raise product prices, but we were able
to maintain our profit margins,” Noji said. “Regardless of
whether our market share declines, Komatsu is responsible for
raising prices to create a healthy market as a leading company
in China.”  The timing of a recovery in China depends on how the
government contends with inflation, he said. Komatsu forecast
last month global demand for construction equipment will rise 6
percent in the year ending March 2012, as sales in  Asia 
excluding China and in  North America  help cover falling demand
in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 