-- 
NATO Strike Can’t Lead to Breach With Enemy-Ally Pakistan: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-11-30T00:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/nato-strike-can-t-lead-to-breach-with-enemy-ally-pakistan-view.html
When NATO aircraft killed 24 Pakistani
soldiers in a strike near the Afghan border on Nov. 25, U.S. press
reports called it a case of “friendly fire.” That seems the wrong
term. It has been some years since the U.S. and  Pakistan  could be
accurately described as friends.  The U.S. and Pakistan have a handful of common goals but far
more that conflict. The U.S. wants to fight all forces opposed to
Afghanistan’s government; Pakistan nurtures remnants of the Haqqani
Network and the Afghanistan Taliban as a way of maintaining influence
in that country. The U.S. wants to be equally friendly with Pakistan
and its archenemy, India; Pakistan considers that a betrayal.  Still, it would be unwise for the U.S. to allow Pakistan to
become an enemy.  Pakistan responded to its soldiers’ deaths by closing, at least
temporarily, the land routes through which a third of supplies reach
NATO forces in  Afghanistan , and ordered the U.S. out of the airbase
at Shamsi, from which Americans have launched drone attacks. Pakistan
also plans to boycott Afghanistan peace talks in  Germany  on Dec. 5;
the U.S. hoped Pakistan would be a helpful participant.  Why must the U.S. maintain strong ties with such a difficult
partner? The success of the U.S. military mission in Afghanistan,
scheduled to end in 2014, will depend partly on whether Pakistan plays
a constructive role in its neighbor’s future. While Pakistani
authorities essentially sanction anti-Indian terrorists and provide
support for some elements of the Afghanistan Taliban and the Haqqani
Network, they also cooperate with the U.S. against al-Qaeda.  Eyeing the Arsenal  Most importantly, relations give the U.S. a window on Pakistan’s
nuclear arsenal --a grave threat to U.S. national security. Some have
suggested that the U.S. government abandon Pakistan -- cut off its
$3 billion in annual aid, place it on the state-sponsors-of-terrorism
list and throw in its lot fully with  India . This would be unwise:
An isolated Pakistan would be more likely to go to war with India,
more vulnerable to disintegration into a nuclear-armed jihadist
state and less able to keep its weapons technology secure from
terrorists.  To keep the relationship functioning, U.S. officials first need
to address Pakistan’s objections to the attack by North Atlantic
Treaty Organization forces. The U.S. and NATO were correct to order
an investigation and invite the Pakistani government to participate.
U.S. officials said the probe will determine how to prevent a
recurrence. But, to a great extent, it’s already clear how to do that.  The U.S. and its NATO allies repeatedly have breached Pakistan’s
borders. In some cases, as with the operation to capture or kill  Osama bin Laden , the cause was inarguably justified. Yet in this case NATO
aircraft crossed the border apparently in response to mortar and
rocket fire from what they thought were Taliban elements. Was it worth
the risk of violating Pakistan’s airspace and hitting Pakistani
troops? It might have been if this were all-out war with the objective
of eliminating the Taliban.  But it’s not. NATO’s goal is to militarily weaken the Taliban
in preparation for a national-reconciliation deal in which they and
perhaps other insurgent groups will participate. When the last NATO
combat troops leave Afghanistan in 2014, the Taliban will still be
around. It makes little sense to try to stamp out every fighter at
the risk of alienating the one party -- Pakistan -- that can deliver
the Taliban to peace talks and influence their future behavior.  This logic should be carried over to drone attacks as well: The
value of the target needs to be weighed against the possibility of
civilian casualties and the certain outrage that the strike would
generate among the Pakistani public.  Repairing the Relationship  If the investigation shows that NATO forces were at fault, the
U.S. and NATO commands should apologize at a high level and see that
the Pakistani soldiers’ families receive compensation, as was done
after Central Intelligence Agency contractor  Raymond Davis  shot and
killed two Pakistanis in Lahore in January. Beyond that, NATO will
need to recalibrate its overall responses, bearing in mind the
limited goal of softening the Taliban and the value of respecting
Pakistan’s frontier.  Normally, such matters are handled without such a fuss. Canadian
and U.K. soldiers have been killed by NATO airpower in Afghanistan
without scandal. But those were cases of true friendly fire.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:  view@bloomberg.net . 