-- 
NBA Teams Talk to Agents as Arenas Prepare for Workouts on End of Lockout

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T15:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/nba-teams-are-talking-to-agents-as-arenas-prepare-for-workouts.html
National Basketball Association
player agents may now discuss deals with teams and clubs can
begin hosting workouts tomorrow as the finishing touches are
applied to a new labor agreement.  Teams cannot yet enter into verbal or written agreements on
player contracts, according to a memo sent to the agents, a copy
of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  The NBA, which locked its players out 153 days ago after
the previous collective bargaining agreement expired, will allow
teams to open their facilities to players for workouts beginning
tomorrow, Tim Frank, an NBA spokesman, confirmed in an e-mail.
The conditioning and weight training may only be overseen by
athletic trainers and strength coaches, and no staff members may
oversee on-court activity, Frank said.  Training camps are expected to open Dec. 9 and an
abbreviated 66-game season is set to begin Dec. 25 after the
league and National Basketball Players Association agreed on the
framework of a labor agreement four days ago. Completion of the
deal, which requires the NBPA to re-form as a union and both the
players and owners to ratify the package, also would settle
multiple lawsuits between the two sides.  Among the unrestricted free agents on the market are Tyson Chandler,  David West , Shane Battier, Kris Humphries, Caron Butler, Nene,  Jason Richardson  and Glen Davis. All-Stars Chris Paul of the  New Orleans Hornets  and Dwight Howard of the  Orlando
Magic  both will be free agents after the 2011-12 season, meaning
their teams could look to work trades prior to then if they feel
they can’t be re-signed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 