-- 
New York Attorney General Appeals Schwab Lawsuit Dismissal

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-11-30T23:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/new-york-attorney-general-appeals-schwab-lawsuit-dismissal-1-.html
New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  appealed last month’s dismissal of a lawsuit
accusing Charles Schwab Corp. of failing to disclose the risks
involved in auction-rate securities.  The independent San Francisco-based brokerage was sued by
then-Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  in August 2009. New York
state Justice O. Peter Sherwood in  Manhattan  granted Schwab’s
request to dismiss the case on Oct. 24.  The attorney general’s office, which filed a notice of
appeal today, sued on behalf of investors who bought auction-
rate securities through Schwab. Cuomo accused Schwab of
“fraudulent and deceptive conduct” and claimed the company
failed to disclose the risks involved in the investments,
according to Sherwood’s ruling.  Schwab argued that the complaint doesn’t point to any
specific false statements or identify who might have made them,
Sherwood said in the order.  Auction-rate securities are municipal bonds, corporate
bonds and preferred stocks whose rates of return are
periodically reset through auctions.  At least 19 underwriters and broker-dealers were sued in
class-action, or group, suits after the $330 billion market for
auction-rate securities collapsed in February 2008. At least
eight financial firms, including Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG, won dismissal of complaints against them for failing to
state a proper claim. In some cases, the investors were allowed
to refile complaints with more detail.  In the lawsuits, investors accused financial institutions
of steering them to instruments, promoted as being as safe as
cash, that turned out to be illiquid and unredeemable. They also
said the banks didn’t sufficiently disclose that they took part
in the auctions to keep them from failing. The market froze when
the financial firms ended that participation.  The case is the  New York  v. Charles Schwab & Co. Inc.,
453388/2009, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 