-- 
New York Fracking Rules Won’t Protect City Water, Foes Say

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-12-01T18:58:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/new-york-fracking-rules-won-t-protect-city-water-opponents-say.html
The drinking-water supply for 9
million people in  New York  City won’t be protected by New York
state’s proposed rules on hydraulic fracturing for natural gas,
residents and politicians said.  “There is no possible regulation strong enough that you
could come up with to prevent that one accident,” State Senator
Tony Avella, a Democrat who has introduced a bill to prohibit
fracturing, or fracking, said at a hearing yesterday at the
Borough of Manhattan Community College. “New York state should
never consider this process.”  The state has banned high-volume fracking while the
 Department of Environmental Conservation  weighs rules that would
let companies extract gas from shale with the technique. The
agency has said it plans to bar the technology within 4,000 feet
(1,219 meters) of unfiltered watersheds that provide drinking
water for  New York City  and Syracuse. Final rules may be issued
next year, spokeswoman Emily DeSantis said in an interview.  Energy producers use fracking, which forces millions of
gallons of water, chemicals and sand underground, to break up
rock and liberate trapped gas. Environmental groups have said
the process has tainted drinking water in states such as
 Pennsylvania , where almost 4,000 wells have been drilled. While
New York delays, its neighboring state has enjoyed new hiring
and tax revenue, advocates of the process say.  The department said yesterday that it would extend the
period for public comment on the rules 30 days to Jan. 11.  ‘Eating Our Lunch’  “The DEC continues to show preference to various special
interest groups while ignoring the needs of landowners,” Dan
Fitzsimmons, president of the Binghamton-based  Joint Landowners
Coalition of New York , said in a statement yesterday. “Hundreds
of new jobs and millions of dollars in potential revenue hang in
the balance. Thousands of unemployed  New Yorkers  don’t have time
to wait.”  Gas production has brought 72,000 jobs to  Pennsylvania  in
the past 18 months, according to Arthur Kremer, chairman of the
New York  Affordable Reliable Electricity Alliance , a Manhattan-
based coalition that supports drilling.  “The state of Pennsylvania is eating our lunch,” Kremer
told reporters after speaking at the hearing. “It’s up to DEC
to come up with the regulations that make it as foolproof as
possible. It’s not fair for downstate people to impose their
will on the people of upstate New York who want it and need
it.”  Ban Urged  Opponents at the hearing urged Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a
Democrat, to ban the technique.  “I Love NY H2O,” read a sign held by one opponent.
“Cuomo, Don’t Frack it Up.”  Cuomo said during his election campaign last year that
fracking would create jobs, “but only if it is safe.” Since
taking office in January, he has pushed regulators to complete
their environmental review.  In Pennsylvania,  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  and  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  have paid settlements after drinking water was
fouled by natural gas, according to that state’s Department of
Environmental Protection. Joe Martens, New York environmental
conservation commissioner, has visited sites of drilling
accidents in Pennsylvania and has said New York has incorporated
lessons from its neighbor’s mistakes into the proposed rules.  Winger, Ruffalo  About 1,900 people attended yesterday’s hearing, DeSantis
said. Most spoke against fracking, including actress Debra Winger, actor Mark Ruffalo and Josh Fox, director of
“ Gasland ,” an Academy Award-nominated documentary that
criticized the technology.  “The truth gets out and the gas industry is lying,” Fox
said at a press conference before the hearing. “It is political
hubris to think that regulation will work here.”  “You cannot survive if you contaminate the water,” Avella
said. “And the potential for contamination just far outweighs
the few jobs that will be created.”  The most populous U.S. city receives 1.3 billion gallons
(4.9 billion liters) a day of water through a network of
gravity-fed aqueducts from 19 reservoirs as far away as 125
miles, according to the  New York City Department of
Environmental Protection . Contamination from fracking could
force the city to build a plant to filter drinking water that
could cost $20 billion, according to New York Senator Bill Perkins, a Democrat whose district includes Harlem.  “If the EPA orders the city to build a filtration plant,
where will the estimated $20 billion come from?” Perkins said
at the hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  