-- 
New York Said to Investigate Home Foreclosures on Active Military Members

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-11-30T18:16:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/new-york-attorney-general-said-to-probe-foreclosures-on-military-members.html
The New York Attorney General’s
Office is investigating possibly unlawful home foreclosures by
banks on active-duty military members, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The inquiry by New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman 
is part of his broader investigation into the mortgage
operations of major banks, said the person, who declined to be
named.  Schneiderman is conducting his probe as state attorneys
general and federal officials are negotiating a settlement with
mortgage servicers that’s intended to provide mortgage relief to
homeowners and set requirements for how the companies carry out
foreclosures.  The  Justice Department  in May announced a settlement with
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Saxon Mortgage Services Inc. to
resolve allegations that the companies wrongfully foreclosed on
active-duty service members without first obtaining court orders
in violation of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.  A federal  review  of bank foreclosure practices earlier this
year found cases in which foreclosures should not have proceeded
because the borrower was covered by the SCRA, which protects
individuals in military service.  Schneiderman and Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden , who
is also investigating mortgage practices of banks, said in a
column in Politico said there has been “widespread failure” to
adhere to the requirements of the SCRA.  Banks, meanwhile, are taking steps to comply with consent
orders requiring them to fix problems in their mortgage-
servicing and foreclosure practices, the U.S. Comptroller of the
Currency said in a Nov. 22  report . Much of the work to correct
weaknesses in policies and procedures will be “substantially
complete” in 2012, the OCC said.  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman,
declined to comment. The office’s investigation into
foreclosures on service members was previously reported by the
Financial Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 