-- 
Newmont Gold Project Suspension Undermines Peru Investment

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-11-30T16:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/newmont-gold-project-suspension-undermines-peru-investment-plans.html
Newmont Mining Corp. , which
suspended a $4.8 billion gold project in Peru following violent
anti-mining protests, is the fourth company this year to
postpone investments there amid falling output.  The halt at Minas Conga, the nation’s biggest project, was
“required by the government of Peru and for the sake of
reestablishing tranquility and social peace,” Denver-based
Newmont said in an e-mailed statement. Newmont, the largest U.S.
gold producer, said it will seek talks with the government and
communities opposing the mine.  Environmental protests by farmers fearing mining will
pollute water sources have halted projects by companies
including  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Bear
Creek Mining Corp. (BCM)  Failure by President Ollanta Humala to quell
protests may make it harder to finance $50 billion in mining
investment projects over the next decade, Luis Zapata, head of
Latin American Institutional Equity Sales at Canaccord Genuity
Inc. in Toronto, said in an e-mail yesterday.  If the government “were to let these protests expand, they
are going to risk Peruvian projects being given higher country
risk discount and becoming less attractive to international
investors,” Zapata said.  Farmers concerned that Minas Conga may dry up water
resources blocked roads and destroyed Newmont’s installations
during a six-day protest. Clashes with police left at least 17
wounded and two arrested yesterday in the northern Andean region
of Cajamarca, 560 kilometers (350 miles) northwest of the
capital  Lima , according to Lima-based Radioprogramas.  ‘Law and Order’  The government and local communities approved the project’s
environmental impact study last year, said  Cia. de Minas
Buenaventura SA (BVN) , which owns a 44 percent stake in Newmont’s
Minera Yanacocha SRL, the operator of Minas Conga.  “Suspending construction activities in Conga doesn’t mean
that we don’t believe in the project,” Buenaventura Chief
Executive Officer Roque Benavides said in an e-mailed statement
today. The stoppage is “a prudent decision in order to
reestablish law and order in the Cajamarca Region that is under
social unrest.”  Protest leaders including the head of Cajamarca’s regional
government, Gregorio Santos, today rejected further talks and
called on the government to scrap the project.  Minas Conga seeks to produce 680,000 ounces of gold and 235
million pounds (107 million kilograms) of copper annually.  Peru 
is the world’s third-largest copper miner and the sixth-largest
gold producer.  ‘Taken Hostage’  Peru’s gold output dropped 21 percent to 163 metric tons
last year from 207 tons in 2005 because of a lack of new mines,
according to the National Society of Mining, Petroleum & Energy,
an industry group.  “We can’t allow Peruvians to be taken hostage by groups
that just preach violence,” the group’s president  Pedro Martinez  told reporters in Lima yesterday. “Without peace there
will be no development.”  The Cajamarca region, where Newmont was forced to shelve
its Cerro Quilish gold project in 2004, is also home to copper
projects being developed by Anglo American,  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and
China Minmetals Corp.  The protests, which forced airlines to cancel  flights  to
Cajamarca’s airport, are causing $10 million of losses a day in
the dairy and tourism industries, according to the Lima Chamber
of Commerce.  Humala was elected in June on pledges to raise taxes and
exert greater control over the  mining industry , which accounts
for 60 percent of the country’s export revenue and half its tax
income, to finance social spending programs for the country’s 8
million people living in extreme poverty.  Newmont rose 2.9 percent to $67.23 at 11:11 a.m. in New
York. The stock is up 9 percent this year.  Gold futures for February delivery advanced 1.6 percent to
$1,746.50 an ounce at 10:15 a.m. on the Comex in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  