-- 
News Corp Wins Dismissal of Shine Group Acquisition Lawsuit by Investors

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-12-01T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/news-corp-wins-dismissal-of-shine-group-acquisition-lawsuit-by-investors.html
Rupert Murdoch  and his  News Corp. (NWSA) 
persuaded a judge to throw out an investor lawsuit seeking
information about the $675 million purchase of a U.K.-based
television production company owned by Murdoch’s daughter.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge John Noble concluded that a
suit filed by an Illinois-based pension fund seeking to inspect
News Corp. documents about the purchase of  Elisabeth Murdoch ’s
Shine Group Ltd. was moot since it and other shareholders had
also sued the company’s directors over the deal.  Lawyers for Central Laborers Pension Fund can no longer
“tender a proper purpose for pursuing efforts to inspect the
books and records of News Corp.” on the acquisition, Noble
ruled yesterday.  The ruling comes as New York-based News Corp. continues to
be investigated and sued over claims that thousands of people’s
phones were hacked by its News of the World tabloid, which was
shuttered in July.  Teri Everett, a News Corp. spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on Noble’s decision to throw out the
investor suit.  News Corp. officials announced in February the media
company would acquire Shine Group, which supplies television
content to U.K. TV companies including the British Broadcasting
Corp., in an all-stock deal worth about $675 million.  Dual Suits  Amalgamated Bank, another News Corp. shareholder, and the
fund sued News Corp directors in  Delaware  over the acquisition,
claiming it was motivated by “nepotism” and designed solely to
reward Murdoch’s daughter. The Laborers also filed a separate
suit seeking access to records about the deal.  News Corp. asked Noble to dismiss the fund’s suit as
duplicative and unnecessary. The judge agreed to the company’s
request.  “The simultaneous filing of the derivative action refutes
any claims of a proper purposes for” a need to inspect files
over the buyout, the company argued in court papers.  Michael Barry, one of the fund’s lawyers, declined to
comment yesterday on Noble’s ruling.  The case is Central Laborers Pension Fund v. News Corp, CA
6287, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  