-- 
Nissan to Shift Production Abroad on Strong Yen, Ghosn Says

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-11-30T06:26:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/nissan-to-shift-production-abroad-on-strong-yen-ghosn-says-1-.html
Nissan Motor Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said Japan’s second-largest carmaker will
gradually shift production to Thailand,  China  and  Mexico  to
mitigate the impact of the strong yen.  It’s “difficult to make an investment in a country with no
return,” Ghosn said at the  Tokyo  Motor Show today, without
giving a time frame for moving production overseas. “The yen is
a huge handicap for exporters from Japan.”  Japanese automakers, hampered by the yen trading near a
post-World War II high and disruptions from this year’s record
earthquake and Thailand’s floods, are seeing domestic sales
slow, threatening local manufacturing jobs.  The yen has gained more than 9 percent in the past six
months, the best performance among 10 developed-nation peers
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The
currency appreciation slashed Japanese automakers’ profit by a
combined 330 billion yen ($4.2 billion) in the first half as the
gain reduces the value of repatriated earnings and makes exports
less competitive, according to  Japan ’s automakers group.  Nissan’s shares slid 0.4 percent to 690 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo, with the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
declining 0.5 percent.  Toyota Motor Corp. , the nation’s largest automaker, built
43 percent of its vehicles in Japan last year, compared with
less than 30 percent at both Honda Motor Co. and Nissan.  Manufacturing Jobs  “If Japanese exporters shift production out of Japan,
employment will be affected,” Ghosn said today. “The auto
industry employs more than 5 million people in Japan.”  Domestic  vehicle sales  are forecast to drop 14 percent to
4.25 million this year, compared with 7.77 million at the
industry’s peak in 1990, according to the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association. Deliveries have declined annually
since 2004 apart from last year, when government subsidies for
fuel-efficient cars led to a rebound.  Ghosn said yesterday at an auto conference that the largest
threat to Japan’s  auto industry  isn’t natural disasters but the
strength of the yen and that Japan should learn from the Swiss
and make “adjustments” to the currency.  Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  said at a Nov. 7 briefing that
Japan’s car industry will “collapse” if the yen continues to
gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in 東京 at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  