-- 
Speedier Union-Election Proposal Advanced by U.S. Labor Board

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-11-30T21:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/nlrb-s-quicker-election-rule-a-modest-change-u-s-unions-say.html
The  National Labor Relations Board 
advanced a proposal for speedier union elections as the U.S.
House debated Republican-sponsored legislation that would curb
the agency’s powers.  The board, which resolves disputes between labor and
management, voted 2-1 today to proceed by year-end with a
scaled-back plan from Chairman Mark Pearce cutting the average
time for elections. A June proposal to overhaul labor rules was
opposed by groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which
said companies will have less time to make their case to workers
before an election.  “The current rule is laden with unnecessary delays,”
Pearce said at a board meeting in  Washington . The new proposal
“seeks to avoid multiple and unnecessary appeals in union
elections, and does away with unnecessary waiting periods.”  Republicans and business groups such as the  National
Association of Manufacturers  said the board’s plan creates
“ambush elections.” Labor leaders said the change won’t do
much to help unions as representation among private companies
fell to a record low 6.9 percent last year.  “It will make modest improvements,” Elizabeth Bunn,
organizing director at the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest union
federation, said today at a Washington event. “It will not make
the rules actually fair. All it will do is reduce some of the
most egregious tactics.”  The Pearce proposal would simplify union election
procedures and shorten the deadline for holding union elections
after employees request a vote. The June proposal included more
comprehensive changes, such as requiring employers to give
worker phone numbers and e-mail addresses to union organizers.  Time Short  Time is running short for the NLRB. The board has two
vacancies, and the term of Democrat  Craig Becker , a former
lawyer for the AFL-CIO and Service Employees International
Union, will expire next month, leaving two members and not
enough for a quorum.  The decision by the NLRB to proceed with the scaled-back
sets the stage for a final rule be drafted and circulated for a
vote.  Becker said the debate on the proposal has been
characterized by “reckless allegations and easy labeling.”  Brian Hayes , the only Republican on the labor board, had
threatened to quit, according to Pearce, in a move aimed at
blocking action on the proposal. Hayes today said he has ruled
out resigning to deny the panel a quorum.  Hayes said he opposes the shorter time frame for elections
under Pearce’s proposal.  ‘Meaningful Discussion’  “The net effect will be a shorter time between petition
and election, in which many are deprived of the opportunity for
a meaningful discussion on collective bargaining,” Hayes said.  Republicans in Congress are seeking to kill the NLRB’s
proposal on elections. The House today will vote on a
Republican-sponsored bill aimed at curbing the NLRB’s powers.
The measure would delay any vote on a union for at least 35 days
after a union petition is filed.  The bill must pass the Democratic-led Senate and be signed
by President  Barack Obama  -- a union supporter -- to become law.
Democratic lawmakers said today they will make sure Congress
doesn’t limit the NLRB’s authority.  “We have to do everything in our power to stop them from
dismantling the  National Labor Relations Act ,” Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat who heads the Senate committee that
deals with labor issues, said at the AFL-CIO event. “I will do
whatever I can to stop this from happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  