-- 
Novartis’s Lucentis Fails to Win Backing for Eye Condition in U.K. Review

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-11-30T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/novartis-s-lucentis-fails-to-win-backing-in-final-u-k-guidance.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Lucentis eye drug
failed to win the backing of the U.K.’s health-cost agency in
final  guidelines  on the treatment of diabetic macular edema.  Novartis underestimated the cost of the medicine because
some patients need therapy in both eyes, the National Institute
for Health and Clinical Excellence said today in an e-mailed
statement. The agency, known as NICE, advises the state-run
 National Health Service  on which treatments represent value for
money. Today’s decision mirrors a preliminary one in July.  Diabetic macular edema is caused by leaky blood vessels in
the eye. Novartis didn’t provide “a true reflection of the
cost-effectiveness” of Lucentis compared with the standard
treatment, laser therapy, NICE said. Lasers cauterize the
vessels and seal them off, minimizing the leakage.  “This decision has been made despite four independent
appeals by the Royal College of Ophthalmologists, the Royal
College of Nursing, Novartis and a joint appeal by the Royal
National Institute of Blind People, the Macular Disease Society,
Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation and Diabetes UK,” Basel,
Switzerland-based Novartis said in a statement.  Lucentis has been shown to double the likelihood of gaining
vision and reduce the chance of losing vision compared with
laser therapy, the drugmaker said.  “Novartis will continue to work with NICE and the U.K.
department of health toward a solution that will allow patients
access to this important therapy,” the company said.  NICE already recommends Lucentis for a separate eye
condition, wet age-related macular degeneration. The injected
therapy last week failed to win NICE’s backing for visual
impairment caused by macular edema in preliminary guidelines.  The drug costs 742.17 pounds ($1,160) for each injection,
according to NICE. Lucentis is given monthly until a patient’s
vision is stable over three consecutive months, and treatment
may resume if sight later becomes impaired, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  