-- 
NYSE Euronext to Close SecFinex Stock Lending Business

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-11-30T18:53:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/nyse-euronext-to-close-secfinex-stock-lending-business.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the U.S. exchange
company trying to combine with Deutsche Boerse AG, is closing
its  SecFinex Ltd.  securities lending unit as markets falter and
banks and companies seek to cut expenses.  “The company has struggled to gain traction and the
current economic climate has led the shareholders of the company
to review their strategic investments,” James Dunseath, a
spokesman for NYSE in London, said in a telephone interview.
“They have determined that providing further financial support
for the company is no longer a strategy they can continue to
pursue.”  NYSE bought 51 percent of London-based SecFinex in 2007,
partnering with banks Societe Generale SA and Fortis of the
Netherlands. At the time, the exchange said  securities lending 
was a growth market.  The unit joined with the Depository Trust and Clearing
Corp. in 2009 to start a U.K. central counterparty service, as
funds and banks sought to reduce risk amid the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. The service came after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy highlighted the risk of
borrowing and lending stock.  “We believe that central clearing will play a major role
in the securities lending market over the long term,” Dunseath
said today. “However, it is not presently, and will not be a
high priority for banks until there is a determined regulatory
push and Basel 3 starts to impact  capital requirements , which is
not likely to happen for another year to 18 months.”  Under the Basel accord agreed upon last year, banks are
required to more than triple the core capital they hold to guard
themselves against insolvency and also to force them to
stockpile easily sellable assets to survive a short-term funding
squeeze. Governments have pledged to put in place national rules
to implement the accord by the start of 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  