-- 
Obama Administration May Thwart Climate Talks, Groups Say

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-11-30T23:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/obama-administration-may-thwart-climate-talks-u-s-groups-say.html
The U.S. is threatening to block
progress at climate treaty talks three years after President
 Barack Obama  pledged to usher in a new era of cooperation in
fighting global warming, U.S. environmental leaders say.  The heads of more than a dozen organizations want Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton to order U.S. officials at climate
talks in Durban,  South Africa , to show more flexibility on
efforts to craft a new, legally binding global climate accord,
according to a Nov. 29 letter that the groups sent to Clinton.  The criticism marks the U.S. environmental movement’s
strongest rebuke yet of Obama’s climate policies. In one of his
first speeches after winning the 2008 election, Obama pledged to
“engage vigorously” in global climate talks and help lead
countries in a push to cut greenhouse-gas emissions and avert
irreversible, human-induced climate shifts.  “Three years later, America risks being viewed not as a
global leader on climate change, but as a major obstacle to
progress,” according to the letter from groups including the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , Union of Concerned
Scientists, Environmental Defense Fund and  Sierra Club .  The U.S. is “committed to meeting the climate challenge,”
Obama’s lead climate negotiator, Todd Stern, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “There is, of course, much more to be done, but we have
made an important start,” Stern said, referring to a nonbinding
climate agreement reached in Cancun, Mexico, last year that
includes actions from all the world’s biggest greenhouse-gas
emitters.  ‘Legal Symmetry’  U.S. officials at United Nations-led talks in Durban have
rejected the European Union’s proposal to negotiate a new
legally binding climate treaty for all countries by 2015 and
have it take effect no later than 2020. The EU say it won’t
participate in a second phase of the existing Kyoto Protocol
unless countries agree to a “road map” to 2015.  The U.S. says preconditions must be met before it begins
talks for a binding accord. These include “legal symmetry,” or
ensuring that developed countries and fast-growing nations such
as  China  and  India  take on equivalent obligations.  China’s lead negotiator,  Su Wei , said in an interview
yesterday that it’s too early to say whether China would be
willing to accept a legally binding commitment after 2020.  Su also said it’s essential for industrial nations to sign
up for another round of emissions reductions under Kyoto, whose
first phase of limits expire next year.  Japan ,  Canada  and  Russia 
already have rejected extending the treaty.  Biggest Threat  While the U.S. is the only industrialized country never to
ratify Kyoto and says it won’t weigh in on those negotiations,
the Obama administration’s opposition to negotiating a new
binding deal under current conditions may be the biggest threat
to the treaty’s fate.  “The U.S. is a key block in this ‘Kyoto Triangle’ in
Durban,” NRDC’s Jake Schmidt said in an interview. “To move
ahead you have to get the U.S. to back off its position and
accept a vague mandate.”  Environmentalists say the U.S. is being unnecessarily
obstinate and should show more flexibility.  “The U.S. should be working with the EU, China and others
to make this type of mandate possible, not rejecting it out of
hand because it doesn’t guarantee all of the U.S. negotiating
objections,” the letter to Clinton says. “The U.S. shouldn’t
require countries to agree to the specific parameters of the
final agreement before negotiations even begin.”  The U.S.’s position affects other countries’ willingness to
forge a new global accord aimed at averting dangerous  climate
change , according to  Brazil ’s chief climate negotiator, Andre
Correa do Lago.  U.S. Absence  “No other party wants to get involved in some kind of
negotiation that will end with the absence of the  United
States ,” he said in an interview today from Durban.  Environmental groups also claim that the U.S.’s stance on
climate finance may cause the talks to fail. The U.S. is seen as
potentially blocking efforts to move ahead on an agreement to
raise $100 billion a year from developed countries by 2020 and
establish a Green Climate Fund to help vulnerable countries
combat climate change.  Stern told reporters in  Washington  last week that such
concerns are unwarranted.  “The U.S. is a strong advocate of the Green Climate
Fund,” he said on Nov. 22.  The U.S., along with  Saudi Arabia , was seen by some
environmental advocates as blocking a UN committee’s report on
recommendations for the fund. Stern said the U.S. had issues
with some aspects of the report though he’s “confident” they
will be worked out during the two-week talks.  The report, which has been submitted to the UN body
overseeing climate issues though not adopted, will be discussed
today in Durban.  The U.S. says its priority in Durban is working to advance
a political agreement reached last year in Cancun,  Mexico , that
includes actions from all major greenhouse-gas emitters through
2020. U.S. negotiator  Jonathan Pershing  told reporters on Nov.
28 that the Cancun plan could possibly become the foundation for
a new post-2020 climate deal.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  