-- 
Obama Makes Pitch to Blue-Collar Voters on Payroll Tax Cut

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-12-01T02:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/obama-makes-pitch-to-blue-collar-voter-in-bid-to-extend-tax-cut.html
President  Barack Obama  said tonight
Republican lawmakers are showing a willingness to extend a
temporary payroll tax cut, a move that could spare the  U.S.
economy  what he earlier said would be a “massive blow” if
Congress lets the  payroll tax  cut expire at the year’s end.  Referring to House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , Obama said “over
the last couple of days” they “have both indicated that it
probably does make sense not to have taxes go up for middle-
class families, particularly since they’ve all taken an oath not
to raise taxes.”  The Republican leaders consistently have opposed tax
increases in negotiations with Obama over the government’s
finances, and many Republican lawmakers have signed a no-tax-
increase pledge promoted by activist  Grover Norquist . The
president made his remarks at a New York City fundraiser
attended by about 45 people who paid $35,800 and included
leading Wall Street figures.  “It’s possible that we see some additional progress over
the next couple of weeks,” he said.  Guests included Mark Gallogly, a managing principal of
Centerbridge Partners, Deven Parekh, a venture capitalist with
New York-based Insight Venture Partners, and  Orin Kramer  of
Boston Provident Partners LP.  Obama also addressed  Europe ’s economic problems, saying he
is “cautiously hopeful that they end up recognizing that they
need to do the right thing and we’re providing them as much
assistance as we can.”  Scranton Visit  Earlier today, speaking at a high school in Scranton,
 Pennsylvania , Obama said Republicans face a choice: “Are you
going to cut taxes for the middle class and those who are trying
to get into the middle class, or are you going to protect
massive tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires?”  Congress plans to debate in coming weeks how to extend the
payroll tax cut for employees, with Republicans and Democrats
differing over whether to offset the revenue loss by raising
taxes on the wealthiest Americans or cutting the federal budget
more deeply.  In Scranton, a former manufacturing hub in northeastern
Pennsylvania, Obama said, “There’s a sense of deep frustration
among people who’ve done the right thing but don’t see that hard
work and that responsibility pay off.”  From there, Obama flew to  New York  for a trio of
fundraisers that were expected to raise at least $2.4 million.  The president addressed U.S.-Israeli relations at the upper
east side townhouse of Jack Rosen, chairman of the American
Jewish Congress and a member of the executive committee of the
American Israel Public Affairs Committee.  Jewish Community  In Rosen’s introduction of Obama to about 30 people who
paid at least $10,000 each, according to a Democratic Party
official, he said many in the Jewish community are “concerned”
about U.S.-Israeli relations. He told the president that “we
want to see more hope and we want to see more change” in 2012,
while also saying Republicans in Congress have blocked many of
Obama’s policies.  “This administration has done more for the security of
 Israel  than any previous administration,” Obama said. “No ally
is more important than the state of Israel.”  Rosen, who also is the chairman of the American Council for
World Jewry, told Obama he was “amongst friends.”  Republican presidential candidates have been critical of
Obama over U.S. relations with Israel. Former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney said in September that the president had
thrown Israel “under the bus and undermined its negotiating
position.”  Holiday-Themed Party  The president ended the day at a holiday-themed party at
the Sheraton Hotel with approximately 500 people who paid $1,000
each.  In Scranton, Obama brought his message to a key
constituency of voters in a longtime Democratic congressional
district that sent a Republican to the House in the 2010
elections.  “People have looked to Scranton to see what middle-class,
blue-collar America is thinking,” said Jean Harris, head of the
political science department at the University of Scranton.
“And if he can get here early and get people talking about him
in a positive way, they’re probably hoping it’s going to
snowball.”  Obama has reported raising $88 million through Sept. 30,
exceeding his record fundraising pace of four years ago. By
comparison, Romney, the top fundraiser among the Republicans
seeking their party’s nomination, reported taking in $33.6
million.  Seeking a Repeat  Since officially kicking off his re-election campaign in
April, Obama has focused on states that he won in 2008 and needs
to hold to get re-elected. Among them is Pennsylvania, which
Obama has visited 16 times since he took office, including six
stops over the last seven months. Vice President  Joe Biden , who
grew up in Scranton, also has visited the area.  Pennsylvania should be friendly territory for Obama. There
are about four registered Democrats for every three Republicans
in the state, and Democrats outnumber Republicans 2-1 in
Lackawanna County, of which Scranton is the hub, according to
the  Pennsylvania Department of State .  In the last five elections, Pennsylvania voters have
supported the Democratic nominee for president, including giving
Obama 54.5 percent of the vote in 2008.  Republican Gains  Still, Republicans took Pennsylvania’s governorship, a U.S.
Senate seat and five U.S. House seats from Democrats in the 2010
elections.  One of those House seats went to Republican Representative
Lou Barletta, who defeated 13-term incumbent Democrat Paul Kanjorski in the district that includes Scranton. Barletta said
he doesn’t think Obama can take the area for granted.  “In 2008, the president won here in northeastern
Pennsylvania by 15 points; however, I won by 10 points in 2010,
so you can draw your own conclusion as to how the president’s
doing here in northeastern Pennsylvania,” Barletta said in an
interview.  Rick Schraeder, president of the local electrical workers
union, said he voted for Obama in 2008 and will again in 2012.
Still, he said “any one of” the Republican candidates seeking
their party’s nomination could pose a challenge to Obama.  “We can’t take anything for granted, we’re going to have
to work hard to get the people in there that are going to
support the middle class,” he said.  Pennsylvania’s Economy  Pennsylvania’s unemployment rate was  8.1 percent  in
October, below the national average of  9 percent  that month. The
metropolitan area that includes Scranton had an  8.8 percent 
unemployment rate in September, according to Labor Department
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pennsylvania’s economic health improved 1.9 percent during
the year ended June 30,  15th-best  among 50 states and
 Washington , D.C., according to the  Bloomberg Economic Evaluation
of States Index,  which uses data on real estate, jobs, taxes and
stock prices to gauge growth.  Schraeder is urging his union’s approximately 500 members
to “wake up” and vote for Obama in 2012.  “A lot of our workers realize now that we’re down to it;
it’s not a special-interest item anymore, it’s not a gun, it’s
not an abortion, it’s not a gay thing,” said Schraeder, 61.
“We need to put food on our tables, we need a livable wage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Scranton, Pennsylvania, at  kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  