-- 
Obama Invokes Cold-War Security Powers to Unmask Chinese Telecom Spyware

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-11-30T19:45:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/obama-invokes-cold-war-security-powers-to-unmask-chinese-telecom-spyware.html
The U.S. is invoking Cold War-era
national-security powers to force telecommunication companies
including AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to divulge
confidential information about their networks in a hunt for
Chinese cyber-spying.  In a survey distributed in April, the U.S. Commerce
Department asked for a detailed accounting of foreign-made
hardware and software on the companies’ networks. It also asked
about security-related incidents such as the discovery of
“unauthorized electronic hardware” or suspicious equipment
that can duplicate or redirect data, according to a copy of the
survey reviewed by Bloomberg News.  The survey represents “very high-level” concern that
China and other countries may be using their growing export
sectors to develop built-in spying capabilities in U.S.
networks, said a senior U.S. intelligence official who asked not
to be named because he wasn’t authorized to speak on the matter.  “This is beyond vague suspicions,” said  Richard Falkenrath , a senior  fellow  in the Council on Foreign Relations
Cyberconflict and Cybersecurity Initiative. “Congress is now
looking at this as well, and they’re doing so based on very
specific material provided them in a classified setting” by the
National Security Agency, he said.  Dozens of Companies  The survey went to dozens of telecommunications companies,
software makers and information-security companies, including
some foreign firms, according to  James Lewis , a cyber-security
expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, or
CSIS, in Washington. Lewis said AT&T and Verizon Communications
were among the companies that received it.  Several of the companies were hesitant to cooperate because
they had learned the Commerce Department unit handling the
survey had itself been hacked by the Chinese in 2006, creating
the possibility that company data provided might become known to
the Chinese, according to a former government official familiar
with the discussions.  The Commerce Department refused a request by the companies
for specific protocols to protect the data, according to the
former official, who declined to be identified because the
discussions were confidential.  Security Issues  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based  AT&T (T) , declined to
comment on security issues. Edward McFadden, a spokesman for New
York-based Verizon, said the company had received the survey and
declined to comment further. Eugene Cottilli, a Commerce
Department spokesman in Washington, had no immediate comment on
the survey.  So-called spyware implanted in hardware or hidden in
millions of lines of code could intercept sensitive information
while being almost impossible to detect, according to Joshua
Pennell, president of IOActive Inc., a Seattle-based cyber
security firm.  Spyware in critical U.S. networks that carry much of the
country’s data would make industrial espionage or the
interception of politically sensitive information almost
effortless. China now targets such information via focused cyber
attacks, according to a November report by the Office of the
National Counterintelligence Executive.  Detailed Outline  The survey required companies to provide a detailed outline
of who made equipment including optical-transmission components,
transceivers and base-station controllers. The results, which
according to the survey were to be shared with the Defense
Department, give U.S. authorities a map of who made which parts
of the nation’s networks, said Mischel Kwon, a former cyber-
security official in President Barack Obama’s administration.  Companies that refused to respond could face criminal
penalties under the Defense Production Act, a 1950 law allowing
the government to manage the wartime economy, according to the
survey. The law was invoked sporadically during the  Cold War ,
said Lewis, the computer security expert.  The possibility that foreign companies could be seeding
equipment with “backdoors” to intercept data crossing U.S.
networks could have implications for a global economy in which
 China  plays a growing role as a component supplier.  “What we don’t want to say is that we can’t have
technology coded or processed in another country,” said Kwon,
who has advised some of the companies sent the survey. “This is
being read by some as very restrictive.”  House Committee  Citing close links between China’s military and the  network
equipment  giant Huawei Technologies Co., the U.S. House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence on Nov. 18 said it
would investigate potential security threats posed by some
foreign companies.  The committee’s chairman, Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican, said China has increased cyber espionage in
the U.S. He cited connections between Huawei’s president, Ren Zhengfei, and the  People’s Liberation Army . Ren once worked as a
military technologist.  “That’s what we would call a clue,” said Rogers, a former
agent at the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  William Plummer, a spokesman for Shenzhen-based Huawei,
said this month that the company welcomed an investigation.  “Huawei conducts its businesses according to normal
business practices just like everybody in this industry,”
Plummer said this week in a phone interview. “Huawei is an
independent company that is not directed, owned or influenced by
any government, including the Chinese government.”  Classified Information  The Obama administration has said little publicly about the
matter, and much of the evidence fueling lawmakers’ concerns
remains classified.  The Commerce Department survey also illustrates the
intelligence community’s concern that manufacturers may insert
spyware after equipment is installed, through either maintenance
or automatic software updates. It asks companies to detail
procedures they use to test software patches or updates to
insure they are safe.  “It’s the update function that is the core of the
concern,” said Lewis of the CSIS. “Huawei has offered to let
people examine their source code to see if it is clean,” he
said. “Of course it’s clean, but that’s not the delivery
vehicle, assuming there is one.”  The survey also asks about incidents in which companies
“detected undocumented functionality” in network hardware and
software. The survey gave as examples the duplication and
manipulation of data or redirection of transmissions.  Encrypted Data  Recipients were required to send an encrypted version of
their responses by June 10 to the Commerce Department’s Bureau
of Industry and Security, according to the survey. That deadline
was extended after companies expressed concern about how the
data, much of which is proprietary, were to be handled,
according to Portia Krebs, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Telecom
Association, a Washington-based trade group.  U.S. Telecom and CTIA-The Wireless Association, another
trade group, say the survey breaks with a tradition of voluntary
cooperation between the industry and government over national
security measures.  “We are deeply concerned by the lack of information
regarding how this data is going to be used and shared,” the
groups said in a June 8 letter to then-Secretary of Commerce
Gary Locke. “Our concerns are exacerbated by the fact that the
department has chosen to direct the disclosure of this data
pursuant to an assertion of authority under the Defense
Production Act.” Locke is now the U.S. ambassador to China.  Krebs and Amy Storey, a spokeswoman for the Washington-
based CTIA, declined to comment further on the letter or their
groups’ concerns.  Picture Frame  In 2008, an Insignia brand digital picture frame was
shipped with malicious software embedded during the
manufacturing process.  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , which makes Insignia
products, traced the malware to a single computer at a
contractor’s plant in China, according to Carolyn Aberman, a
company spokeswoman. Aberman declined to comment on whether the
company discovered who may have planted it or why.  An analysis by Total Defense Inc., based in Islandia,  New
York , concluded the malware could have been a test run for a
more sophisticated attack. It was designed to upload onto
computers when the picture frame was connected to a computer and
was capable of stealing large amounts of data while avoiding
anti-virus detectors, the company’s analysis found.  The malware came to light because the picture frame was a
product that Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy, the world’s
biggest consumer-electronics retailer, pulled from the shelves.  Homeland Security   In July, Greg Schaffer of the Department of Homeland
Security testified before the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee that the department knew of instances of
foreign-made components seeded with cyber-spying technology. He
declined to provide further details.  The Commerce Department survey also reflected U.S.
intelligence community concerns over discounting and loan
packages offered by foreign manufacturers.  It asks companies to list makers of telecommunications
equipment that offer the steepest discounts. Other questions ask
what information or other conditions manufacturers require in
exchange for sales or leasing, including knowledge of physical
access procedures for entering buildings.  Lewis of the CSIS said U.S. officials suspect the Chinese
government is subsidizing the discounts to give U.S. companies
incentives to buy Chinese-made network equipment.  “Huawei says they’re doing this and it’s completely
legitimate, and it’s just us competing in the market,” Lewis
said. “The other possibility is that they are doing it because
they have an intelligence motive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  