-- 
Obama Gets Defense Plan to Cut $450 Billion From Budgets

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-12-01T02:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/obama-gets-defense-plan-to-cut-450-billion-from-future-budgets.html
The Pentagon has given President
 Barack Obama  a draft of its strategic budget review, one of the
final steps before the Defense Department releases the results,
according to an administration official who was not authorized
to speak on the record.  The Pentagon is seeking to trim about $450 billion in
 spending  over 10 years to meet deficit reduction targets as a
result of the Budget Control Act, which Obama signed Aug. 2.  When asked about the timetable, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ’s spokesman said the Pentagon chief “directed a
methodical, strategy-driven review of the  defense budget  to
determine where we can find savings of more than $450 billion
over ten years.”  “The Pentagon’s top civilian and military leadership have
been part of the process, and we have consulted along the way
with the White House and the Office and Management and Budget,”
spokesman  George Little  wrote in an e-mailed statement.  The Pentagon is “nearing completion” of the strategic
review, which will guide the budget request for fiscal year
2013, according to Little. That request, which will go to
Congress early next year, will be accompanied by a funding plan
through fiscal 2017.  Panetta said the fiscal 2013-2017 budgets will be reduced
about $260 billion as part of the $450 billion in cuts.  Weapons Cuts  The Defense Department won’t rely on weapons program cuts
as the main way to meet its spending reduction goals, Deputy
Comptroller Mike McCord said. “We are not going to look only at
modernization,” McCord said today at a defense industry
conference in  New York .  The number of uniformed personnel, compensation, retirement
health-care benefits and continued savings from efficiencies are
getting more attention than major cuts in acquisition, according
to McCord. The review is taking a “balanced” approach, he
said.  Asked if Obama has seen a draft of the strategic review,
McCord said “the secretary’s had a couple of interactions with
the president on strategy and budget both.”  McCord said the distribution of the $260 billion through
2017 was about $25 billion in fiscal 2012, “in the 40s in
2013” and roughly $40 billion to $50 billion a year through
2017.  “The cuts will grow from ‘12 to ‘13 but they are not going
to grow at some sort of enormous” rate thereafter, McCord said.
“We expect them to be somewhat stable year to year.”  Supercommittee Not Reflected  The Pentagon’s fiscal 2013 budget request is not expected
to reflect additional cuts up to $600 billion over 10 years,
mandated after a special congressional supercommittee last week
failed to reach an agreement on ways to reduce the federal
deficit by at least $1.2 trillion.  Under the budget control law, the Pentagon would be hit
with half of those automatic cuts starting in 2013. The
remainder would come from other agencies.  Several U.S. lawmakers, including Republican Senators
Lindsey Graham of  South Carolina  and  John McCain  of  Arizona , say
they will prepare legislation early next year to reverse the
automatic defense cuts.  Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the California
Republican who leads the U.S. House Armed Services Committee,
said he will also introduce legislation to reverse the cuts.  “I will not be the armed services chairman who presides
over crippling our military,” McKeon said in a statement Nov.
21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  