-- 
Crude Oil Trades Near Two-Week High Amid Supply Risks, Euro Debt Optimism

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-12-01T13:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/oil-futures-open-15-cents-higher-at-100-51-a-barrel-in-new-york-trading.html
Oil traded near its highest in almost
two weeks as the clash between  Iran  and Western governments
heightened speculation that Middle East supplies may be at risk.  Futures were little changed after advancing as much as 0.6
percent after the U.K. closed its embassy in Iran, the second-
biggest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, following an attack by protesters. Prices reached
their highest level in almost two weeks yesterday after the U.S.
Federal Reserve and five other central banks cut dollar-
borrowing costs for emergency funding by European banks.  “Any shortfall of Iranian production on the world market
would bring a massive deterioration to the world balance,”
 Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt, said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.” Prices could surge to $150
in the event of conflict in the  Persian Gulf , he said.  Crude for January delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was at $100.43 a barrel, up 7 cents, at 12:53 p.m.
London time. The contract rose to $101.75 a barrel yesterday,
the highest since Nov. 17, and posted a 7.7 percent increase for
November following an 18 percent gain in October.  Brent oil for January settlement fell 0.6 percent to
$109.84 a barrel on London’s ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
narrowed to $9.41 from $10.16 yesterday.  Iran Sanctions  The U.K. ordered Iran to close its embassy in London and
remove its diplomats in the aftermath of a mob attack on the
British Embassy in Tehran.  France  and  Germany  recalled their
ambassadors for consultations and Italy considered closing its
mission in the Iranian capital.  The European Union is looking at extending sanctions on
Iran, possibly halting crude purchases, Sweden’s Foreign
Minister Carl Bildt said today in Brussels.  The U.K., Germany and France import little crude from Iran
compared with Greece, Italy and Spain, according to Petromatrix
GmbH. Countries in southern Europe may seek a pledge from Saudi
Arabia  for increased supplies of its crude before agreeing to a
ban on oil imports from Iran, the Zug, Switzerland-based
researcher said today.  “In the case of southern European countries joining in a
ban on Iran oil it is really the decision of  Saudi Arabia ,”
Petromatrix Managing Director  Olivier Jakob  said in a note.  The U.S. Energy Department said yesterday that oil
stockpiles rose 3.9 million barrels last week, compared with a
forecast increase of 50,000 barrels in a Bloomberg survey.  Distillate-fuel inventories, including diesel and heating
oil, rose 5.53 million barrels to 138.5 million last week, an
Energy Department report showed. They were estimated to decline
1.25 million barrels, according to the median of 12 analyst
estimates in the Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline supplies increased by 213,000 barrels. They were
forecast to add 1.45 million barrels, according to the survey.
Crude stockpiles at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for
New York futures, dropped 715,000 barrels to 31.3 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  