-- 
Oil-Tanker Returns Rise to Four-Week High as Ship Supply Drops

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-11-30T17:45:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/oil-tanker-returns-rise-to-four-week-high-as-ship-supply-drops.html
Returns for  suezmax  tankers able to
haul 1 million-barrel cargoes of crude oil rose to a four-week
high as the supply of vessels shrank.  Earnings climbed 6.6 percent to $16,382 a day, figures from
the London-based Baltic Exchange showed today. That’s the
highest level since Oct. 31. Yesterday income surged 50 percent,
the most since Oct. 5, to $15,374.  Demand to charter suezmaxes strengthened as the number of
available ships declined, an e-mailed report from investment
bank Pareto Securities AS showed. Hire rates for the ships on
the voyage to the U.S. East Coast from West Africa advanced 2.1
percent to 88.93 industry-standard Worldscale points, according
to the exchange, extending yesterday’s 12 percent climb.  Rates are likely to remain at “current relatively firm
levels,” Oslo-based Pareto said.  Earnings  for very large crude carriers on the industry’s
benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route slipped 1.6 percent, the
smallest change since Sept. 5, to $14,052 a day, according to
the bourse.  Hire costs  on the route rose 0.7 percent to 59.52
Worldscale points. A VLCC can haul twice as much oil as a
suezmax.  The market for VLCCs has been “weak and lackluster,”
shipbroker Fearnleys AS, a unit of Oslo-based shipping-services
and investment-banking group Astrup Fearnley, said in an e-
mailed report today. Returns for the ships retreated for a sixth
session today and are down 48 percent from the eight-month high
reached Nov. 22.  Port Charges  The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Owners can boost returns by reducing a ship’s speed on a
return journey after unloading of cargo, saving on fuel costs.
The exchange’s earnings estimates don’t reflect speed
alterations. The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, advanced 30
percent this year to $659.01 a metric ton, data compiled by
Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide showed.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of
shipping crude that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
advanced 0.1 percent to 788, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  