-- 
Oil Rises to Two-Week High After Central Banks Boost Liquidity

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-11-30T20:47:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/oil-rises-in-new-york-as-central-banks-led-by-fed-cut-dollar-funding-costs.html
Oil rose to a two-week high in  New
York  after the  Federal Reserve  and five other central banks made
additional funds available to ease strains from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and as U.S. companies added more workers than projected.  Futures climbed above $100 a barrel as the central banks of
the U.S., the euro region,  Canada , the U.K.,  Japan  and
 Switzerland  cut the cost of emergency funding for European
banks. Businesses added 206,000 jobs this month, the most this
year, ADP Employer Services said today.  “The announcement of a coordinated intervention to shore
up European banks sent the market higher,” said  Tom Bentz , a
director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York.
“The dark clouds over Europe have been keeping a lid on  oil
prices , so anything that helps calm the situation there is good
for this market.”  Crude oil for January delivery rose 57 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $100.36 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was the highest settlement since Nov. 16. Prices
gained 7.7 percent in November, the second monthly advance, and
are up 9.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement dropped 30 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $110.52 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
climbed 0.9 percent in November.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  recommended today that traders buy
July 2012 Brent crude futures in anticipation of a rally to $120
a barrel. It was one of the bank’s top six trades for 2012
published in its “Global Economics Weekly” report. Goldman
Sachs advised exiting the trade if the contract falls below
$100. July Brent settled at $107.82 a barrel.  Coordinated Action  The central banks reduced the cost of providing dollar
funding via swap arrangements. The move is aimed at easing
strains in markets and boosting their capacity to support the
global financial system, according to a Fed statement from
 Washington .  “The coordinated central bank action has increased the
willingness of investors to go long equities and commodities,”
said David McAlvany, chief executive officer of McAlvany
Financial Group in Durango,  Colorado . “We’re trading on the
increase in liquidity, not the fundamentals of the oil market.”  ADP, based in Roseland,  New Jersey , was projected to report
an advance of 130,000 jobs, according to the median of responses
from economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its  business barometer  increased to 62.6 in November from 58.4
the prior month. Economists projected a gain to 58.5, according
to the median of 56 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Anything that points to a stronger economy is good for
oil demand,” Bentz said.  Chinese Cut  China will cut the reserve requirement ratio for banks by
0.5 percentage point from Dec. 5, the central bank said on its
website today. The move may add 350 billion yuan ($55 billion)
to the financial system, according to UBS AG.  The U.S. and  China  were responsible for 32 percent of
global oil consumption in 2010, according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy released on June 8. The 17
countries using the euro accounted for about 12 percent of world
demand last year, BP figures show.  “There’s been a lot of bullish news today,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in New
York. “We started the day with the reduction in Chinese reserve
requirements, that was followed the announcement from the
central banks and the ADP jobs numbers. These headlines were
enough to fuel today’s rally.”  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague ordered the closing of
the Iranian Embassy in  London  following the storming of the
British Embassy in Tehran, saying the attack happened with the
consent of Iran’s government. Iran is OPEC’s second-largest oil
producer after  Saudi Arabia .  U.S. Supplies  Futures briefly pared gains after the Energy Department
reported U.S.  oil supplies  rose 3.93 million barrels to 334.7
million in the week ended Nov. 25. Inventories were forecast to
rise 50,000 barrels, according to the median of 12 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Supplies of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, surged 5.53 million barrels to 138.5
million, the biggest increase since January 2009, the report
showed. Analysts projected a 1.25 million-barrel decline.  “The inventory numbers are being overwhelmed by the global
macroeconomic picture,” McAlvany said. “There are times when
inventories are very important. This isn’t one of them.”  OPEC Production  Price rises were also limited by increasing oil production
by members of the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries .
 Output  increased 390,000 barrels, or 1.3 percent, to an average
30.355 million barrels a day in November, the most in three
years, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Libyan output  rose 155,000 barrels to 500,000 a day this
month, the highest level since February when the uprising that
toppled  Muammar Qaddafi  began, the survey showed.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 539,908
contracts as of 3:01 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 611,677
contracts yesterday, 8 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.3 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  