-- 
Olympus Panel Said to Release Report on Acquisitions as Soon as This Week

-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-11-30T09:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/olympus-probe-report-to-be-released-soon.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s independent panel
investigating acquisitions and accounting by the Japanese camera
maker may release findings as early as this week, a person
involved in the investigation said.  The committee plans to complete its report before Olympus
announces earnings, the person said, asking not to be identified
because the probe is confidential. The investigation is ongoing,
so the report could be delayed, the person said.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange has said that 92-year-old Olympus
must submit second-quarter results by Dec. 14 or it will be
delisted. Olympus has said it plans to correct previous earnings
 statements  after admitting on Nov. 8 that it had falsified its
accounts to hide investment losses dating back decades.  Olympus reaffirmed it plans to meet the deadline in a
statement to the exchange today. The shares  fell  as much as 13
percent in early  Tokyo  trading after the Wall Street Journal
reported the company may struggle to file in time. Olympus
gained 2.2 percent as of the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo.  “Investors bought back into the stock after Olympus said
it may still meet the deadline,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps
oversee $6 billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
“It’s too early to say that the company will be fine, even if
it successfully files in time. It’s a game for speculators
now.”  Share Slump  The shares slumped as much as 81 percent after the
company’s board on Oct. 14 dismissed then-Chief Executive
Officer Michael C. Woodford over questions he raised about the
accounting and acquisitions. The stock is still down 59 percent.  Olympus set up the panel on Nov. 1 to investigate questions
raised by losses and transactions related to acquisitions,
including $687 million in payments to advisers in the purchase
of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008.  The committee, headed by former Supreme Court Judge Tatsuo
Kainaka, has interviewed executives including Woodford, former
Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and Hisashi Mori, the executive vice
president dismissed over his part in the schemes to cover up
losses.  “The company isn’t in the position to comment on the
committee’s probe,” Olympus spokesman Tsuyoshi Kitada said.  The group will make its report public first before
submitting it to the company’s board, the person involved in the
investigation said.  Previous Probe  Olympus commissioned an earlier investigation into the
acquisitions in 2009. That report was submitted to the board and
wasn’t made public until this year, when Woodford publicly
questioned the Gyrus transaction following his dismissal.  The company, also the world’s largest maker of endoscopes,
has declined to make public details of any wrongdoing or the
extent of hidden losses until the probes are completed.  Olympus President Shuichi Takayama has blamed Kikukawa,
Mori and auditor Hideo Yamada for the cover-up.  Woodford said he met for two hours yesterday with U.S.
prosecutors and investigators for the Securities and Exchange
Commission in New York.  He arrived at the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Lower Manhattan 
for a briefing with eight investigators from the  Justice
Department , the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and the SEC, he
said in an interview yesterday. It was Woodford’s second meeting
with prosecutors; a prior meeting lasted three hours, he said.  International Investigation  “Different elements or parts of the Olympus story appeal
to different jurisdictions,” Woodford said, declining to detail
his talks with the U.S. government. “I’ve passed on everything
I know.”  Woodford, who remains an Olympus board member, has also met
with Japanese investigators, the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office and
members of Olympus’ independent panel probing $687 million in
payments to advisers Axes America LLC and Axam Investments Ltd.  In a separate interview with Bloomberg Television
yesterday, Woodford said that Japanese authorities told him last
week that they “will follow this through to the end.”  “The tone from the top is very clear,” he said. “Every
stone must be turned.”  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  New York , and SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to
comment on yesterday’s meeting.  Woodford may pursue legal action against Olympus for firing
him.  “In good time I will follow that through,” he said. “I
will preserve my legal position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  