-- 
Hong Kong Yuan Deposits Drop for 1st Time Since October ’09

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-11-30T10:49:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/hong-kong-yuan-deposits-drop-for-1st-time-since-october-09-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s yuan deposits declined
for the first time in two years as expectations for short-term
appreciation of the currency weakened, resulting in less
remittances from cross-border transactions.   Savings  denominated in the Chinese currency fell 0.6
percent to 618.5 billion yuan ($97 billion) at the end of
October from a month before, according to a statement from the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority. This year’s average monthly
increase is 30.4 billion yuan.  “There’s a sudden switch away from the demand for offshore
yuan,” said Daniel Hui, a Hong Kong-based senior currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc., which owns two of the city’s
three biggest banks. “It’s more to do with global market
conditions than a change in medium-term yuan appreciation
expectations.”  The offshore yuan traded in Hong Kong has fallen 1.5
percent to 6.3930 per dollar since the end of September as
European debt crisis sapped demand for emerging-market assets
and Chinese export growth and inflation slowed. The offshore
yuan has been weaker than the onshore rate in  Shanghai  for 10
weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The modest decline in yuan deposits and trade settlement
activities gave “some comfort” about the overall resilience of
the offshore yuan market, Hui wrote in a report released today.
He predicted a “sizeable decline” in October in an earlier
report released Nov. 2.  The yuan traded in Shanghai fell 0.4 percent to 6.3789 per
dollar in November, the biggest monthly decline since August
2010. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.5 percent
this month to 6.3965, a 0.3 percent discount to the onshore rate.  Trade Remittances  Yuan trade settlement is a major contributor to the build-
up of the yuan deposit base in Hong Kong. The total value of
 remittances  of the yuan-denominated cross-border trade
settlement in October dropped 15 percent from a month ago, to
161.5 billion yuan, HKMA data show. That’s the lowest level
since July.  “With the yuan being cheaper in Hong Kong, if you are a
Chinese exporter or an offshore importer, you are incentivized
to take the renminbi and remit it to  China ,” HSBC’s Hui said.  Corporate demand is expected to show only a “gradual”
pickup and investors should only resume yuan purchases in Hong
Kong once the “global risk environment” shows signs of
sustainable improvement, he said.  Yuan deposits in the city have jumped more than 10-fold in
the past two years from 57.3 billion yuan in October 2009,
according to data from the authority, the city’s de-facto
central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  