-- 
Hong Kong Police Seek Men at Scene of Blaze

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   S a n d i   L i u
-- 
2011-12-01T17:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/hong-kong-market-blaze-kills-9-injures-30.html
Hong Kong  police are seeking two men
captured on closed-circuit television at the scene of the Nov.
30 fire in the Mong Kok district that killed nine people and
injured 34.  “These two men may provide us with information about the
case, or the cause of the fire,” Brian Lowcock, the
superintendent of the police’s Kowloon West crime division, told
reporters yesterday. “We are not treating them as suspects at
the moment.” As of 1 a.m. today, the two men hadn’t come
forward, according to the police information office.  The “suspicious” blaze at hawkers’ stalls in the crowded
Fa Yuen Street, famous for its markets and shops in narrow
streets, followed an  arson attack  in the same area last December
that damaged shops and burnt 50 stalls. An 11-month-old boy, 16
men and 17 women, were admitted to hospital, with five in
critical condition as of 10 p.m. yesterday, according to the
government.  “The cause of the blaze is suspicious because our team who
arrived at the scene saw both sides of the stall were on fire at
the same time,” Szeto Yat San, the acting chief fire officer,
told reporters Nov. 30.  Police received reports on the fire at about 4:40 a.m.,
according to a  statement  issued by the government. The blaze
damaged 12 hawkers’ stalls,  Radio Television Hong Kong  reported,
citing Wong Pui Ching, president of Fa Yuen Street Hawker
Association. It spread to residential buildings where rescuers
found most of the casualties, Szeto said. It was largely
extinguished by 12:28 p.m., according to the government.  Iconic Area  The government is considering improvements to the way
hawkers operate in Mong Kok, including changing permanent stalls
in Fa Yuen Street to ones that can be disassembled at night,
York Chow, secretary for food and health, told reporters Nov.
30. It’s an iconic area and the government can’t be too hasty
about making drastic changes, he said.  “We need to improve the safety of the area over the long
term,” Chief Executive Donald Tsang told reporters in the city
yesterday. “The government will work closely with district
councilors and stall owners to achieve this.”  Chief Secretary Stephen Lam said yesterday that an
interdepartmental working group set up to deal with the effects
of the fire and consider local public-safety improvements had
already met twice and is reviewing possible measures, according
to a press release on the government’s website.  Mong Kok  is also the site of a series of acid attacks
between December 2008 and June 2009, in which about 100 were
injured, according to the  Standard  newspaper.  Ambulances  Four ambulances and more than 10 fire engines were
stationed near Fa Yuen Street Nov. 30 afternoon. Police cordoned
off an entire block of the area, which is one road down from the
 Ladies Market , a shopping spot frequented by tourists. About 400
people were evacuated, an officer surnamed Lau, who declined to
give his full name, said.  “Fires are quite regular here,” a 37-year-old housewife
surnamed Chung said. The woman, who declined to provide her full
name, said she and her family left their home near the fire at
about 4 a.m.  A hawker who lives in the area, Lee Sau Yin, 61, said he
was woken up by his daughter at 4 a.m. and didn’t have time to
collect any of his belongings.  “I’m worried my goods will suffer damage from the water
used by the firefighters,” said Lee, who owns a clothing stall
and has been a Fa Yuen Street resident since 1985. Fires
regularly occur on the street, he said.  Warning Letters  The government issued 200 warning letters to stalls to
remove materials that were obstructing the streets earlier in
November, and it will escalate prosecution of owners who store
an excessive amount of merchandise outside of stalls, Clement Leung, director of food and environmental hygiene, said Nov. 30.  “All the warnings and regulations are actually in place,
but we still have yet to find the real cause for the fire,”
Chow said at a press conference Nov. 30.  The injured were admitted to Kwong Wah,  Queen Elizabeth ,
and Princess Margaret hospitals, according to the government.  The city’s government plans to redevelop part of the Mong
Kok district, including six sites in Fa Yuen Street, according
to a February government  gazette .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Sandi Liu in Hong Kong at 
 sliu60@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  