-- 
Morgan Stanley Says Commodity Gains Probably Limited as World Growth Slows

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-11-30T09:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/morgan-stanley-says-commodity-gains-probably-limited-as-world-growth-slows.html
Commodities show limited potential
for gains in 2012 as the global economy slows and  risk aversion 
boosts the dollar, according to Morgan Stanley.  A comprehensive solution to  Europe ’s debt crisis remains
elusive, while economic indicators signal a slowdown and
deleveraging and fiscal austerity should impair growth,
providing a “myriad of headwinds” for expansion, said analysts
led by  Hussein Allidina  in a report.  Commodities had their worst quarter since 2008 in the three
months to Sept. 30 on concern that Europe’s debt crisis was
spreading, while 18 of 24 commodities tracked by the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index dropped in November. JPMorgan Chase & Co., the
biggest U.S. bank by assets, cut its recommendation on
commodities to “underweight” on Nov. 22, while Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. trimmed its forecast for gains in the next 12 months
to 15 percent from 20 percent in a report Nov. 14.  “Upside for commodities as an asset class is likely
limited given the fragile state of the OECD,” said Allidina,
referring to the 34 economies in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. “The non-OECD should continue to
support global growth, but the pace is slowing.”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  reiterated its call for gold as a top pick
as investors seek a store of value and haven against debt risk
and a slowing economy in Europe and the U.S. The bank expects
bullion to average $2,200 an ounce next year. Spot gold, which
rallied to an all-time high of $1,921.15 on Sept. 6 and traded
at $1,707.69 at 5:38 p.m. in Singapore, is heading for an 11th
annual gain. The bank also backed corn, soybeans and cattle as
supplies may lag behind demand.  Goldman’s Call  While Goldman pared its 12-month forecast for returns on
the S&P GSCI Enhanced Commodity Index this month, it kept a
“neutral” call on commodities in three to six months, and an
“overweight” recommendation over 12 months, as “global growth
will provide enough support to demand to drive key commodity
prices higher,” said analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie .  Commodities are beating equities for a fifth consecutive
year. While the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities has
dropped 13 percent this year and yields on Treasuries fell to
near-record lows, the S&P GSCI index rose 3.1 percent.  Raw materials  are heading for a second monthly increase as
crude oil in  New York  had a “non-fundamental adjustment,”
Societe Generale SA’s commodity strategist Jeremy Friesen said
in an interview yesterday. “Fundamentally, you can’t get really
optimistic or really bullish about the commodity markets with
current state of the world,” he said.  West Texas Crude  West Texas Intermediate futures rose 6.3 percent this month
after plans were announced to reverse the direction of a
pipeline to start shipping oil from the contract’s delivery
point, easing a bottleneck that weighed on prices.  Expectations for a stronger dollar may provide an
“additional headwind” for commodities, said Allidina. Dollar-
denominated commodities tend to move inversely to the currency.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index  lost 12
percent in the three months to Sept. 30, the biggest drop since
2008, as the dollar rallied 5.7 percent against a six-currency
basket including the euro.  “Historically, we have seen periods where both the U.S.
dollar and commodities have rallied, owing to strength in the
 U.S. economy ,” wrote Allidina. “Conversely, any dollar
strength in 2012 is more likely to be a flight to quality. The
implication for the global economic environment under such a
scenario is a bearish signal for commodity demand.”  Commodity correlations with other risky assets,
particularly equities, have been rising and are likely to
continue as long as macroeconomic concerns linger, said Allidina.
Increased  volatility  is likely to persist into 2012, he said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  