-- 
Los Angeles Police Evict ‘Occupy’ Protesters to Close City Hall Park Camp

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-11-30T19:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/los-angeles-police-start-evicting-occupy-protesters-from-city-hall-park.html
Los Angeles  police evicted
protesters camped in hundreds of tents around City Hall, ending
almost two months of occupation and detaining about 300 people,
while a similar operation in Philadelphia led to 52 arrests.  The demonstrators in the second- and fifth-most-populous
U.S. cities were offshoots of the Occupy Wall Street movement
that began protesting unemployment,  income inequality  and the
financial industry in New York on Sept. 17.  Hundreds of police pushed through the Los Angeles camp
about 12:30 a.m. local time, two days after Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa ordered the park closed. Chants of “We are
peaceful! We are peaceful!” and signs reading “Free hugs” and
“Hungry? Eat a banker” contrasted with sometimes violent
confrontations in cities such as  New York  and Oakland,
California. Workers in protective suits soon moved in to clean.  “Anybody who went through that park, it was and is a
public-health hazard,” Villaraigosa, 58, said today at a news
briefing. He praised the officers involved, saying the action
may have been “the finest moment of the  Los Angeles Police
Department .” There were no major injuries.  “This was truly an exemplary operation,” the mayor said.  Cost of Protest  The cost of policing the demonstration and restoring the
site may exceed $1 million, Villaraigosa said. “We’re all going
to pay for it in tough, tough economic times,” he said.  Villaraigosa, a Democrat, offered protesters office space
and farmland if they agreed to leave on Nov. 22. That proposal
was rejected by a vote of those assembled the following day,
according to the group’s  website .  Chris No, a police spokesman, said 1,400 officers were on
call for the Los Angeles operation.  Among the protesters was David Vargas, 28, of Norwalk,
 California , who said he’d been at the encampment for a month.
Asked his occupation, he threw up his arms and said, “I give
love.” He said he planned to run before getting arrested.  “I’m here to know that I stood up in the fight for good
against evil,” he said. “I’m here to change the world. This is
my opportunity.”  Activists sought to keep the movement going.  “Yesterday was about a police action, today it’s about why
these people were there in the first place,” Jonathan Klein, a
rabbi and executive director of Los Angeles-based Clergy and
Laity United for Economic Justice, said today at a news briefing
outside City Hall.  Bank of America  “I hope we can take this to new places, like the  Bank of
America (BAC)  plazas and other places where greed is dominant,” Klein
said. “We intend to move this forward and take it any place the
cause is justified.”  Scott Silvestri , a Bank of America Corp. spokesman in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone message seeking comment.  Mario Brito, an organizer of the encampment, asked
Villaraigosa to support a “responsible banking act” that would
shift public funds from those “responsible for the financial
crisis to community banks.” He also called for a national
moratorium on foreclosures.  “City Hall was a potent symbol,” Brito said. “We feel
the pain of being evicted from our home for 60 days. But it does
not compare to the pain” of those removed from their
residences, he said.  Antiviolence Plea  Villaraigosa said he expects more protests and urged
participants to avoid violence.  “This movement should not be about defending a particular
piece of park land, it should be about spreading the message of
social justice,” the mayor told reporters. “If the movement is
to move beyond this stage, it must do so peacefully.”  Protesters in Philadelphia also were removed more than two
days after Mayor Michael Nutter’s deadline had passed to vacate
Dilworth Plaza outside  City Hall . Police arrived about 1:20 a.m.
local time today and cleared the area in less than an hour, said
Officer Christine O’Brien, a spokeswoman.  One of the 52 arrested was charged with assault after an
officer’s hand was injured, she said by telephone. A protester
reported that a horse had stepped on her foot, O’Brien said.  The removal was a “tremendously well-planned and well-
executed operation” that was weeks in the making, Nutter said
at a news briefing.  Heavy equipment swept the plaza, removing 27 tons of
rubbish, said  Mark McDonald , a Nutter spokesman. By 8:30 a.m.,
tents and pallets were gone and gloved workers were scratching
off tape and remnants of signs and graffiti on the concrete. A
man driving by honked his car’s horn and gave police officers a
thumbs-up sign of approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  