-- 
Osborne Extends U.K. Austerity Beyond 2015, Inflaming Tensions With Unions

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-11-30T09:22:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/osborne-extends-u-k-austerity-beyond-2015-inflaming-tensions-with-unions.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said Britain faces two extra years of austerity as he
sought to shore up his deficit-reduction plans, intensifying a
conflict with unions that are staging a mass walkout today.  Osborne used his end-of-year economic statement to
Parliament yesterday to announce 23 billion pounds ($36 billion)
of additional spending cuts after the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  slashed its forecasts for economic growth. The
fiscal watchdog predicted Osborne will need to borrow an extra
112 billion pounds by 2016 and said more than 700,000 public-
sector workers will lose their jobs over the next six years.  “Osborne acknowledges that the consolidation program is
behind schedule and aims to make up for lost ground with an even
longer period of fiscal austerity,”  Michael Saunders , chief
European economist at Citigroup in London, said in an interview.
“The government has no alternative. If they slide, the markets
will put the U.K. from Category A to Category B.”  Unions say as many as 2 million public-sector workers will
join today’s 24-hour strike over plans to make them contribute
more toward their pensions and retire later. Osborne is
extending his spending cuts beyond 2015, when they were due to
end, risking a backlash from voters in the election due in May
of that year.  Spending Cuts  “Although people aren’t overly enamored with the speed and
depth of the cuts, it’s difficult to see how they’ll vote
then,” Ben Page, managing director of Ipsos Mori, a London-
based polling organization, said in a phone interview. “A lot
is going to depend on how much unemployment rises and how
quickly growth returns, but people are still disenchanted with
Labour.”  The spending cuts, amounting to 8.3 billion pounds in 2015-
16 and 15.1 billion pounds the following year, come on top of
the 80 billion pounds already planned by Osborne, the backbone
of his effort to eliminate the structural  budget deficit .  The OBR, which prepares forecasts for the Treasury, said
the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing recession has damaged
Britain’s growth potential and the economy will be as much as 15
percent smaller than anticipated by the end of the current
parliament. As a result, Osborne’s deficit target will now be
met by April 2017, two years later than first envisaged, it
said.  Fitch Ratings  said Osborne had demonstrated “a continuing
commitment” to putting the public finances on a sustainable
path, although Britain will become the second-most indebted
country with a top credit score after the U.S., which the
ratings company has already given a negative outlook.  ‘Exhausted’  “The capacity of U.K. public finances to absorb adverse
economic and financial shocks that would result in yet higher
public debt while retaining its AAA status has largely been
exhausted,” Fitch said in a statement yesterday. The OBR
predicts net debt will peak at 78 percent of gross domestic
product in 2014-15, compared with 67.5 percent this year.  The pound fell 0.4 percent against the dollar and was
trading at $1.5538 as of 9:18 a.m.  London  time. U.K. government
bonds extended yesterday’s gains, sending the 10-year yield 5
basis points lower to 2.18 percent.  Growth will be 0.9 percent in 2011, half the 1.7 percent
forecast in March, and 0.7 percent next year, less than a third
of the previously predicted 2.5 percent, the OBR said.
Unemployment will rise to 8.7 percent in 2012 from 8.1 percent
this year, it said. Osborne said the euro-region debt crisis was
having a “chilling effect” on the British economy.  Recession Risk  “If the euro zone goes into deep recession I’m afraid
Britain will find it hard to avoid recession,” Osborne told
BBC1 Television today. “We are very affected by the euro
zone.”  OBR Chairman  Robert Chote  said there was a one-in-three
chance of two consecutive quarters of economic contraction by
the middle of next year. A breakup of the euro had not been
factored into the group’s forecasts, he said.  The downgraded growth forecasts drew further attack from
the opposition  Labour Party , which says the severity of the
chancellor’s budget-deficit program has added to unemployment,
shattered  consumer confidence  and failed to stem the pace of
borrowing.  “His economic strategy is in tatters,”  Ed Balls , Labour’s
economic spokesman, told lawmakers. “Going further and faster
has been utterly counterproductive and self-defeating. It has
backfired. We’ve had all the pain and none of the gain.”  Pay Squeeze  Savings will be made by further squeezing the wages of
state workers, who will see their pay increase by no more than 1
percent after the current freeze ends in 2013, Osborne said. The
state retirement age will rise to 67 from 66 starting in 2026, a
decade earlier than planned.  Employment in central and local government will fall by
710,000 by early 2017, the OBR said. It previously predicted the
loss of 400,000 jobs through the first quarter of 2016. The OBR
expects the cuts to be offset by the creation of 1.7 million
private-sector jobs.  Osborne said the U.K. will introduce a 40 billion-pound
“credit-easing” program to spur growth by using low borrowing
rates available to the government to support lending to small
and medium-sized companies.  Infrastructure Plan  He said he had enlisted the help of pension funds to help
finance a 30 billion-pound improvement to the nation’s roads,
rail lines and energy infrastructure.  “The chancellor has rightly targeted infrastructure
investment and the financing of smaller businesses,” Ian Stewart, chief economist at Deloitte & Touche LLC in London,
said in a note to clients.  Osborne announced measures designed to relieve the burden
on squeezed families, including delaying an increase in fuel
duty of 3 pence per liter scheduled for January 2012. The
government will provide funds to limit rail fare increases to 1
percentage point more than retail-price inflation, rather than 3
points. Mortgage indemnities will also help 100,000 families buy
newly built homes.  The government’s forecasts were preceded this week by a
similarly gloomy outlook for the U.K. from the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, which said the U.K. may
already be in recession and predicted that the  Bank of England 
will probably increase its quantitative easing program to 400
billion pounds from 275 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  