-- 
Motorola, Nokia Phones Summon Past Glories: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-11-30T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/motorola-nokia-phones-summon-past-glories-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Until Apple rewrote the rules, Nokia
and Motorola were two of the biggest names in wireless phones.
Now both are attempting to recapture a little past glory.  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  has dusted off its once-
dominant Razr brand for a new addition to Verizon Wireless’s
Droid line of high-end smartphones. At the same time,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
is introducing the Lumia 800, the first fruit of its bet-the-
company partnership with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Both phones are solid performers and so physically
distinctive that they won’t be mistaken for any competitor.  I found Lumia the more intriguing of the two. Once the
world’s largest smartphone maker, Nokia saw its fortunes implode
with the move to app-centric devices like  Apple. Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
and handsets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.
Stephen Elop, the former Microsoft executive hired last year as
chief executive officer, jettisoned Nokia’s own operating system
and embraced Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 software.  The Lumia is currently being rolled out in the U.K.,
 Germany  and  France , among other markets. It’s slated to show up
in the U.S. in early 2012, although carriers and pricing haven’t
been announced. I used my unlocked review unit on  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s 3G
network.  Fast, Fluid  Fast and fluid, with a bright screen and decent battery
life, the Lumia turns out to be an ideal platform for the
Microsoft OS.  The Lumia’s dimensions are similar to the iPhone 4, but the
resemblance ends there. The 3.7-inch screen is ever so slightly
raised and curved, giving the phone a sleek shape and look. The
polycarbonate body makes it feel solid but not heavy.  The 8-megapixel camera includes a flash and features a Carl
Zeiss lens. I found it a bit disappointing after the Nokia N8,
which was released last year and had one of the best phone
cameras I’ve ever used. Also (and somewhat ironically, since
Microsoft now owns  Skype ), the Lumia has no front-facing camera
for video chatting. That’s one of its biggest shortcomings,
along with the hard-to-open and potentially breakable hatch
covering the micro-USB port on the top edge.  Fewer Apps  All Windows phones function at a disadvantage to Apple and
Android devices in terms of the number of apps available. Nokia,
though, has brought over several apps from its previous
operating system, including very good turn-by-turn navigation.
The Lumia augurs well for the future of the Microsoft platform -
- and perhaps for Nokia as well.  Back in the day, the Razr was synonymous with thin. But
those phones are obese compared with the Droid Razr, which at
its thinnest point measures just .28 of an inch. As with many
high-end Motorolas these days, the Droid bulges at the top to
house the camera as well as audio, video and power connectors.
Still, the whole package, including a big, bright 4.3-inch
screen, weighs only 4.5 ounces, which is less than an iPhone 4S.  A phone that thin and light naturally raises concerns about
durability. In part to allay them, Motorola touts a layer of
Kevlar -- the same material used in bulletproof vests -- that
covers the back of the phone. While it certainly protects the
Razr from scratches, it also makes it feel slippery. The image
of ironclad security it’s supposed to project was undermined on
my test model by an air bubble that prevented a taut fit.  Fastest Network  The Razr runs on  Verizon (VZ) ’s LTE network, the best and
fastest in the U.S. (The phone, minus the “Droid” label, is
also being rolled out internationally.) The tradeoff is that, as
with other LTE phones I’ve used, battery life isn’t great.  While you can get through a day of normal use on a single
charge, heavy users may find themselves packing an extra
charger; as with the Lumia, the battery isn’t user-replaceable.  Along with the phone itself -- which costs $300 on a two-
year contract -- Motorola and Verizon offer a host of expansion
options, including a slot for a microSD card (the phone comes
with 16 gigabytes of onboard storage and a 16-gigabyte card) and
the ability to use the phone as the brain of a laptop computer-
dock add-on. The Motorola system uses a PC-like interface called
Webtop, providing an adequate netbook substitute for lightweight
tasks like Web surfing or tweaking documents.  In addition, Motorola -- which is in the process of being
acquired by Google -- says the Razr will be upgradeable to run
“Ice Cream Sandwich,” the new version of Android just
beginning to show up on phones and tablets.  It all signifies a healthy dose of future-proofing. As with
the Nokia, the brands may evoke nostalgia but the products are
pointed in the right direction.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 