-- 
Lottery Sales Rise to Record as Cash-Hungry States Search for More Revenue

-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/lottery-sales-rise-to-records-as-states-wager-for-more-revenue.html
Facing growing unemployment, record
home foreclosures, declining  tax revenue  and an annual  budget
deficit  that reached $3 billion,  Arizona  revamped a key money-
making enterprise: the state lottery.  It held focus groups, introduced new games, printed fancier
tickets, recruited new retailers, increased jackpots, plunged
into social media and upped its advertising budget by almost 50
percent. The gamble paid off: Ticket sales rose 14 percent from
fiscal 2009 to 2010 -- the largest increase in the country,
according to Rockville, Maryland-based lottery research firm  La
Fleur’s . In the 12 months that ended June 30, sales were up
almost 6 percent more to a record $584 million.  “Especially during a recessionary period, players were
looking for a reason to play the game,” said Jeff Hatch-Miller,
66, executive director of the  Arizona Lottery  in an interview at
his Phoenix office. “What we saw was people were pulling back
on their expenditures unless they had some value-added
propositions.”  Arizona  is not alone in bidding for more lottery dollars.
After total lottery income nationwide fell for the first time in
more than a decade in 2009, states redoubled their efforts to
attract more players to support educational and environmental
programs and help fill the gap from slumping tax revenue.  Revenue Rising  Even as unemployment remained high and the economy dragged,
players in many states responded. Of the 43 states with
lotteries, 26 saw revenue grow in traditional games in the last
fiscal year, with total sales up 3 percent to $56 billion,
according to La Fleur’s. Ticket sales in at least 17 of those
states set records, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and
several states are on track to hit all-time highs this year.  Many states are considering expanded gambling as well.
 Massachusetts  Governor  Deval Patrick  signed legislation Nov. 22
authorizing as many as three resort casinos in his state, while
officials in  Georgia  and  Florida  are weighing similar proposals.
Interstate gambling online is barred by federal law.  Washington ,
D.C., and other jurisdictions are looking at launching Internet
poker within their boundaries. At least 28 states have
considered lottery or gaming-related bills since 2010 to close
budget gaps, according to data from the Washington-based
 National Conference of State Legislatures .  Overall, states got an average 2.4 percent of revenue from
lotteries and other forms of gambling in 2009, according to a
 report  last year from the  Albany , New York-based  Nelson A.
Rockefeller Institute of Government .  Primary Source  While efforts to expand casinos or legalize other forms of
gaming get the most attention, lotteries are still the primary
source of government gambling revenue for states, the report
notes. Across the country, state lotteries are rebranding,
adding games, recruiting new retailers and moving online to
attract new players.  In  Tennessee , some lawmakers are calling for the lottery to
accept credit and debit cards for purchases that now require
cash.  A bill  in  New Jersey  would allow tickets to be sold on the
Internet or via smartphones. And several states including  Ohio 
and Arizona are looking at following the lead of  Illinois , which
in March became the first lottery in the nation to  turn over
management , marketing and sales to a private company to seek
higher returns.  ‘Raise Money’  “You have politicians not wanting to raise taxes right
now, so lotteries are good ways to raise money,” said David G.
Schwartz, director of the  Center for Gaming Research  at the
University of  Nevada ,  Las Vegas .  California  is poised to have its best year of lottery sales
ever after a 2010 law signed by then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  allowed bigger prize payouts, spurring interest
in the games and supporting higher-priced tickets.  Sales increased  13 percent  in the year that ended June 30 -
- the second-highest growth rate in the country behind  Arkansas ,
where the lottery was in its first full year of operation. At
the  California Lottery ,  the popularity of a new $10
“Scratchers” ticket introduced last month is expected to push
sales this year above $4 billion, said Alex Traverso, a
spokesman.  “This is shaping up to be a record year,” he said.  The  Florida Lottery , which is rebranding to counter slow
growth, is also looking at potentially record-setting sales
above $4.17 billion in fiscal 2012 after the lottery went where
no state lottery had gone before:  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Tickets
went on sale in about 30 smaller Wal-Mart grocery markets in
 Florida  last month -- a pilot program being watched by lottery
officials nationwide.  Big-Box Retailers  While lottery tickets can be bought in some grocery store
chains, they aren’t sold in drugstores or so-called big-box
retailers -- and Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart is the
“king of the big-box stores,” said David Bishop, a deputy
secretary of the Florida Lottery.  Florida officials hope the retailer will eventually allow
sales in its supercenters, Bishop said. “It is the brick wall
that every lottery in the country has wanted to break through,”
he said.  The company will evaluate the Florida pilot program to
decide if it will expand lottery sales in that state or others,
said Ashley Hardie, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman.  “We will monitor the program for customer response to
determine the appropriate next steps,” Hardie said.  $254-Million Jackpot  Larger prizes have been a strategy across the country to
get more people to play. Three money managers in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , one of the nation’s richest towns, claimed the
biggest jackpot ever won in the state -- $254 million -- after
investing $1 in a multistate Powerball lottery ticket.  States are also exploring selling through the Internet. The
 New York Lottery , which began offering ticket subscriptions
online in 2005, plans to allow individual ticket sales and
expand to more games on its website as soon as next year, said
 William Murray , a deputy director. No state now sells individual
tickets online, according to the  North American Association of
State and Provincial Lotteries , an industry association.  The  Minnesota State Lottery ’s move last year to follow  New
York , Virginia and other states by offering online subscriptions
recently came under fire from some lawmakers.  David Hann , the
assistant senate majority leader who previously sponsored
legislation to get rid of  Minnesota ’s lottery, called the move
and other efforts by states to encourage gambling during tough
economic times “reprehensible.”  “We have a situation where a lot of people are struggling
financially -- the last thing we should be doing is telling
people to go out and gamble,” said Hann, a Republican from  Eden
Prairie , in a telephone interview.  Oregon Lottery  An effort by the  Oregon Lottery  to market to a younger
generation with a “hipper” website was put on hold by Governor
John Kitzhaber in October after critics charged that the site’s
games and graphics could attract underage players. “The
ORcade” was planned as an 18-and-older website with free games
and second-chance drawings for losing “Scratch-it” tickets,
said Chuck Baumann, a lottery spokesman. No money would change
hands.  Baumann said lottery revenue has been flat and the average
player is age 50.  “The reason we exist is to make money for the state,”
Baumann said. The lottery supports public schools, parks, salmon
restoration and economic development. “We were looking for new
ways to do that,” he said.  While sales in several states are still lagging, for some
lotteries it is as if the recession never happened. In  Nebraska ,
with one of the smallest lottery operations in the country,
sales were up for the  eighth consecutive year .  Maryland  posted
its  14th straight year  of record-breaking sales in its
traditional lottery, which supports education, public health,
public safety and environmental programs and is the fourth-
largest source of state revenue.  No Control  Kate Sweeny , an assistant professor of psychology at the
University of  California , Riverside, who studies how people
respond to difficult life events, said after a few years in a
down economy, some people feel no control over their financial
futures -- so they might turn their hope to the lottery.  “What you are buying is maybe a chance to have financial
relief at a time where finances aren’t at their best for a lot
of people,” Sweeny said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  