-- 
Stable Housing Seen as Home Depot-Lowe’s Lead Market: Retail

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-11-30T15:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/housing-stability-seen-as-home-depot-lowe-s-lead-consumer-stocks-retail.html
Shares of Home Depot Inc. and Lowe’s
Cos. -- the two largest U.S. home-improvement retailers -- are
outperforming other consumer discretionary stocks as the worst
of the declines in the housing market may be over.  Americans are on pace to spend $337.3 billion on their
homes, with annualized private-residential fixed investment
rising 3 percent from 2010 for the three months ended Sept. 30,
Bureau of Economic Analysis data show. This is only the second
such increase since 2006 and unlike 2010, wasn’t boosted by
government tax-credit stimulus programs including one for
appliances, said Scot Ciccarelli, a New York-based analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets .  Same-store sales for the two retailers -- which track
residential investment -- have started to improve and may pick
up even more because “there’s been some industry
stabilization,” said Ciccarelli, who upgraded Home Depot to
“outperform” earlier this month and maintains the same
recommendation on Lowe’s.  Comparable-store sales rose 4.2 percent at Atlanta-based
Home Depot and 0.7 percent at Mooresville, North Carolina-based
Lowe’s in the three months ended Oct. 30 and Oct. 28,
respectively, the companies said earlier this month.  Homeowners likely deferred repair projects for several
years and now are spending on “necessary upkeep” so their
residences remain livable, Ciccarelli said. As a result,
“upside  earnings revisions (HD)  are more likely,” and shares of
Home Depot and Lowe’s may rally more than the market, he said.  Rising Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Home Improvement Retail Index,
comprised of the two retailers, hit a peak on Nov. 25, 2008, on
a relative basis and then underperformed the Consumer
Discretionary Select Sector Index by 68 percent through Aug. 10,
2011. Since then, the home-improvement index has risen 37
percent as of 10:30 a.m. in New York, compared with a 13 percent
increase for the consumer-discretionary index, which includes
 Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)   The underperformance was “very severe” amid persistent
negative news about housing, said Michael A. Gayed, chief
investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC. Now, “even a
small amount of positive news is a big surprise” to investors,
which is why these retailers may lead the consumer sector, said
Gayed, whose New York firm oversees $140 million in assets.  ‘Bouncing Along’  While the industry has been “bouncing along a bottom”
this year, there are “solid signs of stabilization” in home
prices and the number of mortgages entering delinquency, said
 Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc.
in  Detroit .  The combined rate of mortgages 30 and 60 days past-due
dropped to 4.5 percent in the quarter ended Sept. 30 after
peaking at a seven-year high of 5.6 percent in 2009, data from
the  Mortgage Bankers Association  in  Washington  show. Loans in
delinquency eventually determine the number of foreclosures, so
this suggests a moderating foreclosure rate, which has averaged
 4.5 percent  since the recession ended in 2009, Price said. From
2005 through 2007, when the recession began, the foreclosure
rate averaged 1.2 percent, according to the bankers association.  Meanwhile, sentiment about home prices is moderating, said
David A. Schick, a retail analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, who recommends buying Home Depot and Lowe’s. This is
“potentially a good sign” because people are more likely to
spend if they think their asset is appreciating, he said.  Home Price Sentiment  The number of consumers who said  home prices  are “going
up” dropped 2 percent from a year ago to 15 percent in late
November, according to a survey conducted twice a month by
Stifel Nicolaus. While the difference between this and the 30
percent who reported “falling” prices remained at minus 15
percent -- the same as earlier in the month -- it was an
improvement from late September’s minus 21 percent reading, the
most negative since April 2009, Schick said.  Residential real-estate prices still are struggling, as the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 3.6
percent in September from the same month a year ago, the group
said yesterday. While this was the smallest decrease since
February, it was more than the estimated 3 percent decline in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Lowe’s introduced an advertising campaign in mid-September
-- “Never Stop Improving” -- to “inspire” customers “to
innovate and improve their homes,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Niblock  said on a Nov. 14 conference call.  ‘Above Average’ Sales  The company experienced “above average” sales in building
materials, tools and hardware during its fiscal third quarter,
Chief Financial Officer  Robert Hull  said the same day.  Similarly, Home Depot’s electrical and plumbing sales
outpaced comparable-store results during its third quarter,
 Craig Menear , executive vice president of merchandising, said on
a Nov. 15 conference call. “The maintenance and repair
categories that make up the core of our store continued to
perform well,” he said.  Masco Corp. (MAS) , a Taylor, Michigan-based maker of Delta
faucets and KraftMaid cabinets, said its third-quarter sales to
“key retail customers,” excluding the impact of exiting some
businesses, “would’ve been up low single digit,” President and
Chief Executive Officer Tim Wadhams said on an Oct. 25
conference call. Sales to these customers -- which include Home
Depot and Lowe’s -- rose from the prior quarter, indicating
business is improving sequentially, Ciccarelli said.  Short-Lived Outperformance  The outperformance of housing-related stocks may be short-
lived if the economy weakens and  interest rates  go even lower,
Gayed said. The yield on 10-year  government bonds  has hovered
 around 2 percent  since the beginning of November, Bloomberg data
show.  Another sharp decline in home prices also “would severely
disrupt” recent improvements in residential investment and put
strain on these retailers, he said. Lowe’s has announced it is
closing 27 stores this year, while its competitor doesn’t
“expect to see in the near term any meaningful tailwind from
the housing market,” Home Depot Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Frank Blake  said Nov. 15.  Activity has “remained very weak, held down by the large
overhang of foreclosed and distressed properties, along with
limited demand in an environment of uncertainty about future
home prices,” Federal Reserve policy makers said at their
November meeting, according to the minutes.  Signs of Life  There are some signs of life: The number of Americans
signing contracts to buy previously owned homes rose 10.4
percent in October from the prior month, the biggest gain since
November 2010, the National Association of Realtors said today.
This beat the median forecast of 2 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey and followed three consecutive months of declines.  Consumer confidence  also rose this month by the most since
April 2003, as the Conference Board’s index  increased to 56  from
a revised 40.9 reading in October, the New York-based private
research group said yesterday.  Investors are taking a more sanguine outlook on home-
improvement spending as owners have pushed off repair projects
for as long as possible, Gayed said.  Recent government initiatives “could be useful steps
toward stabilizing the housing market,” Fed policy makers said
in November. Expanding the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s Home
Affordable Refinance Program -- announced in October -- is one
approach that may get this industry “back on its feet,” Price
said.  Additional Savings  “Allowing many of the people with high loan-to-value
mortgages to refinance not only increases the likelihood that
they stay in their home, but it also provides them with some
additional monthly savings,” he said.  Even amid a negative macroeconomic backdrop, Americans may
feel more comfortable renovating their homes than spending on
other discretionary items, Ciccarelli said, adding that the
most-recent increase in private-residential fixed investment
suggests “a bottoming process is occurring” in housing.  “We’re seeing the early signs of positive inflection,” he
said. “It’s not big, but it’s still moving up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  