-- 
Toyota Gains From U.S.-S. Korea Trade Pact

-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-11-30T10:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/toyota-gains-from-u-s-s-korea-trade-pact.html
The biggest beneficiary of the new
trade agreement that will end South Korea’s tariffs on U.S.-made
cars may be based in  Japan .  Toyota Motor Corp.  is looking to profit as it fights a
rising yen blamed for an operating  loss (7203)  in its fiscal first
half. Japan’s biggest carmaker began exporting Sienna minivans
from Princeton,  Indiana , to South Korea this month and may do
the same with Camry sedans next year, said spokeswoman Amiko
Tomita. The Camry was the third most popular import in South
Korea in 2010.  Until this month, the 17 Toyota and Lexus models sold in
South Korea were all from Japan. The dollar has declined against
the won in the past year while the yen has gained.  “Because of a more favorable dollar-won exchange rate
compared with the yen-won rate, Japanese carmakers can shift
sourcing to the U.S., allowing them to lower their prices in
Korea,” said Christian Yang, an analyst at consultant IHS
Automotive. “Japanese imports look to gain market share through
more aggressive pricing against domestic competitors.”  The Toyota City, Japan-based company, until last year the
world’s biggest carmaker, reported an operating loss of 32.6
billion yen ($425 million) in the fiscal first half and said the
strong yen reduced operating income by 130 billion yen. With
6.79 million sales globally through September of this year,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  leads  Toyota  by 1 million vehicles.  Yen’s Gains  The yen has gained about 3.6 percent in the past six months
against the dollar, while the currencies of nine developed-
nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes have declined more than 5 percent.  The currency’s advance hurts the overseas competitiveness
of Japanese manufacturers and reduces the value of repatriated
earnings.  “Japan’s entire auto industry will collapse” if the yen
continues to gain, Toyota President and Chief Executive Officer
 Akio Toyoda  said at a Nov. 7 briefing. Two of every five
vehicles made in Japan are from Toyota.  Cars built in the U.S. can be sold at lower prices than
those built in Japan, Satoshi Ozawa, Toyota’s executive vice
president, said Nov. 8.  The free-trade agreement with the U.S. may expand  South
Korea ’s trade surplus by an average $2.77 billion annually in
the first 15 years of the accord, with automobile, electronics
and chemical exporters among the biggest contributors, the
 finance ministry  said in an Oct. 13 statement.  Tariff Cuts  The accord was signed by President  Barack Obama  on Oct. 21
and by South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  yesterday.  The tariff imposed on U.S.-built cars will be cut to 4
percent from 8 percent when the accord takes effect and
eliminated within five years, according to the  U.S.
International Trade Commission .  The tax cuts may offset the additional transportation
costs. Shipping vehicles from the U.S. instead of from Japan may
increase costs by as much as 3 percent, Yim Eun Young, an
analyst at Dongbu Securities Co., estimated.  The accord may lead to a 54 percent increase in U.S.
exports of cars and auto parts to South  Korea , the ITC  said  in a
March report.  Japan carmakers sold 23,870 units in the country last year,
or 26.4 percent of total imports by volume, according to data by
 Korea Automobile Importers and Distributors Association .  Toyota, which entered South Korea in 2001 with its Lexus
cars, sold 10,486 units in the country last year, 48 percent
more than in 2009.  Sport and Leisure  “Korea, being a part of  Asia , is definitely where we
expect growth,” Toyota’s Tomita said. “While we’re aware that
Hyundai dominates the overall market, we’ve noticed that demand
for sporty, leisure cars is growing in Korea, and we are aiming
to expand in those segments,” Tomita said, citing the company’s
Sienna models.  Camry sales account for 53 percent of Toyota’s revenue in
South Korea, according to the industry group. Lexus was either
the most popular or second-most popular import in six of the 10
years through 2010, slipping to No. 8 last year.  Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s second-biggest carmaker, began
selling its U.S.-made Altima sedans, the carmaker’s best-selling
model in South Korea, in 2009. Nissan, which exports its luxury
Infiniti models from Japan, has no plans of boosting exports to
the country.  BMW Most Popular  “Exporting cars from the U.S. to Korea is being discussed,
but we have not made any final decisions yet,” said Hajime
Kaneko, a Tokyo-based spokesman for  Honda Motor Co. , which sold
5,812 cars in South Korea last year.  Even as imported-car sales rose more than 11-fold in the
past decade and reached a record 90,562 units last year, that
still made up only 7 percent of the industry’s total.  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  sold 482,261 vehicles in 2010 while  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
sold 434,881, according to the Korea Automobile Manufacturers
Association.  European automakers led by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  saw
a 27.4 percent increase in South Korean sales in the three
months through September, after a free-trade deal with the
European Union went into effect July 1.  BMW  is the best-selling foreign brand this year, followed
by Mercedes-Benz,  Volkswagen , Audi and Toyota, according to the
Korea Automobile Importers and Distributors Association.  Bulky and Rugged  Detroit-based automakers have 0.6 percent of the market,
according to the ITC, citing registration numbers.  “U.S. cars are big, bulky, rugged,” said Kang Sang Min,
an automotive analyst at Hanwha Securities Co. American cars
need a “complete makeover” to appeal to South Koreans, Kang
said.  GM expects to lower prices by 2 percent to 3 percent
because of the accord, while Chrysler plans a reduction of 2
percent, the companies said in e-mailed statements.  “The accord will improve Korean customers’ perception of
U.S. cars,”  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said in an e-mailed response to
queries. The agreement will allow Ford to offer Korean customers
more choices, it said.  “It all boils down to the price,” Park In Woo, an analyst
at LIG Investment & Securities Co. said. “While Japanese
automakers may be able to gain market share from other import
players, I doubt they’d be able to price their vehicles low
enough to threaten Korean cars.”  Hyundai’s Sonata, the top selling car in Korea, costs 20.2
million won ($18,000) and Kia’s K5 21.5 million won.  Shipping cars from the U.S. may help Toyota’s plants there
run at full capacity, Dongbu Securities’ Yim said.  “It is a symbolic gain,” Yim said in an interview.
“Japanese companies will be able to show increasing demand and
that they are able to meet that demand, not just in Korea but
globally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  