-- 
Pakistan Leaves Interest Rates Unchanged to Support Growth

-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-11-30T13:19:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/pakistan-leaves-interest-rates-unchanged-to-support-growth-1-.html
Pakistan ’s central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged as it assesses the impact of a 2
percentage-point cut since the end of July.  The State Bank of Pakistan kept the discount rate at 12
percent,  Syed Wasimuddin , a central bank spokesman, said in
Karachi today. Eight of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted today’s decision while the remainder expected a 0.5
percentage point reduction.  Emerging markets from  Indonesia  to  Thailand  have eased
monetary policy to support consumer demand as  Europe ’s debt
crisis threatens a global economic slump. A 3 percentage-point
drop in inflation has boosted Governor Yaseen Anwar’s scope to
bolster expansion.  “The central bank has signaled that supporting growth is
its priority,” Mustafa Pasha, a Karachi-based economist at BMA
Funds Ltd., said before the decision. “Any further reduction in
rates would depend on the rupee and  government borrowing .”  The Pakistan rupee has weakened 3.2 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  this year, risking higher import costs. The currency
declined 0.5 percent to 88.70 against the greenback as of 5:15
p.m. in Karachi. The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index advanced
0.2 percent.  ‘Macroeconomic Risks’  “A reassessment of latest developments and projections
indicate that macroeconomic risks have somewhat increased during
the last two months,” the central bank said in a statement
today. For instance, the month-on-month inflation trend show the
existence of price pressures, and one of the main drivers of
inflation is government borrowing, according to the statement.  Government borrowings from the central bank and commercial
lenders since July 1 more than doubled to 712 billion rupees ($8
billion) as of Nov. 11 compared with a year earlier, according
to the  central bank .  Consumer prices rose 11 percent in October from a year
earlier, less than the 14 percent gain in January, according to
the Islamabad-based  Federal Bureau of Statistics .  Policy makers in Pakistan are aiming to boost economic
growth from 2.4 percent in the year ended June 30, one of the
lowest expansions in the past decade, as the country struggled
to cope with floods and militant attacks.  Slower Growth  The growth rate may be 0.5 percentage point lower than the
government target of 4.2 percent for the current fiscal year, a
finance ministry official said Oct. 19 in a briefing, citing the
impact of floods in the country.  Floods in August forced more than one million people from
their homes and damaged crops in parts of southern Pakistan
still recovering from last year’s worst ever monsoon inundations
that devastated the region. Terror attacks in the South Asian
nation have killed at least 35,000 people since 2006, according
to government estimates.  Foreign direct investment in Pakistan fell 28 percent to
$340.2 million from July 1 through October compared with a year
earlier.  “Pakistan needs to lower borrowing costs further to
encourage investment and demand,” Ruhail Mohammed, chief
financial officer at Engro Corp., a Pakistani maker of
fertilizer, dairy products and plastics, said before the
decision. “This is what regional and other economies are doing
to encourage business activity and growth.”  In  Asia , Thailand cut borrowing costs today, while
Indonesia reduced its reference rate on Nov. 10.  The  State Bank  cut rates by half a percentage point in the
July 30 policy decision. On Oct. 8, the central bank reduced the
discount rate by a more-than-expected 1.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at   fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  