-- 
Pending Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Exceed Forecasts With 10.4% Increase

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-11-30T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/pending-sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-exceed-forecasts-with-10-4-increase.html
The number of Americans signing
contracts to buy previously owned homes rose more than forecast
in October as buyers took advantage of falling prices and low
borrowing costs.  The  index  of pending home sales increased 10.4 percent, the
biggest gain since November 2010, after falling 4.6 percent the
prior month, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed today in  Washington . Economists forecast a 2.0 percent
increase, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  While  mortgage rates  near record lows are helping some
buyers purchase housing that’s growing more affordable as prices
drop, 9 percent joblessness and tight lending standards are
keeping others out of the market. A new wave of foreclosures may
augment the property oversupply, triggering further slides in
value and delaying an industry recovery.  “Any improvement in sales and building activity in the
housing market is welcome,” Ellen Zentner, senior U.S.
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New York ,
said before the report. “While there has been no impetus for a
renewed downturn in housing, there’s been no impetus as of yet
for a turn upward.”  Bloomberg Survey  Estimates  for pending home sales ranged from a drop of 2
percent to an increase of 5.6 percent, according to the median
of 37 forecasts in the Bloomberg survey.  Pending home sales were up 7.3 percent from October 2010.  Three of four regions showed an increase in contract
signings from a month earlier, led by the Midwest. Only the West
showed a decrease, with a 0.3 percent decline.  “Home sales have been plodding along at a sub-par level
while  interest rates  are hovering at record lows,” NAR chief
economist  Lawrence Yun  said in a statement accompanying the
release. “There is a pent-up demand from buyers who normally
would have entered the market in recent years.”  Today’s report showed an index level for pending home sales
of 93.3 on a seasonally adjusted basis. A reading of 100 is
consistent with the average level of contract activity in 2001
and coincides with “historically healthy” home-buying traffic,
according to the NAR.  Because they track contract signings, pending home sales
are considered a leading indicator. Existing homes sales are
tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or two
later.  Attracting Buyers  A report from the NAR last week showed sales of  previously
owned  homes unexpectedly rose in October, suggesting that
falling prices may be attracting buyers. Purchases increased 1.4
percent to a 4.97 million annual rate. The median price fell 4.7
percent from a year earlier.  As cheaper properties may make purchasing a home more
appealing to some, the threat of continued declines could keep
potential buyers waiting until they believe the market has
bottomed.  A temporary halt on foreclosures stemming from faulty
seizures that is coming to an end threatens to unleash more
seized properties, further weighing on prices. In the third
quarter, U.S. lenders started foreclosures on more homes, the
first increase in a year.  “We’re in a market that’s quite fragile,”  Ara Hovnanian ,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Hovnanian Enterprises
Inc. (HOV) , said during a Nov. 9 investor conference. “While
delinquency rates have taken a little dip, on the whole, there
is nothing that says that foreclosures are going to change
dramatically over the near term, however you define that.”  The  S&P/Case-Shiller  index of home values in 20 cities slid
3.6 percent in September, capping 12 straight months of
declines, the group said yesterday. Nationally, prices decreased
3.9 percent in the third quarter from the same time in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  