-- 
Penn State Is Sued by Man Alleging Years of Abuse by Former Coach Sandusky

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T22:34:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/penn-state-is-sued-by-man-alleging-years-of-abuse-by-former-coach-sandusky.html
Pennsylvania State University  and
its former assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky were sued by
an unidentified man who claims Sandusky sexually abused him more
than 100 times over four years.  The plaintiff sued today as a John Doe in the Philadelphia
Court of Common Pleas, saying he met Sandusky through the Second
Mile youth charity at the age of 10 and was sexually abused from
1992 to 1996. The abuse occurred in and out of Pennsylvania,
including on university property, according to the complaint.
Second Mile, which Sandusky founded, is also a defendant.  Sandusky, 67, was charged this month with 40 criminal
counts tied to the alleged sexual molestation of eight boys from
1994 to 2009. He has denied wrongdoing. The plaintiff in today’s
suit, the first against  Penn State  stemming from the Sandusky
case, accused Second Mile and the university of negligence in
failing to protect children from sexual abuse.  “I don’t want other kids to be hurt and abused by Jerry
Sandusky, or anybody like Penn State to allow people like him to
do it -- rape kids!” the accuser, who is about to turn 30, said
today in a  statement . “I never told anybody what he did to me
over 100 times at all kinds of places until the newspapers
reported that he had abused other kids, and the people at Penn
State and Second Mile didn’t do the things they should have to
protect me and the other kids.”  Joseph Amendola, an attorney for Sandusky, didn’t return
phone calls seeking comment on the suit.  Awaiting Documents  Lisa Powers, a spokeswoman for the State College,
Pennsylvania-based university, declined to comment on the suit,
saying the school hadn’t received the court documents.  “We will review the lawsuit and respond appropriately when
we have done so,” Eric Herman, a spokesman for Second Mile,
said in an e-mail. “The Second Mile will adhere to its legal
responsibilities throughout this process. As always, our
thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families.”  Plaintiff’s attorney Jeff Anderson, whose  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , law  firm  specializes in sex-abuse cases, said his
client isn’t one of the alleged victims listed in a Nov. 5 grand
jury report against Sandusky.  Penn State head football coach  Joe Paterno  and President
Graham Spanier were fired after the release of the report, which
said school officials were aware of Sandusky’s conduct as early
as 1998. Spanier and Paterno haven’t been accused of criminal
wrongdoing.  Officials Charged  Two other officials of the university, athletic director
Tim Curley and former vice president  Gary Schultz , have been
charged with perjury and failing to report allegations of sexual
misconduct against the former assistant coach. They have denied
the charges.  Today’s complaint is the second this month against Second
Mile, the foundation for needy children Sandusky started in
1977. Another alleged victim sued on Nov. 23 seeking a court
order freezing the charity’s assets for potential civil claims
related to Sandusky’s conduct. The organization has asked the
court to dismiss the case, saying it lacks any factual basis.  Pennsylvania  prosecutors allege that Sandusky, a former
defensive coordinator for Penn State’s Nittany Lions, used
Second Mile to find victims and exploited his access to
university sports facilities.  Late-Night Assault  One witness cited in the grand jury report was a graduate
assistant who said he saw a late-night assault involving a
10-year-old boy in March 2002 in the locker room of a football
building on the university campus.  The graduate assistant reported the incident to Paterno,
according to the grand jury report. Paterno testified he wasn’t
aware of specific details of the attack and referred the matter
to university officials because Sandusky was no longer a member
of the coaching staff.  The lawsuit will pressure Penn State to devise a legal
strategy, said Joseph Musso, an attorney with Ashcraft & Gerel
LLP in  Virginia , who has been blogging about the case. Evidence
rules in civil cases in Pennsylvania are “pretty broad” and
could permit the introduction of information such as a 1998
report of an investigation by university police into allegations
against Sandusky, Musso said.  “They’re going to have to come up with their theories of
defense earlier on,” Musso said in a phone interview.  Internal Investigation  The university, which is conducting its own internal
investigation, has rebuffed media requests for details of the
1998 investigation. In that incident, the mother of a child
identified in the grand jury report as Victim 6 accused Sandusky
of inappropriate behavior when he showered with the boy in a
university locker room.  Detectives from the police departments of Penn State and
 State College  investigated and the local  district attorney 
declined to file charges, according to the grand jury report.
The 1998 investigation produced a report of more than 100 pages,
according to the complaint filed today.  Penn State may want to settle if there are concerns that
the information being sought could be damaging to the school’s
reputation, said  Wesley Oliver , an associate professor at
Widener University School of Law in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  “That’s something their lawyers will have to decide,”
said Oliver, who teaches criminal law. The judge in the case
could also limit or gag disclosure of material exchanged during
the so-called discovery process, he said.  The case is Doe A v. The Second Mile, 1111002968, Court of
Common Pleas of Philadelphia County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  