-- 
Permafrost Thaw May Emit More Than Deforestation, Study Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-01T10:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/permafrost-thaw-may-emit-more-than-deforestation-study-says.html
Emissions from thawing permafrost may
contribute more to global warming than deforestation this
century, according to a commentary in the journal Nature.  Arctic warming of 7.5 degrees Celsius (13.5 degrees
Fahrenheit) this century may unlock the equivalent of 380
billion tons of carbon dioxide as soils thaw, allowing carbon to
escape as CO2 and methane, University of Florida and University
of Alaska biologists wrote in an article in Nature published
yesterday. Two degrees of warming would release a third of that,
they said.  “We calculate that permafrost thaw will release the same
order of magnitude of carbon as deforestation if current rates
of deforestation continue,” the researchers said. “Because
these emissions include significant quantities of methane, the
overall effect on climate could be 2.5 times larger.”  The Arctic is an important harbinger of  climate change 
because the  United Nations  calculates it’s warming at almost
twice the average rate for the planet. The study adds to
pressure on United Nations climate treaty negotiators from more
than 190 countries attending two weeks of talks in Durban, South
Africa that began Nov. 28.  The  International Energy Agency  this month said with
current energy policies worldwide, the global average
temperature may rise by more than 3.5 degrees. With the Arctic
warming faster than the rest of the world, that could imply a 7-
degree rise in the region. The Arctic warming has led to record
melting of sea ice in recent years and the retreat of glaciers
in Greenland.  Warming Scenarios  The researchers based their commentary on a survey of 41
permafrost scientists from around the world, who were asked to
calculate what percentage of the surface permafrost is likely to
thaw, how much carbon will be released, and how much of that
carbon will be methane over different time frames and for four
different warming scenarios.  “Our survey outlines the additional risk to society caused
by thawing of the frozen north, and underscores the urgent need
to reduce atmospheric emissions from fossil-fuel use and
deforestation,” the scientists said. “This will help to keep
permafrost carbon frozen in the ground.”  Researchers at the Permafrost Carbon Research Network also
contributed to the commentary piece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Durban,  South Africa  via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 