-- 
PETA Offers Harrisburg Ready Money to Put Lettuce-Bikini Ad on Incinerator

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-11-30T20:55:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/peta-offers-harrisburg-ready-money-to-put-lettuce-bikini-ad-on-incinerator.html
People For the Ethical Treatment of
Animals offered  Harrisburg ,  Pennsylvania , a “modest
contribution” to place an ad promoting meatless diets on an
incinerator whose debt load is pushing the city toward state
oversight.  Along with its letter to Mayor  Linda Thompson , the Norfolk,
Virginia-based organization attached the proposed ad, which
 features  the slogan “Meat Trashes the Planet. Go Vegan” and a
blond woman in a bikini top resembling lettuce.  “The incinerator might have burned up more of Harrisburg’s
dollars than its trash, but our offer would provide the city
with some much-needed cash and encourage residents to take a
stand for a cleaner environment, better health, and compassion
for animals,” Executive Vice President Tracy Reiman said in a
statement today. “Whether your town is in the black or in the
red, it’s always the perfect time to go ‘green’ by going
vegan.”  Harrisburg, a state-capital city of 49,500, faces a $242
million debt -- five times its general-fund budget -- because of
an overhaul and expansion of the incinerator that doesn’t
generate enough revenue. The City Council voted to file for
 bankruptcy protection  -- a move a judge denied -- and Governor
Tom Corbett has moved to place the city in receivership.  Harrisburg, strapped for cash, may have to sell assets such
as the incinerator and its parking system. PETA is “hoping to
negotiate with Mayor Thompson and find an amount that benefits
the city and ensure the ad stays on the smokestack as long as
possible,” Ashley Byrne, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone
call.  Robert Philbin, a spokesman for Thompson, didn’t return a
call for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  