-- 
Pfizer After Lipitor Slims Down to Focus Next Wagers on Mini-Blockbusters

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-11-30T21:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/pfizer-after-lipitor-slims-down-to-focus-on-mini-blockbusters.html
Pfizer Inc.’s (PFE)  long dependence on the
cholesterol pill  Lipitor  to produce almost one-fifth of the
company’s revenue begins eroding today when the drug’s patent
protection ends in the U.S.  The next step will be rebuilding the world’s biggest
drugmaker into a smaller, faster-moving company that focuses on
development of biologic drugs and specialty medicines while
expanding sales of existing products, such as Lipitor and the
erection drug Viagra, in emerging countries such as China,
executives said in interviews.  “We’re not going to be a one-product company,” said Geno Germano, Pfizer’s president of specialty care and oncology,
interviewed at the company’s  New York  headquarters. “We’re
poised to deliver significant new  pipeline  assets in the coming
year, and in coming years.”  Pfizer rose 3.5 percent to $20.07 at the close in New York,
and has gained 15 percent this year.  The drugmaker is depending on four products to generate $4
billion in new revenue by 2014, said  Timothy Anderson , a Sanford
C. Bernstein analyst in New York, in a  note  to clients.  The drugs are Prevnar, a bacterial infection vaccine gained
in Pfizer’s 2009 Wyeth purchase; the blood-thinner Eliquis, co-
developed with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ; the rheumatoid
arthritis drug tofacitinib; and the cancer drug Xalkori for non-
small-cell lung tumors. Pfizer is awaiting U.S. regulatory
approval on Eliquis and tofacitinib.  ‘Positive Data Points’  While it’s too early to tell whether those products will
reach their potential, they offer “positive data points that
should enhance confidence that this company might, just might,
be turning a corner,” said  Jami Rubin , an analyst with Goldman
Sachs in New York, in a telephone interview.  It’s a significant corner. Lipitor, the world’s top-selling
medicine, last year had $10.7 billion in sales, a figure
analysts have said may drop as much as 70 percent by 2012.  At the same time, Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  is
planning to sell or spin off Pfizer’s animal health and
nutritional businesses. Those units generated $5.44 billion in
2010 sales, or about 8 percent of revenue, all of which will
vanish when they’re divested.  “Most CEOs want to build empires,” Rubin said. “Pfizer
was a poster child for why bigger isn’t better. I think Ian Read
understands that.”  ‘Inflection Point’  Generic competition to Lipitor is “a major inflection
point. They’re going from being the most successful primary-care
company on the planet to focusing on biologics and specialty
drugs,” she said.  Pfizer said in July it doesn’t anticipate making more
announcements about the two units to be divested until 2012, and
that any transaction may take as many as 24 months to complete.
In the meantime, the company is moving to minimize its initial
U.S. losses from Lipitor by making deals with insurers and
pharmacy benefit managers to lower the price of the branded drug
in return for agreements to block the use of generic copies.  CVS Caremark Corp. said this month it will offer Lipitor
exclusively for patients in Medicare’s drug benefit, the U.S.
medical plan for the elderly and disabled, blocking the use of
generic copies. The move will affect about 3 million patients,
 Carolyn Castel , a spokeswoman for CVS, said by e-mail.  Health insurers, including Coventry Health Care Inc. and
UnitedHealth Group Inc., have agreed to similar pacts.  The deals are meant to help Pfizer hold on to as much
market share as possible until more generic makers are allowed
to begin selling copies of the drug under normal patent
procedures after 180 days.  Avoiding ‘Total Collapse’  “They’re trying to avoid just a total collapse, since the
U.S. is such a big market,” said Christopher Bowe, an analyst
with Informa-Scrip Intelligence in New York.  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , which has an agreement with
Pfizer to produce authorized copies of Lipitor, began shipping
the pills to pharmacies today, the company said in a statement.  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , based near  New Delhi , is the
other generic company entitled to sell generic Lipitor starting
today. It is waiting for manufacturing approval by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration before it may do so.  At some point soon, Pfizer will shift resources out of
Lipitor, said David Simmons, Pfizer’s president of  emerging
markets  and established products.  The company plans to slowly start running fewer
advertisements for the drug and will keep up its “Lipitor for
You” program, a patient co-pay discount program, only as long
as it generates positive results, Simmons said. “There is some
point of diminishing returns,” he said.  Last Stand in China  The last stand for the branded drug may be in  developing
countries , Simmons said, noting that Lipitor “will continue to
have a lifespan in  China .”  Pfizer hasn’t yet begun marketing products in rural areas
of China, he said, a country with 1.3 billion potential
consumers. Simmons estimated that only 9 percent to 10 percent
of patients who could benefit from Lipitor in China were aware
of their condition and had been diagnosed, compared with 45
percent to 50 percent in the U.S. and  Europe .  It remains an open question whether Pfizer will turn to a
major acquisition, as it has three times since 1999, if its
current plans don’t pan out. The key to changing the company’s
pattern on mergers will be whether Pfizer can regularly produce
new products, Rubin said.  “Pfizer has not been able to do that for the last
decade,” she said.  $22 Billion Gain  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann in  Boston ,
has estimated that divestiture of the two units could produce as
much as $22 billion for the company.  While Read has said money gained from any deal will be
spent on share buybacks, such a move would buck a company trend
reaching back to 1999, when the drugmaker acquired Warner
Lambert and gained Lipitor.  Since then, the company acquired Pharmacia in 2002 and
Wyeth in 2009. In total, the three deals cost the company more
than $200 billion.  The key to changing the company’s historic pattern will be
whether Pfizer can regularly produce new products, Rubin said.  “Pfizer has not been able to do that for the last
decade,” she said.  Read’s predecessor, Jeffrey Kindler, told investors he
didn’t see an acquisition in the company’s future less than a
year before the company announced plans to buy Wyeth for $68
billion. Major acquisitions like the Wyeth deal, though, aren’t
viewed by investors as positively as in the past, Rubin said.  ‘Fact of the Industry’  “Consolidation has been a fact of the industry for 40
years, and isn’t going to stop today,” she said. “But the
deals that were done for the sake of synergy to accelerate near-
term earnings growth, investors aren’t going to reward those.”  Still, even a succession of small new drugs may not be
enough to keep investors happy, Bernstein’s Anderson said in a
 note  to clients. “The ultimate measure of R&D productivity is
not just the number of new regulatory approvals, but also the
commercial worth of those new compounds,” he wrote.  As part of Pfizer’s effort to slim down prior to the loss
of Lipitor revenue, the company has cut spending on research and
development from $9.34 billion in 2010 to an estimated $6.46
billion in 2013, Anderson said.  By 2015, the company will spend just 10 percent of revenue
on drug discovery, the least of the nine drugmakers Anderson
covers, the analyst said.  R&D Cuts  “Nobody’s cut R&D on an absolute basis as much as Pfizer
has,” Rubin said, calling the decision to make the cuts
controversial but necessary.  One solution to the pipeline question may be the type of
risk-sharing partnership Pfizer has secured with Bristol-Myers
in developing Eliquis, tagged as a $2.5 billion product at its
future peak by  Barbara Ryan , an analyst with Deutsche Bank
Securities in New York, in a note to clients.  The FDA yesterday agreed to review the drug with a goal of
deciding on an approval by the end of March, the companies said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  