-- 
Piraeus Bank Nine-Month Loss Reaches 1.15 Billion Euros

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-11-30T08:06:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/piraeus-bank-nine-month-loss-reaches-1-15-billion-euros-1-.html
Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) ,  Greece ’s fourth-
largest lender, reported a nine-month loss after it wrote down
its holdings of government debt and clients pulled deposits.  The net loss was 1.15 billion euros ($1.5 billion) compared
with a profit of 39 million euros a year earlier, according to a
statement e-mailed by the Athens-based bank today. The amount
didn’t include a 21 million-euro loss on the lender’s Egyptian
unit, which the bank is trying to sell.  “In the second half of 2011 there was a significant
increase in uncertainty in the international economic and
financial environment,” Chairman Michalis Sallas said in the
statement.  Piraeus wrote down 1.08 billion euros in the nine months
from about 7.5 billion euros of Greek bond holdings after a July
debt swap agreement that was part a European Union bailout for
the country. The bank said it will likely have further losses on
the debt in its full-year results as a new agreement seeks to
impose bigger writedowns on investors.  Deposits shrank 3 percent over the third quarter to 24.5
billion euros, Piraeus said. The outflow at Greek banks
continued after September, with Greek lenders losing as much as
14 billion euros in the two months to the end of October,  George Provopoulos , head of the Greek central bank, told lawmakers in
 Athens  yesterday.  Net-interest income for the nine months rose 4 percent to
916 million euros, Piraeus said. The core Tier-One capital ratio
at the end of September was 7.4 percent, the bank added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  