-- 
Plains Exploration Sees Success for Biggest Gulf Projects

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-11-30T20:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/plains-exploration-sees-success-for-biggest-gulf-projects.html
Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP) 
said stricter U.S. permitting requirements for drilling in the
deep waters of the  Gulf of Mexico  are causing the company to
focus on larger projects.  Today’s Gulf permitting process is intended to be more
“thoughtful” than before, Plains Chief Executive Officer James Flores said in an interview today in Houston. Companies with
strong balance sheets will be able to pursue top projects in the
Gulf, whereas more developments may have been considered in the
past, he said.  “Only the biggest and best projects are going to get
done,” Flores said. “A concentrated strategy is going to be
more important than a just-be-everywhere-all-the-time
strategy.”  Plains said Oct. 28 it had executed a securities purchase
agreement with EIG Global Energy Partners, which will bring
Plains $450 million in exchange for an equity interest in
Plains’s offshore subsidiary. The unit was set up to hold Gulf
assets, including a stake in the Lucius oil project that may
begin producing in 2014.  The company, which is based in Houston, said proceeds
raised are expected to go toward  capital investment  in Lucius
and drilling planned for 2012 at the Phobos prospect. The
resource potential for Plains is the equivalent of 106 million
barrels of oil from Lucius and 306 million barrels of oil from
Phobos, according to presentation slides.  The stricter permitting process was put in place following
last year’s record offshore U.S. oil spill at  BP Plc ’s Macondo
well in the Gulf.  Flores appeared today at a Jefferies & Co. energy
conference in Houston. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. is the operator
of the Lucius and Phobos projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  