-- 
Poland’s Economy Grows Faster Than Forecast on Fixed Investment, Exports

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-11-30T13:59:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/poland-s-economy-grows-faster-than-forecast.html
Poland ’s  economy  grew faster than
economists forecast in the third quarter as investment
accelerated and a weaker zloty helped boost exports.  Gross domestic product rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier
compared with a 4.3 percent increase in the previous three
months, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistics Office  said today.
That’s above the 4 percent median estimate of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The European Union’s largest eastern nation, the only
member of the 27-member bloc to dodge recession in 2009, has
remained resilient even as the debt crisis in the neighboring
euro region threatens to damp demand for its exports. Still,
Poland isn’t immune to slower growth among its main trading
partners and its economy will probably weaken into 2012,
according to London-based HSBC economist Agata Urbanska.  “Investment growth held up strong but domestic-demand
growth decelerated, dragged down by a contraction in public
consumption,” Urbanska wrote today in a note clients. The
stronger-than-expected growth “does not moderate the downside
risks to the economic growth in the coming quarters.”  Stocks, Zloty  Poland’s benchmark  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  erased losses, rising 2
percent to 2,227.27 by 1:20 p.m. in Warsaw. The yield on five-
year bond fell 0.7 basis points to 5.34 percent, while the zloty
traded at 4.5239 to the euro, up from 4.5338 late yesterday.  The Polish currency lost 11.2 percent against the euro and
20.4 percent to the  U.S. dollar  in the third quarter, making
Polish goods more attractive to foreign buyers. Net exports
added 1 percentage point to GDP growth in the third quarter,
with  consumer spending  contributing 1.8 percentage points and
fixed investment 1.6 points, the statistics office said.  Fixed-investment growth quickened for the third consecutive
quarter to 8.5 percent from a year ago, compared with a revised
6.9 percent in the second quarter. Private-consumption growth
slowed to 3 percent from 3.6 percent.  “The figures show the economy isn’t really slowing,”
central bank Governor Marek Belka said today on TVN CNBC. “They
show Poland is in decent shape, even tremendous shape when
compared with the rest of  Europe .”  Among ‘Best Markets’  Sales at Unilever Polska slowed this year for the first
time, “but this is not a drama as Poland is for us one of the
best markets in the region,” Sanjay Dube, the company’s
president, told Bloomberg Business Week this week.  Poland’s  industrial output  as measured by value grew 6
percent from a year ago in the third quarter, the office
reported today.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  more than tripled third-
quarter profit as the copper producer, which sells two thirds of
its output abroad, benefited from higher prices for the metal
and the weaker zloty.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
this week upgraded its 2011 growth forecast for Poland to 4.2
percent from a May projection of 3.9 percent. Still, market
consensus is moving toward 2012 growth of less than 2 percent,
according to Citibank Handlowy’s chief economist  Piotr Kalisz ,
who sees 1.9 percent expansion.  “Unfortunately, the scenario of deep recession in the euro
region means there’s a risk our forecast may shift even lower,”
he wrote yesterday in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net ;
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  