-- 
Polish Stocks Jump Most in 2 Months on GDP, Central Banks’ Move

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-11-30T16:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/polish-stocks-jump-most-in-2-months-on-gdp-central-banks-move.html
Polish banks and commodities stocks
rallied, sending  the benchmark index (WIG20)  up the most in two months,
after a report showed the country’s gross domestic product grew
faster than economists forecast and central banks acted together
to make additional funds available to lenders.  The benchmark WIG20 Index jumped 4.2 percent to 2,274.99 at
4:51 p.m. in Warsaw, the biggest intraday gain since Sept. 27.
The gauge fell 1.6 percent in November.  “There was lots of good news that pushed the market
higher, including the GDP data from Poland and the joint action
by central banks,” Wojciech Jozwik, a trader at Espirito Santo
Investment SA said by phone.  Financial shares jumped across Europe after the  Federal
Reserve  and five other central banks lowered the cost of dollar
funding and  China  cut its reserve ratio for lenders.  Poland’s economy grew 4.2 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, exceeding the 4 percent median estimate of 30
economists surveyed by Bloomberg as investment and consumer
demand accelerated while a weaker zloty helped boost exports,
the Warsaw-based  Central Statistics Office  said. The data show
the economy isn’t really slowing, central bank Governor Marek Belka said in an interview with TVN CNBC television today.  PKO Bank Polski SA (PKO)  rallied 4.8 percent to 33.12 zloty as
Chief Executive Officer Zbigniew Jagiello said Poland’s biggest
bank will report record net income this year.  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) ,
controlled by UniCredit SpA, climbed 6.2 percent to 145.5 zloty
and Bank Handlowy SA, a unit of Citigroup Inc., rose 7.8 percent
to 71.2 zloty.  Refining Margins  PKN Orlen SA gained 5.3 percent to 40.02 zloty, heading for
the highest close in two weeks. Refining margins at Poland’s
largest oil company are likely to be better in the fourth
quarter compared with that in the third, Chief Financial Officer
Slawomir Jedrzejczyk said today.  Grupa Lotos SA (LTS) , the second-largest refiner, added 4.6
percent to 25 zloty, the biggest gain in a month. Oil futures
climbed as much as 2 percent following the move by the central
banks of the U.S., the euro region, Canada, the U.K., Japan and
Switzerland to cut the cost of providing dollar funding via swap
arrangements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  