-- 
Putin Comes Under Pressure From Russia Campaign Abuse Complaints

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-11-30T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/putin-comes-under-pressure-from-russia-campaign-abuse-complaints.html
Russia ’s opposition is complaining of
administrative abuses in the run-up to this weekend’s election,
raising pressure on Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who may need
to convince the public to accept austerity measures.  The Communists, the nationalist Liberal Democratic Party
and Just Russia, which campaigns more social spending, say their
candidates and activists have been beaten and arrested, while
authorities have seized campaign material and distributed false
literature. Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , and the premier’s
 United Russia  party deny the accusations. The Central Electoral
Commission didn’t respond to requests for comment.  United Russia will forfeit its two-thirds majority needed
to make changes to the constitution without other parties’
support, according to opinion polls. The premier, who wants to
return as president next year, has said Russia needs to maintain
the dominance of the ruling party to avoid succumbing to
contagion from the euro region’s debt crisis.  “The government is under much more pressure than before,”
 Clemens Grafe , chief economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
Moscow, said in a telephone interview. “Their support is waning
and the opposition is hardening. If the United Russia party
loses its majority, it will have a negative effect on the
market. If they win 90 percent and the books look cooked, it
will have a much more negative effect.”  Stocks, Ruble Gain  The  RTS  stock index is the world’s best performer this
quarter, having gained 16 percent. The ruble has strengthened
4.8 percent in the same period, more than any of the 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg except the Australian dollar.  United Russia, whose party list is headed by President
 Dmitry Medvedev , may lose almost 65 seats to just over 250 in
the 450-member state Duma, the lower house of parliament,
according to a survey by independent polling agency  Levada
Center  published Nov. 25. Sixty-six percent of Russians don’t
believe that the government is acting in the interests of
society, the pollster said in October.  After balancing this year’s  budget , Russia will probably
run a 2012 deficit of 1.5 percent of gross domestic product,
Putin said Nov. 16. Next year’s pension deficit will double to 3
percent of GDP as payroll-tax cuts kick in and net retirees jump
by half a million. Russia, which posted budget surpluses in 2000
to 2008, faces deficits of up to 3 percent through 2014 as oil
prices fall, presidential aide  Arkady Dvorkovich  said in June.  ‘Colossal Pressure’  There is “colossal pressure” on opposition candidates,
Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov, who was stripped of his job
as speaker of the upper house this year, said in an interview
posted on his website on Nov. 21. Questions over the conduct of
the vote would increase public discontent, he said.  “The legitimacy of the government is very important,”
said Mironov, a former Putin ally who plans to run in the
presidential election in March. “If we don’t want a North
African scenario, legitimacy must be confirmed by honest
elections.”  More than 4,000 electoral violations have been recorded so
far, according to a  website  set up by Golos, a Russian non-
governmental election watchdog.  Unnamed foreign powers are seeking to intervene in the
election, Putin said at a United Russia party congress in Moscow
on Nov. 27, when he accepted the party’s nomination to run for a
third term as president.  International Observers  The  Organization for Cooperation and Security in Europe ,
which is deploying observers for the elections, in 2007
condemned the previous polls as undemocratic. Russian
authorities need to stop campaign violations, Knut Fleckenstein,
a German member of the European Parliament who represents the
chamber at the European Union-Russia Parliamentary Cooperation
Committee, said in a Nov. 29 phone interview.  “Our wish here is that the Russian government will take
care that these procedures during the campaign will be
stopped,” he said. “Of course we have this interest that they
are free and fair elections but I don’t know about any payments
which interfered in the election process.”  Just Russia candidates have been beaten up in the Sakhalin
region near  Japan , and Yekaterinburg in the  Ural Mountains , and
some are being pressured to withdraw from the election, Anton
Shaparin, a party official said in a telephone interview on Nov.
28.  ‘More Blatant’  A Communist candidate quit the race in the central region
of Samara after he was assaulted and his family received
threats, said Andrei Strogy, who monitors election abuses for
the party. Other Duma contenders have been detained including in
Tula, and Kaluga, both south of Moscow, Strogy said by phone on
Nov. 29.  “Of course there are violations, and the further away you
get from Moscow, the more of them you get and the more blatant
they are,” Yaroslav Milov, a lawmaker from the  Liberal
Democratic Party , or LDPR, said by phone.  Kemerovo, a Siberian mining region, is one of the worst
offenders, said Milov. Fliers claiming to be from the LDPR
promising to cleanse the area of all non-Russians have been
distributed there as part of “a deliberate campaign by the
ruling party and regional government,” he said.  Police also impounded 50,000 LDPR newspapers that were
being transported from Novosibirsk to Kemerovo, according to
Milov. LDPR had to print campaign material in neighboring
Novosibirsk because local printers were banned from working for
the party, he said.  ‘Fairy Tales’  All opposition claims of violations are “fairy tales
intended to provoke pity,” Ruslan Gattarov, a United Russia
official, said by phone on Nov. 30.  There has been no official confirmation of any cases of
administrative abuse, Peskov said in a phone interview on Nov.
30.  United Russia, like “any party, is fighting with its
political opponents through entirely legal means.”  Putin, 59, first came to power in 2000 and may rule for two
more six-year terms, making him the longest-serving leader since
 Josef Stalin . United Russia won 64 percent of the vote in 2007
elections after authorities raised the barrier for entry into
parliament to 7 percent, blocking smaller parties.  “This time there is a real protest mood among the
electorate, you can sense a real hatred for United Russia,”
said the LDPR’s Milov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  