-- 
Ranbaxy Without Lipitor May Have to Rely on Drug Sales at Home in India

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-11-30T11:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/ranbaxy-without-lipitor-may-have-to-rely-on-drug-sales-at-home-in-india.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , counting
on copies of  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc.’s Lipitor to bolster U.S. sales, may
have to rely more on India to improve growth because of delays
resolving disputes with U.S. authorities.  Two Ranbaxy plants in India were placed under an export
restriction in 2008 after the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
found manufacturing failures. The decision banned sales of about
30 drugs in the U.S. and delayed approvals for new ones.  Ranbaxy, India’s largest drugmaker, is one of two companies
entitled to sell generic Lipitor for six months after its U.S.
patents expire today. The company still needs final clearance
from the  FDA  for its copy of the world’s best-selling drug,
which may generate as much as $650 million for Ranbaxy during
the period of exclusivity, according to the median estimate of
five Mumbai-based analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty with Lipitor now and we
don’t know when the approval will come,” Ranjit Kapadia, an
analyst at Centrum Broking Ltd., said in an interview yesterday.
“They need to do more to keep growing in India to balance the
volatility of the U.S. market.”  Watson Version  Until the FDA gives approval, Ranbaxy will wait as rival
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  today starts selling its version of
the drug that garnered $10.7 billion in global sales last year.
Watson is producing a generic version authorized by  New York- 
based Pfizer and doesn’t need regulatory approval.  Online pharmacist  HealthWarehouse.com Inc. (HEWA)  has started
accepting preorders for the generic drug, sold under its
chemical name atorvastatin, which will be available from Dec. 5,
according to its  website . Chief Executive Officer Lalit Dhadphale didn’t immediately respond to a call to his office
phone.  “Everyone’s asking just one thing now: When is Ranbaxy
going to get the approval for Lipitor?” Priti Arora, a
pharmaceuticals analyst at Kotak Institutional Equities, said in
an interview.  Ranbaxy fell 3.9 percent to 434.65 rupees at the close in
Mumbai, the most since Nov. 23, while the BSE  India  Sensitive
Index rose 0.7 percent. Spokesman Krishnan Ramalingam said he
was unaware of when the FDA decision may arrive.  “We continue to prepare for the launch of atorvastatin in
the U.S.,” Chuck Caprariello, vice president of corporate and
government affairs, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Project Viraat  Ranbaxy, 64 percent owned by Tokyo-based  Daiichi Sankyo
Co. , boosted its sales force by 60 percent to 4,000 last year as
part of its Project Viraat initiative to gain market share in
rural India. Local sales outpaced the industry in some segments
for the first half of 2011, before slowing because of a drop in
demand for antibiotics, Managing Director Arun Sawhney said in a
conference call on Nov. 9.  Competition and government-enforced price controls help
keep prices low and make India one of the cheapest countries for
pharmaceuticals. Drug sales in the world’s second-most-populous
nation have increased an average of 14 percent a year since
2005, stoked by rising incomes and surging rates of  heart
disease , diabetes and cancer.  The market, valued at $12.6 billion in 2009, will more than
quadruple to $55 billion by 2020, McKinsey & Co. said in an
 October 2010 report . India will be the world’s  eighth-largest 
pharmaceutical market by 2015, from 12th in 2010, researcher IMS
Health said in April.  Ranbaxy expected to increase domestic sales by 15 percent
to 20 percent each quarter this year, former Managing Director
Atul Sobti said in May 2010. Instead, domestic sales for the
last three quarters have gained 9.2 percent over the same period
last year, the company reported on Nov. 9.  Antibiotics Reliance  Part of the reason is the company’s reliance on
antibiotics, which constitute about 30 percent of its Indian
sales. Demand for antibiotics has been slow for parts of this
year, Kapadia said.  Ranbaxy  reported  sales in India of 14.3 billion rupees
($274 million) for the first nine months of 2011, or about 24
percent of the company’s total revenue.  Rivals  Lupin Ltd. (LPC)  and  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) 
have outpaced the industry average by introducing new drugs for
chronic ailments like diabetes and heart disease that require
lifelong care.  “All the time they were focusing on the U.S. business,
they hadn’t paid much attention to India,” Kapadia said of
Ranbaxy. “You can’t build a brand overnight. It’s going to take
some time.”  Insurer Deals  Ranbaxy also will face Pfizer’s effort to protect its
brand-name drug. Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, has
struck deals with health insurers to keep as much of the market
as possible.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest U.S. health
insurer by sales, said Nov. 19 it will charge a lower co-pay for
Pfizer’s pill than it does for generics for the next six months,
taking advantage of a price reduction from the drugmaker.  Pharmacy benefit managers like  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  and
 Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  are also in talks with Pfizer about
such agreements. These companies act as middlemen for
drugmakers, pharmacies and health-plan sponsors, negotiating
prices and managing the use of drugs by patients.  “Pfizer is also being extremely aggressive in trying to
retain market share,” Arora, based in Mumbai, said in a phone
interview. “That’s going to make it all the more difficult for
Ranbaxy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  