-- 
Rand Strengthens to Two-Week High After Central Banks Add Liquidity

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-11-30T14:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/rand-falls-for-first-day-in-three-versus-dollar-as-s-p-downgrades-us-banks.html
The rand gained to its strongest
level in more than two weeks against the dollar and bond yields
fell the most in three months after central banks acted together
to make additional funds available to banks.  South Africa ’s currency advanced as much as 2.8 percent to
8.1202 per dollar, the strongest level since Nov. 15. It traded
2.2 percent higher at 8.1718 as of 3:54 p.m. in Johannesburg,
paring its decline this month to 3.7 percent. The yield on 13.5
percent bonds due 2015 fell 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage
point, to 6.76 percent, the most in one day since Aug. 10.  The central banks of the U.S., the euro region,  Canada , the
U.K.,  Japan  and Switzerland agreed to cut the cost of providing
dollar funding via swap arrangements, the  Federal Reserve  said
in a press release. They also agreed to make other currencies
available as needed, it said. The dollar fell against all its
most-traded peers.  “It means banks are not going to be locked out of dollar
funding,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research
at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of South Africa’s
fourth-biggest lender, said by phone. “It caught everyone by
surprise; there was a lot of bad language in the dealing room.”  South Africa’s  benchmark stock index  jumped the most in two
months, and commodity prices surged, with Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of raw materials climbing to its highest in two weeks.  “The thinking is, there will be more liquidity, maybe we
can get the banks lending again, maybe that will stop the
downturn,” Cruickshanks said.  Earlier, the rand reversed its decline against the dollar
after  China  cut reserve requirements for its banks, boosting
appetite for riskier, emerging-market assets.  The currency held its gains after the nation posted a 9.6
billion-rand ($1.2 billion) trade deficit in October, the
biggest in 10 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  