-- 
TransCanada Pipeline Bill Would Force U.S. Permit Within 60 Days

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-11-30T17:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/transcanada-pipeline-bill-would-force-u-s-permit-within-60-days.html
Senate Republicans introduced a bill
that would require the Secretary of State to issue a U.S. permit
for  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline within 60 days
unless President Barack Obama decides against it.  The U.S. State Department has delayed a decision for at
least a year on the $7 billion pipeline from  Alberta  to Gulf
Coast refineries. The department, which has jurisdiction because
the project would cross an international border, said Nov. 10 it
would study an alternative route to avoid the Sandhills area of
Nebraska that overlays an aquifer supplying drinking water to
1.5 million people.  “President Obama has the opportunity to help create 20,000
new jobs now,” Senator Richard Lugar, an Indiana Republican,
said today during a press conference in Washington. “He’s
delayed the decision until after the 2012 election, apparently
in fear of offending a part of his political base.”  TransCanada, based in Calgary, said Nov. 14 it would
cooperate with  Nebraska  officials to revise the path. The 1,661-
mile (2,673-kilometer) project would help decrease U.S.
dependence on crude from the  Middle East , Lugar and Senators
John Hoeven of North Dakota, David Vitter of  Louisiana , Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Mike Johanns of Nebraska said in a  statement .  The Senate bill “provides adequate time for Nebraska to
shift the route of the pipeline” while allowing construction to
begin elsewhere, according to the statement on Lugar’s website.
“The State Department conducted more than three years of
rigorous analysis and was widely expected to approve KXL by the
end of this year -- before the White House came under
environmentalist pressure.”  National Interest  The legislation gives Obama the option to block a permit by
publicly stating the pipeline isn’t in the national interest.  The department announced the postponement of a decision
slated to be made by next month after environmentalists led by
350.org and the Sierra Club surrounded the White House Nov. 6 to
protest. The groups asked the president to reject the investment
because it would carry crude from oil sands, which they said
contributes more  carbon emissions  associated with  climate change 
than conventional production.  Pressure also came from Nebraska politicians, including
Republican Governor Dave Heineman, who called a special
legislative session that opened Nov. 1 to consider ways the
state could change the route.  The bill requires the pipeline permit to contain protection
for the environment and states’ rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  