-- 
Transocean Stock Sale Doesn’t End Junk Threat: Corporate Finance

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-11-30T22:08:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/transocean-stock-sale-doesn-t-end-junk-threat-corporate-finance.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s decision to raise
money through a share offering may fail to prevent the world’s
largest offshore driller from being downgraded to junk-bond
status, according to rating-company analysts.  Transocean sold $2.5 billion of bonds and issued 29.9
million shares for $1.2 billion as it seeks to buy $1.7 billion
in convertible bonds holders can redeem next month. The stock
sale was spurred by a Nov. 9 Moody’s Investors Service statement
that the Vernier, Switzerland-based firm may lose its
investment-grade debt rating because of rising costs and a
pending 2012 trial over last year’s Gulf of Mexico disaster,
said Geoff Kieburtz, director of energy research at Weeden & Co.  Analysts at Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s  aren’t changing
their rating or outlooks on the company based on the equity
sale. Both companies rate Transocean at their lowest investment
grades with “negative” outlooks.  “There are some positive things coming out of this but we
don’t necessarily think it’s enough to move the rating or
outlook from where they currently stand,” Lawrence Wilkinson, a
director at S&P in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It
bolsters their liquidity and then it also has the potential to
improve their leverage as well.”  Ratings Link  Guy Cantwell , a Houston-based spokesman for Transocean,
said it’s against the company’s policies to “comment on market
discussions.”  Transocean sold $1 billion of 5.05 percent, five-year
notes, $1.2 billion of 6.375 percent, 10-year notes and $300
million of 7.35 percent 30-year senior unsecured debt, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The coupons will increase 25 basis points for each level
below investment-grade at S&P and Moody’s, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction, who declined to be identified
citing lack of authorization to speak publicly. The coupons will
increase a maximum of 200 basis points, and the steps will fall
away if the company reaches Baa1 by Moody’s and BBB+ by S&P, the
person said.  Transocean previously tapped the U.S. corporate bond market
in September 2010, issuing $1.1 billion of 4.95 percent, five-
year notes and $900 million of 6.5 percent, 10-year debt,
Bloomberg data show. The 10-year notes today paid 430 basis
points above similar-maturity Treasuries, compared with the 375
basis-point spread in last year’s sale, the data show.  Proceeds from today’s sale will be used to help buy the
convertible debt, to refinance commercial paper and for general
corporate purposes, the company said today in a statement
distributed by Marketwire.  ‘Dark Cloud’  Potential liability from the fatal 2010 blowout and oil
leak at the Macondo field in the Gulf is a “dark cloud”
hanging over Transocean, and that the company needs to show
stronger operating performance, according to  Stuart Miller , a
vice president and senior analyst at Moody’s in New York.  While the equity increase will add liquidity, “it doesn’t
tell us what the company’s going to look like at the end of
2012,” Miller said.  Transocean priced 26 million new shares at $40.50 each, or
37.32 Swiss francs at an exchange rate of 0.9215 francs per
dollar, the company said in a statement late yesterday. The
offering, scheduled to close on Dec. 5, will net the company
$1.008 billion, after underwriting discounts, offering expenses
and Swiss taxes, according to the statement. Underwriters
exercised a 30-day option to buy 3.9 million additional shares.  Maintaining investment-grade ratings may save Transocean
$12.8 million in annual interest costs on every $1 billion in
new debt. The average yield on Transocean’s bonds prior to
yesterday’s announcement was 5.91 percent, compared with the
average 7.19 percent on all BB rated bonds, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Swaps Decline  Credit-default-swaps traders, who had pushed the cost of
protection to levels indicating Transocean debt already was
junk-rated, haven’t returned it to investment-grade status,
according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research group.
Swaps have implied the bonds should have been Ba1-rated since
Nov. 8.  The cost to protect Transocean debt from default dropped to
the lowest level since Nov. 18, according to data provider CMA.
Credit-default swaps tied to the company’s bonds fell 42.7 basis
points to 331.5 basis points yesterday, the data show. They
would have to fall to 289 basis points to escape a perceived
speculative rating.  Bond Prices  The share-sale announcement provided an immediate benefit
to existing bondholders. Transocean’s $900 million of 6.5
percent notes due in November 2020, rated Baa3 by Moody’s and
BBB- by S&P, rose 0.9 cent yesterday to 100.5 cents on the
dollar to yield 6.42 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The debt declined 1.1 cents today, to 99.4 cents on the
dollar, for a yield of 6.58 percent, Trace data show. The
increase in yield came as overall  interest rates  rose after the
 Federal Reserve  and five other central banks agreed to cut the
cost of dollar funding for European banks. The extra yield
investors demanded to own the Transocean bonds instead of
comparable-maturity Treasuries rose to 4.5 percentage points
from 4.43 percentage points yesterday.  Credit swaps, which typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘Taking a Hit’  The company’s stock tumbled 9.4 percent yesterday to
$41.63, the lowest price in seven years. The plunge surpassed
the trough reached on June 9, 2010, amid an intensifying U.S.
government probe into the disaster aboard a Transocean-owned rig
at a BP Plc oil well. It recovered 2.9 percent today, rising to
$42.85 amid a 4.3 percent rise in the  S&P 500 index .  “Shareholders are taking a hit,” Kieburtz said. “We’re
hard-pressed to get comfortable with this stock at this point.”  Transocean has lost 53.4 percent of its market value since
April 2010, when a surge of explosive gas from the Macondo well
off the Louisiana coast killed 11 workers aboard the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig and triggered the worst-ever U.S. maritime
oil spill. The company is facing tens of billions of dollars in
potential claims and penalties related to the catastrophe’s
environmental and economic fallout.  Equipment Delays  “They have been open in the past year that the investment-
grade rating is important to them, and so this is a move that
puts their money where their mouth is, so to speak,” said Brian Gibbons, a New York-based senior oil and gas analyst at
CreditSights Inc. “This is a very favorable and unexpected
development.”  Transocean has been beset by delays in obtaining gear to
meet tougher safety regulations that have idled rigs in
shipyards longer than expected, boosting operating costs and
contributing to a record third-quarter loss for the company,
Kieburtz said yesterday in a telephone interview from Greenwich,
 Connecticut .  Manufacturing bottlenecks and shipyard delays continue to
plague Transocean’s fleet and will cost an estimated $160
million to $200 million during the current quarter, the company
said in a prospectus for the equity sale.  “There are things the company can do that are within their
control, which include reducing costs, selling assets, reducing
discretionary  capital expenditures , or reducing their dividend
policy,” Miller said. Those “are the major issues we’ve
identified as quick fixes that are under their control.”  Equity Dilution  The share sale will bloat outstanding shares by as much as
8.9 percent and dilute the equity by more than the $1 billion of
dividends Transocean has promised for the 12-month period ending
in February, said Todd Scholl, a Houston-based analyst at
Clarkson Capital Markets LLC.  After spending $1.4 billion in cash for Norwegian rig owner
Aker Drilling ASA last month, the company probably only had
about $1.8 billion left available, just enough to cover the
costs of repurchasing the convertible notes, Scholl said. The
dilution of shares means the Aker transaction won’t be accretive
to earnings until sometime in 2013, he said, rather than
immediately, as Transocean Chief Executive Officer Steven Newman
predicted during a conference call with analysts when the deal
was announced in August.  Maintain Dividend  “I’m surprised they went this route but it looks like they
really wanted to protect their  credit rating ,” Scholl said in a
telephone interview. “It’s definitely at the expense of the
shareholders.”  Morningstar Inc. analyst Stephen Ellis said the share sale
is negative for equity investors, though it “should help
preserve Transocean’s investment-grade rating.” The issuance
also may aid the company in maintaining its 79-cent quarterly
dividend, he wrote.  Transocean’s board has authorized up to $2.5 billion in
long-term financing “in the near future,” according to the
prospectus. The company expects to seek between $1 billion and
$2 billion in one or more offerings, the proceeds of which will
be used to cover any portion of the convertible notes repurchase
not financed by the share issuance, as well as for general
corporate expenses, the filing said.  The drilling company said in the prospectus that it’s
seeking waivers from holders of $600 million in assumed Aker
debt that comes due on Dec. 30.  “They probably would have preferred to do a straight bond
offering rather than an equity offering, but the market was
neither readily available for that kind of an issue and I think
they were also being responsive to the concerns of one or more
of the rating agencies,” said Philip Adams, a Chicago-based
analyst at Gimme Credit LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 