-- 
Rapeseed in Eastern Europe Suffers From Dryness, Martell Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-11-30T17:14:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/rapeseed-in-eastern-europe-suffers-from-dryness-martell-says.html
Rapeseed in Eastern Europe suffered
from dry conditions that stunted growth before lower
temperatures this month pushed plants into premature dormancy,
Martell Crop Projections said.  Satellite information shows “sub-par crop growth” for the
oilseed in  Poland ,  Hungary ,  Romania , Slovakia and the eastern
 Czech Republic , Gail Martell, head of the Whitefish Bay,
Wisconsin-based  forecaster , said in an e-mailed report today.  The affected countries account for about a quarter of
European Union rapeseed production, according to Martell.
October and November rainfall in Eastern Europe was 30 percent
to 50 percent of normal amounts, the forecaster said.  “East Europe winter rapeseed is off to a shaky
beginning,” Martell wrote. “Poor fall growth and development
is partly due to cold November temperatures that forced rapeseed
into premature dormancy. Dry field conditions are also present
from scanty fall precipitation.”  Ukrainian rapeseed is suffering from drought, with rainfall
less than 40 percent of normal in the 90 days through mid-
November, according to the report.  “Poor crop establishment in the fall increases chances for
winter kill, if severe cold develops without snow to insulate
the crop,” Martell wrote.  The outlook for German, French and U.K. rapeseed crops is
better than for Eastern Europe, according to Martell. Still, the
U.K. faces dry conditions, receiving half of normal rainfall
from September to November, and the local harvest of the oilseed
may suffer yield reductions, it said.  Germany  experienced an “extremely dry” November with
hardly any rain, according to the forecaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 