-- 
RBA Straddles Record House Slump, Mining Boom: Chart of the Day

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-11-30T17:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/rba-straddles-record-house-slump-mining-boom-chart-of-the-day.html
Australia ’s central bank, weighing a
second consecutive interest-rate cut next week, is caught
between the weakest housing-loan growth on record and signs the
nation’s biggest resource boom is accelerating.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows mortgage lending rose 5.7
percent in October from a year earlier, the smallest gain since
records began in 1990. In contrast, business investment surged
to A$37.3 billion ($37.2 billion) last quarter, the highest
level since 1989. Australia is the world’s largest exporter of
iron ore, and shipments to  China  of the mineral used in
steelmaking have more than doubled since 2007 to a record.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
borrowing costs Nov. 1 by a quarter percentage point to 4.5
percent as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis threatens to slow
growth in Asian nations. Futures traders are betting he will
ease again at the Dec. 6 meeting.  “The RBA is in a bind, it’s a real dilemma,” said Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “If they
cut rates and consumers and housing comes to the party at the
same time as business investment is spiking, they’ve got an
inflation fight on their hands.”  Stevens last week refused to comment on the path of rates
during a speech, saying he didn’t “want to preempt future
decisions of the board.” He also noted there was a “pretty
good chance” that inflation next year would stay within the RBA
target of 2 percent to 3 percent.  The government data released yesterday showed that business
investment jumped by the most in 15 years in the third quarter
and an RBA report showed the slump in home lending, reflecting
the other side of Australia’s two-speed economy. Industries from
manufacturing to education and tourism have sagged in response
to the developed world’s highest borrowing costs and the
currency’s climb to a record high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  