-- 
Treasuries Maintain Decline as EFSF Expansion, Economic Outlook Sap Demand

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-11-30T06:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/treasuries-drop-as-efsf-expansion-economic-outlook-sap-demand.html
Treasuries held a three-day loss
after European leaders agreed to expand the capacity of a rescue
fund for indebted nations, sapping demand for safer assets.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year Treasuries and
inflation-indexed securities, a gauge of trader expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, increased six basis
points this week to 2 percentage points. Private reports today
may show improving U.S. job growth and home sales.  “The markets are moving away a little from the risk-averse
mood fueled by the European situation, and that’s been leading
to some selling of Treasuries,” said  Ayako Sera , a market
strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which
manages the equivalent of $298 billion. “There’s room for
yields to rise because I think the  U.S. economy  isn’t so bad.”  Benchmark U.S. 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.99
percent as of 6:41 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent security due in November 2021
changed hands at 100 3/32. The yield has decreased 12 basis
points since Oct. 31.  Sumitomo’s Sera said 10-year rates may advance to the mid-2
percent level, without giving a specific timeframe.  EFSF Firepower  Euro-area ministers meeting in Brussels yesterday agreed to
a plan to guarantee as much as 30 percent of new bond issues
from troubled governments and to develop investment vehicles
that would boost the European Financial Stability Facility’s
ability to intervene in primary and secondary bond markets.  The fund has a current lending capacity of 440 billion
euros ($586 billion). “Without knowing the exact amounts
needed, the EFSF should be able to leverage” its own resources
of up to 250 billion euros, according to a statement from the
organization.  Treasuries fluctuated throughout November in response to
European efforts to convince investors that nations in the
region will be able to pay their debts.  Demand for the relative safety of U.S. securities resulted
in a 1.1 percent gain this month as of yesterday, based on Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data. German bunds fell 0.9 percent and
Japanese bonds were little changed, the indexes show. The MSCI
All Country World  Index  of equities has lost 6.8 percent in
November.  Best Performer  Treasuries due in 10 years and more have returned 27
percent in 2011, the most among 144 bond indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies, after accounting for changes in currency rates.  “We still have a long, long way to go to settle the
European debt problem,” said Tsutomu Komiya, one of the bond
investors at Daiwa Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, which oversees
the equivalent of $118.7 billion and is a unit of Japan’s
second-biggest brokerage. “It will help keep yields down.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. had their long-term credit grades reduced to A-
from A after  Standard & Poor’s  revised criteria for dozens of
the world’s biggest lenders.  Investors should recognize that Europe’s problems are
global, and U.S. bonds will be among the beneficiaries,
according to  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund
at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “In the bond market space, the favorite strategy will be
to locate the cleanest dirty shirts -- the  United States ,
 Canada ,  United Kingdom  and  Australia ,” Gross, wrote in his
monthly outlook on Pimco’s  website  yesterday. “Bond investors
should also consider high as opposed to lower quality
corporate,” wrote Gross, who is based in  Newport Beach ,
California,  Fed Sales  Japan ’s 10-year  yield  was unchanged at 1.065 percent,
matching the highest level in almost three months.  The  Federal Reserve  is  scheduled  to sell as much as $8.75
billion of Treasuries due 2013 today as part of a plan announced
in September to replace $400 billion in shorter maturities with
longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs.  Signs of improvement in the U.S. economy also weighed on
demand for Treasuries. U.S. jobs increased by 130,000 this month
after rising by 110,000 in October, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
data by ADP Employer Services today. A separate report by the
National Association of Realtors may indicate  pending home sales 
increased 2 percent in October after falling 4.6 percent the
prior month.  That would follow data yesterday showing  consumer
confidence  improved by more than forecast in November as
Americans turned less pessimistic on jobs and wages. The
Conference Board said its  index  increased to 56 this month from
a revised 40.9 reading in October, the biggest monthly gain
since April 2003.  -- Editors: Garfield Reynolds, Jonathan Annells.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 vwgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  