-- 
Treasuries Fall After Fed Coordinates to Cut Europe Bank Funding Cost

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-11-30T22:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/treasuries-set-for-monthly-gain-as-eu-struggles-to-stem-contagion-concern.html
Treasuries dropped, pushing 10-year
yields to the highest in two weeks, after the  Federal Reserve 
and five other central banks cut the cost of emergency dollar
funding for European banks in response to the continent’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  The two-year U.S. interest-rate swap spread narrowed to the
lowest in almost three weeks as bank funding concern lessened.
U.S. debt  extended  losses after a private report showed the U.S.
added more jobs than forecast in November before the Labor
Department releases employment data on Dec. 2. The Fed said it
was joined in the swap rate cut by the Bank of Canada,  Bank of
England ,  Bank of Japan ,  European Central Bank  and the Swiss
National Bank.  “It’s going to free up some of the locked-up lending
that’s going on in Europe,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of
 interest rates  at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “It’s hard to look at
this move and not think what they did was significant, but I
don’t think it ends everything.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  rose eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point to 2.07 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security due in November 2021 fell 22/32, or $6.88 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 12/32. The yield rose as high as 2.11
percent, the most since Nov. 14.  Treasury Returns  Demand for the perceived safety of U.S. government
securities resulted in a 1.1 percent gain this month as of
yesterday, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. German
debt lost 0.9 percent, and Japanese bonds were little changed,
the indexes show. Treasuries have returned 9.1 percent this
year, the most since 2008.  The difference between yields on Treasuries maturing in
two- and 10-years widened seven basis points to 1.81 percentage
points, touching the most since Nov. 14.  The  two-year swap spread , the difference between two-year
swap rates and comparable maturity Treasury yields, an
indication of perceived funding risk in the financial system,
narrowed by almost 11 basis points to 41.55 basis points, the
lowest since Nov. 10.  The dollar funding rate interest rate has been reduced to
the dollar overnight index swap rate plus 50 basis points, or
half a percentage point, from 100 basis points, and the program
was extended to Feb. 1, 2013, the Fed said in a statement in
 Washington .  Less Strain  “The purpose of these actions is to ease strains in
financial markets and thereby mitigate the effects of such
strains on the supply of credit to households and businesses and
so help foster economic activity,” the statement said.  The central banks acted after the cost for European banks
to fund in dollars rose to the highest levels in three years as
concern about a possible breakup of the euro area increased
after leaders said they’d failed to boost the region’s bailout
fund as much as planned.  “It is a vote of confidence to the market that the ECB is
in,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It is consistent
with an ECB that has shifted its general direction of policy
from on-hold, slash, tighter to an easing stance.”  Under the dollar liquidity-swap program, the Fed lends
dollars to the ECB and other central banks in exchange for
currencies including euros. The central banks lend dollars to
commercial banks in their jurisdictions through an auction
process.  Market Function  “They are seeing something in the functioning in the
banking system that worries them and they are hopefully taking
preemptive measures to relieve that pressure,” said Mohamed El- Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment officer at Pimco,
the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt. “The short term impact is unambiguously positive for
risk markets.”  The Fed said its sale of between $8 billion and $8.75
billion of debt maturing in 2013 originally scheduled for today
will be conducted Dec. 2, according to a statement on the Fed
Bank of New York’s website. The Fed is replacing $400 billion of
short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term securities
through June in program known as Operation Twist.  The central bank plans to buy about $45 billion of
Treasuries and sell about $52 billion during December, according
to the statement.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. had their long-term credit grades reduced to A-
from A yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s  revised criteria for
dozens of the world’s biggest lenders.  Yield Range  Treasuries have fluctuated over the past three months as
European leaders tried to convince investors that nations in the
region will be able to pay their debts. The U.S. 10-year yield
rose to 2.42 percent on Oct. 28, after reaching a record low
1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  The yield on U.S. 30-year bonds rose to 12 basis points
above similar maturity German government securities after
falling below them yesterday for the first time since May 2009.  Italian and Spanish 10-year bonds dropped relative to
benchmark German securities earlier today after euro-area
ministers said more work was needed to enhance the role of the
 International Monetary Fund  in fighting  Europe ’s debt crisis.
The region is struggling with a crisis that has already forced
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts, and pushed yields
at an Italian sale of three-year bonds yesterday to 7.89
percent.  Funding Concern  “The question is whether it’s a knee-jerk reaction,” said
Richard Gilhooly, an interest-rate strategist at TD Securities
Inc. in New York. “It doesn’t alleviate funding concerns for
 Italy . The next leg of this trade is to see Italian yields come
down. Italy is not Greece or Ireland. Italy is the end of the
euro if they don’t get them down.”  The yield on 10-year Italian government debt fell 16 basis
points to 7.08 percent, while  the difference  between those
securities and German bunds of similar maturity narrowed eight
basis points to 4.79 percentage points. The yield on  Spain ’s 10-
year government notes fell eight basis points to  6.32 percent ,
touching the lowest since Nov. 16.  The economy expanded at a “at a slow to moderate pace”
led by gains in manufacturing and consumer spending, during the
period covering October and the first half of November, the Fed
said in its Beige Book survey released today in Washington.  Companies added 206,000 workers to payrolls in November,
according to data today from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services.  Jobs Pattern  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for an advance of 130,000. Projections ranged from
gains of 95,000 to 200,000. Last month, ADP’s initial figures
showed a 110,000 gain for October, while the Labor Department’s
data two days later showed an increase of 104,000 in private
payrolls.  U.S. payrolls gained by 125,000 during November, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 82
economists.  The gap between 10-year yields on fixed-rate U.S.
government debt and Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities
widened to 2.06 percentage points, the most since Nov. 14. The
difference in yields, known as the breakeven inflation rate,
indicates the average level of increase in consumer prices
traders expect during the life of the securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
dkruger1@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  