-- 
Red Sox to Name Valentine Manager After Collapse Costs Team Playoffs Spot

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-01T05:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/red-sox-will-name-ex-mets-chief-bobby-valentine-new-manager-espn-reports.html
Bobby Valentine  will be introduced
today as the new manager of the  Boston Red Sox , one of Major
League Baseball’s most successful franchises, nine years after
he was fired by the New York Mets.  Valentine succeeds Terry Francona, who left in September
after Boston blew a nine-game wild-card lead in the final month
and missed the postseason for the second straight year.  The Red Sox will hold a press conference to announce 61-
year-old Valentine’s appointment at 5:30 p.m. local time, the
team said last night in an e-mailed release.  Valentine has worked as a major league analyst for Walt
Disney Co.’s ESPN since his last managerial job with  Japan ’s
Chiba Lotte Marines from 2003 to 2009. The only manager to have
teams reach championship rounds in the U.S. and Japan, Valentine
has 1,117 wins and 1,072 losses in 15 seasons as a major league
manager, including seven years with the Mets and eight with the
Texas Rangers.  Valentine led the Mets to the 2000 World Series, where they
lost to the  New York Yankees .  Since January, Valentine also has served as director of
public health and safety for his hometown of Stamford,
Connecticut.  14 Winning Seasons  The Red Sox have had 14 straight winning seasons, including
10 years with 90 or more victories, and along with the  St. Louis
Cardinals  are the only two-time World Series champions over the
last 11 seasons.  “This is a great organization with a great team and a
great city and ballpark,” Valentine said after his job
interview with the Red Sox on Nov. 21. “I don’t think that
anywhere else where there’s been a job opening and my name has
been mentioned there have been as many fabulous factors.”  Boston made the postseason six times in a seven-year span
from 2003 to 2009, and won  World Series  titles in 2004 and 2007
under Francona. The Red Sox went 90-72 last season, losing the
AL wild-card playoff berth to the  Tampa Bay Rays  after dropping
20 of their final 27 games.  Francona and the Red Sox parted ways amid questions about
the club’s culture and chemistry.  Following the season,  Jon Lester  confirmed a report in the
Boston Globe that he and fellow pitchers Josh Beckett and John Lackey drank beer in the clubhouse during games they weren’t
scheduled to pitch. Boston’s starting staff had a 4-13 record
and a 7.08 earned run average in September.  Epstein Exits  The Red Sox are also dealing with changes in their baseball
operations department. Theo Epstein, who spent nine years as
 Boston ’s general manager, left to become the Chicago Cubs’
president of baseball operations. Ben Cherington was promoted
from assistant general manager to replace Epstein and headed the
team’s search for a new manager.  Milwaukee Brewers hitting coach Dale Sveum had two
interviews with the Red Sox before being hired by Epstein to
manage the Cubs. Philadelphia Phillies bench coach Pete Mackanin,
Cleveland Indians bench coach Sandy Alomar, Detroit Tigers
third-base coach Gene Lamont and Toronto Blue Jays first-base
coach Torey Lovullo were also candidates.  Valentine was a candidate for managerial jobs in Milwaukee,
 Florida , Baltimore and  Washington  after ending his six-year run
with the Marines in Japan’s Pacific League. In 2005, Valentine
led the club to its first title in 31 years, and his success
resulted in a street being named after him and books being
written in Japanese about his management style.  Valentine was fired by the Mets in 2002 following the
team’s last-place finish. He had a 536-467 record in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  