-- 
Romney Trades Attacks With Gingrich in New Phase of Campaign

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-11-30T17:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/republican-candidates-step-up-attacks-against-each-other-as-primaries-near.html
Less than five weeks before the
first votes are cast, Republican presidential candidates have
entered a new phase as each tries to break from the crowded
field by drawing sharp distinctions with other competitors.  Former Governor  Mitt Romney , a front-runner who has yet to
break past about 30 percent support from Republicans in national
polls, last night sought to slow the momentum of former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich .  “I think to get President Obama out of office, you’re
going to have to bring something to the race that’s different
than what he brings,” Romney said on  Fox News . “He’s a
lifelong politician.”  During a campaign tour through South Carolina earlier
yesterday, Gingrich sought to raise doubts about Romney’s
commitment to such core Republican ideals as opposition to
abortion rights and tax hikes.  “When you have a 90 percent  American Conservative Union 
rating for your entire lifetime, there’s a clear contrast,”
Gingrich said, referring to his own record.  In a  South Carolina  radio interview on Nov. 28, Gingrich
said he doesn’t claim to be “the perfect” candidate. “I just
claim to be a lot more conservative than Mitt Romney, and a lot
more electable than anybody else,” he said.  The Other Six  As Gingrich and Romney took aim at each other, the six
other candidates also searched for an edge that could catapult
them in the polls. A Nov. 20 nationwide CNN  poll  showed Gingrich
with 24 percent support, Romney at 21 percent, Herman Cain at 15
percent, and all other aspirants below 10 percent.  Cain, the former Godfather’s Pizza chief executive officer,
is reassessing his candidacy after an Atlanta woman on Nov. 28
claimed to have had a sporadic, 13-year affair with him. He’s
also been dogged by accusations from other women of sexual
harassment.  A collapse in support for Cain could provide an opening for
other candidates to expand their bases.  Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann  has been among
the most willing to draw contrasts. In a Nov. 22 debate,
Bachmann and Romney dubbed as “amnesty” Gingrich’s proposal to
allow some illegal aliens who arrived in the U.S. long ago to
legally remain in the country.  Speaking to reporters this morning in Greenville, South
Carolina, Gingrich called Bachmann “factually challenged” for
her claim.  ‘Factually Challenged’  “When I was a teacher, I occasionally had a student who
couldn’t figure out where things were or what things were or
what the right date was,” he said, standing in Tommy’s Country
Ham House. “When that happens, you feel sorry that they are so
factually challenged.”  Gingrich’s South Carolina visit illustrated his campaign’s
re-energized national strategy. Book signings have been replaced
with town-hall meetings. Field teams and state-specific websites
are being launched in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina,
the early-voting states in the nomination fight. And the
campaign is infused with a new sense of confidence about its
ability to compete in a drawn-out primary race.  “If we do well in South Carolina and win in  Florida , down
goes Willard,” said R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s campaign
spokesman, referring to Romney by his first name.  South Carolina Leader  An American Research Group  survey  released yesterday showed
33 percent of likely South Carolina Republican primary voters
backing Gingrich, up from 8 percent in October, compared with 22
percent supporting Romney.  Gingrich is working to avoid the fate of some of his
rivals, who surged in the polls only to plummet after weak
debate performances or other errors.  After reporting $1.2 million in debts in a Sept. 30
disclosure report, the Gingrich campaign said it has raised
about $4 million since then. It now has 10 paid staff and has
opened five offices in South Carolina. In New Hampshire, six
aides are working out of a new office in the center of downtown
Manchester. And in  Iowa , Craig Schoenfeld and Katie Koberg, two
of six staffers in the state who resigned on June 9,  rejoined 
the campaign mid-November as senior advisers.  “We first started going across the state in early
September,” said James Epley, the campaign chairman for
Beaufort County, South Carolina. “We’ve seen it grow from
there.”  Time Running Out  Still, some Republicans question whether Gingrich has
enough time to build an effective operation.  “Highly motivated volunteers can trump a lot of things --
just not time,” said Jim Dyke, a South Carolina-based
Republican strategist.  In addition to his immigration stance, Gingrich has worked
to explain to voters how he earned millions after resigning the
speakership and his House seat in 1999.  “I did no lobbying of any kind -- period,” Gingrich said.
“I’m going to be really direct, OK? I was charging $60,000 a
speech. And the number of speeches was going up, not down.”  That steady stream of income, said Gingrich, allowed him to
only do consulting work for clients he supported.  “If I didn’t like the issue, I didn’t deal with it,”
Gingrich said “If I didn’t agree with you, I didn’t say it.”  Freddie Mac   His clients included Freddie Mac, a mortgage company taken
into government conservatorship in 2008 after its stake in
failed subprime loans pushed it to the brink of collapse.  “I can’t tell you which distortion my opponents are going
to raise,” he said. “I can tell you this: I will be prepared
to answer every one of them.”  New Hampshire ’s Manchester Union Leader’s Nov. 27
endorsement of Gingrich added a sense of momentum to his
campaign. “We would rather back someone with whom we may
sometimes disagree than one who tells us what he thinks we want
to hear,” the newspaper wrote.  Still, the former speaker’s background bothered some
voters, who said his past advocacy work, two divorces and
admissions of marital infidelity would make it difficult for him
to win in 2012.  “My concern is that Gingrich has had a high negative image
in many, many areas in the past,” said Jim McGrath, of Sun
City, South Carolina. “How is he going to overcome that with
the independent voter?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  