-- 
Lacker Says Fed Swap Arrangements Amount to ‘Fiscal Policy’

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-11-30T22:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/richmond-s-lacker-says-fed-swap-arrangements-amount-to-fiscal-policy-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he dissented against the  Federal
Open Market Committee ’s currency-swap decision because it was a
form of fiscal policy.  “I opposed the temporary swap arrangements to support
Federal Reserve lending in foreign currencies,” Lacker said in
a statement released on the Richmond Fed’s website. “Such
lending amounts to fiscal policy, which I believe is the
responsibility of the U.S. Treasury.”  The Fed and five other central banks agreed to lower their
pricing on temporary  U.S. dollar  swap arrangements by 50 basis
points. The premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight from
central banks will now be the U.S. dollar overnight index swap
rate plus 50 basis points. The new pricing will be applied to
operations starting on Dec. 5.  Lacker said he also opposed lowering the  interest rate  on
the swap arrangements below the Fed’s so-called discount rate on
direct loans to banks. The discount rate for primary borrowers
is currently at 0.75 percent.  Dissents against currency arrangements have been common for
the Richmond Fed in the past. Former Richmond Fed President J.
Alfred Broaddus Jr. dissented against the Fed’s 2003
authorization for foreign currency operations. Broaddus in
remarks later that year explained that foreign currency
operations can work against credibility by confusing the public
about whether the central bank is working toward domestic or
external objectives.  Fed policy makers voted 9-1 in favor of the swap decision
in a Nov. 28 videoconference. Lacker voted in place of
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , who was unavailable
for the meeting. Lacker will be a voting member of the FOMC next
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  