-- 
Rupee Bond Sales Double as Slower Growth Eases Rate Pressure: India Credit

-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 
2011-12-01T06:35:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/rupee-bond-sales-double-as-slower-growth-eases-rate-pressure-india-credit.html
Indian companies more than doubled
rupee bond sales in November and top underwriters predict more
issuance in coming months as slowing economic  growth  eases
pressure on the central bank to  raise   interest rates .  Sales surged to 103.3 billion rupees ($2 billion) last
month from a six-month low of 47.3 billion rupees in October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the
nation’s biggest rupee-denominated bond arranger in November
expects issuance to rise this month. Debt sales will exceed 300
billion rupees in the first quarter of 2012, according to ICICI
Securities Primary Dealership Ltd., the third-biggest
underwriter this year.  Five-year funding  costs for companies rated AAA by Standard
& Poor’s Indian unit Crisil Ltd. fell 18 basis points to 9.63
percent in the past three weeks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The drop comes after the central bank indicated it
may hold rates this month after  seven increases  in 2011. Yields
on similarly rated bonds in China  gained  28 basis points to 5.16
percent, while those on top-rated U.S. notes rose 11 to 1.68
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Chinabond indexes.  “The slowdown in economic growth will ease rates and
because of this bond sales will likely pick up further in
December,” Hari Das Khunteta, the New Delhi-based director of
finance at  Rural Electrification Corp. (RECL) , the second-largest
issuer of rupee bonds in November, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Companies need more funding for growth, which is
possible if rupee interest rates ease further.”  Growth Slows  Khunteta spoke after the Indian government said the economy
grew at its slowest pace in more than two years in the three
months through September. Gross domestic product  rose  6.9
percent, the weakest expansion since the second quarter of 2009,
a report yesterday showed.  The extra yield investors demand to hold AAA rated five-
year corporate bonds rather than similar-maturity government
debt rose 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, in November
to 75 basis points yesterday. The spread has ranged this year
from 132 on Feb. 23 to 61 on Nov. 8.  Indian authorities are trying to limit the economic impact
of  Europe ’s debt crisis while curbing  inflation , which topped 9
percent for the 11th month in October. Indian price growth is
almost twice the rate in China and higher than Brazil and  Russia .
The  Reserve Bank  of India raised its benchmark rate to 8.5
percent from 8.25 percent on Oct. 25.  Rate Increase Pause  The Reserve Bank said its rate increases will help curb
inflation and that the chances it will boost rates further at
its Dec. 16 policy meeting are “relatively low.” The U.S.
 Federal Reserve  has kept rates near zero since 2008.  “Expectations for inflation to ease suggest that policy
rates will remain unchanged, which would prevent hardening of
rates and encourage more borrowing in rupees,” Shameek Ray, the
Mumbai-based head of debt  capital markets  at ICICI Securities
Primary Dealership, said in a Nov. 28 phone interview.  The benchmark wholesale-price index jumped 9.73 percent in
October from a year earlier, after rising 9.72 percent in
September. In a sign that inflation may be easing,  food prices 
rose at their slowest pace in almost four months in the week
ended Nov. 12, increasing 9.01 percent.  “With growth having slipped below 7 percent, growth
concerns are likely to dominate more strongly than ever
before,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc. said in a phone interview yesterday.
“We expect the RBI will start reducing rates in the April to
June quarter, once inflation falls to a more comfortable
level.”  Rupee Weakening  Any further weakening in India’s rupee may complicate the
central bank’s outlook on interest rates. The weak currency puts
pressure on prices by raising the cost of imported goods. The
rupee has dropped 13.7 percent against the dollar this year, the
worst performance among  Asia ’s 10 most traded currencies.  The rupee advanced 1.1 percent, the most in more than a
month, to 51.6450 per dollar as of 11:55 a.m. in Mumbai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached a
record-low 52.73 on Nov. 22.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the country’s largest
mortgage lender, and state-run bank Rural Electrification Corp.
led the increase in bond sales last month. Issuance fell short
of the monthly average for 2011 of 130.6 billion rupees.  Indian companies’  costs  to borrow in dollars rose to 6.57
percent yesterday, down from a two-year high of 6.99 percent on
Oct. 6. The  premium  demanded by investors to hold Indian debt
denominated in the U.S. currency touched a two-year high of 626
basis points on Oct. 6, according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  The only international debt sale this quarter was a 650
million yuan ($102 million) bond sold by state-backed lender
IDBI Bank Ltd. on Nov. 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Open-Market Auction  India ’s 10-year government  bonds  advanced, pushing yields
to an eight-week low, on speculation the central bank will
purchase more debt to increase the availability of cash in the
banking system. The yield on sovereign 8.79 percent notes due in
November 2021 fell three basis points to 8.71 percent as of
11:01 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system.  The country’s bonds returned 3.4 percent this year, the
worst performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt markets
monitored by HSBC, as inflation crimped earnings for investors.  The average cost for credit-default swaps insuring against
non-payment on the debt of seven Indian companies has dropped 32
basis points this quarter to 409 basis points, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets.  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a nation or
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Capital Controls   The government last month raised the limit on rupee debt
foreigners can purchase. The  Finance Ministry  increased the cap
on government and corporate bonds by $5 billion each to $15
billion and $45 billion respectively, Thomas Mathew, joint
secretary in charge of capital markets, told reporters in  New
Delhi  on Nov. 17.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is aiming to double
investment in public works and utilities to $1 trillion in the
next five years, in an effort to catch up with infrastructure
development in  China .  “There were a flurry of bond transactions this month as
some underwriters were buying debt in anticipation of the
increase in the limit for foreign investors,” SJ Balesh, senior
director at Infrastructure Development Finance Corp. said in a
phone interview on Nov. 29. “The buyers are trying to see
whether they can allocate debt to foreign investors” up to the
new limits, Balesh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  