-- 
S. Korean Inflation Quickens to 3-Month High, Above Central Bank’s Target

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-12-01T01:17:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/s-korean-inflation-quickens-to-3-month-high-above-central-bank-s-target.html
South Korea ’s inflation accelerated
to a three-month high and above the central bank’s target limit
in November, posing a dilemma for policy makers as risks to
growth increase.  Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier, after
a revised 3.6 percent gain in October, Statistics  Korea  said
today in Gwacheon, south of Seoul. The reading used a new
inflation gauge system after the government this week changed
the base year for the index to 2010 from 2005. A separate report
showed  exports  rose a more-than-forecast 13.8 percent.  Elevated inflation may leave limited room for the  Bank of
Korea  to cut  interest rates  as  Europe ’s debt crisis dims the
outlook for exports.  China ’s central bank last night announced
the first cut in lenders’ reserve requirements since 2008, as
the U.S. Federal Reserve led a global effort to ease strains in
financial markets.  “Today’s data indicate inflation remains a concern,” Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul, said. “The central bank is likely to
stay pat for another three months before considering a rate cut
due to Europe.”  The won rose 1.5 percent to 1,126.15 per dollar as of 9:21
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi stock index gained 3.4 percent.  The gain in exports compared with a median estimate of 10.4
percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  Calculation Revisions  Consumer prices rose 4.6 percent last month from a year
earlier under the previous calculation system, according to
today’s report. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of 14 economists using the previous system was for a 4.4 percent
increase. Prices rose 0.1 percent from October.  Core prices, which exclude agricultural and oil products,
advanced 3.5 percent in November from a year earlier, it showed.  The government changed its inflation calculation system in
a regular revision this week, cutting the number of items in its
consumer price index basket to 481 from 489. A total of 21 items
were removed, including gold rings and electronic dictionaries,
while 43 items such as broadband fees and smart-phone charges
were added. Some 57 items were merged into 25 categories,
Statistics Korea said on Nov. 29.  Exports, which is half of the nation’s economy, rose to $47
billion last month from a revised $46.8 billion in October,
today’s report showed. Imports climbed 11.3 percent to $43
billion. The  trade surplus  was $3.9 billion.  Economic Slowdown  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy  grew  0.7 percent last quarter
from the three months through June, when it expanded 0.9
percent, the central bank said Oct. 27.  The nation’s industrial output slipped in October from the
previous month as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis damped demand
for exports. Production fell 0.7 percent, the fifth decline this
year, after expanding a revised 1.2 percent in September,
Statistics Korea said yesterday.  South Korean manufacturers’ confidence held close to a 27-
month low because of ongoing concerns over Europe’s debt crisis,
according to a central bank report on Nov. 28. An index
measuring expectations for December rose to 83 from 82 for
November. A measure of expectations at non-manufacturing
companies slipped to 82 from 84.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  