-- 
Saab Surges on Optimism Switzerland Will Opt to Buy Gripen Jet

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e   a n d   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 
2011-11-30T13:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/saab-surges-on-optimism-switzerland-will-opt-to-buy-gripen-jet.html
Saab AB (SAABB)  surged the most since
February in Stockholm trading on a report that Switzerland plans
to buy 22 Gripen fighter jets for about 3 billion Swiss francs
($3.29 billion).  Saab gained as much as 8.9 kronor, or 8.2 percent, to 117.5
kronor in Stockholm, the most since Feb. 16. The stock reversed
an earlier loss and traded at 117.1 kronor as of 2:35 p.m.  Switzerland has decided against buying the  Dassault
Aviation SA (AM) ’s Rafale or Eurofighter jets, Tages-Anzeiger
reported, citing unidentified people close to the government.
Spokespeople for Saab and Dassault said they have not been
informed of any decision. A Eurofighter spokesman did not
immediately return calls seeking comment.  The country is awarding a contract to replace its fleet of
ageing Northrop F-5 Tigers. The Swedish defense manufacturer has
won export orders to  South Africa  and Thailand and also is
competing with Eurofighter in  India . The Swedish aircraft made
its first flight in 1988 and entered service in 1993. The first
export contract for the 1,320 mile-per-hour aircraft was signed
by South Africa in 1999.  Saab is competing against  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s F/A-18 Super Hornet
and the Rafale jet for orders in Brazil, and the company is also
pursuing order from Croatia and Bulgaria. The Gripen was
eliminated in April from the six-way contest to replace India’s
aging fleet of MiG-21s, along with the F/A-18 Super Hornet and
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-16.  The Gripen has struggled to win export business in recent
years. Norway dealt Saab a blow in 2008 with a contract for 48
Lockheed Martin Joint Strike Fighters after analysts
predicted the Gripen would win. Work on Gripens for South Africa
and  Thailand  runs out in 2012.  For Dassault, losing out in Switzerland further dims the
export prospects for its Rafale combat jet, which so far has
failed to win a single buyer beyond the French government.
Eurofighter has also scaled back output of its aircraft as
demand drops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  