-- 
Samsung C&T Group Said Close to Buying Parallel Petroleum for $780 Million

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/samsung-c-t-group-said-close-to-buying-parallel-petroleum-for-780-million.html
Samsung C&T Corp. (000830) , the trading arm
of  Samsung Group , is close to an agreement to buy control of
Parallel Petroleum Corp. from Apollo Global Management LLC for
about $780 million, said two people with knowledge of the deal.  Samsung C&T will acquire a 90 percent stake in  Parallel
Petroleum  while Korea National Oil Corp. will own the rest, the
people said, asking not to be identified because the terms are
private. An announcement may come as early as today, they said.  Rising prices of raw materials are spurring South Korean
companies to boost investments in commodities ranging from oil
and gas to copper, as they’re competing for  supplies  with China
and  India . Samsung C&T aims to boost revenue from its natural
resources, energy and environment business to 46 percent of
overall sales by 2015 from 31 percent in 2010, according to an
investor relations  presentation  on its website.  In addition to changing Samsung C&T’s revenue mix, the
purchase may also bolster the company’s construction business,
said James Chong, an analyst at Tong Yang Investment Bank in
 Seoul . “Such investments would enable the company to
participate more in infrastructure projects needed in the
development of resources,” he said.  Samsung C&T fell 0.6 percent at 2 p.m. in Seoul trading,
mirroring a decline in the benchmark Kospi index.  The deal would mark the biggest overseas takeover in the
 energy industry  by a Korean company this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. State-owned  KNOC  bought a 95 percent stake in
Altius Holdings Inc. for $515 million in March. KNOC also agreed
to buy a 24 percent holding in a Texas shale-oil block from
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. for $1.55 billion this year.  Metals X  Apollo, based in  New York , aims to raise as much as $1.5
billion for a fund that will invest in natural resources and is
touting its record running companies including Parallel
Petroleum and Noranda Aluminum Holding Corp. to prospective
backers, a person familiar with the matter said in July.  Samsung C&T said in September it won a 658.8 billion won
($578 million) order to build a power plant in the  United Arab
Emirates . Perth-based Metals X Ltd. last week said it is in
talks with companies including Samsung C&T about funding and
developing a nickel and cobalt project in  Australia .  Samsung C&T declined to comment on the purchase in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. Calls to
Apollo’s New York offices outside of regular business hours went
unanswered. Reuters reported earlier today that Samsung C&T is
close to buying Parallel Petroleum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  