-- 
Samsung Defeats Apple’s Bid to Ban Sales of Its Galaxy Tablet in Australia

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-11-30T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/samsung-defeats-apple-sought-ban-in-australia.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
biggest smartphone maker, won a battle in its global patent war
with Apple Inc. as an Australian appeals court overturned a ban
on the sale of its tablet rivaling the iPad.  Samsung can begin sales of its Galaxy Tab 10.1 in the
country starting Dec. 2, a federal appeals judge ruled today. A
three-member appeal panel unanimously said that a lower-court
judge earlier made a mistake in granting Cupertino, California-
based Apple’s request for a ban.  Apple must file an emergency appeal against this verdict in
the Canberra-based High Court, the nation’s apex legal body, to
extend the ban. The Australian dispute is part of a battle
between the companies on at least four continents that began in
April, when Apple sued Samsung in the U.S. and accused it of
“slavishly” copying the designs of  iPhones and iPads .  “The removal of the injunction is a win for consumer
choice in the Australian tablet market,” Tim Renowden, an
analyst at researcher Ovum Plc, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Samsung is not out of the Australian scrub yet” because the
removal of the ban still hinges on the  High Court ’s decision.  The High Court must decide before the end of business on
Dec. 2 whether to grant Apple’s request to keep the ban in place
beyond that date. If it grants the request, Apple will have 28
days from today to file a request to appeal the ruling.  ‘Blatant Copying’  “The ruling clearly affirms that Apple’s legal claims lack
merit,” said Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman for Samsung. He added
that the Suwon, South Korea-based company will make an
announcement on the Galaxy’s availability in  Australia 
“shortly.”  Samsung shares fell 0.1 percent to close at 1 million won
($878) in Seoul trading today, erasing earlier losses of as much
as 0.9 percent. The stock has gained 5.8 percent this year
compared with the 16 percent advance for Apple.  Apple said “it’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest
products look a lot like the iPhone and iPad.”  “This kind of blatant copying is wrong and, as we’ve said
many times before, we need to protect Apple’s intellectual
property when companies steal our ideas,” the company said in
an e-mail after today’s ruling.  Samsung is the second-largest component supplier for Apple.
The Korean company gets about 7.6 percent of its total revenue
from selling memory chips, displays and other components for the
iPhone and iPad, according to Bloomberg data.  Steve Jobs   The patent disputes began when Samsung released its
Android-based Galaxy smartphones in 2010. Steve Jobs, the co-
founder of Apple who died Oct. 5, initiated contact with Samsung
in July 2010 over his concerns that the Galaxy phones copied the
iPhone, according to Richard Lutton, Apple’s patent attorney,
who testified in Sydney on Sept. 29.  Jobs wasn’t involved in the talks, which failed to resolve
the dispute, Lutton said.  Apple sued Samsung in federal court in Oakland,  California ,
on April 15, claiming the Samsung phones and tablets infringed
its patents and the trademarked look of the iPhone and iPad.  Samsung was the world’s biggest maker of smartphones in the
last quarter, with Apple being second. The maker of Mac
computers dominates the tablet market.  The look of the iPad isn’t original, Samsung’s lawyers
argued in the U.S., citing Stanley Kubrick’s “2001: A Space
Odyssey.” The Apple tablets look like those used by astronauts
in the 1968 film, Samsung said.  Seoul ,  Tokyo   Samsung countered a week after the Apple lawsuit, filing
complaints in Seoul, Tokyo and Mannheim,  Germany , alleging Apple
infringed its patents. Samsung then followed with lawsuits in
California, the U.K., Italy and Australia, claiming Apple was
using Samsung’s inventions related to mobile phones without
paying for them.  In Australia, Apple had won an injunction Oct. 13 barring
the sale of the Galaxy until the companies resolve a patent
dispute at trial. Apple claims Samsung’s tablet infringes at
least two of its patents relating to the operation and interface
of a touch screen. Samsung had agreed in August to delay the
sale until a judge ruled on the injunction request.  The appeals court today criticized the lower court’s
decision to grant the injunction, which cited Samsung’s refusal
to accept an early trial on the patent claims.  Judge Erred  “We cannot see how Samsung’s conduct in refusing the offer
of an early trial could properly be weighed,” the three-judge
appeal panel said in today’s decision. The lower court “erred
in principle by taking into account that irrelevant
consideration,” it said.  Samsung had planned to scrap Australian sales of the newest
Galaxy tablet if it couldn’t meet the  Christmas shopping season 
because missing that would render the device “dead,” the
company’s lawyer  Neil Young  said at an Oct. 4 hearing.  Young today reiterated the company’s desire to get the
tablet on store shelves before Christmas and said extending the
ban would “extend the injustice.”  Apple won a ban on the sale of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in most
of the European Union in August, when a German court granted an
injunction. The order was scaled back to be enforceable only in
Germany because there were doubts whether the court had the
jurisdiction to issue a broader ban, court spokesman Peter
Schuetz said.  Australian Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett ordered
on Nov. 15 that a trial on Samsung’s claims in the country be
held in March, against objections from Apple, which had sought a
later date.  The case is Samsung Electronics Co. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
NSD1792/2011. Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  