-- 
Sasol Studies $4.5 Billion Ethane Cracker in Louisiana

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-11-30T17:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/sasol-studies-ethane-cracker-plant-of-as-much-as-4-5-billion-in-lousiana.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuel from coal, said it may spend as much as $4.5 billion
to build a U.S. plant that would use low-cost natural gas to
make ethylene and related chemicals in  Louisiana .  A feasibility study on building an ethane-fed ethylene
plant, known as a cracker, at a company site in  Lake Charles 
will be completed by June 2013, Johannesburg-based Sasol said
today in a statement. The cost of building plants that produce 1
million to 1.4 million metric tons of ethylene a year plus
derivatives will be $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion, Sasol said.  Sasol joins  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , Chevron Phillips Chemical Co.
and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, among others, who are studying
whether to build ethane crackers in the U.S. where the price of
 gas relative to oil  fell to a record low this month. The new
crackers, the first to be built in the U.S. since 2001, are
poised to be the country’s largest wave of new capacity.  “Strategic growth in chemicals will take full advantage of
the natural-gas opportunities along the U.S.  Gulf coast ,” Chief
Executive Officer David Constable said in a separate statement.
“The anticipated growth will strengthen Sasol’s overall
portfolio.”  Ethane is a component of gas used to make ethylene, the
most produced petrochemical and an industry bellwether. New
drilling methods are opening up shale formations from  Texas  to
 West Virginia , reducing the cost of gas and making the U.S. the
lowest-cost ethylene producer outside the  Middle East .  Dow’s Plans  Dow, the world’s largest producer of ethylene and
polyethylene, plans to spend about $4 billion to construct a
cracker near the Gulf Coast by 2017, reopen another in Louisiana
and build two propylene plants. Ethylene producers in Europe and
 Asia , where oil-derived naphtha is the main feedstock, aren’t
currently profitable, Dow said yesterday.  Sasol will use “differentiating technologies” to produce
products from ethylene competitively at the complex, André de Ruyter, senior group executive of operations, said by phone,
declining to elaborate.  It will also enjoy “huge value-add” by building the plant
on the same site as a planned gas-to-liquids plant. “It gives
us huge synergies to integrate the plants at one site,” De
Ruyter said on the conference call. “We already have access to
the land and incentives from local government.”  ‘Strategic Growth’  Sasol has started discussions to “potentially divest” its
stake in Arya Sasol Polymers Co. in  Iran , the company said.
Sasol and Pars Petrochemical of Iran, a unit of the state-owned
National Petrochemical Co., both own 50 percent stakes in Arya,
with a design capacity of 1 metric tons of ethylene.  Further announcements will be made “once sufficient
progress has been made on these discussions,” it said. Sasol
said in a regulatory filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in October that it is reviewing operations in Iran
given U.S. and European Union sanctions against the country.  De Ruyter declined on the call to elaborate on the
difficulties it may face exiting the business or taking proceeds
of a sale out of Iran, saying the information is commercially
sensitive. The company is following rigorous processes to ensure
it remains compliant with sanctions requirements, he said.  “The indication at this stage is that the sanctions will
have no impact on other operations” outside Iran, he said.  Sasol jumped 5 percent to 389.13 rand in Johannesburg, its
highest closing price since April 8. The FTSE/JSE Africa All
Share Index rose 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  