-- 
Satyrs Pursue Nymphs in Paris Show on Life in Pompeii: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-11-30T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/satyrs-pursue-nymphs-in-paris-show-on-life-in-pompeii-review.html
Bunga bunga wasn’t invented by
 Silvio Berlusconi . As the murals in Pompeii make clear, the
ancient Romans knew a thing or two about debauchery.  Pompeii, the city that disappeared on Aug. 24, 79 A.D.
under lava and volcanic ash from Mount Vesuvius, is in a sad
state. In November 2010, the collapse of the gymnasium for
gladiators prompted the opposition to call a no-confidence
vote, accusing Berlusconi’s government of chronically
underfunding the preservation of Italy’s cultural heritage.  The government survived the motion by three votes. That
was a harbinger of its eventual downfall a year later.  “Pompei: Un Art de Vivre,” a show at the  Musee Maillol 
in Paris, seeks to give an impression of daily life in that
wealthy town of 12,000-15,000 inhabitants before fate struck.  The exhibition’s leitmotif is the domus, the single-
family home, as opposed to the insulae, the multistory
apartment buildings that dominated imperial  Rome .  These villas easily covered 800 or 900 square meters and
were built around three central spaces -- the atrium with an
opening in the roof; the tablinum, the main living room; and
the peristylium, another court surrounded by columns.  The organizers say such a house would be far preferable
to the living conditions of later generations. This is true as
far as hygiene is concerned: The Romans wouldn’t have
tolerated the squalor at the Sun King’s court in Versailles.  Bronze Bathtub  Although only a few houses had bathrooms (balnea) with
running water, spending at least an hour at the public baths
(thermae) was part of the daily routine.  The show includes a bronze bathtub, shells for cosmetics,
bottles with ointments, mirrors and a strigil -- a little
scythe used for scraping sweat and dirt from the skin. A wall
text informs you that the dark-haired women from southern
 Italy  liked to have their hair dyed blonde.  To profit from the heat of the oven, the bathroom was
adjacent to the kitchen. On display, along with kitchen
utensils, are glasses, cups and silver or bronze flatware used
for the cena, the main meal taken in the afternoon.  Some of these utensils are quite elaborate, such as a
decanter in the form of a female head.  A mural depicting the Greek wine god Dionysos confirms
our suspicion that the Romans weren’t teetotalers.  However, they always mixed their wine with water. Those
who didn’t were considered alcoholics.  Satyrs and Nymphs  Sex was omnipresent. Before Christianity became the
official religion of the empire, the Romans had a laid-back
attitude to extramarital or homosexual affairs.  The walls in Pompeii abound with satyrs pursuing nymphs
and other erotic scenes, some displaying an amazing degree of
copulatory acrobatics.  In many homes, a proudly erect phallus in marble or
bronze occupied a prominent place as a symbol of health and as
a protector against evil.  Contorted bodies and a dog desperately pulling at its
chain -- reconstructed by pouring gypsum plaster into the
hollows left in the ash -- remind you of the fateful moment
when life in Pompeii came to a sudden end.  “Pompeii: Un Art de Vivre” is at the Musee Maillol,
Paris, through Feb. 12, 2012. Information:
 http://www.museemaillol.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 