-- 
Saudi Arabia Says ‘Will Never’ Contribute to $100 Billion UN Green Fund

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-11-30T14:24:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/saudi-arabia-says-will-never-contribute-to-100-billion-un-green-fund.html
Saudi Arabia  “will never
contribute” to the  United Nations ’ $100 billion Green Climate
Fund, which should be financed by the governments of developed
nations, according to the kingdom’s chief climate negotiator.  “Saudi Arabia and other  developing countries  will never
contribute to this Fund as some developed countries are
suggesting,” Mohammad al-Sabban said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. “It is not acceptable to ask developing
countries to contribute to the fund, because and as stated in
the Climate Convention, it is the responsibility of the
developed countries,” he said referring to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change or UNFCCC. “We are very
strong on this point along with other developing countries.”  The Green Climate Fund, which was central to agreements
reached last year by UN treaty negotiators in Cancun,  Mexico , is
being discussed at climate talks in Durban,  South Africa  that
began this week. The world’s richest countries pledged to
channel $100 billion annually by 2020, part of it through the
fund, to help poorer nations reduce greenhouse-gas emissions
from energy production and adapt to effects of global warming
such as rising sea levels.  Oil Income Loss  Saudi Arabia should be compensated from the fund as climate
policies may lead to a loss in oil income to the kingdom, the
world’s largest  crude exporter , al-Sabban said.  “Those developing countries who are going to be adversely
impacted as a result of climate policies should be assisted by
the Fund to adapt to such impacts including helping us in
achieving economic diversification and reduce our dependency on
the exportation of crude oil,” he wrote.  There should be funding to support  carbon capture  and
storage projects in developing countries, in particular fossil
fuel exporters such as Saudi Arabia and the UNFCCC should have
full authority over the Green Fund rather than the  World Bank ,
al-Sabban said.  “We are fully aware of the economic crisis that the EU and
other Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development
countries are facing, but that should not lead us to change
their commitments,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  