-- 
Sberbank ‘Carefully Watching’ Turkey, Poland for Takeovers

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-11-30T15:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/sberbank-carefully-watching-turkey-poland-for-takeovers-1-.html
OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s biggest
lender, is “carefully watching” potential takeover targets in
Turkey and  Poland , according to Chief Financial Officer Anton Karamzin.  “We are carefully watching Turkish and Polish markets for
any opportunities that may arise, but we are in not in any
hurry,” Karamzin told analysts in a conference call today.  The bank has “a long-term” view for expanding in eastern
Europe following its bid to buy  Oesterreichische Volksbanken
AG (VBPS) ’s assets in the region, he said, adding that “it will take
one to two years to clean up and integrate issues there.”  “There are very excited people coming up to us and saying
that because we are Russian and we have money that we may want
to buy big names in  Europe ,” the CFO said. “We are not going
to be tempted.”  Sberbank, based in Moscow, in September agreed to pay 585
million euros ($787 million) to 645 million euros for
Volksbanken International, comprising nine banks in eight
countries. It is now arguing that the price be cut by about 15
percent because of losses at VBI’s Hungarian unit, two people
familiar with the deal said last week.  No Extra Funding  The acquisition is “not material enough for us” to
require additional funding, Karamzin told the analysts today.  Sberbank does not have to raise money from international
borrowings for the “the next eight to nine months,”   Alexander
Morozov , head of the lender’s finance department, said on the
call. “We have no need to go to the international markets,”
adding that bank is “covered” by internal sources of funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  