-- 
Scene Last Night: Bruce Kovner, Christopher Plummer, Ann Ziff

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-11-30T17:05:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/scene-last-night-bruce-kovner-fred-iseman-christopher-plummer-ann-ziff.html
While the devil was still putting on
his white suit and top hat for the new production at the
 Metropolitan Opera  of Gounod’s “Faust,” mere mortals were
starting their night with cocktails in the Grand Tier.  Canadian arts patron Jacqueline Desmarais, in a purple gown
and Jar jewels, said she was excited to see one of her proteges,
Michele Losier, perform the role of Siebel.  Nearby Christopher Plummer and Prince Dimitri of  Yugoslavia 
met.  “I adore opera,” said Plummer, who can next be seen in
the U.S. film adaptation of “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.”
“I’ve gone ever since I was a child. I’ve heard the best and
seen the best.”  Met board trustees Ann Ziff, Adrienne Arsht, Kevin Kennedy,
 Bruce Kovner , Mercedes Bass and Fred Iseman settled down for
pasta with butternut squash, roasted duck with rainbow chard and
brulee tart.  Also present: the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s director,
Thomas Campbell; the  Museum of Modern Art ’s director,  Glenn Lowry ; Oppenheimer Funds Inc.’s Philipp Hensler; Paul Matus, a
portfolio manager at Smith Affiliated Capital Corp.; Teresa
Principe of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ; literary agent Lynn
Nesbit; and Barbaralee Diamonstein-Spielvogel.  The production by Des McAnuff updated the old story about a
lonely medieval philosopher who can no longer get girls and
wants to die to the 20th century. As you may remember, the devil
helps him out with good results for a while.  Images of bombs, laboratories, scientists and soldiers
filled the stage. After the last trio, the cast party got under
way.  On Antibiotics  Rene Pape, the devil, arrived in a gray suit and red
boutonniere. Jonas Kaufmann, Faust, wore black Nike sneakers.
There was no Marguerite: Marina Poplavskaya went home after the
performance because she is on antibiotics, Met spokeswoman Lee
Abrahamian said.  Mephistopheles is “a big character,” Pape said. “It’s
hard to describe in a few words. He’s funny, seductive. He’s
mean. And the music shows everything.”  For some audience members, the singing by Poplavskaya,
Kaufmann and Pape was enough to make them happy. “That was the
best singing you’ll ever hear in this house, with those three,”
Kovner said.  McAnuff, a busy man, said it was “total coincidence” that
he’d wound up directing “Faust” at the same time as a revival
of “Jesus Christ Superstar.”  ‘Closer to Heaven’  “My mission was to “secularize ‘Faust.’ I want the story
to be accessible to a nonreligious audience while allowing those
who are religious to have an extraordinary experience.”  Peter Gelb , the Met’s general manager, described his own
experiences during remarks at the cast party.  “Running an opera house, I often feel like I’m trapped
between heaven and hell,” Gelb said. “Tonight I feel closer to
heaven.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 