-- 
Schwarzman Cites Ventures in Backing Romney

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-11-30T22:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/schwarzman-cites-ventures-in-backing-romney.html
Stephen Schwarzman , chairman of the
world’s largest private-equity firm, endorsed Mitt Romney for
president today, citing his firm’s first investment in 1985 when
Romney helped  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  earn “16 times profit.”  “In finance that’s a way to make friends,” Schwarzman,
the firm’s co-founder and a longtime Republican donor, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “In terms of being good for the
country, he’s very smart, he’s great in a crisis, he’s direct
and he can deal with problems as they actually occur.”  “He’s a natural leader and he’s accessible, and he listens
to what you say,” he said.  Schwarzman will host a fundraiser for Romney at his Park
Avenue apartment on Dec. 14, the same day that four JPMorgan
Chase & Co. executives will also raise money for the former head
of the private equity firm Bain Capital LLC and one-term
Massachusetts governor.  “This is a personal choice, and from a corporate
perspective, we have a lot of Democrats at the firm,”
Schwarzman said.  “When we started Blackstone in 1985, the first investment
we did in private equity was a joint deal with  Mitt Romney  at
Bain,” he said. “This turned out to be a marvelously
successful deal” with a company making aluminum wheels. The
business “expanded very rapidly. We made about 16 times
profit.”  “The second deal we did,” he said, “we ended up making
24 times our money.”  Deal Making  Romney and Schwarzman both made their fortunes in private
equity, and they came of age during the leveraged buyout
movement in the 1980s. Romney was the lead dealmaker at Bain,
buying and selling companies to make money for investors.  He is among the leading Republican candidates for
president, according to national polls. He also is leading in
fundraising, having collected $32 million through Sept. 30,
according to the most recent financial disclosure reports. The
next closest candidate, Texas Governor Rick Perry, raised $17
million.  Romney has brought in $3.6 million from securities and
investment industry employees and their families, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks political giving.  By comparison, President  Barack Obama  has struggled this
year to raise cash from the financial industry, taking in $1.6
million through Sept. 30. Four years ago, Obama raised $16
million from Wall Street.  Tax Debate  Schwarzman also waded into the debate about current
taxation, suggesting that he would be willing to pay an
additional amount if more Americans  paid  something in federal
income taxes.  “We have a system today in the  United States  were 45
percent of Americans don’t pay any income tax,” he said. “I
think there’s almost everyone who’d be willing to do something
if everyone’s doing something.”  While 46 percent of U.S. households won’t pay federal
income taxes in 2011, about half of those don’t make enough
money to owe the levy after subtracting personal exemptions and
the standard deduction. Only 18 percent will avoid a federal tax
burden altogether, as employees must pay their portion of the
 payroll tax , which is currently 4.2 percent of income of their
first 106,800 or earnings, according to projections by the  Tax
Policy Center , a nonpartisan group based in  Washington .  Payroll Tax Extension  Obama is urging Congress to extend or expand a temporary
payroll tax reduction, so that it doesn’t revert back to 6.2
percent next year.  Schwarzman gave $4,600 to  John McCain , once the Arizona
senator had secured the Republican presidential nomination four
years ago, and collected more than $100,000 for Republican
President  George W. Bush ’s 2004 re-election campaign.  He has been critical of Obama’s stance toward Wall Street.
In August 2010, he compared the administration’s efforts to
double taxes on the income of private-equity firms such as his
to “when Hitler invaded  Poland  in 1939,” according to a New
York Post account of a private meeting. He later apologized for
the comparison while maintaining his criticism of the tax
proposal.  Obama, who has the backing of organized labor, has
criticized the financial industry for its opposition to tougher
regulations and has called for the wealthy to pay higher taxes.
He also has expressed sympathy with the Occupy  Wall Street 
protests, saying in an Oct. 6 news conference the demonstrators
were “giving voice to a more broad-based frustration about how
our financial system works.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  