-- 
Schwarzman Says European-Debt Answer Hinges on Fiscal Union

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-11-30T18:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/schwarzman-says-european-debt-solutions-hinge-on-fiscal-union.html
Stephen Schwarzman , chairman and
chief executive officer of Blackstone Group LP, said fiscal
union will be at the center of any resolution of the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  “The rest of the world is prepared to be supportive if it
looks like a European solution actually is going to work, and
the Europeans will put up a lot of money to make it happen,”
Schwarzman said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness.”  “They all end up leading back to  Germany , some type of
fiscal union, and a stronger amount of capital for their rescue
fund than they currently have,” Schwarzman said.  Six central banks led by the U.S. Federal Reserve today
lowered the cost of emergency dollar funding for financial
companies. U.S. and European stocks rallied on the move aimed at
easing strains in markets and expanding central banks’ capacity
to support the global financial system.  Schwarzman, whose New York-based  firm (BX)  is the world’s
biggest private-equity manager, cited  India  as an example of a
country that has responded well to the crisis unfolding in
 Europe . India is doing “quite well” even with declines of
about 14 percent in its currency and 21 percent in its equity
market this year, he said.  “The reason is India is responding to the problems in
Europe,” Schwarzman said. “Right now the point of maximum
vulnerability for the global system is Europe.”  Bank Downgrades  Blackstone expects to invest as much $500 million to $720
million a year in deals in India over the next several years,
 Akhil Gupta , chairman of the firm’s India operations, told
Reuters  last week . Blackstone has invested about $1.8 billion in
India since 2006.  Schwarzman said he found yesterday’s downgrades of long-
term credit ratings at Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. “a bit disconcerting.” The banks
had their grades reduced to A- from A by  Standard & Poor’s  after
the ratings firm revised criteria for the world’s biggest
lenders.  “The concept that the whole class is downgraded raises
their cost of capital, which makes it more and more difficult
for banks to do their job,” Schwarzman said. “Banks are
critically important for recycling capital and lending it to
grow the global economy.”  One could argue the downgrades weren’t justified and that
the additional pressure is starting to affect “the normal
interaction of the economy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  