-- 
Schwarzman Says Blackstone Passed on $6 Billion Texas Teachers Deal

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-11-30T22:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/schwarzman-says-blackstone-group-passed-on-6-billion-texas-teachers-deal.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, passed on a fundraising deal with
the Teacher Retirement System of Texas that sent $3 billion
apiece to  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Apollo Global Management LLC, Chairman
 Stephen Schwarzman  said.  “We were asked to participate,” Schwarzman said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.” “But for
us in that particular case, it didn’t make much sense.”  Texas Teachers, which manages more than $107 billion on
behalf of 1.3 million employees and retirees, announced the
agreements with KKR and Apollo earlier this month. The pension’s
cash won’t go into a single fund at the firms. Instead, it will
be placed in separately managed accounts that the pension system
will oversee in partnership with each firm, giving  Texas  more
options on how its money is invested.  In return, Texas Teachers agreed to allow the firms to
reinvest a portion of Texas’s profits back into the funds. Other
private-equity firms, including TPG Capital and  Carlyle Group ,
have either set up SMAs or are in the process of doing so.  Schwarzman said the Texas deal was “geared basically to
help, from the general partner perspective, those companies
expand” into areas such as  hedge funds  and real estate. “The
issue for us at Blackstone is we were already in those
businesses.”  Texas Teachers has committed money to New York-based
Blackstone since the KKR and Apollo transactions were announced,
Schwarzman said, adding “we have plans to be working with
them.”  ‘So Much Money’  Asked whether Blackstone’s plans with Texas Teachers
involve a separately managed account, Schwarzman said, “We may
have something in that area as well.”  KKR took almost a year to agree to the terms of the Texas
Teachers commitment, highlighting how big private-equity
managers are being squeezed as they seek to keep cash flowing
into their funds. The shift, which began when the financial
crisis of 2008 slowed private-equity fundraising, means
institutions such as Texas Teachers can bargain for lower
management fees and greater investment options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  