-- 
Senate Republicans Seek Federal Pay Freeze to Offset Payroll Tax Cut Cost

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-12-01T17:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/senate-republicans-seek-federal-worker-pay-freeze-to-offset-payroll-cut.html
Republicans in the  U.S. Senate  want
to cover the cost of extending a payroll tax cut by freezing
federal workers’ pay through 2015 and reducing the federal
civilian workforce by 10 percent, putting them at odds with
Democrats over how to pay for the $119.6 billion tax break.  The proposal counters efforts by President  Barack Obama  and
Democrats to expand the payroll tax cut and pay for it by
imposing a 3.25 percent surtax on income exceeding $1 million.
Senate procedural votes on the competing proposals may occur as
soon as today, and lawmakers don’t expect either approach to
advance because of differences between the parties.  “This is the same argument we’ve been having time after
time, just in different contexts,” Representative John Yarmuth,
a  Kentucky  Democrat, said in an interview yesterday.  A two-percentage-point reduction in the payroll tax for
employees expires Dec. 31. Obama has been urging Congress to
extend it and expand it. He told an audience in Scranton,
 Pennsylvania , yesterday that the  U.S. economy  would suffer a
“massive blow” if Congress lets it expire.  “I want to make sure that we do this responsibly,” he
said. “So what I’ve said is to pay for this tax cut, we need to
ask wealthy Americans to pay their fair share.”  At a New York City fundraiser later yesterday, Obama
sounded a more conciliatory note as he referred to recent
remarks by House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  Middle-Class Families  Obama said the Republican leaders “over the last couple of
days” have indicated “that it probably does make sense not to
have taxes go up for middle-class families, particularly since
they’ve all taken an oath not to raise taxes.” He said
“additional progress in the next couple of weeks” may be
possible.  Many Republican lawmakers have signed a no-tax-increase
pledge promoted by activist  Grover Norquist .  Republicans have resisted the Democrats’ tax increases, and
lawmakers said they weren’t sure what proposal could win enough
support to become law. Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma
Republican, said members of his party were still trying to reach
a consensus among themselves.  “It’s going to come down to what type of spending cuts”
Obama is “going to be willing to accept” because “I don’t
think you are going to find any Republican appetite to increase
taxes,” Cole said.  Republican Proposal  The Senate Republican proposal, introduced yesterday by
Dean Heller of  Nevada , would generate $222 billion in savings
over the next decade by freezing federal pay through 2015 and
reducing the civilian workforce by 10 percent. The bill would
reduce federal budget deficits by about $111 billion.  The plan also would require the highest earners to pay the
full cost of their Medicare premiums and prevent them from
receiving unemployment compensation and  food stamps .  “It’s about time Washington took a hit for a change,”
McConnell said today.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
today that the Republican proposal was unacceptable and wouldn’t
win Senate passage.  “As usual, the only real target of this Republican meat ax
is the American middle class,” he said.  Democrats’ Response  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California said
Democrats are willing to consider spending cuts to help cover
the cost of extending the payroll  tax cut .  “We would certainly be open to reasonable pay-fors for the
tax cut” extension, she told reporters today.  Pelosi said the Republican proposal to reduce the size of
the federal workforce doesn’t meet that standard.  “You’re saying we need the tax cut for the middle class so
it can create 400,000 jobs and while we’re doing it, we want to
eliminate 200,000 jobs,” she said. “It doesn’t make any
sense.”  The Social Security portion of payroll taxes, which will be
levied on the first $110,100 of income in 2012, is split between
employees and employers. Each side typically pays 6.2 percent of
wages.  For 2011, the Social Security payroll tax for employees was
lowered to 4.2 percent. A worker earning $50,000 a year who is
paid biweekly has been saving $38.46 in each paycheck.  At a minimum, Obama wants to see the current tax cut for
employees extended for 2012.  Senate Democrats  are seeking to
reduce the payroll levy to 3.1 percent for workers. They would
also lower the employer rate to 3.1 percent on the first $5
million in payroll and eliminate the levy entirely for each
company’s first $50 million in wage growth.  Tax on Millionaires  The Democrats’ $265 billion proposal would be offset by a
permanent 3.25 percent surtax on annual income exceeding $1
million.  Under the Senate Republicans’ proposal, federal agencies
would be allowed to hire one worker for every three who leave
until the agency’s workforce has been reduced by 10 percent.  The pay freeze would apply to all civilian employees of the
executive branch, along with members of Congress and their
staffs. The 10 percent workforce reduction doesn’t appear to
apply to congressional staff, based on the text of the bill.  “This is an attempt to single out and scapegoat federal
employees who had nothing to do with the economic problems the
country’s facing while refusing to ask the very well-off in this
country to share the responsibility,” said Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a  Maryland  Democrat whose district includes many
federal employees.  Other Provisions  House Republicans  will come up with a proposal to extend
the payroll tax, said Representative  Tom Price , a Georgia
Republican.  “The payroll tax won’t come by itself,” Price said,
predicting that it would be rolled into a package extending a
range of provisions set to expire Dec. 31. Price said his
support, and that of other like-minded Republicans, would hinge
on “what the whole package is at the end.”  Democrats support continuing expanded unemployment benefits
that are set to expire Dec. 31. House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer of Maryland said he thinks Republicans haven’t decided
whether to insist on offsetting the cost of those benefits with
spending cuts.  Miscellaneous tax breaks and a provision to prevent a
scheduled reimbursement cut to doctors under Medicare also
expire at the end of the year.  The Democratic payroll tax bill is S. 1917. The Republican
bill is S. 1931.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  