-- 
Serb Central Bank to Allow ‘Simple’ Hedge Instruments

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-12-01T13:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/serb-central-bank-will-allow-only-simple-hedging-instruments.html
(Corrects third paragraph the use of derivatives in the
story published Nov. 30.)  Serbia ’s central bank will restrict
hedging to “simple” instruments as it tries to reduce credit
risk stemming from exposure to foreign currencies and interest
rate fluctuations.  The Belgrade-based National Bank of Serbia will “foster
development of transparent and simple hedging instruments, such
as foreign-exchange forwards and swaps, as well as interest rate
swaps,” Vice-Governor Bojan Markovic told a conference in
Belgrade today.  At the same time, it plans to discourage use of “complex
financial derivatives” including credit-default swaps, which
have had a negative impact on financial stability globally over
the past few years. Under the newly adopted Foreign Exchange
Law, Serbia will allow the use of some derivatives, but only if
they are used to “close a position, not to open it,” he said.  Serbia’s dinar, trading at 103.9734 to the euro at 3:25
p.m. in Belgrade today, is among world’s 15 top performing
currencies, with year-to-date gains of 2.22 percent, according
to Bloomberg data.  Markovic said some Serbian banking indicators point to some
positive change, including 9 percent credit growth in October
this year compared with the same period a year ago, an increase
in the local currency share in total bank credit portfolio to 30
percent, as well as longer maturities of the debt held by banks,
companies and the government.  To keep investors confident about Serbia the government
should stick with a cautious fiscal policy and avoid any pre-
election spending spree even as the nation continues to feel the
pinch of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Serbia agreed with the  International Monetary Fund  to cut
the fiscal gap to 4.25 percent of GDP in 2012 from 4.5 percent
this year. It also needs to stick with a limit for public debt
to GDP of 45 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  