-- 
Siemens Sets Lowest Profit Bar for New Infrastructure Division

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-11-30T21:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/siemens-sets-lowest-profit-bar-for-new-infrastructure-division.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  assigned the lowest
profitability goal among its four main business areas to the
newly created infrastructure division and said it still aims to
publicly list its lighting unit sometime in 2012.  Earnings  before interest and taxes, depreciation and
amortization will reach 8 percent to 12 percent of sales at the
infrastructure and cities unit, the German engineering company
said in its annual report published today. Siemens also lifted
the goal for its industry division to as much as 17 percent
after shifting some lower-margin businesses to the new area.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  is bundling
offerings from metro trains to energy distribution in an effort
to generate more revenue with municipal clients and help move
closer toward a goal of 100 billion euros ($134 billion) in
sales. Global markets served by the new unit will “grow
modestly” in fiscal 2012 and pick up in 2013, Siemens said.  Profitability targets remained unchanged at 10 percent to
15 percent for the energy businesses, and at 15 percent to 20
percent for health care, Siemens said. Health-care markets will
“expand moderately” in the coming two years, Siemens said.  Growth of markets served by the energy businesses will slow
to a mid-single-digit percentage rate in fiscal 2012 and 2013,
on “limited” growth potential for fossil power generation
equipment and a “modest” development of onshore wind-farms.
Growth will also slow in industrial markets, Siemens said.  Europe ’s largest engineering company reiterated a forecast
for “moderate” sales growth and net income from continuing
operations of about 6 billion euros for the fiscal year that
started Oct. 1. Sales will also grow the following year, Siemens
said.  Siemens aims for an initial public offering of its Osram
lighting unit in fiscal 2012, and plans to generate a return on
capital employed of between 15 percent and 20 percent in both
fiscal 2012 and 2013, the company said. The company had
postponed an IPO of Osram slated for the latter part of this
year, citing the swings in  capital markets .  Loescher received total compensation of 8.65 million euros
for fiscal 2011, 4 percent less than the year before, as the
company made changes to the financial metrics that form the
basis for executive pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  