-- 
Silver Lake Group Said to Bid $16.60 a Share for Yahoo Stake

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-11-30T22:19:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/silver-lake-group-said-to-offer-16-60-a-share-for-minority-stake-in-yahoo.html
A group of investors led by private-
equity firm  Silver Lake  offered to buy a minority stake in
 Yahoo! Inc . for about $16.60 a share, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  Silver Lake, working with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , venture-capital
firm Andreessen Horowitz and  Canada Pension Plan  Investment
Board, offered to buy convertible preferred securities equal to
a 10 percent to 15 percent stake for as much as $3 billion, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
bids made this week are private. The price was lower than an
offer made by private-equity firm TPG Capital, two people said.  Silver Lake’s bid  values  Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo
at $20.6 billion, about 6 percent higher than its market value
at yesterday’s close. Under Silver Lake’s proposal, Yahoo would
be able to distribute at least $5 billion to shareholders in the
form of a special dividend or a share buyback, said the person.
Yahoo, exploring strategic options after ousting Chief Executive
Officer  Carol Bartz , aims to wrap up the deal by the end of the
year, people said.  “The offer is disappointing,” said Hamilton Faber, an
analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP in  London  with a “neutral”
rating on Yahoo shares. “Investors who’ve been buying Yahoo
recently were hoping for a significant premium and a takeout of
the full company, and this falls short on both counts.”  Spokeswomen for Yahoo, Silver Lake and Canada  Pension Plan 
declined to comment.  Board Meeting  Yahoo directors are likely to discuss offers at a board
meeting scheduled for today, one person said.  Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd ., aiming to buy back the stake in itself owned by
Yahoo, is monitoring the situation and may still enter the
bidding, one person said.  Yahoo  gained  1 cent to $15.71 at the close in New York. The
shares have declined 5.5 percent this year.  While Microsoft failed in 2008 to acquire all of Yahoo, it
aims to use a minority holding to safeguard its 10-year Web
search agreement with the company.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , forged the
partnership under Bartz to provide search technology to Yahoo
sites. The deal was aimed at helping both companies vie with
Google, the leader in U.S. search-related advertising.  Alibaba’s Role  KKR (KKR)  & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are among the private-
equity firms considering possible bids for Yahoo, people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  Private-equity firm  Thomas H. Lee Partners  is also
considering a bid for  Yahoo , people knowledgeable said.  Alibaba Group  has said it’s interested in acquiring Yahoo,
in part to buy back a stake the company owns. With a holding of
about 40 percent, Yahoo is Alibaba’s biggest investor. Alibaba
is waiting to see whether Yahoo’s board will deem the partial-
stake bids inadequate and invite it into negotiations to acquire
the whole company, a person with knowledge of the matter said.
Alibaba is open to acquiring its stake back or making a larger
push for all of Yahoo, this person said.  Alibaba already submitted an offer to buy back the stake in
itself held by Yahoo, said the people. That proposal was made
together with  Japan ’s Softbank Corp., which wants to buy the
rest of Yahoo Japan, and may be reviewed by Yahoo’s board today,
the people said.  Alibaba and Softbank are less likely to make an offer for
all of Yahoo because of difficulty financing a bid, one person
said. The companies have discussed this possibility, people said
earlier this month.  The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that Yahoo aims
to strike a deal by year’s end.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  