-- 
Singapore Doctor Lim Must Face Probe Into $19 Million Bill to Brunei Royal

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-12-01T02:02:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/singapore-doctor-must-face-19-million-brunei-royal-bill-probe.html
Susan Lim , the  Singapore  doctor who
billed a member of  Brunei ’s royal family S$24.8 million ($19
million) for seven months of treatment, lost her final legal bid
to block a medical council inquiry into the charges.  “The issue of whether or not there was any overcharging”
and whether this amounts to professional misconduct should be
resolved by the medical council’s disciplinary committee, Chief
Justice Chan Sek Keong said in a 44-page ruling yesterday.  Singapore’s health ministry began a probe in 2007 to
determine whether Lim’s bills showed a pattern of overcharging,
improper billing and whether some fees were inappropriate. A
panel appointed by the Singapore Medical Council to hold the
inquiry stepped down after Lim complained the members had
prejudged her case.  Lim, 56, failed to block the second probe when the  high
court ruled  on May 26 that the disciplinary hearing could
proceed and appealed the decision. The Court of Appeal ruling
means that the probe will go ahead. A second panel is scheduled
to pursue the investigation in the first half of next year, the
medical council said in a statement.  “We are pleased with the decision which has validated the
manner in which SMC had conducted itself,” the council,
represented by lawyers Alvin Yeo and Melanie Ho, said.  Lim “is disappointed with the Court of Appeal’s decision
but respects and accepts it,” she said in a statement.  Discount Sought  The doctor,  Asia ’s first liver-transplant surgeon, sought
as much as S$200,000 a day over seven months in 2007 to treat
Pangiran Anak Hajah Damit, Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah’s
sister-in-law, for cancer. Bolkiah, Brunei’s ruler, is the
 second-richest royal in the world , according to Forbes.  Brunei’s health ministry sought a discount on the S$24.8
million bill through its counterpart in Singapore, claiming in a
letter that the “extremely high” charges weren’t justified.  The Singapore Health Ministry said in a letter of complaint
that “overcharging on such a magnitude could also bring
disrepute to the medical profession” in the city.  The medical bill included third-party disbursements, and
Lim said she had voluntarily reduced it to S$12.1 million,
including S$3.3 million for a team of doctors and nurses,
according to court papers.  The case is Dr. Susan Lim Mey Lee v The Singapore Medical
Council CA 80/2010 in the Singapore Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  