-- 
Societe Generale Said To Sell $600 Million of Property Loans to Macquarie

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-11-30T20:42:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/societe-generale-said-to-sell-600-million-of-property-loans-to-macquarie.html
Societe Generale SA, France’s
second-largest bank, agreed to sell $600 million of commercial
property loans to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  as the lender pares
assets.  The loans consist of mortgages from across the U.S.,
according to people familiar with the transaction, who declined
to be identified because the terms are private. The portfolio is
separate from distressed European loans the Paris-based lender
is offloading, the people said.  Societe Generale is selling assets as pressure intensifies
on  Europe ’s largest lenders to boost capital and cut the size of
their balance sheets to cope with the region’s debt crisis. The
bank’s Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said in September
that the lender is seeking to dispose of assets, mostly from its
money-management and financial-services division to free up 4
billion euros ($5.4 billion) in capital by 2013.  James Galvin, a spokesman for  Societe Generale (GLE)  in  New York ,
declined to comment. Paula Chirhart, a spokeswoman for
Macquarie, Australia’s biggest investment bank, said she
couldn’t comment.  The Paris-based bank also plans to halt its aircraft and
ship financing activities and is selling its leveraged buyout
portfolios in the U.S. and Asia, Dow Jones reported earlier
today, citing a person familiar with the matter. The bank is
also considering putting its U.S. asset manager TCW Group up for
sale, people with knowledge of the situation said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  