-- 
SolarCity Gets Loan for $1 Billion Project Without Guarantee

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-11-30T17:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/solarcity-gets-loans-for-1-billion-project-without-guarantee.html
SolarCity Corp., which lost a U.S.
loan guarantee in the wake of Solyndra LLC’s bankruptcy, will
move forward on a $1 billion solar rooftop project for military
housing with financing from Bank of America Corp.  The loans will help pay for the installations of as much as
300 megawatts of rooftop photovoltaic systems on housing and
office buildings used by the military in as many as 33 states
over five years,  Foster City , California-based SolarCity said
today in a statement.  The agreement shows that banks are becoming more
comfortable providing financing for renewable-energy projects
that in the past could get funded only if the government was
willing to back them, said SolarCity Chief Executive Officer
Lyndon Rive.  “A year ago it was impossible to do a project of this
scale without a loan guarantee,” Rive said in an interview.
“That experience put us through a rigorous process that helped
make it possible without one.”  The U.S. Energy Department on Sept. 7 offered a conditional
guarantee for 80 percent of a $344 million loan to support
SolarCity’s project. The loan was to be provided by USRG
Renewable Finance, an affiliate of US Renewables Group LLC, and
Bank of America.  Solyndra Failure  That was one day after Solyndra, a Fremont, California-
based solar company that received $535 million in guarantees
from the same program, filed for bankruptcy.  Two weeks later, SolarCity said the political firestorm
following Solyndra’s failure prompted increased scrutiny of
pending applications, and that its loan guarantee wouldn’t be
completed before the program expired at the end of that month.  The Bank of America loan validates the federal guarantee
program, which was designed to make new energy technologies more
familiar to lenders and spur financing when the government was
no longer providing backing, said  Damien LaVera , an Energy
Department spokesman.  “Our goal was to help provide incentives for private
financing of innovative energy technologies,” LaVera said today
in an interview. “It’s good news when banks step in without
that incentive.”  The loan guarantees would’ve provided cheaper financing for
the projects than Bank of America can provide without them.
Falling panel prices and more experience making similar loans
has helped offset that, said Jonathan Plowe, head of new energy
and infrastructure at Bank of America.  Improved Risk Model  “This gave us a financial model to work with to get it
done,” Plowe said in an interview. “The risk profile has
improved significantly and lower module prices have helped bring
costs down.”  Bank of America will provide up to $350 million in
financing for the SolarCity project, said Kerrie McHugh, a
spokeswoman for the bank based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  The lender is already providing financing for a similar
distributed solar project that’s receiving government backing.
 ProLogis Inc. (PLD) , the world’s biggest warehouse owner, received a
partial Energy Department guarantee in September for a $1.4
billion loan to put solar panels on about 750 buildings.  Bank of America said the Prologis deal was one of the
reasons it was willing to support SolarCity.  SolarCity has scaled back the project to 120,000 rooftops
from a September plan of as many as 160,000. The company
installs panels, often at no cost, and charges building owners
for the electricity they use at about 5 percent to 10 percent
below their local utility rates.  Installations under SolarStrong, as the program is called,
have begun at military housing at the Pearl Harbor base in
 Hawaii  and will next expand to states with expensive
electricity, such as  California ,  New Jersey  and  Texas , Rive
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  