-- 
South Africa Posts Biggest Trade Gap in 10 Months as Exports Dip

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-11-30T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/south-africa-posts-biggest-trade-gap-in-10-months-as-exports-dip.html
South Africa  posted a 9.6 billion-
rand ($1.14 billion) trade deficit in October, the biggest in 10
months, as mineral exports slumped and fuel imports climbed.  The shortfall compared with a surplus of 2.5 billion rand
in September, the Pretoria-based South African Revenue Service
said in an e-mailed statement today. The median estimate of 11
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was for a 2 billion-rand
deficit.  Higher crude prices and a weaker rand have boosted import
costs in South Africa, an oil importer, widening the deficit on
the  current account  to 3.3 percent of gross domestic product in
the second quarter. Mining production declined 17.4 percent in
the third quarter from the previous three months, the statistics
agency said yesterday. Gold and platinum make up about a fifth
of the nation’s exports, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Last month’s deficit “was mainly due to increased imports
of mineral products, base metals, machinery and electrical
appliances, vehicles and aircrafts and original equipment
components,” the revenue service said. There were also
“decreased exports of mineral products, products of the
chemicals or allied industries, precious and semi-precious
stones and metals and machinery and electrical appliances.”  The rand has weakened 21 percent against the dollar this
year, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Exports fell 9.7 percent to 61.2 billion rand in October
from the previous month as shipments of precious and semi-
precious stones and metals declined by 25 percent, the revenue
service said. Shipments of chemical products dropped 41 percent.  Imports rose 8.5 percent to 70.8 billion rand in the same
period, with purchases of mineral products such as oil rising 14
percent and base-metal imports surging 33 percent.  Trade figures are often volatile, reflecting the timing of
shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  