-- 
Spotify Music Service Adds Apps by Third Parties to Entice New Subscribers

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-11-30T19:04:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/spotify-adding-applications-by-third-party-developers-to-attract-listeners.html
Spotify Ltd., the music-streaming
service, will open its site to software developers to attract
new users with features such as ticket sales and song lyrics.  Partners including Rolling Stone magazine,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
Last.fm, Pitchfork.com and others began offering 16 programs at
Spotify’s “App Finder,” Chief Executive Officer Daniel Ek said
today at a press event in  New York .  The apps will attract new listeners and convert users of
Spotify’s free, advertising-supported service into paying
subscribers, Ek said. All Spotify users can access apps,
initially available only on computers, he said.  “We are creating this platform now knowing it’s the early
days, and we’ll figure it out along the way,” Ek said. “We
don’t know all the different possibilities. The important thing
is to let innovation steer.”  The London-based company will approve all apps offered on
the service. The programs, including the ticket-selling feature
Songkick, will work only with Spotify’s software, Ek said.  Rolling Stone will supply an editorial voice that customers
have asked Spotify to provide, Ek said. Jann Wenner, the
magazine’s owner, said at the event Spotify will enable the
publication to incorporate music in articles and reviews.  “Spotify is the ultimate solution,” Wenner said.  One app, called TuneWiki, will provide song lyrics, while
Pitchfork.com will make recommendations and playlists, Ek said.  Paying Customers  Spotify’s paying subscribers jumped 25 percent to 2.5
million after the company allowed users of Facebook Inc.’s
social network to share and stream music.  The company, which charges $4.99 to listen on personal
computers or $9.99 for both PCs and mobile devices, has more
than 10 million users of its ad-supported  service .  The service is available in 12 countries including the
U.S., U.K.,  France  and Sweden, and has a music roster of 15
million songs from artists signed to  Vivendi SA (VIV)  ’s Universal
Music Group,  Sony Corp. (6758) , Warner Music Group and EMI Group, among
others.  Ek said closely held Spotify is the music industry’s
second-biggest revenue source in  Europe . He said Spotify has
paid rights holders more than $150 million.  Spotify will be profitable in the long term, Ek said in an
interview. “In the future, definitely,” he said. “Our focus
is on growing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  