-- 
Sri Lanka Inflation Slows, Providing Scope to Support Growth

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 
2011-11-30T10:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/sri-lanka-inflation-slows-providing-scope-to-support-growth-1-.html
Sri Lankan inflation slowed in
November to a 16-month low, providing scope for the central bank
to refrain from raising  interest rates  and shield growth from
the faltering global economy.  Consumer prices  in the capital, Colombo, climbed 4.7
percent from a year earlier after gaining 5.1 percent in October,
the Department of Census and Statistics said on its website
today. The median of five estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 4.4 percent increase.  Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said Nov. 29
that  Sri Lanka  will probably refrain from rate cuts for the rest
of 2011 even as it has room to lower borrowing costs, as this
month’s 3 percent currency devaluation revives price pressures.
He has left rates unchanged for 10 months as Asian nations from
 Thailand  to  Indonesia  take fiscal or monetary stimulus steps to
counter the threat to exports from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Sri Lanka needs to balance growth and inflation,” said
Bimanee Meepagala, a Colombo-based analyst at NDB Aviva Wealth
Management Ltd., the nation’s biggest non-state fund. The island
“shouldn’t cut rates as it could have a spiraling effect on
credit growth.”  The central bank on Nov. 16 kept its  reverse repurchase 
rate at 8.5 percent and the  repurchase rate  at 7 percent. The
next monetary policy announcement is scheduled for Dec. 20.  The Sri Lankan rupee was little changed at 113.91 a dollar
as of 2:09 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark  Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  of stocks
advanced 1.1 percent at the close today.  Higher food supplies since the end of the island’s civil
war in May 2009 and a 0.5 percent rise in Sri Lanka’s rupee
against the dollar in 2011 until the devaluation had helped curb
price gains, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  