-- 
StanChart’s Green Says China May Cut Reserve Ratio in January

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-30T12:59:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/stanchart-s-green-says-china-may-cut-reserve-ratio-in-january.html
Stephen Green , Hong Kong-based head
of Greater China research at Standard Chartered Plc, comments on
the People’s Bank of China’s announcement that it will cut the
reserve requirement for the nation’s lenders by 0.5 percentage
points from Dec. 5.  “Our analysis suggests liquidity will get tight at the end
of December so the PBOC is front-running that, probably wanting
to make sure banks had enough spare funds to lend out in
December.”  “The public nature of this move - a move that would have
gone through the State Council - is a clear signal that Beijing
has decided that the balance of risks now lies with growth,
rather than inflation. It’s taken them a long while to come
around to this view and all the kudos to them for holding the
line until now.”  “But now the pivot. They’ll try to spin it as ‘micro-
loosening’ and the official monetary policy for next year will
still be the same, ‘prudent,’ but this is a big move. It signals
 China  is now in loosening mode. The bank lending quota will be
loosened, and given the liquidity crunch we see coming up before
Chinese New Year, we’re looking for another reserve requirement
ratio cut in January, four times total in 2012.” The Chinese
Lunar New Year holiday falls on Jan. 23 in 2012.  “We do not look for rate cuts in 2012, but as liquidity is
injected into the inter-bank system and excess reserves rise, de
facto lending rates will fall.”  “Unfortunately, this move also probably signals that the
official China manufacturing PMI out tomorrow is going to be bad,
sub-50 and they want to front-run that.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  