-- 
State Muni-Bond Banks Boost Sales as Rates Near Six-Week Low

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-11-30T18:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/state-muni-bond-banks-boost-sales-to-take-advantage-of-low-rates.html
State municipal-bond banks in
 Vermont ,  Maine , New Hampshire and Indiana plan to issue about
$190 million in debt this week, as smaller communities seek to
take advantage of 10-year interest  rates  near a six-week low.  The  Vermont Municipal Bond Bank  sold about $70 million in
debt yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
organization created in 1970 was the nation’s first of its sort,
set up to help raise funds for cities and towns.  The bank in Vermont has issued almost $123 million in
securities this year, up 25 percent from $98.4 million in 2010,
all through negotiated sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This week’s deal was led by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  A similar
organization in  Maine  also will bring more debt to the $2.9
trillion municipal market this year than last, the data show.  “We’re saving a chunk of money for municipalities,”
Robert Giroux, the Vermont bank’s executive director, said by
telephone from his headquarters in Winooski before the latest
sale. “This year is just the most active we’ve ever been.”  Yields on top-rated 10-year municipal debt averaged 2.23
percent yesterday, a Bloomberg Valuation  index  shows. The index
fell to 2.2 percent Nov. 21, the lowest level since Oct. 4.  Access to Credit  Bond banks, typically overseen by state officials and
gubernatorial appointees, provide access to the municipal-
 securities market  for communities that may lack the resources to
conduct their own offering. The organizations in New Hampshire
and  Indiana  sold more debt last year, at $221.2 million and $561
million, respectively, than they have in 2011, the data show.  “Bond banks give you a little more comfort to have a pool
rather than individual small towns,” said Howard Cure, director
of municipal credit research for Evercore Wealth Management LLC
in New York, which has $2.9 billion under management. “As an
investor, you may be hesitant about a little town in Vermont
because of the small size.”  Rural development loans will be paid off using about $43
million raised in the Vermont sale, Giroux said. The loans to
cities and towns in the state were from the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , he said. The move will cut present-value costs by
about 5 percent, he said.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the Vermont bank’s bonds AA, its
third-highest grade, and has a stable outlook on the credit.  Competitive Sales  New Hampshire ’s municipal-bond  bank  plans to raise almost
$36 million through a competitive sale as soon as today,
according to a preliminary offering document. That would bring
it to about $129.7 million in debt issued this year, compared
with $221.2 million in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Granite State bank, created in 1977, has made more than
1,100 loans totaling $2.19 billion, according to its  website . It
usually seeks competitive bids for bond offerings, said
Executive Director Sheila St. Germain. Moody’s Investors Service
rates the debt Aa3, fourth-highest, with a stable outlook.  Maine’s bond bank plans a competitive offering this week,
after decades of almost always using negotiated agreements,
according to Bloomberg data. State Treasurer Bruce Poliquin took
Robert Lenna, the bank’s executive director, to task this year
for spending almost $6,000 on a trip with several bank officials
to New York in 2010 to close an $80.2 million negotiated sale.  The  Indiana Bond Bank  plans to sell $29 million this week,
with a  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  unit leading the marketing
of the negotiated deal. S&P rates the debt AA, its third-highest
grade, and has a stable outlook on the credit.  When the banks sell debt, some of the proceeds may be put
into reserve funds to provide extra security for investors,
Evercore’s Cure said. Such reserves and other provisions help
“prop up” the credit of smaller entities that might otherwise
be considered riskier, he said.  “As a small town, if something were to happen to a major
industry, it could disproportionately hurt your finances,” Cure
said. “A lot of the bond bank’s appeal also is the fact that
these little issuers can’t rely on municipal-bond insurance very
much anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  