-- 
Steve Bruce Fired by Sunderland After Club Slips to 16th in Premier League

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-11-30T18:38:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/steve-bruce-fired-by-sunderland-after-club-slips-to-16th-in-premier-league.html
Sunderland fired manager  Steve Bruce 
after slipping to 16th in English soccer’s Premier League
following a run of four matches without a win.  The 50-year-old, who spent 2 1/2 years in charge, led the
Black Cats to three home victories in 2011 and was subjected
to chants of “Bruce out” during a 2-1 loss to Wigan at the
Stadium of Light on Nov. 26.  “It is my job as chairman to act in the best interests of
our football club at all times, and I can assure everyone that
this is not a decision I have taken lightly,” Sunderland
Chairman Ellis Short said in a statement on the club’s website.  Bruce leaves with Sunderland with 11 points from 13
matches, two points above the three relegation positions. The
Black Cats finished 13th in his first full season, then 10th
last season.  The former Manchester United player joined Sunderland in
June 2009 from Wigan to replace Ricky Sbragia, who stepped down
at the end of the previous campaign after helping the club
avoid relegation.  Backed by funding from Short, who completed a takeover of
Sunderland in 2009, Bruce made a number of high profile signings
since last season including Wes Brown,  John O’Shea ,  Craig
Gardner  and Connor Wickham. Short is a former vice chairman of
American real-estate investment firm  Lone Star Funds .  The club has struggled to score goals in the absence of
last season’s top-scorers Asamoah Gyan and Darren Bent. Gyan,
signed for a club record 13 million pounds ($20.4 million) by
Bruce, is on loan at Al-Ain in the United Arab Emirates, while
Bent joined Aston Villa in January.  Goal Drought  Midfielder Sebastian Larsson leads the team’s scoring this
season with four goals, while strikers Nicklas Bendtner, Ji
Dong-Won and Wickham have four between them.  The team missed several chances in the home defeat against
Wigan, which was its sixth loss in the league. It also has two
wins and five draws.  “Sadly, results this season have simply not been good
enough, and I feel the time is right to make a change,” Short
said.  Bruce, a long-time fan of Sunderland’s northeast rival
Newcastle United, has previously managed at  Sheffield United ,
Huddersfield, Crystal Palace and Birmingham City. He had a brief
earlier spell at Wigan in 2001.  Assistant manager Eric Black will temporary charge, the
club said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 