-- 
European Stock Futures Decline on S&P Downgrades of Global Banks

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-11-30T07:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/stock-futures-decline-in-europe-after-s-p-downgrades-global-bank-ratings.html
European stock-index futures
dropped, tracking losses in Asian shares, after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the credit ratings of some of the world’s largest
banks. U.S. index futures also fell.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  may be active after S&P lowered their ratings.
Daimler AG, the maker of Mercedes cars, may move after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. cut its recommendation on the stock.  Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, a benchmark for the
euro region, fell 1.2 percent to 2,207 at 7:02 a.m. in London.
Futures on the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index retreated 0.8 percent.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in December
slid 0.9 percent, while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.5
percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index has dropped 4.9 percent this
month, for the biggest decline since August, as Italian bond
yields surged and European policy makers struggled to agree on a
plan to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “News that S&P had downgraded some of the world’s biggest
banking institutions took the shine off  market sentiment ,”
Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at London Capital Group, wrote in a
note.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America Corp. and UBS led
the world’s biggest banks in having their ratings cut by S&P as
debt of financial firms heads for its worst month since the
credit crisis.  S&P cut its rating on UBS to A from A+, according to a
report yesterday after European markets closed. The rating
company also downgraded Barclays to A from A+, and HSBC to A+
from AA-, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  