-- 
Sudan Says It Hasn’t Stopped South Sudan’s Oil Exports

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T13:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/sudan-says-it-hasn-t-stopped-south-sudan-s-oil-exports-2-.html
Sudan ’s government said it hasn’t
blocked South Sudan’s oil exports, contradicting a statement by
its oil minister two days ago that shipments have been halted.  “The government of Sudan has not and will not stop or
impede the flow and export of oil of the Republic of South Sudan
through its territory and facilities,” Sabir al-Hassan, a
spokesman for Sudan’s delegation at talks with South Sudanese
officials in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia , told reporters today.  Sudanese Oil Minister Ali Ahmed Osman on Nov. 28 announced
a blockade on South Sudan’s oil exports that pass through its
pipelines and said it would be lifted only when the two
countries agreed on payments for the shipments. They failed to
reach a deal in  African Union -backed talks this week, al-Hassan
said, and negotiations will resume next month.  While South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of
the former unified Sudan’s output of 490,000 barrels a day when
it seceded on July 9, it relies on the north for access to an
export terminal on the  Red Sea .  Sudan rejected an offer by South Sudan of $5.4 billion
compensation package for the loss of its  oil fields , the south’s
chief negotiator,  Pagan Amum , told reporters in Addis Ababa.
Sudanese authorities responded to the offer with “hostility and
threats,” he said.  Pipeline Fees  “South Sudan insist they have the right to continue
exporting oil through our facilities without paying charges,”
al-Hassan said. “If we do not find an agreement on fees and
charges, we are under obligation to take our dues.”  He also criticized Sudan Sudan’s seizure on Nov. 8 of
stakes held by Sudan’s state oil company, Sudapet, in joint
operations in the south with companies such as  China National
Petroleum Corp. ,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s
 Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)   “Their assets that were more than $2 billion dollars were
confiscated by a presidential decree issued by the president of
the Republic of South Sudan,” al-Hassan said.  Amum said that Sudan has kept revenue owed to the south for
oil exports from May to July. Since a 2005 peace agreement that
ended a two-decade civil war until South Sudan’s independence,
the north and south split earnings from crude pumped in southern
fields.  “The claim that they need us to pay them processing and
transportation fees is not true because we are paying those to
the companies,” Amum said. “We are paying the Chinese. What
the north is talking about is extortion.”  China  yesterday urged the two sides to reach agreement in
negotiations.  “Maintaining normal production of oil is important to both
South Sudan and Sudan,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong
Lei told reporters in Beijing. “We hope North and South Sudan
can stay rational, show restraint, and resolve relevant problems
through neighborly pragmatism and friendly talks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  