-- 
Sugar Demand Will Be Driven By Asia, Bunge’s Coviello Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-11-30T11:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/sugar-demand-will-be-driven-by-asia-bunge-s-coviello-says-1-.html
Global sugar demand will be driven
by  Asia  partly on  population growth , according to  Bunge Ltd. (BG)   Per capita consumption of sugar in China is 11 kilograms
(24 pounds) and in India 21 kilograms, said Rob Coviello,
executive director of the sugar product line at Bunge. That’s
below the 34 kilograms in developed countries in the
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, he said.  “Demand for corn and soybeans is led by Asia and we see
the same in sugar,” Coviello said at the International Sugar
Organization’s conference in London today.  If sugar consumption in China rose to match India’s, it
would take about 50 percent of Brazil’s exports, he said. Brazil
is the world’s largest sugar exporter and India is the biggest
consumer and second-largest producer. Coviello works in the
London office of  White Plains , New York-based Bunge.  Brazil, Thailand and Australia will keep driving global
sugar output, he said, adding that Brazil faces challenges to
meet demand because both sugar and ethanol are made from sugar
cane in the country.  The South American country has become a net importer of
ethanol, particularly from the U.S., as cane output fell, he
said. It may have to import the biofuel in the next four to five
years, especially in the period between crops, he said.  Sugar cane output in Brazil will drop for the first time in
10 years to 488.5 million metric tons, according to the
Brazilian industry group Unica.  Bunge, which invested in Brazilian sugar and ethanol, is
“looking for opportunities outside Brazil” in the sugar
industry, according to Coviello.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  