-- 
Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the  Beige Book .  The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before Nov. 18.  Boston: “Most business contacts in the First District
continue to report year-over-year revenue increases, but an
uncertain outlook. Responding retailers cite mixed results and
increased optimism about 2012; manufacturing contacts, by
contrast, say they are uncertain about the outlook even though
most current results remain good. Software and IT services
companies continue to see good demand growth, while results are
mixed, though mostly positive, for staffing firms.”  New York: “The Second District’s economy has continued to
grow slowly since the last report, while the labor market has
generally been stable. Manufacturers report that general
business conditions and employment levels have been steady in
recent weeks but that they plan to add workers in the months
ahead.  Consumer spending  has continued to expand at a moderate
pace: auto dealers report that sales were steady to stronger in
October, non-auto retail contacts report that sales have been on
or ahead of plan, and tourism activity has been generally
robust.”  Philadelphia: “Business activity in the Third District has
returned to a path of slow overall growth since the previous
Beige Book. Following unusual weather disruptions from an
earthquake, a hurricane, and a tropical storm during late
summer, the region was visited again -- this time by a rare
early season snowstorm. Since the last Beige Book, manufacturing
activity has grown modestly, but steadily. Retailers reported
renewed growth in year-over-year sales. Motor vehicle dealers
experienced strong year-over-year sales growth; however,
 Thailand ’s recent widespread flooding has caused another supply
disruption of auto parts.”  Cleveland : “Business activity in the Fourth District
expanded at a modest pace since our last report. Manufacturers
reported that new orders and production were stable. Retail
sales increased slightly. Auto dealers described sales of new
and used vehicles as very good.”  Richmond: “Recent reports on economic activity in the
Fifth District mostly described conditions as either unchanged
or slightly improved. The more upbeat reports came from the
retail sector, which rebounded in November, and the tourism
sector, which continued to post moderate improvement. The
agricultural sector also enjoyed a good harvest. Reports on
manufacturing activity indicated little change over the last
month, following several months of contraction. Likewise, the
service sector was generally characterized as being flat,
although a few bright spots were noted.”  Atlanta: “Sixth District business contacts described the
economy as expanding at a modest pace in October through mid-
November. Retailers noted sluggish sales growth compared with
September; however, auto dealers continued to experience robust
sales. Tourism activity remained a bright spot for most of the
District. Manufacturers reported an increase in new orders but a
modest decline in production.”  Chicago: “The pace of economic activity in the Seventh
District moderated in October and early November. While contacts
generally were cautiously optimistic about the economic outlook,
many also expressed concern over the increasingly risk adverse
business environment. Consumer spending increased, while
business spending was steady. Manufacturing production also
increased, with growth leveling off over the reporting period.”  St. Louis : “The economy of the Eighth District has slowed
since our previous report. Manufacturing activity has declined,
while reports of activity in the services sector have continued
to be mixed. Retail sales in September and October declined
slightly over year-earlier levels, and auto sales increased over
the same period.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy grew moderately
since the last report. Strong growth was reported in the
agriculture, energy and mining sectors. Modest to moderate
growth was noted in consumer spending, tourism, residential and
commercial construction, residential real estate and
professional services.”  Kansas City : “Growth in the Tenth District economy edged
higher in October and early November but remained moderate
overall. Consumer spending improved further, and manufacturing
activity rose modestly. High-tech firms reported generally
strong growth, and the  energy industry  continued to expand at a
robust pace.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy grew at a modest
pace since the last report. Manufacturing activity held steady
or declined, while demand for business services was flat.
Activity in the transportation services sector was mixed.
Retailers said sales growth moderated.”  San Francisco : “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
continued to grow at a moderate pace during the reporting period
of October through mid-November. Price increases for final goods
and services were limited, and upward pressures on wages were
subdued overall. Sales of retail items rose further, and demand
grew modestly for business and consumer services. District
manufacturing activity edged up on balance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  