-- 
U.K. Orders Closing of Iranian Embassy in London After Yesterday’s Attack

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-12-01T08:47:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-k-orders-closure-of-iranian-embassy-in-london-after-yesterday-s-attack.html
The U.K. ordered Iran to close its
embassy in  London  and remove its diplomats in the aftermath of a
mob attack on the British Embassy in Tehran.  Iran’s isolation deepened as  France  and  Germany  recalled
their ambassadors for consultations and Italy considered closing
its mission in the Iranian capital. Britain closed its embassy
in Tehran and evacuated the staff following the attack.  The storming of the embassy grounds two days ago brought
international condemnation, including from the U.S., which is
leading an international effort to tighten an economic noose on
the country over its disputed nuclear activities. U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  said he will push at a meeting of
European Union foreign ministers in Brussels today for the 27-
nation bloc to expand measures against  Iran .  “I will be advocating an intensification of economic
sanctions on Iran, particularly to increase to isolation of the
Iranian financial sector,” Hague said in an interview from
Brussels with BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “The measures I
hope we will agree today are related to the Iranian nuclear
program, they are not in reaction to what happened to our
embassy,” he said, calling Iran’s atomic work “our bigger
long-term concern.”  ‘Fanciful’  Announcing the closing of the Iranian Embassy in London in
the House of Commons yesterday, Hague said it is “fanciful” to
think the attack could have happened without some degree of
regime consent.  “If any country makes it impossible for us to operate on
their soil, they can’t have a functioning embassy here,” Hague
told lawmakers.  Iranian state media said the protesters on Nov. 29 were
from the Basij, a militia linked to the Revolutionary Guard
Corps. They entered the main embassy building in downtown Tehran
and a British residential compound in the north of the capital,
tearing down the U.K. flag and Queen Elizabeth II’s picture,
breaking windows and rifling through documents.  Karim Sadjadpour, an Iranian analyst at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in  Washington , called the
attackers “government-controlled rent-a-mobs.”  48-Hour Deadline  All Iranian diplomats must leave the U.K. within 48 hours,
Hague said yesterday, as a result of the “grave violation” of
the  Vienna Convention , which requires host governments to
protect foreign diplomats. Britain is seeking compensation from
the Iranian government, he said.  While the shutdown of Iran’s mission doesn’t amount to a
severing of diplomatic ties, the reopening of the Iranian
Embassy in London can only take place “in a much-improved
situation to the one we’re in today,” he said.  The Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman,  Ramin Mehmanparast ,
said yesterday in a statement e-mailed to the Agence France-
Presse newswire that “the British government’s asking Iranian
diplomats in London to leave this country is a passive and hasty
action.”  A day earlier, the ministry “expressed regret over the
unacceptable actions of a few protesters” in a statement posted
on the website of Iran’s embassy in London.  The assault came a week after the U.K. joined the U.S. in
expanding sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program, which the
allies say may be hiding bomb-making efforts.  ‘Nationalist Feelings’  The attack reflects “a revival of nationalist feelings in
Iran” as the country’s leadership comes under increasing
pressure, according to Mustafa Alani, director of national
security at the Geneva-based Gulf Research Center. That pressure
has been intensified by concern that the Syrian government under
Iran’s ally, Bashar al-Assad, may collapse in the face of
popular protests.  “Britain was heavily involved in  Libya  and possibly will
be involved in  Syria  and so there is general belief in Iran that
the British are doing the job of the U.S. in the region,
including spying on Iran,” Alani said in a telephone interview.
“The Iranians are panicking and they don’t know what to do.
This reaction against the U.K. and possibly against other
countries is part of this panicking mood.”  The Guardian Council, Iran’s highest legislative body, on
Nov. 28 endorsed parliament’s move to downgrade diplomatic ties
with Britain, including the expulsion of its ambassador, after
the U.K. joined the U.S. in expanding its sanctions.  Avoiding Military Clash  All options for dealing with Iran remain on the table,
Hague told lawmakers, though he said he isn’t backing military
action.  “We’re not advocating a military strike by anybody,”
Hague said. “While the possession of nuclear weapons by Iran
would be a calamity for the world, it’s quite possible military
action against Iran would be calamitous.”  The French Foreign Ministry announced the recall of its
ambassador in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Italy  is pressing
the Iranian government for safety guarantees for its embassy
personnel and may close the embassy, Italian Foreign Minister
Giulio Terzi told reporters in  Rome  yesterday.  Germany’s Foreign Ministry said it summoned the Iranian
ambassador in Berlin to protest the storming of the U.K.
compound, which affected the German school in the capital, and
is recalling its ambassador in Tehran for consultations. Norway
said it temporarily closed its embassy in Tehran for security
reasons.  ‘Distressed and Flustered’  The U.S. and allies, including the U.K., have backed United
Nations sanctions against Iran for its refusal to suspend
 uranium enrichment  and other nuclear activities that they
suspect are seeking to develop weapons capability. Iranian
officials say the work is part of a civilian program to produce
electricity and for medical purposes.  “In the past, Iran’s reaction to sanctions has been
utterly dismissive,” Sadjadpour said in an e-mailed response to
a question. “Attacking the  U.K. Embassy  paints a picture of a
regime that is deeply distressed and flustered.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  