-- 
U.K. Stocks Surge as Central Banks Ease Funding for Lenders

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-11-30T17:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-k-stocks-retreat-as-s-p-downgrades-banks-cairn-energy-drops.html
U.K. stocks (UKX)  surged the most in eight
weeks after the  Federal Reserve  and five central banks took
coordinated action to ease funding for European lenders and as
 China  cut its reserve ratio for banks.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  surged more than 7 percent in London trading. Mining
companies rallied with metal prices as the People’s Bank of
China reduced its reserve ratio for the first time since 2008.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index gained 3.2 percent to 5,505.42
at the close in London. The gauge earlier fell as much as 1.2
percent after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the credit ratings of some
of the world’s largest banks. The FTSE All-Share Index rose 3.1
percent and Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 3.9 percent.  “The market has ripped higher after the central banks’
coordinated move to boost liquidity,” said Brett Watkins, a
sales trader with XConnect Trading Ltd. in  London . “This is
undoubtedly a huge positive as it buys the market time, but it
does not solve the debt problem and the deleveraging that needs
to occur.”  The central banks of the U.S., the euro area, Canada, the
U.K., Japan and Switzerland all agreed to cut the cost of
providing dollar funding via swap arrangements and agreed to
make other currencies available as needed.  China said earlier today it will cut the  reserve-
requirement ratio  for its lenders by 0.5 percentage points from
Dec. 5. A clampdown on property speculation has added to the
risk of a deeper slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.  U.K. Lenders Surge  A gauge of U.K. banks extended gains to 3.3 percent as the
three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks pay to
convert euro payments into dollars, eased to 131 basis points
below the euro interbank offered rate. The measure earlier
reached a three-year high of 163.  Lloyds jumped 7.1 percent to 24.83 pence, RBS climbed 7.5
percent to 20.99 pence and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  increased 6.7 percent to
180.25 pence.  Commodity stocks rallied as metal prices rebounded on the
London Metal Exchange and crude oil climbed to a two-week high.
 Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  gained 6.5 percent to 925 pence and  Antofagasta
Plc (ANTO)  increased 9.2 percent to 1,184 pence.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
paced a rally in energy companies, climbing 3.9 percent to 2,224
pence.  Elsewhere,  Sage Group Plc (SGE)  advanced 5.5 percent to 290.1
pence after the U.K.’s biggest software maker reported a 4
percent increase in full-year “organic” revenue and also
raised its dividend 25 percent.  Shaftesbury, Cairn Energy  Shaftesbury Plc (SHB)  rallied 4.1 percent to 501.5 pence after
the second-best performing U.K. real-estate investment trust
this year reported a 30 percent jump in full-year profit as it
increased rents at properties in London’s West End district.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  paced declining shares, falling 1 percent
to 272.3 pence after the oil explorer ended its drilling program
off the coast of Greenland after failing to make a commercial
discovery.  Cairn said it plugged and abandoned the AT7-1 well, which
had encountered traces of oil and gas, as well as the AT2-1
well, the last of five drilled this year that reported only
“minor hydrocarbon shows.”  Panmure Gordon & Co. tumbled 19 percent to 11 pence after
the company said Chief Executive Officer Tim Linacre will step
down as the British stockbroker expects to report a second-half
loss.  Linacre, 52, will remain in the position he’s held for the
past six years until a successor is identified and will then
remain on the board, the company said.  Mouchel Group Plc (MCHL)  tumbled 30 percent to 12.25 pence after
the company said its outlook for 2012 has been curtailed by U.K.
government spending cuts on public services. The U.K. road-
maintenance company also increased its credit lines to 180
million pounds ($283 million) and was granted amendments by its
lenders to stave off a covenant breach. The shares yesterday
rallied 46 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  