-- 
U.K. Reduces Tehran Embassy Staff After Compound Is Stormed by Militants

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-11-30T12:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-k-reduces-tehran-embassy-staff-after-compound-is-stormed-by-militants.html
The U.K. said it’s pulling some
diplomats out of Tehran after its embassy was stormed by
militants a week after Britain tightened sanctions on  Iran  in
response to its nuclear program.  “Ensuring the safety of our staff and their families is
our immediate priority,” the Foreign Office in London said in a
statement read over the telephone by a spokesman today. “In
light of yesterday’s events and to ensure their ongoing safety,
some staff are leaving Tehran.” No further details on the
number or timing of the departures will be given until “the
appropriate time,” the Foreign Office said.  State media said the attackers were from the Basij, a
militia linked to Iran’s Republican Guard Corps. They entered
the main embassy building downtown and a compound in northern
Tehran, tearing down the British flag, Queen Elizabeth II’s
picture, breaking windows and rifling through documents. Their
acts were “unacceptable” and they “got out of control,” though
police had taken measures and the guard around the mission had
been strengthened, Iran’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement.  The assault on the British mission brought international
condemnation, including from the U.S., which is leading an
international effort to tighten an economic noose on the
country. Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  this month
reiterated his country’s refusal to scale back its nuclear
program, saying he won’t withdraw “an iota” from the work.  ‘Convenient Target’  Given that the U.S. hasn’t had diplomatic ties with Iran
for more than three decades, Iran went for “the next convenient
target,” Former British Ambassador Anthony Harris, who was the
U.K. envoy to the  United Arab Emirates  in the 1990s, said today
by telephone from London.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  called the events
“outrageous and indefensible” and said “the Iranian
government must recognize that there will be serious
consequences for failing to protect our staff,” according to a
statement. His foreign secretary,  William Hague , said he spoke
to Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  “to protest in the
strongest terms.”  The Guardian Council, Iran’s highest legislative body, on
Nov. 28 endorsed parliament’s move to downgrade diplomatic ties
with Britain, including the expulsion of its ambassador, after
the U.K. joined the U.S. in expanding its sanctions. European
Union foreign ministers are due to meet tomorrow to discuss
additional measures against Iran.  Targeting Oil  The most recent measures target Iran’s oil -- its major
source of income, with $80 billion in annual revenue from its
daily output of about 3.5 million barrels, according to Iranian
official figures and International Energy Agency estimates. That
makes it the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, after Saudi Arabia.  Yesterday’s unrest took place on the first anniversary of
the killing in Tehran of Majid Shahriari, a nuclear scientist,
for which Iran has blamed foreign intelligence services,
including the U.K.’s. State media said the numbers involved at
the embassy were in the hundreds.  Some of the attackers were detained and will be brought
before judiciary authorities, the state-run Mehr news said,
citing Tehran’s police chief, Hossein Sajedinia.  Norway said today it temporarily closed its embassy in the
Iranian capital for security reasons. No decision has been made
on whether to evacuate the staff, Hilde Steinfeld, a spokeswoman
for the Foreign Ministry in Oslo, said by e-mail.  Nuclear Weapons   The U.S. and allies including the U.K. have said Iran is
seeking to develop atomic weapons under the cover of a nuclear
program. Iranian officials say the work is purely civilian and
is needed for the development of nuclear power.  “In the past Iran’s reaction to sanctions has been utterly
dismissive; attacking the U.K. Embassy paints a picture of a
regime that is deeply distressed and flustered,” Karim Sadjadpour, an Iranian analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in  Washington , said in an e-mailed response
to a question. Sadjadpour said the attackers were “government-
controlled rent-a-mobs.”  Parliament’s speaker Ali Larijani said today their
“anger” stems from decades of “hostile behavior” from the
U.K., according to the state-run Mehr news agency.  Iran harbors a longstanding distrust of the U.K. and the
U.S. for staging a coup that overthrew democratically elected
Iranian Prime Minister Mohammed Mossadegh in 1953, and for
backing the rule of the late Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi who was
ousted in Iran’s 1979 revolution.  Oil Price  Crude rose 1.6 percent in  New York  yesterday, settling at
$99.79 a barrel, on increased U.S. consumer confidence and the
assault on the embassy. Crude futures were at $99.95 a barrel at
12:13 p.m.  London  time today.  Oil fell from the highest price in two weeks on signs of
rising U.S. stockpiles. Crude for January delivery slid as much
as 75 cents to $99.04 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile. The contract yesterday advanced 1.6 percent to
$99.79, the highest close since Nov. 16. Oil has gained 6.8
percent this month amid concern the sanctions may cut supplies
from Iran.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  called on Iran to ‘hold those
who are responsible to task” and said “the Iranian government
is not taking its international obligations seriously.”  After the revolution that ousted pro-western the Shah and
brought Shiite Muslim clerics to power, students seized the U.S.
Embassy in Tehran and held 52 diplomats hostage for 444 days,
leading the U.S. to sever ties. The revolt in Iran sent the
price of  Saudi Arabia ’s Arab light crude to about $34 a barrel
at the end of 1980 from $14 two years earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 