-- 
U.K. Police Arrest Woman in News of the World Phone-Hacking Investigation

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T09:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-k-police-arrest-woman-in-news-of-the-world-phone-hacking-investigation.html
Police investigating phone-hacking
at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid in Britain
said they arrested a 31-year-old woman on suspicion of
conspiring to intercept voice-mail messages.  The unidentified woman is in custody at a police station in
Northumbria in northeast  England , the Metropolitan Police said
today in an e-mailed statement.  It’s at least the 19th arrest this year since police opened
three separate probes into phone hacking, police bribery and
computer hacking at News International. News Corp. shuttered the
News of the World in July to contain the five-year-old scandal,
which involved reporters targeting celebrities, politicians and
victims of crime and terrorism.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s London-based
News International unit, which published the tabloid, declined
to comment.  A separate judge-led inquiry into the ethics of U.K.
newspapers heard testimony yesterday from a former News of the
World reporter, Paul MacMullen, who said phone-hacking at the
tabloid was widespread and that editors knew of the practice and
sometimes listened to messages. Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson ,
former editors at the tabloid, were arrested in July and haven’t
been charged. Both have denied knowing about phone hacking.  The two-week-old inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, is
today scheduled to hear from former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair’s director of communications, Alastair Campbell, who has
sued News International claiming his phone was hacked.  Hacking Denials  Leveson previously heard testimony that phone hacking may
have extended to other tabloids, including News Corp.’s Sun,
 Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) ’s Daily Mirror and the  Daily Mail & General
Trust Plc (DMGO) ’s Mail on Sunday. News Corp. has admitted liability,
while the other publishers have denied the claims.  The News of the World’s former private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  and ex-reporter Clive Goodman were jailed in 2007 for
intercepting phone messages meant for members of Prince Charles’
staff and a handful of other public figures.  Police reopened the probe in January after revelations that
phone-hacking wasn’t limited to Mulcaire and Goodman, as News
International claimed. Since then, police have said more than
5,000 people may have been targeted, based on Mulcaire’s notes
seized in 2006.  The evidence that led police to restart the investigation
was brought to light in civil lawsuits filed by celebrities
including British actor Sienna Miller, who was one of the first
to sue News International for damages and accepted a 100,000-
pound ($155,300) settlement.  Miller told the press inquiry on Nov. 24 that articles
revealing personal details about her caused her to wrongfully
accuse friends and family of leaking information to the press,
when in reality her phone had been hacked. Similar claims were
made by actor  Hugh Grant  and author  J.K. Rowling , among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  