-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  The Second District’s economy has continued to grow slowly since
the last report, while the labor market has generally been
stable. Manufacturers report that general business conditions
and employment levels have been steady in recent weeks but that
they plan to add workers in the months ahead.  Consumer spending 
has continued to expand at a moderate pace: auto dealers report
that sales were steady to stronger in October, non-auto retail
contacts report that sales have been on or ahead of plan, and
tourism activity has been generally robust. Home sales and
prices have generally held steady since the last report, though
rental markets continued to strengthen. Commercial real estate
markets have shown slight signs of softening.  New York City 
financial firms continue to face adverse business conditions and
have announced impending layoffs. Finally, bankers report a
pickup in demand for commercial  mortgage loans , continued
tightening in credit standards, and lower delinquency rates on
commercial and industrial loans.  Consumer Spending  Non-auto retailers report that same store sales were mostly on
or ahead of plan in October and the first half of November but
little changed from a year earlier. Contacts at major malls in
upstate New York indicate that sales activity was mixed in
October but appeared to improve in the early part of November.
One large retail chain indicates that sales in the region were
down slightly from a year earlier in October and early November
but still somewhat ahead of plan. Retail inventories are
generally said to be at desired levels, while prices are
reported to be flat to down slightly. Auto dealers in upstate
New York report that sales were steady to stronger in October
and that dealers’ service and parts departments continue to
perform well.  Consumer confidence  has weakened noticeably since the last
report. Both Siena College’s October survey of New York State
residents and the Conference Board’s survey covering the Middle
Atlantic states (NY, NJ, PA) show consumer confidence falling to
its lowest level in more than a year.
Tourism activity has been generally robust since the last report.
Albany-area hotels report strong improvement in occupancy rates
in September. New York City hotels report that occupancy rates
were steady at about 90 percent in September and October--up
modestly from 2010 levels; room rates were up roughly 4 percent
from a year earlier in October and total revenues were up about
6 percent. However, Broadway theaters report that attendance
fell 5-10 percent below year ago levels in October and early
November--in part reflecting fewer shows open this year. Still,
total revenues have continued to run ahead of 2010 levels,
reflecting double-digit percentage increases in revenues per
show.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential real estate markets have been stable, on balance,
since the last report, while  home construction  activity remains
low--particularly for single-family homes. New York City’s
rental market continues to strengthen: asking rents remained on
an upward trend up in October and were up 5 to 10 percent from
comparable 2010 levels. Scattered reports from elsewhere in the
District also point to strengthening rental markets. Co-op and
condo prices in  Manhattan  and Brooklyn were mostly steady since
the last report, while transactions activity dipped in October
but turned up in early November. In northern New Jersey,  home
prices  are reported to be down modestly, hampered by a glut of
distressed properties; while fewer home mortgages are moving
into delinquency status recently, there remains a large overhang
of distressed properties. New home construction remains at a low
level, with multi-family rental buildings accounting for most
new development--in both New York City and northern  New Jersey .
Buffalo-area Realtors report steady home sales activity but some
downward drift in prices; they also note a pickup in traffic at
open houses.  Commercial real estate markets have been steady to slightly
weaker since the last report. Office vacancy rates in both
midtown and downtown Manhattan ticked up in October; the average
asking rent continued to climb, but this is attributed to the
fact that much of the space recently coming on the market is in
high-priced buildings. A contact in western New York State
reports that commercial leasing activity remains flat, while
commercial construction activity has picked up slightly but
remains sluggish; credit availability continues to be a
restraining factor for the market.  Other Business Activity  According to an industry contact, financial sector conditions
remain adverse, with several thousand layoffs reportedly in the
pipeline in the New York City area. This contact notes that
regulatory uncertainty is hampering planning and causing shifts
in resources among areas. While securities firms are reducing
headcounts overall, they are still hiring in the legal and
compliance areas. A major New York City employment agency
reports that the job market has held steady since the last
report with hiring activity described as moderate in October.
Starting salaries have remained stable over the past year.  Both manufacturers and service-sector firms continue to report
stable employment levels but indicate plans to increase
headcounts, on balance, over the next six months. Manufacturing
firms across New York State report that general business
conditions have held steady over the past month, and they
express increased optimism about the near term outlook. Non-
manufacturing contacts are also increasingly optimistic about
the near-term outlook, though less so than manufacturers.  Financial Developments  Small to medium-sized banks in the District report increased
demand for commercial mortgages but no change in demand in other
loan categories. Bankers also reported an increase in the demand
for refinancing. Respondents report tightening credit standards
in all categories except residential mortgages, for which they
indicate no change. Tightening of standards was most prevalent
for commercial mortgages. Contacts report decreases in spreads
of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories.
Respondents also indicate widespread decreases in average
deposit rates. Bankers report declining delinquency rates for
commercial and industrial loans, but no change in delinquencies
for the other loan categories. 