-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. The pace of economic activity in the Seventh District
moderated in October and early November. While contacts
generally were cautiously optimistic about the economic outlook,
many also expressed concern over the increasingly risk adverse
business environment.  Consumer spending  increased, while
business spending was steady. Manufacturing production also
increased, with growth leveling off over the reporting period.
Construction was again subdued, although nonresidential
construction increased slightly. Credit conditions were little
changed. Wholesale price increases slowed, but there was some
further pass-through to the retail level. Corn, soybean, and
cattle prices were up from early October, while milk and hog
prices were down.  Consumer spending. Consumer spending increased in October and
early November. Retailers reported moderate sales growth with
consumers responding to an increase in promotions during the
reporting period. Contacts expected retailers to use extended
promotional periods and heavy discounting in an effort to keep
traffic volumes steady over the upcoming  holiday shopping season .
Auto sales also increased in October, but the sales pace slowed
in early November. Dealers indicated that consumers may be
waiting to see what end-of-the year deals will be offered; they
also were concerned that recent stock market volatility would
weigh on  consumer confidence  and willingness to spend.  Business spending. Business spending was steady in October and
early November. Several manufacturers said that they were
reluctant to build inventories, as the elevated uncertainty
surrounding the European and Asian economies had led them to
take a “hand-to-mouth” attitude towards ordering. In contrast,
contacts generally reported moving ahead with planned purchases
of equipment and software. Most, however, indicated that hiring
plans remained limited. Labor market conditions deteriorated,
with some additional layoffs announced and unemployment in the
District edging higher. In addition, growth in billable hours
continued to moderate for staffing and professional services,
although one staffing firm noted that permanent placements were
increasing offsetting some of the decline in the demand for
temporary workers.  Construction/real estate. Construction activity was again
subdued in October and early November. Residential real estate
conditions remained depressed. Builders reported very little new
single-family  home construction , and showroom traffic was steady
at a low level. Multi-family construction was stronger in
comparison. Nonresidential construction increased moderately.
Contacts cited continued growth in the industrial sector and an
uptick in demand for medical and professional office space,
while retail construction remained very slow. Commercial real
estate conditions were little changed on balance with only a
slight decline in vacancy rates reported.  Manufacturing. Growth in manufacturing production increased
further in October before leveling off in early November. Demand
for heavy equipment remained strong, led by robust activity in
the energy sector. Contacts expected the growth in demand for
equipment to moderate going forward, but also noted that the
need to replace aging capital would continue to boost demand
into next year. Manufacturers of specialty industrial metals
also reported greater activity, driven in large part by the auto
sector and exports. Auto production in the District continued to
steadily improve, although the recent flooding in  Thailand  was
reported to have challenged supply chains and impeded the
recovery of dealer inventories of Japanese vehicles. Several
contacts cited concerns that going forward moderately higher
production levels would begin to strain capacity in the supply
chain. In contrast, capacity utilization in the  steel industry 
decreased, and orders coming into service centers were described
as spotty. Furthermore, manufacturers of household appliances
and construction materials reported declining demand.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions were little changed on
balance during the reporting period. Volatility in equity
markets remained elevated, and some additional flight to quality
further boosted the demand for Treasury debt. Contacts noted the
bankruptcy filing of MF Global Holdings Ltd. was disruptive for
the company’s former clients, with missing funds and uncertainty
about the status of their futures and options positions limiting
their ability to manage risk. Corporate funding costs generally
edged lower as spreads narrowed relative to low benchmark
interest rates. Banking contacts indicated that business loan
demand continued to be muted by clients’ reluctance to take on
growth-oriented projects due to economic and political
uncertainty. In addition, the lower liquidity in high yield and
term loan markets did not seem to be causing much substitution
of leveraged financing from bond and syndicated loan markets
into individual bank loans. Business loan quality was noted to
be stabilizing, with little additional improvement expected in
the near-term.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures remained elevated, even though raw
materials prices declined further in October and early November.
Steel prices, in particular, moved lower over the reporting
period. Contacts again reported extended lead times for
specialty metals. In addition, tires were reported to be in
shortage, with a contact indicating tight supplies are likely to
persist until new plants come on-line in 2013. Wholesale price
increases slowed, but cost pressures remained elevated for food,
fabrics,  diesel fuel , and shipping. Retailers reported they were
absorbing most of these higher costs in their margins, but some
pass-through to downstream prices continued. Wage pressures
remained moderate.  Agriculture. The corn and soybean harvests were running ahead of
pace in the District, though yields were coming in below trend.
For the District as a whole, more bushels of corn were harvested
than a year ago, but soybean production was down. Crop storage
on farms increased, as many farmers are expecting to sell their
crops for higher prices in the future. This higher farm storage
has led to relatively lighter supplies at grain elevators for
this time of year, and end users, including ethanol plants,
faced the prospect of higher prices. Corn, soybean, and cattle
prices were up from early October, while milk and hog prices
were down. With the exception of soybeans, these prices were up
from last year, boosting farm incomes. There was another surge
in farmland values and cash rental rates for the District. 