-- 
U.S. Consumer Bureau to Publish Data on Credit-Card Complaints

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-11-30T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-consumer-bureau-to-publish-data-on-credit-card-complaints.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau proposed publishing data on consumer
complaints about credit cards, including the names of firms that
issued the cards.  Under the proposal released today, the bureau would exclude
personal data of complainants but release information on the
type of complaint, the issuer involved, the date of the
complaint and the Zip code of the consumer. The agency will also
publish “periodic reports about trends and patterns in
complaint data,” according to the proposal.  “The CFPB anticipates that if it disclosed credit-card
complaint data, those who would be most likely to mine the data
for trends and patterns and to publish their conclusions would
be academics and groups dedicated to empowering consumers in
making well-informed decisions,” the agency wrote in the
proposal.  The publication could affect card issuers including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  These firms worked with the bureau beginning
early this year to set up the consumer response system.  Even before the agency’s system began taking complaints
about credit cards on July 21, industry groups including the
American Bankers association were pushing to keep data
confidential, arguing that publication would allow frivolous
complaints to damage reputable brands. Consumer groups argued
that many firms, such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , publish unedited
consumer complaints with no apparent harm.  “When consumers contact us, we get a snapshot of how the
consumer finance markets are working,” Raj Date, adviser to the
Treasury secretary for the consumer bureau, said in an e-mailed
statement. “And we are learning that there is a lot of consumer
confusion about credit card terms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 