-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Eighth District - St. Louis  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District has slowed since our previous
report. Manufacturing activity has declined, while reports of
activity in the services sector have continued to be mixed.
Retail sales in September and October declined slightly over
year-earlier levels, and auto sales increased over the same
period. Residential real estate market activity has continued to
decline, while commercial real estate market conditions have
been mixed. Overall lending at a sample of large District banks
was unchanged during the three-month period ending in October.  Consumer Spending  Contacts reported that retail sales in September and October
were down slightly, on average, over year-earlier levels. About
46 percent of the retailers saw increases in sales, while 37
percent saw decreases and 17 percent saw no changes. Roughly 57
percent of the retailers reported that sales levels met their
expectations, 33 percent reported that sales were below
expectations, and 10 percent reported that sales were above
expectations. About 17 percent of the retailers reported that
their inventories were too high, while 9 percent reported that
their inventories were too low. The sales outlook through the
end of the year was mostly optimistic: About 58 percent of the
retailers expect sales to increase over 2010 levels, while 29
percent expect sales to decrease and 13 percent expect sales to
be similar to last year’s sales.  Car dealers in the District reported that sales in September and
October were up, on average, compared with last year’s sales.
About 46 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in
sales, while 33 percent saw decreases and 21 percent saw no
changes. Twenty-five percent of the car dealers reported that
new car sales had increased relative to used car sales, while 21
percent reported the opposite. Roughly 29 percent of contacts
reported an increase in sales of low-end vehicles relative to
high-end vehicles, while 13 percent reported the opposite.
Thirty-three percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that
their inventories were too low, while 13 percent reported that
their inventories were too high. The sales outlook through the
end of the year was somewhat optimistic: 50 percent of the car
dealers expect sales to increase over 2010 levels, while 25
percent expect sales to decrease and 25 percent expect sales to
be similar to last year’s sales.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing activity has declined since our previous report.
Several manufacturers reported plans to close plants and
decrease operations in the near future, while a smaller number
of contacts reported plans to open plants or expand operations.
Firms in the primary metal product, surgical appliance and
supplies, small engine, paper, and cleaning compound
manufacturing industries announced plans to decrease operations
and lay off workers. Additionally, a major firm in the
refrigeration equipment manufacturing industry announced plans
to close a plant and lay off a large number of workers. In
contrast, firms in the fabricated metal product, clothing,
appliance, hair care product, and air conditioning manufacturing
industries announced plans to hire new employees.  Reports of activity in the District’s services sector have
continued to be mixed since our previous survey. Firms in
business support services, medical research services, and
transportation services announced plans to expand operations and
hire new workers. In contrast, contacts in temporary help
services, government services, and education services announced
plans to decrease operations in the District and lay off
employees.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth
District. Compared with the same period in 2010, September 2011
year-to-date home sales were down 5 percent in  Memphis , 6
percent in St. Louis, 7 percent in Louisville, and 9 percent in
 Little Rock . Residential construction also continued to decrease
throughout the District. September 2011 year-to-date single-
family housing permits decreased in the majority of the District
metro areas compared with the same period in 2010. Permits
decreased 10 percent in Memphis, 23 percent in St. Louis, 19
percent in Louisville, and 25 percent in Little Rock. Commercial
and industrial real estate market conditions varied throughout
the District. Compared with the second quarter of 2011, third
quarter 2011 suburban office vacancy rates increased in Little
Rock and Louisville but decreased in St. Louis and Memphis. The
downtown office vacancy rates increased in Louisville and St.
Louis but decreased in Little Rock and Memphis. Industrial
vacancy rates increased in Memphis and St. Louis but decreased
in Louisville and remained the same in Little Rock. Commercial
construction activity was slow throughout most of the District,
while industrial construction showed signs of improvement in
some areas. Contacts in southern  Indiana  noted that commercial
construction activity continues to be slow. However, contacts in
Evansville, Indiana, noted increased power plant construction
projects. Similarly, contacts in south central  Kentucky  noted
industrial plant expansions. Contacts in St. Louis reported
continued limited commercial and industrial construction
activity and expect mainly build-to-suit projects for the
remainder of the year.  Banking and Finance  A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District
banks indicates little change in overall lending activity in the
third quarter of 2011 relative to the second quarter of 2011.
Credit standards for commercial real estate loans, residential
mortgage loans, and consumer loans remained basically unchanged,
while the standards for commercial and industrial loans ranged
from basically unchanged to somewhat eased. With the exception
of the demand for commercial and industrial loans, which
remained unchanged, changes in demand for these loans was mixed.
The demand for commercial residential loans and residential
 mortgage loans  ranged from relatively unchanged to moderately
weaker. The demand for consumer loans, however, ranged from
moderately weaker to moderately stronger.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Winter wheat planting was ahead of its 5-year average completion
rate in the Eighth District states, while the fraction of winter
wheat crops rated fair or better was over 90 percent in all
states except  Mississippi . Monthly output of commercial red meat
for September 2011 increased by 3.6 percent compared with
September 2010. However, the total live weight and number of
chickens slaughtered decreased by over 4 percent between August
and September 2011. Year-to-date coal production at the end of
October in the Eighth District was 3.8 percent higher in 2011
compared with the same period in 2010. Meanwhile, monthly
production for October was 2 percent lower than in October 2010. 