-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy grew moderately since the last report.
Strong growth was reported in the agriculture, energy and mining
sectors. Modest to moderate growth was noted in  consumer
spending , tourism, residential and commercial construction,
residential real estate and professional services. Activity in
commercial real estate was flat, while manufacturing was mixed.
Labor markets showed some signs of tightening, while wage
increases remained moderate. Prices generally were level.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending grew moderately. A major Minneapolis-based
retailer reported that same-store sales in October increased
about 3 percent compared with a year earlier. A Minneapolis area
mall reported that recent sales were up between 3 percent and 5
percent, as cooler weather inspired shoppers to buy fall goods.
According to the University of St. Thomas Holiday Spending
Sentiment Survey, Minneapolis-St. Paul households are predicted
to spend 3.4 percent more on holiday gifts than last year. Auto
sales in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area increased since the last
report, according to a domestic auto dealer. However, a
Minnesota-based clothing retailer announced plans to close
several stores and reduce its workforce. Preliminary results of
the Minneapolis Fed’s business outlook poll indicated that
respondents expect slight increases in consumer spending in
their communities and increased sales of their businesses’
products and services.  Tourism activity was up from a year ago. According to officials,
momentum from a very good summer tourism season in Montana
continued into the fall. Occupancy at  Minnesota ’s hotels and
motels increased almost 5 percent during the third quarter
compared with a year ago.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity increased modestly since the
last report. Respondents to a November Minneapolis Fed ad hoc
survey of commercial construction contacts reported an increase
in construction activity for health care facilities and
industrial buildings. However, the value of commercial building
permits in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area was down slightly in
October from October 2010. Residential construction increased
from last year. Several multifamily construction projects were
announced or are under construction in the Minneapolis-St. Paul
area. The number of permitted residential units in Minnesota was
up in September from a year ago. However, in the  Sioux Falls 
area, the value of residential building permits in October was
level with the same period a year earlier.  Commercial real estate markets were flat. Respondents to the
Minneapolis Fed’s ad hoc survey noted flat revenues and profits
over the past three months. The commercial real estate sector is
still very weak, particularly in  office space . “Very little
expansion by companies, so the only activity seems to be
companies shopping for lower rates,” commented a Minneapolis-St.
Paul area contact. Residential real estate markets grew. Home
sales in October were up significantly from the same period a
year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, while the inventory
available for sale shrank.  Services  On balance, professional business services firms expect
increased activity. Based on results from the business outlook
poll, respondents from the services sector expect to increase
sales and capital investment in 2012. “Things generally are
better,” commented a  Montana  professional services firm.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity was mixed since the last report. An
October survey of  purchasing managers  by Creighton University
(Omaha, Neb.) showed that production increased in Minnesota and
North Dakota, but unexpectedly contracted slightly in South
Dakota. Bank Directors noted that manufacturing was doing well
with some equipment backlogs extending throughout 2012.
Producers of storage bins for agricultural use reported strong
demand. However, a window maker announced that it will lay off
workers due to weak  home construction . A large printing
operation in Minnesota halted expansion plans due to uncertainty
about the economy.  Energy and Mining  The energy and mining sectors saw continued strong growth. Oil
exploration activity increased in Montana since the last report,
but decreased slightly in  North Dakota . In North Dakota,
regulators approved plans for a 105-megawatt wind farm, and
three other wind energy projects are under review. A short line
railroad reported that it saw strong demand growth from the wind
energy and oil drilling sectors. District mines continued to
operate at very high capacity utilization rates.  Agriculture  Agricultural conditions remained generally strong. Farm
financial conditions were very strong due to high commodity
prices. Prices for hogs, cattle, turkeys and eggs increased in
October; prices for corn, soybeans and wheat declined, but
remain substantially above their year-earlier levels. The
harvest went quickly, thanks to recent dry weather. District
corn production was roughly even with 2010; however, soybean
production was down more than 12 percent. Wheat production was
down dramatically in some areas of the District.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Labor markets showed some signs of tightening. In a recent
survey of Minnesota manufacturers, 45 percent of respondents
reported that skilled-worker shortages were a moderate or
serious problem, particularly for skilled production and IT
workers. A Minnesota recreational vehicle manufacturer reported
that it isn’t running a plant at capacity because of a
surprising shortage of workers. A representative of a Minnesota
employment services firm noted robust demand for temporary light
industrial positions during September and October; demand for
permanent positions was volatile. A  South Dakota  manufacturer
reported difficulty finding qualified workers in order to expand
operations. In Montana, a job fair indicated that employers were
recruiting recent college graduates with engineering, business
and computer science majors. According to the business outlook
poll, 36 percent of respondents consider securing workers a
challenge or serious challenge in 2012, up from 24 percent in
last year’s poll.  Wage increases were moderate. Members of a South Dakota county
highway union recently agreed to a 5 percent pay cut in 2012.
The business outlook poll shows that 96 percent of respondents
expect wages and salaries in their communities to increase no
more than 3 percent. However, some fast food restaurants in
western North Dakota were offering wages as high as $15 per hour
to attract employees.  Prices generally remained level, although some exceptions were
noted. Minnesota gasoline prices continued to decrease since the
last report, but were still 54 cents per gallon higher than a
year ago. Meanwhile, a South Dakota manufacturer noted that
steel prices have softened recently. According to respondents to
the business outlook poll, 41 percent expect to increase prices
for their businesses’ products and services in 2012, up from 35
percent last year. 