-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Most business contacts in the First District continue to report
year-over-year revenue increases, but an uncertain outlook.
Responding retailers cite mixed results and increased optimism
about 2012; manufacturing contacts, by contrast, say they are
uncertain about the outlook even though most current results
remain good. Software and IT services companies continue to see
good demand growth, while results are mixed, though mostly
positive, for staffing firms. Real estate markets remain subdued.
With the exception of software and IT services, contacts say
their firms are doing mostly replacement hiring; some cite
difficulty in filling specific skilled jobs. Cost pressures are
said to be modest.  Retail and Tourism  First District retailers contacted in mid-November express less
uncertainty about recent business trends than they did in early
October; their estimates of 2011 annual sales are generally more
positive and the 2012 outlook is more optimistic than last time.
One large retailer selling both durable and nondurable goods
reports that third quarter comparable store sales were up 3
percent over 2010:Q3. Another durable goods retailer reports
that sales in recent weeks have been almost 5 percent above what
they consider the benchmark for a solid sales week. Notably, a
couple of contacts who last time expected 2011 sales gains of 4
percent or 6.5 percent from 2010 have now revised their
estimates upward to between 7.5 percent and 8 percent. With one
exception, responding consumer-goods retailers expect final 2011
sales to range from 6 percent to 8 percent over 2010, but one
foresees annual 2011 sales to track 1 percent to 9 percent lower
than 2010. Respondents say that consumers are regaining some
confidence, although such comments are still tempered with
caution, particularly regarding durable goods purchases.
Budgeted pay increases range from 2 percent to 3.3 percent. Some
contacts report ongoing wholesale price increases, while others
say cost increases have moderated.  The travel and tourism sector continues to see strength in
overseas and business travel, while discretionary domestic
leisure spending is fueled by the affluent consumer. One weak
spot is booking for end-of-the-year holiday parties. Hotel
bookings for 2012 remain strong. The September tourism slowdown
noted in the last round of calls seems to have been temporary.
This contact continues to expect 2011 tourism growth of 5
percent to 8 percent over 2010 and predicts 2012 tourism
revenues to be 10 to 12 percent above 2011.  Manufacturing and Related Services  The First District manufacturing picture remains mixed. On the
whole, contacts report relatively strong performance continuing
in recent months, but ongoing concern about potential weakness
in the global economy is tempering growth forecasts and leading
to only limited  capital investment  and hiring activity. Of the
firms contacted this month, all but one recorded sales growth
year-on-year and many report double-digit growth. The growth is
broad-based geographically; most firms report strongest growth
in  Asia , followed by domestic sales, but even  Europe  results
remain fairly robust, despite the sovereign debt crisis. One
contact making laboratory instruments commented that “reports of
Europe’s demise are premature” but others are less sanguine
about Europe. A major supplier to the auto industry reports a
September year-on-year sales decline in Europe of 7 percent, but
a year-to-date European sales increase of 11 percent, only
slightly less than the almost-13 percent recorded in Asia.  The pricing picture continues to improve. Materials price
increases and shortages that characterized the sector in 2010
are said to have largely subsided. One contact in the chemical
business says that input costs are “falling like a rock” and
attributes the attenuation to  China  “putting the brakes on.” A
semiconductor contact says that while the price escalation and
shortages of rare-earth elements endemic at the beginning of the
year are no longer a problem, prices remain high. A laboratory-
instrument maker says that high energy prices are leading them
to shift freight from air to ships. In general, contacts say
they have little trouble passing price increases on to customers.
Respondents who cite falling input prices also report increased
downward price pressures on the output side.  Manufacturers in the First District are hiring in general but
not a lot; most report hiring only selectively to fill vacancies.
Only one firm is laying off workers. A contact supplying the
 auto industry  had planned to increase headcount 3 percent in
2012 but has now decided to freeze hiring, approving no new
positions and abandoning approved but unfilled positions.
Several firms cite trouble finding qualified staff, generally
for technical positions, with one contact in the industrial
motor business saying that larger firms are “poaching”
machinists from a North Carolina plant. A pharmaceutical firm
reports problems finding technical staff and also accountants
and other less specialized skills.  Contacts do not, in general, report any major changes to their
capital spending plans. Several firms mention increased
expenditure on information technology, including two who are
installing new ERP (enterprise resource planning) software
systems. One contact in industrial distribution said that the
purpose of the increased investment is to “grow the business
without increasing headcount.” Several firms report significant
 capital expenditures  overseas, generally with the goal of
supplying overseas markets.  The outlook for 2012 is very cloudy. Virtually all of our
manufacturing contacts express misgivings. Some are concerned
about the crisis in Europe but others express the vague fears
that have characterized our conversations over the last 18
months. A contact in the semiconductor industry says there is
less “visibility” than at any previous juncture. Most firms have
not officially revised their forecasts for 2012 and continue to
plan for growth. A chemical industry contact says he is
“following his head and not his stomach” because, by the numbers,
2012 looks promising but his experience and intuition tell him
otherwise. A contact in the industrial motor business says that
their “book-to-bill” ratio is 1.07, so backlog is growing, but
he describes himself as “worried.”  Software and  Information Technology  Services  New England  software and information technology contacts report
continued growth, with year-over-year revenue increases ranging
from mid-single digits to 20 percent in the most recent quarter.
Contacts report upticks in demand across the board, including in
the manufacturing, financial, and medical sectors. Increased
activity has led all contacts to increase their headcounts
relative to a year ago, many by over 5 percent; at the same time,
many report continued difficulty in attracting and retaining
qualified software engineers, programmers, and sales personnel.
Respondents report annual wage increases for most employees
between 3 percent and 5 percent, with one firm increasing the
wages of software engineers by more. Many contacts express
renewed concerns regarding the federal budget and the European
debt crisis. Nonetheless, First District software and IT
contacts are generally more optimistic than they were three
months ago. With strong order pipelines, most are expecting
revenue in early 2012 to be 10 percent to 20 percent higher than
in early 2011.  Staffing Services  First District staffing contacts report mixed activity through
the end of October, with some experiencing downticks and others
posting modest increases. Year-over-year revenue changes vary
widely, from flat to up by more than 25 percent. Labor demand is
generally flat relative to three months ago, although a few
contacts report upticks in the software-IT, manufacturing, and
legal sectors. Demand for permanent and temporary-to-permanent
hiring continues to grow. Supply of high-end labor remains tight
in the region, and a few contacts report difficulty finding
medical assistants, CNC operators, and welders. Bill rates and
pay rates are steady or up slightly, with most contacts
attributing increases to more high-end placements as well as a
tight supply of skilled workers. First District staffing
contacts say they believe that the labor market is performing
better in New England than in the nation as a whole; they
express hope for more consistent growth in 2012.  Commercial Real Estate  The majority of contacts in the First District describe
conditions in commercial real estate markets as roughly
unchanged since the last report, although some note small
improvements in fundamentals. In Hartford, vacancy rates for
Class A downtown office space continue to hover around 20
percent and leasing demand remains muted in light of a flat
labor market. In Boston, office leasing activity is roughly
steady at a moderate pace, although tenants reportedly lack a
sense of urgency to sign deals. Boston’s Back Bay and East
Cambridge submarkets continue to show strong demand and
relatively low vacancy rates, with the result that rents on
Class A office space in Back Bay now exceed those for comparable
space in Boston’s financial district, where vacancy rates remain
in the mid-teens.  Portland  saw modest absorption of retail and
Class B office space and in recent weeks amid strong overall
leasing volume, while some new vacancies arose in the Class A
office market. Leasing demand tapered off in recent weeks in
Providence, as suburban  Rhode Island  experienced a modest uptick
in leasing activity.  The investment sales market remains strong in Boston, as prices
edge slightly higher for prime office and apartment buildings.
Apartment construction in greater Boston remains very active,
with numerous developments in progress and more new buildings in
the pipeline, although other construction activity remains
limited throughout the region. The lending environment continues
to offer plentiful financing--and on increasingly favorable
terms--for premier properties, especially in Boston, while
financing remains harder to obtain for riskier properties and
those in secondary and tertiary markets.  Residential Real Estate  Sales activity in New England for single-family homes and
condominiums continues to languish according to contacts
throughout the region. Sales figures rose moderately in
September compared to a year ago, but these increases reflect
several months of dismal sales following the expiration of the
tax credit in mid-2010. Respondents say housing market
conditions have remained largely unchanged in the last several
months. Most contacts characterize the market as stable and
consistent, but believe the beginning of a recovery remains
fairly distant. While low  interest rates  have made financing
more affordable to qualified homebuyers, contacts report tighter
credit standards as a constraint. The median sale price of homes
also rose in September from a year earlier in the region, except
for Rhode Island, where prices have been below year-earlier
levels for several months. October data for the Greater Boston
area, by contrast, show a 10.5 percent year-over-year decline in
the median sale price of homes.  Outlooks for the remainder of the year are mixed, with some
contacts anticipating 2011 sales falling short of last year and
others predicting sales to reach last year’s level. Respondents
expect relatively stable prices in the coming months, but note
the possibility of moderate declines. 