-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  Business activity in the Fourth District expanded at a modest
pace since our last report. Manufacturers reported that new
orders and production were stable. Single-family home building
remained sluggish, while construction of multi-family housing
rose. Inquiries to nonresidential builders picked up some, but
backlogs are still low. Retail sales increased slightly. Auto
dealers described sales of new and used vehicles as very good.
Shale gas drilling and production continued to expand. Freight
transport volume was stable. The demand for business credit grew
moderately, while consumer loan demand was weak.  Hiring remains at a low level across almost all industry sectors.
Staffing-firm representatives reported modest growth in the
number of new job openings and placements, with vacancies
concentrated in professional business services and energy. Wage
pressures are contained. Respondents noted some upward pressure
on prices, especially for metals and petroleum-based products.  Manufacturing. New orders and production at District factories
were stable along seasonal trends during the past six weeks.
Compared to year-ago levels, output was mainly higher. Most of
our contacts are cautious in their outlook but expect little
change in demand during the upcoming months. Steel producers and
service centers reported that shipping volume was steady or
slightly lower, with demand being driven by energy and
industrial equipment industries. Steel representatives remain
hopeful that current volume can be maintained, although some
seasonal slowing is expected. District auto production held
steady in October on a month-over-month basis. Compared to year-
ago levels, output rose moderately, more so for domestic
nameplates.  Manufacturers remain committed to their capital spending plans,
with many steel companies expecting to increase outlays during
the upcoming months. Capacity utilization remains below normal
at most factories, while steel producers saw their utilization
rates at or near normal levels. Inventories are in line with
sales for a majority of our contacts. Reports on raw materials
prices were mixed. Half of our respondents said that prices were
steady or declining; others told us that prices continue to rise,
but at a slower rate than earlier in the year. Increases were
mainly associated with metals and petroleum-based products.
Changes in raw materials prices were passed through to customers.
New hiring remains at a low level. Those adding to payrolls
found it difficult to recruit highly skilled workers. Wage
pressures are contained.  Construction. Single-family  home construction  remained sluggish,
while activity in multi-family housing and remodeling expanded.
Sales contracts were mainly in the move-up price-point
categories. Several builders reported that difficulty in
obtaining financing is preventing them from adding to their spec
inventory. Little change is expected in residential building for
the next one to two years. Not much difference was seen in the
list prices or discounting of new houses since our last report.
The pickup in hiring by general contractors that occurred late
in the summer has diminished.  Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size
builders was described as steady or slowly improving. While the
number of inquiries has picked up recently, the biggest
challenge facing builders at this time is adding backlog. One
contractor commented that the incubation period for public
infrastructure projects can be as long as five years.
Construction contracts were primarily in education,
manufacturing, energy, and research and development. Looking
forward, builders expect modest growth at best during the next
six months. We heard several reports of upward pressure on
prices for copper and steel, though the price of lumber declined.
Construction managers are in the process of laying off seasonal
workers.  Consumer Spending . Retailers saw a slight improvement in sales
during October, when compared to September’s results, with
several of our contacts noting a pickup in purchases of cold-
weather-related items and home furnishings. Transactions were
also ahead of last year’s levels, mainly in the mid-single
digits. Looking ahead to the  holiday shopping season , retailers
expect stronger sales on a year-over-year basis. We continued to
hear numerous reports about upward pressure on supplier costs,
particularly for packaging, fuel, and agricultural commodities.
A few retailers reported that suppliers have held off passing
through the entire price increase, but they may be less
reluctant to do so in 2012. Retailers were also selective about
passing through rising prices to consumers. Reports on profit
margins were mixed. Capital budgets remain on plan. Most of our
contacts said that outlays during 2012 will not change
appreciably from this year’s levels, and that they will be used
mainly for technology enhancements, e-commerce investments, and
remodeling. Little change in payrolls is expected at existing
stores. Seasonal hiring at some stores will be slightly higher
than in 2010.  Auto dealers characterized new-vehicle sales during October as
very good, with most of our contacts reporting higher sales
volume when compared to year-ago levels. Demand was strongest
for fuel-efficient, less-expensive cars, and crossover vehicles.
Inventories continue to be rebuilt but remain below what dealers
would like. Dealers are cautious in their outlook due to
uncertainty about the economy, and the availability of vehicles
that consumers want to buy. Demand for used cars is up
substantially since the beginning of October; prices remain
elevated. Two dealers noted that there has been a sharp increase
in manufacturers’ incentives, which they attributed to the
model-year changeover. The few dealers looking to hire reported
that it is difficult to find qualified candidates, especially
sales representatives and service technicians.  Banking. Demand for business loans showed a moderate improvement,
although a few community bankers observed some weakening.
Requests are being driven by energy, manufacturing, multi-family
housing, and healthcare. Reports indicate continued downward
pressure on  interest rates  for commercial credit. On the
consumer side, our contacts described installment loan activity
as flat or down; however, direct and indirect auto lending
continued to show strength. Interest rates remain very
competitive. Activity in the residential mortgage market has
slowed since our last report, with most applicants looking to
refinance. Many bankers noted a pickup in the number of
applicants who are refinancing into 15-year mortgages. No
changes were made to loan application standards. Overall core
deposits continue to grow, although several bankers reported
that the growth is being driven by business customers.
Delinquencies were steady or declined across loan categories;
any stress was mainly on the consumer side. Payrolls were stable,
with little hiring expected in the near-term.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production rose
moderately during the past six weeks, while drilling was little
changed. Our contacts were somewhat uncertain about future
activity due to falling prices for natural gas. Well-head prices
for oil were fairly stable. Activity in shale-gas extraction
continued to expand. One report characterized production from
confirmation wells drilled in  Ohio ’s Utica shale as good. Coal
output is expected to be stable for the remainder of this year,
though increases are possible in 2012 as a result of growing
demand from export markets and domestic utilities. There is some
uncertainty surrounding utility demand due to abundant supplies
of low-priced natural gas and regulatory compliance issues for
coal-fired generators. Spot prices for coal showed normal
fluctuations. Capital outlays are on target, with moderate
increases projected by oil and gas companies in the upcoming
months. The cost of production equipment and materials was flat
during the past six weeks. Energy payrolls held steady.  Transportation. On balance, freight transport volume was stable
over the past six weeks and up slightly on a year-over-year
basis. Rising demand was seen from the retail and energy (shale
gas and coal) sectors. Our contacts expect volume to grow at a
slow, steady pace in the near term. We heard numerous reports of
rising prices for tires, parts, and equipment, and of some
volatility in fuel prices. Much of the cost increase was
recovered via fuel surcharges and rate adjustments when
contracts came due. Capital outlays have accelerated during 2011
relative to prior-year levels. Spending is mainly to replace
aging equipment and to support demand growth, especially from
energy customers. All of our contacts reported hiring for driver
replacement or adding capacity, although recruiting qualified
drivers was difficult. Wage pressures are emerging due to a
tightening of the driver pool. 