-- 
U.S. Third Quarter Productivity and Cost Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-11-30T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-third-quarter-productivity-and-cost-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. productivity and costs report for the third quarter
released by the Labor Department.  Nonfarm business sector labor productivity increased at
a 2.3 percent annual rate during the third quarter of 2011,
the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today, with
output and hours worked rising 3.2 percent and 0.8 percent,
respectively. (All quarterly percent changes in this release
are seasonally adjusted annual rates.) From the third quarter
of 2010 to the third quarter of 2011, output increased 2.4
percent as hours rose 1.4 percent, resulting in a 0.9 percent
increase in productivity. Labor productivity, or output per
hour, is calculated by dividing an index of real output by an
index of hours worked of all persons, including employees,
proprietors, and unpaid family workers.  The productivity measures released today are based on
more recent and more complete data than were available for
the preliminary report issued November 3. (See Revised
measures.)  Unit labor costs in nonfarm businesses fell 2.5 percent
in the third quarter of 2011, reflecting the 2.3 percent
increase in output per hour combined with a 0.2 percent
decline in hourly compensation. Unit labor costs rose 0.4
percent over the last four quarters. BLS defines unit labor
costs as the ratio of hourly compensation to  labor
productivity ; increases in hourly compensation tend to
increase unit labor costs and increases in output per hour
tend to reduce them.  Nonfarm business real hourly compensation decreased 3.2
percent in the third quarter of 2011, reflecting a 0.2
percent decline in hourly compensation combined with a 3.1
percent increase in consumer prices (seasonally adjusted
annual rates). Real hourly compensation is the ratio of
hourly compensation to consumer prices. This measure declined
2.3 percent from the same quarter a year ago; this is the
largest decline in this series which begins in 1948.  Manufacturing sector productivity grew 5.0 percent in
the third quarter of 2011, as output rose 4.6 percent and
hours decreased 0.4 percent. Productivity jumped 9.5 percent
in the durable goods sector and edged up 0.1 percent in the
nondurable goods sector. From the third quarter of 2010 to
the third quarter of 2011, manufacturing sector productivity
increased 2.9 percent. Unit labor costs in manufacturing fell
5.1 percent in the third quarter of 2011 and decreased 1.9
percent over the last four quarters.  The data sources and methods used in the preparation of
the manufacturing output series differ from those used in
preparing the business and nonfarm business output series,
and these measures are not directly comparable. See Technical
Notes for further information on data sources.  Third quarter data for the nonfinancial corporate sector
was released today. Output per hour decreased 2.6 percent as
output declined 0.8 percent and hours grew 1.9 percent. Unit
labor costs rose 3.0 percent.  Revised measures  Previous and revised productivity and related measures for
the second and third quarters for the nonfarm business,
business, and manufacturing sectors and for the second
quarter for nonfinancial corporations are presented in tables
B and C, respectively.  In the third quarter of 2011, nonfarm business sector
productivity growth was 2.3 percent reflecting a downward
revision to output combined with a slight upward revision to
hours worked.  Unit labor costs were little changed, as the
downward revision to productivity was offset by a downward
revision to hourly compensation. In the manufacturing sector,
productivity growth was 5.0 percent rather than 5.4 percent
as previously reported. Unit labor costs declined 5.1
percent.  In the second quarter of 2011, nonfarm business sector
productivity, output, and hours were unrevised. Unit labor
costs fell 0.1 percent rather than increasing 2.8 percent due
solely to a downward revision to hourly compensation.
Manufacturing sector productivity declined 2.2 percent in the
second quarter, slightly less than reported November 3. Unit
labor costs increased 0.1 percent, much less than the 5.5
percent preliminary estimate, due to a steep downward
revision to hourly compensation and the slight upward
revision to productivity.  The large downward revision to
manufacturing hourly compensation was concentrated in durable
goods manufacturing industries.  Nonfinancial corporate sector productivity grew 3.2 percent
in the second quarter of 2011, as revised. (See tables C and
6.)  The preliminary Productivity and Costs press release for the
fourth quarter of 2011 is scheduled to be released on
Thursday, February 2, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. (EST) 