-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Business activity in the Third District has returned to a path
of slow overall growth since the previous  Beige Book . Following
unusual weather disruptions from an earthquake, a hurricane, and
a tropical storm during late summer, the region was visited
again - this time by a rare early season snowstorm. The weekend
storm caused widespread electric utility outages and disrupted
business, but the cold weather ultimately triggered shoppers’
interest for the winter season. Since the last Beige Book,
manufacturing activity has grown modestly, but steadily.
Retailers reported renewed growth in year-over-year sales. Motor
vehicle dealers experienced strong year-over-year sales growth;
however, Thailand’s recent widespread flooding has caused
another supply disruption of auto parts. Third District banks
have reported slight growth in loan volume outstanding since the
last Beige Book. On balance, new home sales continued below
year-ago levels, while construction activity strengthened since
the last Beige Book. Reports from commercial real estate
contacts were more mixed by sector and location, but slightly
positive overall. Service-sector firms reported generally modest
growth. Price pressures remained contained for most sectors but
continued to strain profit margins in all but a few sectors.  Most Third District business contacts had already lowered their
expectations over the past few months - projecting slow to flat
growth through year-end. Ongoing uncertainty since the previous
Beige Book has not significantly altered their outlook.
Manufacturers still expect a modest rise in shipments and orders
during the next six months. Retailers are hopeful for stronger
sales, and auto dealers are uncertain; both have lean inventory
plans. Most banking and residential real estate contacts had
lowered their expectations before the last Beige Book.
Commercial real estate contacts and service-sector firms
continue to plan for slow growth; however, uncertainty has
increased.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have reported modest increases in new orders and
shipments. However, the improvement was uneven across and within
sectors. Steady, modest growth was reported by various firms
that supply or serve manufacturers. These firms expect continued
overall growth from their manufacturing clients, despite citing
ongoing small factory closures. Firms experiencing growth often
cited business returning from  China  and  India , or other market
share gains. Other firms cited growth from Marcellus shale gas
activity or from new product launches. Factors cited as impeding
growth included underfunded public infrastructure, work going to
China and India, and ongoing political uncertainty. The makers
of food products, lumber and wood products, and primary metals
reported declining product demand. Much of their decline is
seasonal; they retained positive expectations.  Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to
improve during the next six months, despite persistent
uncertainties. Since the last Beige Book, the general outlook
has improved substantially, with few firms expecting a decline,
while most are divided between no change and some increase.
Expectations of  capital spending  and future hiring have nearly
doubled among area manufacturers.  Retail. Third District retailers reported October sales gains
compared with September as well as with year-ago levels. Cold
weather and an early snowstorm triggered buying of sweaters and
other cold weather gear. Prospects for holiday sales vary with
the market segment. High-end, online, and outlet retailers are
most optimistic. However, a concern was expressed over supply
disruptions to some consumer electronics from the flooding in
 Thailand . Beyond the holiday season, a conventional mall retail
contact expects sales to be down in 2012 from 2011, while an
outlet mall contact anticipates new mall openings in the fall of
2012 and in 2013.  Auto sales continued to grow steadily in October, according to
Third District auto dealers. The sellers’ market also continued
- boosting profits - as used cars remained scarce and as supply
disruptions are recurring for Honda and Toyota, this time from
Thailand’s floods. Inventories remained lean. Pent-up demand for
Japanese models may delay a return to normal price competition
until well after supply has normalized.  Finance. Third District bankers have reported slight overall
growth in loan volumes since the previous Beige Book. However,
one banker described margins being squeezed as banks compete for
share in a flat market. Another indicated they were picking up
loans as foreign banks retreated from the market. Prompted by
low  interest rates , the strongest loan growth occurred in
commercial real estate, home equities, and home mortgages,
especially refinancings. C&I lending was flat. Credit quality
continues to improve but at a slower rate. Among Third District
bankers interviewed in November, business plans for 2012 assume
further modest loan growth and challenging competition within
markets.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential building activity has
increased somewhat since the previous Beige Book, while reports
on existing homes sales indicated no change. Existing sales
remain lower than last year’s levels. Large print ads recently
touted record low interest rates, low prices, and high
affordability, possibly prompting the flurry of activity noted
by one New Jersey builder. Buyers selected mostly a range of
mid- to high-priced build-to-suit homes. These price points were
also strong for a Pennsylvania builder as were lower-priced
multifamily townhomes aimed at move-up and entry-level buyers.
One builder noted that producers of many construction materials
have shut down and that the supply stream will require 12 to 18
months to start up again after demand for residential
construction picks up. There is no change in the relatively weak
outlook among builders and real estate agents.  Nonresidential real estate sectors reported mixed results with
leasing strength in select markets but few gains in construction.
Investment interest has strengthened in multifamily properties,
while leasing activity grew for trophy office space (desired by
large legal firms) and for research facilities (for new and
expanding biotechnology firms). Demand for retail space
continues to weaken. Public infrastructure spending remains low.
Beyond generally weak demand, an architect cites regulatory
burdens for permits and financing as barriers. New construction
or renovation plans are mostly limited to institutional, life
sciences, multifamily, and warehousing sectors in select markets.
Some construction activity for warehousing represents site
relocations within the three-state region.
Construction/maintenance work has also slowed in advance of
three anticipated oil refinery shutdowns. The overall outlook
for demand of nonresidential space is for continued slow growth.  Services. Third District service-sector firms have reported
modest growth since the last Beige Book. Advertising was noted
as a little soft with a particular weakness in retail. Freight
volumes continue to grow, reaching pre-recession levels,
according to a logistics firm. Staffing firms indicated that
demand is slowing and that virtually all new placements are on a
temporary or contract basis, rather than permanent, full-time
hires. High-skilled workers, ranging from welders to new hires
with business intelligence skills, remain in short supply.
Staffing contacts expected little or no improvement by year’s
end; one was also less bullish for 2012.  Prices and Wages. Few price changes have been reported since the
previous Beige Book. One broad business sector supplier
announced widespread price hikes for early December. Pricing
power remains favorable for freight shippers and auto dealers.
Most other sectors report very tight margins, although cost
factors have generally remained flat. A few exceptions include
cotton products for retailers and drywall for builders. Many
bankers, builders, and leasing agents continued to report
expectations for concessions from borrowers, buyers, and renters,
respectively. Staffing firms reported no upward pressure on
wages. 