-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Nov. 25 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-11-30T15:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-nov-25-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 14.6 million
barrels per day during the week ending November 25, 231 thousand
barrels per day below the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 84.6 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging about 9.2
million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased
last week, averaging 4.8 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 9.1 million barrels per
day last week, up by 742 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged 8.6 million barrels per day, 285 thousand barrels per
day above the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 619 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 150 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 3.9 million barrels
from the previous week. At 334.7 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are in the upper limit of the average range for this
time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by 0.2
million barrels last week and are in the middle of the average
range. Finished gasoline inventories decreased while blending
components inventories increased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories increased by 5.5 million barrels last week and are
in the lower limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories increased by 0.4 million barrels
last week and are below the lower limit of the average range.
Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 7.7 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged just under 19.0 million barrels per day, down by 0.1
percent compared to the similar period last year. Over the last
four weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged about
8.7 million barrels per day, down by 2.9 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
about 4.0 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up
by 1.4 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 6.5 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  