-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy grew at a modest pace since the
last report. Manufacturing activity held steady or declined,
while demand for business services was flat. Activity in the
transportation services sector was mixed. Retailers said sales
growth moderated. The single-family housing sector saw continued
improvement, and activity in the multifamily sector was strong.
Office, retail and industrial leasing activity increased, but
commercial real estate investment activity remained sluggish.
Financial services respondents said overall loan demand was soft
during the reporting period. The  energy industry  continued to
expand at a robust pace, while agricultural conditions remained
weak. Employment levels were stable at most responding firms and
price pressures were mostly subdued.  Prices  Price pressures were minimal across industries. Most contacts
said prices were stable or down, although prices for new cars
rose slightly and staffing and legal services firms noted modest
increases in billing rates. The majority of respondents reported
that raw materials prices were unchanged or down. The exceptions
were producers of paper and of food who noted increased prices
for some inputs. Contacts in the agricultural sector said cattle
prices rose since the last report.  The price of WTI was near $76 per barrel in early October, and
has risen to nearly $100 per barrel. Demand for gasoline has
been soft. Diesel demand, in contrast, has strengthened on a
year-over-year basis and prices have climbed much faster than
gasoline. Prices of petrochemicals and plastics declined due to
weak domestic demand and a stronger dollar. Natural  gas prices 
remained low, near $3.50 per thousand cubic feet throughout the
survey period.  Labor Market  Most firms reported steady employment levels, although there
were reports of slight hiring activity. Staffing firms continued
to note high levels of demand. Some oil services firms, primary
metals and transportation manufacturers reported moderate
employment increases, and said they continue to look for
additional workers. Retailers said holiday hiring was ramping up,
and one firm noted that they planned on hiring more seasonal
workers than last year. Contacts in the auto sales and airline
industries noted slight payroll increases. Wage pressures
remained minimal, although upward pressure for certain skilled
positions was noted by airlines and a few construction-related
manufacturers.  Manufacturing  Most construction-related manufacturers reported stable demand,
although there were reports of stronger sales related to
commercial, government and apartment construction projects.
Construction-related outlooks were mostly unchanged, but a few
contacts said they expect conditions to improve next year.  Respondents in high-tech manufacturing report that sales have
been flat since the last report, with the exception of demand
for mobile devices, cloud computing and data storage which
continues to increase. Several contacts expect strength in
demand for mobile and productivity enhancing devices to
accelerate, and thus improve overall activity in the high-tech
manufacturing sector by mid 2012, even if global output remains
sluggish or weakens. Most respondents said employment levels
have held steady and inventories are at desired levels.  Overall conditions in the paper products sector were mixed, but
all contacts described outlooks as weak. Automobile and aviation
equipment manufacturers said sales had softened since the last
report but remained significantly up from year-ago levels.
Outlooks are optimistic, with contacts expecting sales to remain
strong through next year. Food producers reported a seasonal
increase in demand, and outlooks were positive, although they
are not hiring due to concerns about current economic conditions.  Contacts described demand as seasonally weak for petrochemicals
and plastics. Sales in domestic markets continued to be sluggish.
The recent rise in  oil prices  together with lower petrochemical
prices is making Texas’ natural gas based products more
competitive, spurring exports. Refiner margins were strong and
over $25 per barrel in October, but have narrowed in recent
weeks with the rise in crude prices. Refinery utilization rates
were low, as production declined for the fall maintenance period.  Retail Sales  Retail sales growth moderated since the last report but showed
continued gains over the comparable period a year ago. Cooler
weather spurred winter clothing sales, and one retailer reported
strong online sales. Contacts indicated that they are
comfortable with level of inventories. Eleventh District retail
sales growth trended roughly in-line with the nation over the
reporting period, according to two large retailers. Overall,
expectations are for modest growth this holiday season.  Demand for automobiles held steady. Vehicle inventories have
mostly normalized from the tsunami-related shortage experienced
earlier in the year, but some foreign manufactures have been
recently affected by the flooding in  Thailand . The used car
market continued to be tight. Contacts expect sales to slow
seasonally through year end, and then to rise moderately in 2012.  Services  Demand for staffing services held steady at high levels. One
contact reported engineering, IT and healthcare as strong
sectors, and another mentioned solid demand for steel workers.
Outlooks remain cautious but were more optimistic than the
previous reporting period, with contacts expecting demand to
remain flat or improve by mid-2012. Demand for accounting
services was flat, and outlooks were unchanged. Legal firms
reported steady demand, with a slight pickup in litigation
activity and continued strength in intellectual property, energy
and some real-estate related services.  Reports from transportation service firms were mixed. Railroad
firms reported a broad-based increase in shipments during the
reporting period, but said that the numbers were somewhat
artificially inflated due to capacity coming back online after
the flooding in the northern U.S. Overall container volumes
declined during the reporting period, and outlooks were slightly
less optimistic than the last report. Small parcel shipments
rose in October partly due to growth in retail trade activity.
Airlines reported solid and steady demand over the past six
weeks. A major airline noted that business travelers were more
price sensitive than earlier in the year. Domestic demand and
travel to  Latin America  remained strong, but travel to  Europe 
and  Asia  was weak. Airline contacts expect to see stable demand
through year end.  Construction and Real Estate  Contacts in the housing sector continued to note improvement.
Inventories of existing homes fell further since the last report,
and new home inventories remained lean. Single-family home sales
are better according to contacts, but economic uncertainty is
keeping many would-be buyers on the sidelines.  Apartment demand rose even more since the last report, and
contacts are very positive in their outlooks. Some respondents
noted increased sales of apartment complexes to investors.  Contacts that lease to industrial, retail and business firms
noted an increase in demand. However, sales of commercial
properties were sluggish given the current financial environment.  Financial Services  Financial firms reported steady but soft demand for loans.
National banks noted strong demand from large corporations but
flat or declining middle-market lending activity. Regional banks
said loan demand was flat, and loan pricing remained somewhat
aggressive. The quality of loans outstanding continued to
improve, with contacts noting a decline in problem loans.
Outlooks are cautious, although contacts were less pessimistic
than they have been over the past few months.  Energy  Drilling activity remains strong, with 20 new land rigs added in
 Texas  since the last report. Shale-directed activity continues
at high levels. Revenues are growing and backlogs remain solid.
Activity in the  Gulf of Mexico  also rose by six rigs, with new
permits issued for deep water drilling.  Agriculture  The District remained in drought, although severity lessened
slightly in parts of Texas and  New Mexico  that received some
rain in recent weeks. Planting of winter wheat continued at a
fairly normal pace but the crop was in poorer condition than
last year due to very low soil moisture. Livestock sell-offs
continued at a slower pace, as many producers have already
liquidated much of their herds. Grain prices fell slightly over
the reporting period, largely due to lower export demand. By
contrast, cattle prices were higher than six weeks ago and beef
exports remained very strong. 