-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Nov. Beige Book Summary (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-nov-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Overall economic activity increased at a slow to moderate pace
since the previous report across all Federal Reserve Districts
except  St. Louis , which reported a decline in economic activity.
District reports indicated that consumer spending rose modestly
during the reporting period. Motor vehicle sales increased in a
number of Districts, and tourism showed signs of strength.
Business service activity was flat to higher since the previous
report. Manufacturing activity expanded at a steady pace across
most of the country. Overall bank lending increased slightly
since the previous report, and home refinancing grew at a more
rapid pace. Changes in credit standards and credit quality
varied across Districts. Residential real estate activity
generally remained sluggish, and commercial real estate activity
remained lackluster across most of the nation. Single family
home construction was weak and commercial construction was slow.
Districts mostly reported favorable agricultural conditions.
Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased since the
previous report.  Hiring was generally subdued, although some firms with open
positions reported difficulty finding qualified applicants.
Wages and salaries remained stable across Districts. Overall
price increases remained subdued, and some cost pressures were
reported to have eased.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism  District reports indicated that consumer spending increased
modestly, on balance, during the reporting period. Kansas City
reported that consumer spending strengthened, while retail sales
rebounded in Richmond. Gains in retail sales were noted in
Philadelphia, Cleveland,  Minneapolis , and  San Francisco .  Boston 
reported that retailers’ estimates of 2011 sales were generally
more positive than they were at the beginning of October, while
same-store sales in  New York  were mostly on or ahead of plan.
Meanwhile, in  Dallas , retail sales growth moderated, and Atlanta
and St. Louis reported weaker activity. A few Districts noted
that recent colder weather had spurred apparel sales. Inventory
levels were generally at desired or comfortable levels in New
York and Dallas. Retailers in Atlanta continued with tight
inventory management practices, and retailers in Richmond were
cautious regarding inventory and expansion. In Kansas City,
inventories were above year-earlier levels. Holiday sales were
generally expected to be flat or to increase modestly over a
year ago in  Cleveland , Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas,
and San Francisco. In Philadelphia, high-end, online, and outlet
retailers were the most optimistic for holiday sales, while
retailers in  Chicago  expected to use extended promotional
periods and heavy discounting to keep traffic volumes steady.  Motor vehicle sales increased in a number of Districts. Gains in
auto sales were noted in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond,
Atlanta, St. Louis, and Minneapolis. Chicago also reported gains
in sales during October, but noted the pace of sales slowed in
November and that dealers suspected consumers may be waiting for
potential end-of-year deals. Upstate New York dealers reported
that sales were steady to stronger and that dealers’ service and
parts departments continued to perform well. Auto sales were
solid in  Kansas City , while demand held steady in Dallas.
Inventory levels were generally lean or lower than dealers would
like in Philadelphia, Cleveland, and St. Louis. In Dallas,
vehicle inventories had mostly normalized, while inventory
levels increased in Kansas City. Both Philadelphia and Dallas
noted supply disruptions for some foreign nameplates due to the
flooding in  Thailand .  Tourism showed signs of strength. New York and Atlanta described
tourism as robust and strong, while activity increased in
Minneapolis and posted moderate improvement in Richmond. Boston
noted that the travel and tourism sector continued to see
strength in overseas and business travel, while discretionary
domestic leisure spending was fueled by the affluent customer.
In Richmond, tourism was largely flat, but some contacts were
cautiously optimistic about the winter season. Airline contacts
in Dallas expected to see stable demand through year-end.
Strength in hotel bookings and occupancy were noted in Boston,
New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco.  Nonfinancial Services  Business service activity was flat to higher since the previous
report. Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Kansas
City reported increased activity. St. Louis was mixed, while
Richmond, Chicago, and San Francisco indicated overall flat
activity. Dallas reported that demand for staffing services held
steady at high levels. St. Louis reported that firms in business
support services, medical research services, and transportation
services announced plans to expand operations and hire new
workers, while contacts in temporary help services, government
services, and education services announced plans to decrease
operations. San Francisco noted that sales continued to grow for
providers of technology services, in particular for software
applications used for mobile computing and communication devices.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity grew at a steady pace across most of the
country, with all Districts other than St. Louis reporting
increases in orders, shipments, or production. Chicago, St.
Louis, and San Francisco reported positive results in metals and
fabrication, while Cleveland saw flat steel production and
Philadelphia noted decreased demand for primary metals.
Cleveland and Chicago reported increased auto production year
over year, but Boston noted signs of slower auto component
production. Dallas saw steady demand for electronics, computers,
and high-technology goods, but San Francisco reported that
demand for consumer electronics continued to decrease.
Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago saw increased production of
energy-related products. For construction-related goods, Chicago
and Minneapolis reported declining demand, while Dallas said
demand was stable. Overall, St. Louis saw more plant closures
than plant openings or expansions. Freight transportation
volumes increased in Cleveland, held steady in Atlanta and
Kansas City, and were mixed in Dallas.  Banking and Finance  Overall bank lending activity increased slightly since the
previous report. New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Kansas
City reported increased loan demand. Several Districts reported
an increase in home refinancing activity. Richmond reported
mixed loan activity. Boston noted plentiful financing and
favorable terms for premier properties, while financing remains
harder to obtain for riskier properties and for those in
secondary and tertiary markets. Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and
San Francisco noted relatively unchanged loans. Atlanta saw soft
loan demand as companies continued to reduce their debt loads
and limit expansion and capital improvement plans.  Changes in credit standards and  credit quality  varied across
Districts. Philadelphia noted that credit quality continued to
improve but at a slower rate. Kansas City saw stable or
improving loan quality. Dallas noted that the quality of loans
outstanding continued to improve, with contacts reporting a
decline in problem loans. San Francisco saw a slight improvement
in overall credit quality. Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis
noted relatively unchanged credit quality. Boston, Richmond, and
Atlanta saw some tightening of standards. In New York, bankers
reported declining delinquency rates for commercial and
industrial loans, but no change in delinquencies for other loan
categories.  Real Estate and Construction  Overall residential real estate activity increased, but
conditions were varied across Districts. Philadelphia, Richmond,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas noted increased activity.
New York, Boston, Cleveland, and San Francisco reported flat
activity at relatively low levels. Atlanta and St. Louis
indicated decreased sales. Residential construction remained
sluggish. Single-family  home construction  remained weak, while
multifamily construction picked up in New York, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Chicago, and Minneapolis. San Francisco remained
“anemic,” while St. Louis and Kansas City reported decreased
activity.  Commercial real estate markets remained sluggish across most of
the nation. Boston, New York, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San
Francisco indicated roughly unchanged activity. Atlanta and
Kansas City noted slight improvement. Philadelphia and Dallas
indicated mixed activity. However, Richmond and St. Louis noted
that vacancy rates increased. Commercial construction was
somewhat mixed. Cleveland saw steady to slowly improving
commercial construction; Chicago and Minneapolis experienced
modest to moderate increases. New York and Philadelphia noted
generally weak conditions; Richmond and St. Louis reported slow
activity, although industrial construction picked up.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Districts mostly reported favorable agricultural conditions.
Harvests were ahead of pace or completed in Richmond, Atlanta,
Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City. The corn harvest was even
with last year in Chicago and Minneapolis, while soybean
production decreased. Wheat production was down dramatically in
parts of the Minneapolis District. Corn and soybean yields were
above average in the northern portions of the Kansas City
District, but drought conditions severely cut crop production in
the District’s southern regions, and the winter wheat crops were
in poor to fair condition. The severe drought in the Dallas
District continued but eased slightly. Prices for most
agricultural commodities except soybeans remained above year-
earlier levels, and farm income increases were reported by
Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City. Export demand remains
strong for agricultural products, particularly meat, but Dallas
reported a recent decrease in demand for grain exports.  Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased since the
previous report. Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas,
and San Francisco saw increases in oil exploration. Cleveland
and Dallas also reported growth in shale gas extraction. Coal
production was flat in Cleveland and decreased slightly in St.
Louis, though it is still up for the year. Minneapolis reported
that more wind energy projects were planned. Mining activity
increased in San Francisco and remained at elevated levels in
Minneapolis.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Hiring was generally subdued, but some firms with open positions
reported difficulty finding qualified applicants. Stable
employment levels or subdued hiring were mentioned by New York,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas.
Assessments of labor market conditions were mixed in Richmond
and St. Louis, while labor markets showed some signs of reduced
availability of labor in Minneapolis. In Boston, demand for
workers at services firms grew, but hiring among manufacturers
was limited. In Kansas City, hiring plans among manufacturers
remained solid, while expectations of future hiring among
manufacturers in Philadelphia nearly doubled. Meanwhile, Boston,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, and Minneapolis
noted that some firms looking to fill open positions were having
difficulty finding qualified workers, particularly for high-
skilled manufacturing and technical positions. Atlanta noted
there was growing concern that the skills of the unemployed were
deteriorating.  Wages and salaries remained stable across Districts, although
some exceptions were noted. In Cleveland, wage pressures emerged
for truck drivers as the pool of available drivers shrank
relative to  job openings . Manufacturing wage growth strengthened
in Richmond, while hiring stabilized and the average workweek
was unchanged. Some wage growth was noted among the highly
skilled trades in Atlanta. In Minneapolis, wages increased
sharply at some fast food restaurants in western  North Dakota .
Kansas City reported that some energy and information technology
firms raised wages for skilled workers; Dallas reported the same
for airlines and a few construction-related manufacturers. San
Francisco noted persistent upward pressure on benefit costs,
especially for employee health care.  Overall price increases remained subdued, and some cost
pressures were reported to have eased. Boston, Atlanta, Chicago,
and Kansas City noted a moderation in input cost pressures. In
Cleveland, manufacturers’ reports on changes in raw materials
prices were mixed; the transportation sector noted higher prices
for tires, parts, and equipment; and fuel prices exhibited some
volatility. Richmond reported that raw materials, retail, and
services prices grew at a somewhat faster pace. Restaurants in
Kansas City expected higher menu prices due to rising food costs.
In Dallas, prices for new cars rose slightly, and staffing and
legal services firms noted modest increases in billing rates,
but natural  gas prices  remained low. San Francisco reported a
recent uptick in the prices for energy inputs, particularly oil,
and for assorted food items at the retail level. Atlanta noted
that most businesses had limited ability to pass on increases in
input prices from earlier in the year.  Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and based on
information collected before November 18, 2011. This document
summarizes comments received from business and other contacts
outside the  Federal Reserve System  and is not a commentary on
the views of Federal Reserve officials. 