-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Sixth District business contacts described the economy
as expanding at a modest pace in October through mid-November.
Retailers noted sluggish sales growth compared with September;
however, auto dealers continued to experience robust sales.
Tourism activity remained a bright spot for most of the District.
According to homebuilders and real estate brokers, sales of new
and existing homes remained weak, and home prices continued to
decline compared with September. Commercial real estate
contractors and brokers noted a slight improvement in
nonresidential activity. Manufacturers reported an increase in
new orders but a modest decline in production. Lending
conditions remained constrained as weak loan demand from
businesses and consumers persisted. Reports from businesses
suggest that hiring plans continue to be subdued and remain
weighted toward hiring temporary or part-time labor. Most
businesses reported a moderation in input cost pressures, but
also noted limited ability to pass on increases in commodity and
other input prices from earlier in the year.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. The majority of District
retailers reported weaker activity in October through mid-
November compared with September. However, most merchants said
sales were flat to slightly up compared with a year ago.
Inventory levels remained largely unchanged as stores have
continued with tight inventory management practices. Retailers
anticipate holiday sales to be flat to slightly up compared to
the same time last year. Auto sales advanced further, with
dealers noting double-digit growth compared with a year ago.  Tourism activity remained strong across the District. Hotel
occupancy and room rates were up and convention bookings
remained steady. Cruise line contacts reported full occupancy
and increased onboard spending; however, advanced bookings were
down as people made reservations closer to departure dates. In
 Florida , international tourists continued to bolster activity
with increases in Latin American visitors offsetting declines in
European vacationers. Overall, hospitality firms maintained an
optimistic outlook regarding the upcoming holiday season.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential brokers indicated that
sales softened in October through mid-November compared with
September, but were flat to slightly up compared with weak
levels from last year. Several brokers noted that potential
buyers continued to face challenges securing financing, while
others said that deals were falling through because of changes
to appraised values or negative inspection results. Contacts
continued to report declining home inventories; however, despite
fewer available homes, foreclosures and elevated levels of bank-
owned properties continued to put downward pressure on  home
prices . District brokers anticipate sales growth to be flat over
the next several months.  District homebuilders indicated that new home sales and
construction activity were flat to slightly down from the
previous month and were slightly below weak levels from a year
ago. Homebuilders continued to report that new home prices were
largely unchanged compared with the previous month and a year
ago. Builders anticipate single-family home construction
activity to remain flat over the next several months. New
activity in multifamily construction was reported in several
District states. Contacts in South Florida signaled that
condominium development was expected to get underway soon
because of strong demand from foreign investors, many of whom
pay with cash. Developers plan to cover costs by requiring a
significant upfront payment from the purchasers before
construction begins. The outlook for new home sales growth over
the next several months was flat to slightly up compared with
last year’s weak levels.  The majority of District commercial real estate contacts noted
modest improvement in nonresidential construction and leasing
activity. Brokers reported that vacancy rates declined and that
rents have begun to stabilize across much of the District.
Contractors cited a small improvement in construction activity
from earlier in the year. Most anticipate commercial real estate
conditions to remain largely unchanged over the next several
quarters.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Overall, District
manufacturing activity weakened slightly from October through
mid-November. Contacts reported a slight increase in new orders,
and production improved modestly. Logistics firms noted that
retailers had adopted vendor-managed inventories, requiring the
supplier to hold inventories until products were ready to be
sold. Some manufacturers indicated they were more likely to
produce and distribute on a made-to-order basis rather than
taking the chance of being caught with excess inventory.  Transportation companies reported that demand flattened across
most industries. Few expect a significant increase in shipment
volumes for the holidays compared with last year. Railway firms
cited strong automotive shipments and very strong levels of coal
cargoes destined for export. Air cargo carriers noted that they
have lowered freight projections for the year because of lower
demand and higher fuel costs. A few contacts anticipated modest
capacity cuts in the near term.  Banking and Finance. Banking contacts described lending
conditions as weak because of a combination of soft loan demand
from qualified borrowers and strict regulatory requirements.
Companies continued to reduce their debt loads and limited
expansion plans and capital improvements.  An informal poll of our small business contacts revealed that a
slim majority of mature firms received all or most of the full
amount of money requested, while many young businesses reported
applying for credit to expand their business but were either
denied or offered unacceptable credit terms. Others were
discouraged from applying for credit because of the expectation
that they would either be denied or be offered unfavorable terms.
Overall, 38 percent of all small businesses polled applied for
credit, compared with 32 percent in our Q2 survey.  Employment and Prices. Contacts suggest that employment plans
remained subdued across much of the District. Employers expect
hiring to be modest, mostly to fill seasonal positions or
critical vacancies caused by attrition. Many contacts noted
plans to continue using temporary employees until there is a
significant and sustained pickup in demand. Companies also
indicated that they did not have any plans to cut employment
further; employers felt that they had streamlined their
operations as much as possible.  Firms did express having trouble filling both some low-skilled
and highly specialized positions. Regarding the former, many
contacts noted that entry-level positions were not being filled
because applicants were unable to pass aptitude tests or
background checks. As for the latter, many indicated recruiting
top performers from other firms instead of drawing from the
unemployed population. Overall, there was growing concern that
the skills of the unemployed were deteriorating.  Apart from some reports of increases for highly skilled trades,
wage growth remained subdued. Businesses reported a moderation
in input cost pressures during October through mid-November.
However, with the exceptions of manufacturing and some consumer
goods markets, most noted limited ability to pass on increases
in commodity and other input prices from earlier in the year.
Margins remained tight, as contacts continued to characterize
their customers as being very sensitive to upward price
adjustments. As a result, most businesses continued to attempt
to manage margins by focusing on minimizing their costs.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. Energy industry firms
indicated that plans to invest in increased production capacity
were proceeding. New drilling technologies have reduced costs
and increased extraction capabilities for both oil and gas. In
particular, contacts expressed that the cost of unconventional
drilling continued to drop, allowing for more efficiencies and
the ability to find and extract oil and gas.  Contacts reported strong overseas demand for proteins and
related feeds. Farm land values in the District were mixed; crop
land values changed slightly, while pasture land declined in
some areas. To varying degrees, drought conditions persisted in
much of  Georgia ,  Alabama ,  Louisiana , and the panhandle of
Florida. In Georgia, Louisiana,  Mississippi  and Tennessee cotton
harvesting was ahead of the five-year average, while Alabama was
slightly below the average. 