-- 
U.S. 3Q Productivity Rises Less Than Estimated

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-11-30T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-third-quarter-productivity-increases-2-3-less-than-first-estimated.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
advanced in the third quarter more slowly than previously
estimated, a signal that efficiency gains are contributing less
to growing corporate profits.  The measure of employee output per hour increased at a 2.3
percent annual rate after declining for two quarters, revised
data from the Labor Department showed today in Washington. The
previous figures indicated productivity rose 3.1 percent in the
July-September period. Expenses per employee fell at a 2.5
percent rate, more than initially estimated.  Companies may find it harder to maintain earnings growth
with productivity cooling relative to the recovery, when
employment fell faster than output. Meanwhile, slower efficiency
gains mean short term increases in demand could lead to larger
payrolls at the same businesses.  “Going forward, productivity depends on how much longer
corporate America can make more with less labor input,” Ellen
Zentner, senior U.S. economist at Nomura Securities in  New York ,
said before the report. “At some point, the cost of additional
capital is going to outweigh the cost of additional labor, and
businesses will have to accelerate hiring.”  Bloomberg Survey  Third-quarter productivity was projected to pick up by 2.5
percent, according to the median forecast of 55 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged from gains of 1.4
percent to a high of 3.2 percent.  Compared with the July-September period in 2010, worker
output per hour increased 0.9 percent. It fell in the first two
quarters of this year, marking the first back-to-back declines
since the second half of 2008.  Among manufacturers, business efficiency increased at a 5.0
percent rate in the third quarter.  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for productivity
gains, were revised from a 2.4 percent drop first estimated.
They were forecast to slide 2.1 percent in the survey median.  The measure of expenses per employee increased 0.4 percent
from the year-earlier period.  Hourly compensation adjusted for inflation declined 2.3
percent year over year, which was the largest drop since the
data series began in 1948, the Labor Department said.  Improvements in output per hour have helped U.S. companies
manage rising input costs and any upticks in demand without
losing earnings or rapidly expanding payrolls.  ‘Key Driver’  “We continued to grow sales productivity, the key driver
of profitability,” Michael MacDonald, president and chief
executive officer of  DSW Inc. (DSW) , said during a Nov. 22 call with
analysts. Adjusted profit rose to $39.8 million in the third
quarter from $35.5 million a year earlier, according to the
Columbus, Ohio-based shoe retailer. Efficiency at DSW has
increased 22 percent since 2008, MacDonald said.  Even so, overall efficiency gains in the U.S. have slowed
compared with 2009 and 2010, when productivity advanced 2.3
percent and 4.1 percent. That means additional expenses will
increasingly eat into businesses’ profits.  “Corporate cost structures are extremely lean, and it’s
going to be tough to cut anything any further,” said Aneta
Markowska, a senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in New
York. “Profits will slow down sharply. The idea of  40 percent 
year-on-year profit growth, we won’t see that for a while.”  Earnings at U.S. companies climbed 2.1 percent last quarter
to $1.98 trillion at an annual rate, down from 3.3 percent in
the prior three months, according to Commerce Department data.  To maintain profitability, businesses may have to take a
greater share of income away from employees. At $8.25 trillion,
worker  compensation , including wages and supplements, in the
third quarter accounted for a 56-year low of 55 percent of the
nation’s gross domestic income, a measure of the money earned by
the people, businesses and government agencies whose purchases
go into calculating economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  