-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. Recent reports on economic activity in the Fifth
District mostly described conditions as either unchanged or
slightly improved. The more upbeat reports came from the retail
sector, which rebounded in November, and the tourism sector,
which continued to post moderate improvement. The agricultural
sector also enjoyed a good harvest. Reports on manufacturing
activity indicated little change over the last month, following
several months of contraction. Likewise, the service sector was
generally characterized as being flat, although a few bright
spots were noted. Other sectors, including finance and real
estate, reported generally mixed conditions. We received a wide
variety of reports on the labor market, ranging from lower
employment in the retail sector to several firms having trouble
finding workers. Retail prices rose more rapidly than in our
last report, as did service prices and commodity input prices.  Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity was little
changed in November. Our latest survey showed virtually no
change in shipments and orders across firms, after having
indicated declining activity over the past four months. A
furniture manufacturer reported a slight firming of new orders,
but noted that cancellations had increased. He added that the
net change was small and that uncertainty about the economy was
holding back demand. Similarly, a textile mill producer said
that his company expanded production to a seven-day workweek in
order to accommodate new orders. Unfortunately, they ran out of
yarn and cut back to a five-day week until suppliers could catch
up. An electrical component producer said that flooding in
 Thailand  had lowered production. He added that his company will
have serious trouble meeting his customers’ orders during the
next three-to-six months. Also, an electrical equipment
manufacturer cited a significant slowdown in order intake due to
uncertain global economic situations. He stated that firms were
slowing the rate of their order placement. Raw material prices
grew at a somewhat faster pace than a month ago, according to
survey respondents, while prices for finished goods grew more
slowly.  Retail. Retail sales rebounded in recent weeks, with apparel and
department store sales leading the improvement. However, some
retail and wholesale contacts remained cautious regarding
inventory and expansion. A contact at a large pharmacy in  South
Carolina  and a distributor to department stores both reported
solid sales growth. Several auto dealers reported stronger sales.
A jeweler in  Charlotte , North Carolina remained guarded about
the economy, and remarked that he is “only buying what is
necessary.” In addition, a large chain store for homebuilder
supplies plans more expansion overseas than domestically. Retail
prices rose at a somewhat faster pace since our last report.  Services. Firms reported generally flat revenues since our last
report, although a few contacts indicated that demand
strengthened. A Baltimore contact noted that local unemployment
had reduced the demand for daycare services, and several
advertising firms and telecommunications-related businesses
reported little change in demand. In contrast, revenues were up
significantly for some restaurateurs in the Charlotte,  North
Carolina  region. In addition, a central North Carolina hospital
began to add a broad range of specialty physicians and
associated staff, and other District healthcare facilities hired
technical personnel to meet changing federal requirements for
healthcare facilities. Non-retail services prices rose more
rapidly in recent weeks.  Finance. Loan demand in the District continued to be mixed. A
major lender in the District reported that small business loans
at his bank were improving, with much of the demand stemming
from the need to expand production and upgrade office equipment
and software. An official for a small bank cited a strengthening
commercial loan pipeline, resulting from larger banks in his
market area shedding customers. A banker who specializes in
export financing noted an uptick in demand, but added that many
small businesses were not able to meet the bank’s lending
standards. Several bankers noted continued strength in mortgage
refinancing. However, few lenders were issuing new mortgages,
and bottlenecks in the appraisal process were delaying closings.
In contrast, a central  Virginia  banker described loan demand as
relatively weak, with most applicants failing to meet
qualification standards. And a banker on the Eastern Shore
reported that loan demand remained weak, with “no demand for
business expansion loans.” Several bankers and small commercial
contractors stated that getting approval for new construction
loans was extremely difficult, due to tight credit standards and
a poor outlook for profitability.  Real Estate. Indicators of real estate activity around the
District were mixed since our last report. Several Realtors
reported that sales activity had increased somewhat but housing
prices were about the same or down slightly from a month ago.
Brokers in Richmond and Fredericksburg noted many showings but
few resulting contracts. Sales in the low  price range  were
generally reported as faring much better than sales in the upper
ranges. However, a contact in northern Virginia stated that
sales at the upper end of the price range were doing much better
in his area. A Realtor in the D.C. area said that his inventory
and new listings were down considerably. In addition, a
homebuilder in the Carolinas said that existing home sales
continued to fall, but added that new home sales were up in
Charleston, SC, which he attributed to empty nesters relocating
to that area. Also, a custom builder in southern Maryland
described his business as enjoying the biggest improvement in
demand that he had seen in three years.  We received varied reports on commercial real estate and
construction. While construction was generally weak throughout
much of the District, several new manufacturing projects were
announced in North Carolina. Smaller projects were being built
faster due to abundant labor availability. Contractors reported
that refurbishing of commercial properties was up in both
 Maryland  and the Carolinas, but no one was adding new capacity.
A general contractor in the Baltimore area reported that he was
having his ―best year ever‖ after partnering with a larger firm.
However, a builder in the Baltimore area said that his market
was flat. Also, a Virginia contractor noted that commercial and
federal work has dried up in most areas of the state, with D.C.
capturing much of what little work there is. A real estate
manager in  West Virginia  reported that office demand in that
state was down and construction activity was weak. A developer
in North Carolina stated that many developers were running out
of cash and that getting bank financing was a challenge. Finally,
a Maryland developer noted that BRAC-related work was ending and
his company had little backlog.  Labor Markets. Assessments of labor market conditions were mixed
since our last report. Several employment agencies reported
average-to-somewhat-stronger demand for temporary workers in
recent weeks, particularly in the information technology and
manufacturing sectors. Finding skilled workers continued to be a
major concern. A Virginia contact noted that skill shortages and
unwillingness of candidates to move to his area were becoming an
increasing problem for his firm. Similarly, a manufacturer in
North Carolina stated that his company was ―having a tough time
hiring good people.‖ He added that many workers would not accept
a job because their  unemployment benefits  were too good. Another
agent in North Carolina said mobility issues were a major
concern because potential hires could not sell their homes. A
builder in West Virginia was fearful that his area was losing
critically skilled workers, who will be needed whenever the
housing sector recovers. According to our latest survey, hiring
was flat at services firms, and wage growth on average slowed.
Retailers continued to shed employees, and average retail wages
over the last month grew at about the same pace as in October.
Hiring by manufacturers stabilized over the last month, while
the average workweek was unchanged and wage growth strengthened.  Tourism. Contacts generally reported slightly higher hotel
bookings in recent weeks. A Myrtle Beach contact stated that
higher hotel occupancy rates pushed up revenues, although the
revenue gains remained below pre-recession highs. A contact in
Annapolis, Maryland stated that local hotel bookings were up,
but discounting was prevalent, and while the Annapolis Boat Show
was well attended, sales there were light. A Virginia resort
hotelier remarked that ―the phones have been flooded, but people
are still looking for the best deal.‖ Tourism remained solid in
other areas as well. For example, a hotel manager at a resort in
western Virginia noted that season ski passes were selling at
about the same rate as a year ago. Reservations were already
being made for other local winter recreational events, and the
weeks surrounding Christmas were booked. Contacts at District
tourist attractions indicated that attendance rose since our
last report. Most contacts reported no change in room rates.  Agriculture. Recent weather conditions allowed farmers to make
steady progress in harvesting and small grain planting
throughout most of the District. The corn harvest was nearing
completion in Virginia and was winding down in Maryland, with
farmers in those states saying that yields remained mostly good.
The cotton harvest was getting into full swing in North Carolina
and was ahead of schedule in South Carolina. In addition, the
apple harvest was completed in Maryland and nearly completed in
Virginia. Farmers in the District were harvesting their early
soybean crop, which was reported to be in fair-to-good condition.
Small grains had been planted and were off to a good start in
much of the District. 