-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-11-30T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to grow at a
moderate pace during the reporting period of October through
mid-November. Price increases for final goods and services were
limited, and upward pressures on wages were subdued overall.
Sales of retail items rose further, and demand grew modestly for
business and consumer services. District manufacturing activity
edged up on balance. Sales continued to grow for agricultural
producers, and activity expanded for extractors of energy and
other natural resources. Demand for residential and
nonresidential real estate remained weak on balance. Contacts
from financial institutions reported little or no change in
overall loan demand.  Wages and Prices  Price inflation for final goods and services was limited during
the reporting period. Contacts noted a recent uptick in the
prices for energy inputs, particularly oil, and price increases
for assorted food items at the retail level. However, the
combination of robust supplier competition and lackluster final
demand continued to hold down price pressures for most retail
goods and services.  Upward wage pressures were very modest overall, although
contacts noted persistent upward pressure on benefit costs,
especially for employee health care. High levels of unemployment
and limited demand for new employees kept compensation gains
minimal in most regions and sectors. The primary exception was
workers in information technology fields, such as software
developers, who continued to see high levels of recruiting
activity and significant wage increases.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales grew further on balance. Modest gains were noted
for traditional department stores and discount chains alike,
with particular demand strength for small appliances and other
inexpensive household products. By contrast, sales were largely
unchanged for retailers of major appliances, furniture, and
electronics. Sales were largely flat for grocers, and industry
contacts noted that they are keeping a close eye on inventories
at the start of the holiday season to avoid overstocking. Sales
of new automobiles continued to strengthen, with replenished
inventories for some Japanese brands supporting sales gains in
response to growing consumer demand. For the upcoming holiday
retail season, contacts generally expect sales to match or
slightly exceed the levels reached during last year’s season.  Demand for business and consumer services was largely stable or
slightly improved on balance. Sales continued to grow for
providers of technology services, in particular for software
applications used for mobile computing and communication devices,
although the pace of growth eased a bit further. Energy
utilities noted largely stable demand from businesses and
households. Demand for professional services, such as legal
services and accounting, also was described as largely unchanged.
Providers of health-care services reported that demand softened
a bit further, as reflected in a slight decline in inpatient
admissions and surgical procedures. Activity in the District’s
travel and tourism industry picked up: contacts in  Hawaii  noted
an uptick in visitor volumes, reversing the slight decline in
the prior period, and contacts in  San Diego  and  Las Vegas 
reported ongoing increases in hotel occupancy rates.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity in the District firmed a bit further on
net during the reporting period of October through mid-November.
For manufacturers of semiconductors and other technology
products, capacity utilization rates remained quite high; demand
growth stayed positive but continued to slow, especially for
components used in consumer electronics products. Production
activity expanded a bit from existing high levels for makers of
commercial aircraft and parts, as modest growth in new orders
added to an existing backlog. Activity was largely stable or up
slightly for metal fabricators. For petroleum refiners, weak
domestic demand for gasoline was offset by robust domestic and
export demand for distillate products, notably diesel fuel,
holding overall capacity utilization rates near their long-term
averages. Production activity continued to expand for food
manufacturers, while demand stayed stuck at depressed levels for
manufacturers of wood products.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Demand growth and sales were robust for agricultural products,
and extraction activity expanded further for minerals and
natural resources used for energy production. Orders and sales
continued to grow for assorted crops and livestock products,
especially for those with extensive export markets. Contacts
noted that agricultural input costs remained largely stable,
with the exception of significant increases in the cost of
fertilizer. Mining activity expanded further, propelled by high
 price levels  for a variety of metals. Extraction activity grew
for crude oil, largely in response to robust foreign demand, and
demand for natural gas was largely unchanged.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales and construction remained anemic, and demand for
commercial real estate was largely stable but weak. The pace of
home sales was quite subdued, with contacts noting that despite
low  interest rates , relatively strict lending requirements have
constrained purchasing activity. As a result of lackluster sales
and the large number of financially distressed properties, the
pace of  home construction  stayed depressed and  home prices 
remained flat. By contrast, demand for residential rental units
grew further. Demand for commercial real estate remained weak
overall, as reflected in elevated vacancy rates and heightened
caution by tenants to commit to long-term leases. However,
declining vacancy rates were noted for selected geographic areas
that are benefiting from growth in the technology sector,
primarily the San Francisco Bay Area and  Seattle . The vast
majority of contacts expect demand in residential and commercial
real estate markets to change little in the near term.  Financial Institutions  Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan
demand was largely unchanged compared with the prior reporting
period. With businesses remaining cautious in their approach to
 capital spending , the volume of new commercial and industrial
loans stayed slightly depressed overall. However, reports
continued to indicate stiff competition among lenders to extend
credit to well-qualified small and medium-sized businesses,
which has been creating downward pressure on rates and fees. No
changes in demand for  consumer credit  were noted. Slight
improvements in overall  credit quality  were noted, but lending
standards remained relatively restrictive for many types of
business and consumer loans. In a departure from prior positive
reports, contacts from the venture capital sector reported a
slowdown in investment activity and funding. 