-- 
UAW Says Hyundai Dealer Pickets About Korean Workers, Not U.S.

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-11-30T16:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/uaw-says-hyundai-dealer-pickets-about-korean-workers-not-u-s-.html
The  United Auto Workers ’s protest at
U.S.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  dealerships today is to show support for
Korean workers, not to target the automaker’s U.S. employees for
a membership drive, a union spokeswoman said.  “This has nothing to do with the domestic organizing
campaign,”  Michele Martin , a UAW spokeswoman, said in an
interview. “Hyundai is not the target.”  UAW President  Bob King  has said he planned to organize the
U.S. operations of one international automaker this year. King
said in March that restoring the union’s bargaining clout
depends on organizing non-union factories of automakers such as
Hyundai and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  It now appears the UAW won’t
achieve that goal this year, Martin said.  “At this point, our hope is to make a decision about who
we’re going to target by the end of the year,” Martin said.
“But obviously, we won’t have the organizing campaign completed
by the end of the year.”  Regional UAW representatives have been training union
members on how to conduct informational picket campaigns at the
showrooms of international automakers, Martin said. The union
has not yet said which dealers will be targeted for the
campaign, though UAW Vice President  Joe Ashton  said Nov. 21,
“we’re very close to doing that.”  The UAW’s membership increased last year by 6 percent to
376,612, according to a March 31 filing with the U.S. Labor
Department. After its first annual membership gain in six years,
the Detroit-based UAW would have to almost quadruple in size to
return to its 1979 peak of more than 1.5 million members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  