-- 
Mugabe’s Seized Farms Boost British American Tobacco Profits in Zimbabwe

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-11-30T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/mugabe-s-seized-farms-boost-british-american-tobacco-profits-in-zimbabwe.html
Robert Mugabe  devastated  Zimbabwe ’s
tobacco industry in 2000 by driving white farmers off their land
and giving it to his allies. Now  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  is
profiting from tobacco grown on those properties.  BAT, through its partner Northern Tobacco Ltd., is among
processors that buy from farms taken by backers of the 87-year-
old president. In addition to purchasing the leaf, the companies
lend to finance crops, even as the ousted white farmers retain
title deeds. First-half net income at BAT’s Zimbabwe unit rose
more than tenfold to $2 million while revenue increased 88
percent, the company said on Aug. 29.  Income generated from the farms may help extend Mugabe’s 31
years as president by shoring up support within his Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front party before elections
next year, said Anne Fruhauf, an  Africa  analyst for political
risk company  Eurasia Group  in  New York . While the travel bans
and asset freezes imposed by the European Union and the U.S. on
Mugabe and his close allies have reduced their wealth, many
still profit from farming and diamond mining, she said.  Farming the seized tobacco land is “vital for the
patronage network,” Fruhauf said on Nov. 21 from Bogota. Mugabe
needs the system “to keep individual Zanu-PF members happy and
to bolster party coffers ahead of the election.”  BAT is not taking sides, Patrick Rose, head of the leaf
division of British American Tobacco Holdings Zimbabwe Ltd.,
said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Harare.
BAT-Zimbabwe is listed on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange.  Not Judging  “Land and who is farming it here is always going to be an
issue,” he said. “We recognize that, but we’re not judging
anyone on any side of the farm argument. We’re a business and we
need quality tobacco.”  In the seven years following the start of the violent
seizures in 2000, Zimbabwe’s world rank as an exporter of top-
grade, or flue-cured, tobacco slipped to sixth from second. The
country experienced years of famine. The economy shrank 40
percent between 2000 and 2007, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  The involvement of overseas companies has helped Zimbabwe’s
tobacco industry recover. Revenue from tobacco sales was about
$357 million in 2010, according to calculations based on
production and price figures on the website of the  Zimbabwe
Tobacco Association . That compares with $400 million in 2000 and
a low of $155 million in 2008.  White farmers have sought the return of their properties
in courts around southern Africa. The campaign forced more than
3,000 of them off their land and displaced 1 million farm
workers and their dependents, according to a 2008 estimate by
the United Nations Development Programme.  Killings, Displacements  At least 30 people died during the invasions and thousands
were beaten, tortured or raped, John Worsley-Worswick, director
of Harare-based Justice for Agriculture, said in an interview on
Sept. 27.  “The thought that these companies are making a profit on
what is legally my land at the expense of my family and the 300
workers we employed is sickening,” said David Marais, who
farmed in northern Zimbabwe until gun-wielding police and self-
styled militias forced him off his land 2002.  BAT plans to boost the amount of tobacco it buys in
Zimbabwe by contract from farmers to 25.5 million kilograms next
season, a 70 percent rise from the 15 million kilograms in the
2004-2005 season when it began the program, Rose said in an
August interview that he confirmed on Oct. 20.  Rising Production  Kate Matrunola, a spokeswoman for BAT in  London , said in an
e-mailed response to questions that the Zimbabwean unit would
speak for the company. BAT owns 57 percent of the unit.  The amount of tobacco-growing land in Zimbabwe has surged
to an estimated 84,000 hectares (207,568 acres) this year from
41,000 in 2004, according to the website of the tobacco
association, which represents growers. That’s about the same as
the 84,893 hectares in 2000, the year the country reaped a
record crop of 236.7 million kilograms and Mugabe’s land
invasions began.  BAT Zimbabwe plans to boost production of cigarettes to 1.4
billion this year from 1.2 billion last year, Gaborone,
Botswana-based Imara Africa Securities said in an  August report 
on the sub-Saharan Africa tobacco industry. Imara forecast a
more than doubling of  BAT Zimbabwe (BAT) ’s revenue between fiscal 2010
and fiscal 2012, to $54.7 million.  Rodney Ambrose, the director of the tobacco association,
declined to comment when called and didn’t respond to e-mailed
questions that he had invited a reporter to send.  No Farmer Mandate  “Our mandate doesn’t cover farmers,” said Andrew Matibiri, chief executive officer of the government’s  Tobacco
Industry Marketing Board , which regulates the industry, in an
Oct. 5 interview. “We are concerned with tobacco quality and
environmental laws and the volumes produced.”  Zimbabwe’s tobacco in the past rivaled that grown in the
U.S. as the world’s best quality. It is used to flavor BAT-made
brands such as Dunhill, Lucky Strike, Vogue and Kent.  Tobacco is grown on contract for BAT’s partner, Northern
Tobacco, and for the Zimbabwean businesses of Richmond,
Virginia-based Universal Corp. and Morrisville, North Carolina-
based  Alliance One International Inc. (AOI) , as well as for a number
of other companies, according to the marketing board.  BAT Zimbabwe accounts for about 19 percent of Zimbabwe’s
annual tobacco through its purchases via Northern Tobacco,
according to calculations using BAT and marketing-board figures.  ‘Scrutiny and Approval’  “We do have a scrutiny and approval process for and prior
to contracting with growers, but one that must also work within
the laws that we find ourselves operating under,” Karen Whelan,
a spokeswoman for Universal, said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  She declined to say how much tobacco her company buys in
Zimbabwe. William L. O’Quinn, a spokesman for Alliance One,
didn’t respond to e-mailed queries and wasn’t available when his
office was called.  In Zimbabwe Universal operates through its  Zimbabwe Leaf
Tobacco Ltd.  unit while Alliance One runs  Mashonaland Tobacco
Co.   “There’s nothing even vaguely moral about it and they’re
doing it openly on the farm I bought and paid for,” Patrick
Newton, who farmed about 50 hectares of tobacco in northern
Zimbabwe on a 2,000-hectare property in which he invested $10
million, said in a Sept. 12 interview. “In 2000 I was beaten by
farm invaders while the police stood by and watched.” A “major
company” buys the tobacco from his land, he said.  Mugabe’s Support  Mugabe’s land seizures helped him gain enough support to
narrowly win re-election in 2000 by securing the backing of
voters in poor rural areas, where subsistence farmers had been
pushed into crowded areas during white rule. While he has won
two presidential elections since then, his party has since 2009
governed in a coalition with the Movement for Democratic Change,
which opposes his land policies.  Mugabe says the seizures were necessary because the U.K.,
Zimbabwe’s former colonial power, didn’t honor pledges to pay
for more orderly land reform.  The president has visited  Singapore  at least seven times
this year for medical treatment, the Zimbabwe Standard newspaper
reported in October, citing Webster Shamu, the country’s
information minister. While Shamu said doctors are reviewing an
eye operation, leaked U.S. cables exposed by Wikileaks cite
central bank governor Gideon Gono saying Mugabe has cancer.  BAT Zimbabwe doesn’t contract with farmers directly but
“causes the growing of tobacco through local partners like
Northern” with which it has an “arms-length” relationship,
the company said in an e-mailed response to questions. Northern
Tobacco and BAT Zimbabwe’s offices share an address on Paisley
Road in Harare’s Southerton industrial area.  No Contest  Northern contracts with 120 large-scale farmers and 4,000
small-scale farmers to supply the crop, Northern director
Heinrich Von Pezold said in an interview in Harare. Von Pezold
oversees tobacco production on a farm he once owned.  “We’ve long expected that what we’re doing here will be
questioned, but I have to say that we are not farming on any
land that is being contested by the original owners,” he said.  One farm owner lodged a dispute and the complaint was
settled, Rose said. Northern and BAT Zimbabwe define contested
land as a property whose ownership is being challenged legally,
he added.  The current system may work against the companies in future
should Mugabe lose power to  Morgan Tsvangirai ’s Movement for
Democratic Change, Fruhauf said.  “Investors that are seen as lining the pockets of Zanu
members could receive unfavorable treatment from a future MDC
administration,” she said in a separate e-mailed response to
questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  