-- 
UN Aviation Regulator Seeks 2012 CO2 Deal, May Enlist World Bank

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-11-30T14:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/un-aviation-regulator-seeks-2012-co2-deal-may-enlist-world-bank.html
The  International Civil Aviation
Organization  said it aims to strike a deal to create a global
carbon market for the  airline industry  next year because  Europe 
will have started its mandatory program.  “I’m under great pressure because of the European Union
emissions trading system,” said Raymond Benjamin, secretary
general of the  United Nations-overseen regulator  based in
 Montreal . The World Bank may help manage the proposed global
greenhouse gas market for the world’s 50 biggest nations that
may supersede the EU program around 2014 or 2015, Benjamin said
yesterday in an interview in London.  The organization plans to present emission-reduction
options, including for the new market, to ICAO’s 190 members as
early as January, seeking agreement by the end of 2012 and
ratification by September 2013, he said. Emissions from
airlines, currently about 2 percent of the world total, may
surge as the number of passenger flights almost doubles to 5
billion a year by 2020, according to the group’s own estimates.  “No one wants a commercial war,” Benjamin said. “For the
moment, everybody is showing muscles” and some developing
nations may retaliate against the EU’s imposition of carbon
trading by cutting the bloc’s access to landing slots or
imposing flight curfews, he said. “No country has formally
announced retaliatory measures” and it’s unclear any will.  World Bank  Role  Assuming it achieves agreement from the 36-member ICAO
council next year, the organization will need to decide “who
will collect the money and who will manage it,” Benjamin said.
Under cap-and-trade programs a central regulator is responsible
for setting emissions targets and then creating scarcity by
handing out or selling fewer allowances than expected emissions.
The World Bank would be one option for this job, ICAO said.  The package for agreement will probably also include
increased use of biofuels, standards to cut aircraft fuel use
and more efficient flight paths, Benjamin said.  “After a decade where nothing happened internationally,
the reality is that the EU law finally makes ICAO move towards a
global carbon market for aviation,”  Connie Hedegaard , the EU’s
climate action commissioner, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “This is interesting news. I hope ICAO does not miss
the opportunity this time.”  ‘May Seek Leniency’  Achieving agreement in that time frame will be hazardous,
even compared to the intense debate over the EU program, said
Matthew Cowie, an analyst in London for Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. “ICAO may be jumping out of the frying pan and into
the fire,” he said today by e-mail.  Developing countries may want lenient treatment and there
will likely be fights about how money from selling carbon
allowances should be spent, he said.  The EU in September  set benchmarks  to calculate the
distribution of free carbon-dioxide permits among domestic and
international airlines when they join the bloc’s emissions-
trading system next year.  Europe decided in 2008 that international aviation should
become a part of its cap-and-trade program, the world’s largest,
after airline discharges in Europe doubled over two decades.
U.S. carriers including  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  and United
Continental Holdings Inc. are challenging the carbon plan in
court, arguing the EU exceeds its jurisdiction.  AMR yesterday filed for bankruptcy after failing to secure
cost-cutting labor agreements and dropping from the world’s
largest airline to No. 3 in the U.S.  ‘Common But Differentiated’  Some nations do hold reservations about whether a global
carbon market for the industry is the best solution, the ICAO
chief said without being specific. “We have found a solution.
We are saying no discrimination” between rich and poor nations.  The 1997 Kyoto Protocol and 2009’s Copenhagen Accord say
that global greenhouse gases should be reduced under “common
but differentiated responsibilities,” suggesting that the rich
nations that produced most of the  greenhouse gases  in the
atmosphere should cut first and fastest.  Under the 1944 Chicago Convention governing international
 air travel , all nations should be treated the same, Benjamin
said. The proposed options for an industry carbon market may
exclude nations with less than 1 percent of global market share,
he said. The smallest few of about 50 remaining nations in the
program may be able to start in the market at a later date than
the biggest nations, he said.  Durban Debate  The EU measure is against international civil aviation
rules,  Su Wei ,  China ’s lead envoy, said in an interview
yesterday during the UN talks in Durban,  South Africa .  Japan 
called the European law unacceptable, echoing concerns voiced
earlier this year by the  United States ,  India  and  Russia , and
highlighting the challenge of forging a global framework to cut
greenhouse gases blamed for global warming.  “You can’t take unilateral measures to solve a
multilateral issue,” Su Wei said. “It has some impact on the
discussions here in Durban.”  Airlines will try to pass on the costs of EU carbon
allowances to customers and probably fail because there is so
much price competition in the industry, the  International Air
Transport Association  said Oct. 3.  EU carbon permits have plunged 41 percent this year on
muted demand because of the bloc’s sovereign debt crisis and
surging supply of offset credits. They advanced 5.1 percent to
8.39 euros ($11.30) a metric ton today on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  as of 1:42 p.m.  Because cutting aviation emissions is expensive, prices may
be high in a global cap-and-trade market for airlines, said New
Energy Finance’s Cowie. To cut costs, airlines may be allowed to
use cheaper credits from other programs, such as the United
Nations-overseen offset markets.  UN Certified Emission Reduction credits for December jumped
4.9 percent today to 5.77 euros on ICE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  