-- 
UN Human Rights Council Plans Special Session on Syria on Dec. 2

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-11-30T14:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/un-human-rights-council-plans-special-session-on-syria-on-dec-2.html
The United Nations Human Rights
Council will hold a special session on  Syria  after a UN panel
reported that the country’s military and security forces had
committed crimes against humanity.  The Dec. 2 session in Geneva stems from an official request
signed by 68 governments that was submitted today by  Poland  on
the European Union’s behalf, the Office of the High Commissioner
for Human Rights said in a statement. Signatories include
Jordan, Saudi Arabia, the U.S. and  Turkey .  The council’s independent International Commission of
Inquiry into Syria  said  on Nov. 28 that it was “gravely
concerned that crimes against humanity have been committed in
different locations” in Syria since pro-democracy unrest began
in mid-March. The panel said it documented patterns of summary
execution, arbitrary arrest, enforced disappearance, torture
including sexual violence and violations of children’s rights.  The rights council will consider a draft resolution asking
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to take “the necessary
measures according to the UN Charter” to support the  Arab
League ’s efforts to end the violence in Syria. The league
slapped sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27 for refusing to sign a
protocol allowing a delegation of monitors into the country.  The resolution also calls for the Commission of Inquiry’s
report to be forwarded to Ban for “appropriate action and
transmission to all UN relevant bodies.”  At least 3,500 people have been killed since demonstrations
against President Bashar al-Assad’s government began, according
to the UN. Assad faces growing economic and political pressure
to end the crackdown against protesters who were inspired by
popular movements that toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and
 Libya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  