-- 
Hungary Bond Yields Reach Two-Year High on Junk Rating Before Debt Auction

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-11-30T11:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/hungary-bond-yields-reach-two-year-high-on-junk-rating-before-debt-auction.html
The yield on  Hungary ’s five-year
bonds climbed to a two-year high before an auction tomorrow as a
credit-rating downgrade to junk by Moody’s Investors Service
damped investor appetite for the country’s debt.  The government is offering 15 billion forint ($65 million)
in 2014 bonds, 12 billion forint in 2017 notes and 8 billion
forint in 2022 securities, according to data from the Debt
Management Agency on Bloomberg. The five-year yield rose five
basis points to 9.357 percent at 11:51 a.m. in Budapest, near
the 9.57 percent reached on Nov. 25, the highest since July 2009
and the first trading day after the rating cut by Moody’s.  The central bank increased the benchmark  interest rate  to
the highest in the European Union yesterday and said it may
boost borrowing costs further after the Moody’s downgrade pushed
the cost of insuring against Hungary’s default to a record high
last week.  “The  bond market  appears to be in meltdown,”  Neil Shearing , London-based chief emerging-markets economist at
 Capital Economics , wrote in a research report yesterday. Policy
makers may need to initiate “far larger” rate increases to
shore up bond and currency markets after yesterday’s attempt
“flopped,” Shearing said.  The forint depreciated 0.8 percent to 311.84 against the
euro, heading for a fifth straight month of declines.  ‘Become Impossible’  Hungary, which on Nov. 17 said it would seek assistance
from the  International Monetary Fund , scrapped two debt sales
and reduced the size of another eight auctions in the past three
months, including a Treasury bill sale this week. The debt
agency accepted no bids after investors offered 27.6 billion
forint in 2012 bonds at a buyback auction today.  “We think that the situation for Hungarian government bond
auctions will remain difficult throughout the first half of 2012
and see risks that the refinancing via the markets could become
impossible,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based economist at
Raiffeisen Bank International AG, and colleagues wrote in a
research report yesterday.  Investments in Hungary dropped 5.4 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier as higher spending in manufacturing
and government failed to outweigh declines in the banking and
energy industries, data from the statistics office showed today.  “The global backdrop is negative today and central
European currencies are at risk,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , a London-
based strategist at BNP Paribas SA, and colleagues wrote in a
research report today. “We could see renewed pressure on the
forint.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  