-- 
Hungarian Interest Rates to Rise Further as Junk Rating Threatens Forint

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-11-30T14:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/hungarian-rates-to-rise-further-as-junk-grade-risks-forint.html
Hungarian interest rates may rise
further from the European Union’s highest level as policy makers
seek to protect the forint from the effects of the country’s
debt being downgraded to junk, the central bank said.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  is ready to increase the two-week
deposit rate after boosting it to 6.5 percent from 6 percent
yesterday, central bank President Andras Simor told reporters in
Budapest yesterday. Forward-rate agreements, or FRAs, rose,
indicating investor expectations for higher borrowing costs.  The first rate increase since January failed to boost the
forint, which fell to its weakest ever against the euro this
month and helped push the government to seek aid from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union. Hungary
losing its investment grade at Moody’s Investors Service tipped
the scale for policy makers, who had balanced shielding the
currency against slowing economic growth.  “Further hikes are unavoidable as longer term yields and
FRAs indicate,”  Janos Samu , an economist at Concorde Securities
in Budapest, wrote in an e-mail today. “The currently priced-in
interest rate hikes indicate a base rate of 7.5 percent by
January, which may be enough in our view to stem a further slide
in the forint provided an EU-IMF deal can be struck by that
time.”  Forint Strengthens  The forint, the world’s worst-performing currency against
the euro since June 30, rose 0.9 percent to 306.72 per euro at
3:38 p.m. in Budapest today. The yield on the five-year
government bond fell 54 basis points to 8.77 percent at 3:41
p.m. in Budapest, compared with the 9.57 percent reached on Nov.
25, the highest since July 2009.  Forward-rate agreements fixing three-month interest in one
month traded at 7.22 percent, compared with 7.45 percent for the
three-month FRA. The three-month Budapest Interbank Offered
Rate, to which the FRAs settle, traded at 6.99 percent, showing
expectations for rising interest rates.  Polish  and Czech central bankers this month left their
benchmark rates unchanged at 4.5 percent and 0.75 percent,
respectively.  Romania  on Nov. 2 unexpectedly cut its main
 interest rate  to a record-low 6 percent from 6.25 percent.  ‘Persistently Unfavorable’  Hungary is ready to increase the benchmark rate further if
the outlook for inflation and the country’s risk perception
remain “persistently unfavorable,” the Monetary Council said
in a statement released after the rate decision.  The forint’s depreciation is a “threat” to the central
bank’s 3 percent inflation target, it said.  Consumer prices  rose
3.9 percent in October from a year earlier, the fastest pace in
five months. Producer prices, which indicate future inflation
trends, rose by 7 percent in October from a year earlier, the
most in 10 months, as oil-refining costs soared.  Investors are shunning riskier bonds and demanding higher
yields as European leaders grapple with the euro area’s crisis,
which started in  Greece  more than two years ago and threatens to
infect weaker economies.  The “outcome of the meeting and the statement are a green
light to higher rates,” Guillaume Salomon, a London-based
economist at Societe Generale SA, said by e-mail yesterday.
“Only a complete turnaround in the eurozone crisis for the
better would change this outlook.”  ‘Long Way’  The forint fell to a record 317.92 on Nov. 14 after
 Standard & Poor’s  threatened to cut the country’s debt rating to
junk, forcing the government to seek assistance from the IMF and
the EU.  While S&P postponed a decision on the  credit rating  until
February, Moody’s downgraded Hungary’s government bond rating on
Nov. 24 by one step to Ba1, maintaining a negative outlook,
citing risks to budget-deficit and public debt targets.  Fitch
Ratings  said on Nov. 18 an IMF agreement would reduce pressure
on Hungary’s rating, adding that a deal remained a “long way
off.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  turned to the IMF on Nov. 18 to
seek a backstop that doesn’t entail a loan or conditions on
economic policy, reversing 18 months of shunning the lender.
After the downgrade by Moody’s, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
said that Hungary may have to accept conditions for a  credit
line . The Cabinet wants to agree with the IMF and the EU by the
“first few months” of next year, he said.  Debt Payments  The nation’s foreign-currency debt maturing next year will
soar to 1.37 trillion forint ($5.9 billion), a 48 percent
increase from this year, the government estimates. That will
rise to 1.48 trillion forint in 2013 and peak at 1.65 trillion
forint in 2014 as  Hungary  repays the 20 billion-euro ($26.7
billion) bailout.  Hungary sold a planned 40 billion forint of three-month
Treasury bills yesterday at an average yield of 7.32 percent,
compared with 6.63 percent at the last sale of the same maturity
on Nov. 22. The government failed to sell a planned 50 billion
forint of debt on Nov. 28, auctioning 35 billion forint of six-
week Treasury bills as yields soared.  Hungary needs an agreement with the IMF and the EU “as
soon as possible,” the Monetary Council said. Its size should
take into account Hungary’s debt renewal needs, Simor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  