-- 
University of Oregon President Lariviere Ousted Amid Clashes With Governor

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/university-of-oregon-president-ousted-amid-clashes-with-governor-over-cuts.html
The president of the  University of
Oregon , the state’s largest school with more than  24,000
students , was ousted amid conflicts with Governor John Kitzhaber
on budget cuts and leadership.  Richard Lariviere, who became the 16th president of the
Eugene-based institution in July 2009, was dismissed by the
State Board of Higher Education at a meeting Nov. 28, Jim
Barlow, a university spokesman, said by telephone.  Lariviere, 61, will step down Dec. 28, Barlow said. The
president had clashed with Kitzhaber, 64, and the governing
board over university autonomy and his decision to grant faculty
pay raises even as the state made budget cuts, Barlow said.  “This turn of events is a result of the ongoing difference
of opinion over the future” of the school, Lariviere said in a
 message  to faculty, staff and students posted on its website.
“But meaningful change often turns on uncomfortable moments,
and it is my hope that I will be leaving the university well-
positioned to take advantage of ongoing reforms to our state’s
system of public universities.”  Kitzhaber, in a  statement  on Nov. 26, said Lariviere had
defied the education board over lobbying for “increased
independence” of the university.  Lariviere’s decision to grant raises “not only undermined
the board, it undermined my own directive and the credibility of
my administration,” the Democratic governor said.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  Chairman Philip Knight, who donated $100 million
to the university in 2007, sided with Lariviere in a statement
released by the Beaverton, Oregon-based company.  “Let us hope that the  Oregon  community can take this
astonishingly bad decision and recognize that it does not have
to define us,” Knight said. “We still have the collective
capacity to rise up and do great things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  