-- 
Huntsman Debt Rule Wrong on French-German Growth: BGOV Barometer

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-11-30T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/huntsman-debt-rule-wrong-on-french-german-growth.html
Countries with high rates of public
debt can still maintain economic growth, contrary to the
argument of Republican presidential candidate  Jon Huntsman .  The BGOV Barometer shows that some nations with debt levels
exceeding 70 percent of their gross domestic product, the
threshold cited by Huntsman, continue to expand, among them
Germany and France.  “I’d argue that 70 percent debt-to-GDP is a national
security problem, because at some point, you just don’t grow any
more when your debt becomes that,” Huntsman said at a Nov. 22
debate with other GOP candidates. “I mean, look at Japan.
They’re in their third decade of lost growth. Look at Greece,
look at  Italy .”  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, marketable debt
held by the public is equivalent to 63 percent of GDP. Counting
 government securities  held by other federal agencies, the total
approaches 100 percent of GDP. The  U.S. economy  grew 1.5 percent
in the third quarter from the same period last year.  Japan, whose 200 percent debt-to-GDP ratio is the most of
any developed country, showed no growth in the third quarter.
Greece, at 143 percent, shrank 5.2 percent over the same period.
In addition to the countries mentioned by Huntsman,  Portugal  is
saddled with 93 percent debt-to-GDP and its economy contracted
1.7 percent over the 12 months through September.  Continued growth in other nations indicates it takes more
than high debt loads to jeopardize expansions. Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, has debt equaling 83 percent of GDP and
expanded 2.6 percent in the year to September. France, with 82
percent debt to GDP, grew 1.6 percent and  Belgium , with 100
percent debt to GDP, expanded 1.8 percent. Economies in the U.K.
and Austria are also expanding alongside debt that exceeds 70
percent of annual output.  Thresholds in Dispute  Some economists dispute the validity of thresholds such as
the one put forth by Huntsman.  “The truth of the matter is that you cannot put all
countries together at all times,” said Liliana Rojas-Suarez, a
senior fellow at the Center for Global Development in Washington
and former chief Latin America economist for Deutsche
Bank AG. “There is not a formula.”  Robert Shiller, co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
home values and a professor at Yale University,  wrote  in July
that “we should worry less about debt ratios and thresholds, and
more about our inability to see these indicators for the
artificial -- and often irrelevant -- constructs that they are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  