-- 
Turkey Stocks Rise Most Since September as Fed Lowers Swap Rate

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-11-30T16:11:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/turkey-stocks-rise-most-since-september-as-fed-lowers-swap-rate.html
Turkish  stocks (XU100)  rallied the most in
more than two months as the U.S. Federal Reserve and five
central banks cut the cost of emergency dollar funding for
European banks in an effort to stem the region’s debt crisis.  The benchmark ISE National 100 Index surged 4.7 percent to
54,517.76, the biggest jump since Sept. 20, with 97 of 100
stocks rising and three declining.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS, the country’s largest bank by
market value, led gains, advancing 5 percent to 6.26 liras.
 Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) , the country’s sole oil
refiner, soared 10 percent to 41.60 liras.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the
Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc., gained 4.9 percent to
6.46 liras and  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , the nation’s biggest group of
companies, added 9 percent to 6.32 liras.  The Fed’s move is “a green light to own risk assets” and
“Turkish assets benefit immensely,” said Bali Ekin, head of
equity trading at Credit Europe Bank NV in Amsterdam. “Short-
term risks on the euro zone remain but this is definitely a
great relief for the moment.”  Turkey’s benchmark index declined 17 percent this year,
while the gauge of  Turkish banks (XBANK)  slumped 25 percent as the
central bank tightened liquidity in an effort to curb lending.
Banking stocks make up 38 percent of the overall index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The relief may not last, and the move has likely been
“exaggerated” by traders scrambling to cover short positions
and close their month-end books on a high note, Ekin said.  “It puts the ‘risk-on’ switch back on but I wonder if the
overall picture changed very dramatically,” said Emir Tayman, a
trader at Ekspres Invest in Istanbul, an Istanbul-based
brokerage owned by  Belgium ’s Dexia SA. “My bet is on this move
fizzling sooner than later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  