-- 
Turkey Warns Syria of More Sanctions After Arab League

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-11-30T17:52:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/turkey-warns-syria-of-more-sanctions-after-arab-league-1-.html
Turkey  imposed sanctions on  Syria 
and will expand the punitive measures if President Bashar al- Assad fails to halt his eight-month crackdown on dissent,
Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said.  Syrian government assets held in Turkey are being frozen,
al-Assad’s leadership team is banned from entry, transactions
with Syria’s central bank and trade bank are prohibited, credit
agreements are suspended, and arms sales and shipments have been
halted, Davutoglu told reporters in Ankara today.  The measures join the sanctions adopted by the  Arab League 
on Nov. 27, which Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem
called a declaration of “economic war.” Turkey’s nine-item
package is designed to target the Syrian government’s ability to
carry out acts of violence against the people, Davutoglu said,
adding that his country won’t restrict water supplies and other
essential items needed by Syrians.  “We will evaluate additional measures that we can enact
with the same meticulousness, depending on the Syrian regime’s
attitude,” Davutoglu said. “We hope that the Syrian regime
will realize that the only way out of the dead-end street it’s
in is to fully implement the public’s legitimate demands and to
end the violence against and oppression of its people.”  U.S. Response  The U.S., which also has imposed sanctions on Syria over
the government’s response to demonstrations, commended the
Turkish action and called on other nations to add pressure on
Assad.  The sanctions “will isolate the Assad regime and send a
strong message to Assad and his circle that their actions are
unacceptable and will not be tolerated,” White House National
Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said in a statement. The
statement said President  Barack Obama  had “coordinated
closely” with Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  on Syria.  Turkey’s announcement comes before a scheduled Dec. 2 visit
by U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden . The situation in Syria will be
among the topics Biden discusses with Erdogan.  Since the unrest in Syria started in mid-March, trade
between the country and Turkey has been declining, Turkish
Minister of Transportation, Maritime Affairs and Communication
Binali Yildirim said yesterday. Syria-Turkey trade in the first
10 months of this year was $1.76 billion, compared with $1.86
billion in the same period of 2010, according to the Turkish
state statistics agency. The total trade between them last year
was $2.3 billion.  Alternative Routes  Turkey is planning alternative trucking routes via  Iraq  as
well as shipping routes via  Egypt  to counter a worsening of the
unrest in Syria and to comply with embargoes, Yildirim said.  The sanctions will be in effect until a “legitimate
government in peace with its people” comes to power, Davutoglu
said.  The Arab League is ready to “immediately end” its
sanctions against Syria if the country signs a protocol allowing
a league-sponsored delegation of monitors into the country,
Egypt’s state-run Middle East News Agency said yesterday, citing
the league’s secretary-general, Nabil el-Arabi. He also said he
was ready to meet Syria’s foreign minister, MENA reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 