-- 
Turkey Passes Law Allowing Paid Exemption From Army Service

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-11-30T11:50:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/turkey-passes-law-allowing-paid-exemption-from-army-service-2-.html
Turkey ’s parliament passed a law
allowing paid exemption from military service, a measure that
may raise billions of dollars and absolve hundreds of thousands
of men from serving.  The 550-member parliament in Ankara approved legislation
today to allow men aged 30 and older to pay 30,000 liras
($16,200) to skip a tour of duty of as long as 15 months. It’s
the first time Turkey has offered paid exemption since 1999,
when the government was seeking to raise funds to rebuild after
a deadly earthquake.  The measure comes as the armed forces reel from attacks by
the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, that killed more than 200
this year and Turkey faces mounting unrest in its southern
neighbor, Syria. As many as 400,000 men may be eligible for the
offer, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said Nov. 2, meaning
potential budget revenue of 12 billion liras, about half the
targeted deficit next year.  “That people will be able to buy their way out of military
service creates a class differentiation,” said Bill Park, a
senior lecturer who specializes in Turkish foreign and security
policy at King’s College in  London . “Once you start introducing
the ability to pay, that looks very sensitive. It’s not only
disproportionately the poor, the unemployed rural that have to
go and do it, they’re also the ones that are most proud of it.”  The main opposition  Republican People’s Party  criticized
the proposal, saying it grants privileges to the wealthy.  ‘No Privilege’  “No one, no family, group or class will be granted a
privilege,” said Republican leader  Kemal Kilicdaroglu , citing
the constitution. “And what is this? I pay 30,000 liras, I do
nothing, I get my discharge papers. The poor who don’t have
30,000 liras, they go straight to their military service.”  Turkey’s 500,000-strong conscript army is the second
largest in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization after the U.S.  The change has been on the governing  Justice and
Development Party ’s agenda for nine years and was drafted so as
not to weaken the armed forces, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said Nov. 22 when he announced the plan. Income from the
exemption payments will fund social services for veterans of the
armed forces, gendarmerie and police, he said.  The Republicans may take the legislation to Turkey’s
constitutional court and seek to nullify it, said Riza Turmen,
an opposition lawmaker and member of the parliament’s
constitution committee.  “We’re thinking about and examining the option,” he told
reporters in Ankara today, according to state-run Anatolia news
agency. “There’s a serious breach of the equality principle
here.”  Buy-Out Loans  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , Turkey’s second-biggest bank by market value,
said it will provide credit to finance the buy-out fee at a
monthly interest rate of 1.4 percent while Finansbank AS said
its loans are available at 1.45 percent.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  said its
Turkish unit has loans ranging from three months to five years
that charge 1.3 percent to 1.5 percent per month. The five year
loan’s annual cost comes out to 22 percent, the bank said.  The government started work on the buy-out two weeks after
the PKK staged its deadliest attacks since the 1990s, killing 30
soldiers in a four-hour battle in southeastern province of
Hakkari and prompting Erdogan to order attacks by the  air force 
and special forces on PKK camps in northern  Iraq . The group is
classified as a terrorist organization by Turkey, the U.S. and
the European Union.  Turkey has also provided refuge to fleeing Syrians,
including the founder of the Free  Syria  Army that seeks to
topple President Bashar al-Assad. Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  has said Turkey will back Arab League sanctions to end
the Syrian government’s eight-month crackdown on protests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  