-- 
Vale Confident Biggest Ships Will Be Allowed Into China’s Ports

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-11-30T10:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/vale-is-confident-its-biggest-ore-ships-will-be-allowed-into-china-ports.html
Vale SA (VALE3)  said it expects valemaxes,
the world’s biggest  iron-ore  carriers, to eventually be allowed
into ports in  China , the biggest user of the commodity.  Vale Brasil, the first such vessel Rio de Janeiro-based
Vale had built, was diverted to  Italy  in June on its maiden
voyage to China. Neither that ship nor four more completed since
then have called at Chinese ports, vessel-tracking data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The world’s biggest iron-ore producer is
spending at least $8.1 billion on a fleet of 35 carriers, some
of which are being built in China.  “We talk with a lot of different ports in China, so we are
confident that sooner or later we are going to sort it out,”
Chief Financial Officer Tito Martins said in an interview in  New
York . “We are optimists. We don’t see an issue.”  Vale sold about 45 percent of its iron ore to China in the
third quarter and wants to control shipments through its own
fleet. The China Shipowners Association, whose members control
about 80 percent of the nation’s shipping capacity, advised
companies not use the vessels, according to Executive Vice
Chairman Zhang Shouguo. The additional capacity is exacerbating
the slump in charter rates, Zhang said.  Valemaxes, able to haul about 400,000 metric tons of cargo,
are more than twice the size of capesizes, which carry about 90
percent of the world’s seaborne iron ore. Rates for capesizes
averaged $14,475 a day this year, which would mark the lowest
annual average since 2002, according to data from the  Baltic
Exchange  in  London .  Vale’s fleet-expansion plan includes buying 19 very large
ore carriers for $2.3 billion, with 12 built in China, and
leasing another eight from Seoul-based STX Pan Ocean Co. under a
25-year, $5.8 billion contract.  Freight Costs  The Brazilian company received no “official position”
from China on the valemaxes, Martins said.  About 35 percent of Vale’s iron ore is now sold at prices
that include freight costs, while no accords were concluded on
that basis in 2008, Jose Carlos Martins, executive director of
iron ore and strategy, told investors in New York on Nov. 28.  Vale owns 30 percent of its current fleet of about 100 dry-
bulk vessels, hires 40 percent under long-duration contracts and
books the remainder on the  spot market , he said. Three ports in
China -- Dalian, Dongjiakou and Majishan -- are large enough to
receive the valemaxes, the company said in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  