-- 
VTB Capital Said to Hire Credit Suisse Bankers in Dubai for MENA Equities

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-11-30T14:14:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/vtb-capital-said-to-hire-credit-suisse-bankers-for-mena-equities.html
VTB Capital, the investment banking
unit of  Russia ’s second-biggest lender, may hire four  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CS)  bankers in Dubai for a Middle East and North
Africa equities team, two people familiar with the matter said.  Karim Nsouli, head of MENA sales trading at Credit Suisse,
may lead the unit, one of the people said, declining to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been made public. Ali Salaam, co-head of MENA equities at Credit Suisse, may also join
VTB Capital in Dubai, the person said.  A spokesman for VTB Capital in Moscow declined to comment
as did a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in Dubai.  VTB Capital is increasing headcount this year and expanding
abroad as it seeks to compete in  emerging markets , while global
banks such as HSBC Holdings Plc and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
eliminate jobs. Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Inc. are among
companies withdrawing employees from Dubai after Persian Gulf
markets tumbled, deals dried up, and they sought to curb costs.  VTB Capital’s Atanas Bostandjiev, hired from Goldman Sachs
in May to lead the brokerage’s push outside of Russia, said Aug.
26 employment increased 38 percent worldwide to 1,157 this year.
Makram Abboud, former managing director for Nomura Holdings
Inc.’s emerging-markets team, has joined VTB Capital as chief
executive officer for the MENA region. Abboud declined to
comment when reached by mobile phone yesterday.  Cutting Staff  Bank of America Corp., the second-biggest U.S. lender by
deposits, cut staff at its Merrill Lynch & Co. sales and trading
division in Dubai, two people said Nov. 16.  Renaissance Capital ,
the brokerage half owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ,
closed its Dubai office after the 2008 financial crisis. Founder
Stephen Jennings said in June the company may open an office in
Cairo to tap the same markets.  Financial markets in the Middle East have been hurt by Arab
uprisings that ousted leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and amid
fears  Europe  won’t be able to contain its debt crisis. Fees
earned by banks in the region fell 42 percent to $320 million in
the first nine months of the year from $551.1 million during the
same period in 2010, according to New York-based research firm
Freeman & Co.  The MSCI Emerging Europe,  Middle East  and Africa Index is
down 18 percent this year, compared with a decline of 14 percent
for the STOXX Europe 600. The value of shares traded on Dubai’s
stock market slumped to 19.5 million dirhams ($5.3 million) on
Nov. 16, the lowest since August 2004, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  