-- 
Wal-Mart Waits With Carrefour as India Wins Instant Gain: Retail

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-12-01T11:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/wal-mart-waits-with-carrefour-as-india-s-stores-win-instant-gains-retail.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA) 
waited seven years for access to India’s $400 billion retail
market. They may have to wait almost as long to make a profit in
the world’s second most populous nation.  Expensive real estate, a warehouse shortage and congested
roads will force foreign retailers to spend about 20 billion
rupees ($382 million) on supply systems, said Anand Ramanathan,
associate director at KPMG Advisory Services in India.  India on Nov. 24 said it will allow overseas companies to
invest up to 51 percent in retail stores selling more than one
brand. The decision, which ends at least seven years of debate,
may benefit local merchants, such as  Pantaloon Retail India
Ltd. (PF) , that foreign retailers need as partners. The market will
almost double to $785 billion by 2015, London-based Business
Monitor International estimates.  “It will take at least two to three to five years before
we see the full impact of this change in policy,” said Saloni
Nangia, senior vice president at Technopak Advisors Pvt. “While
all these retailers would invest in the supply chain and  food
processing , it’s going to take time, so this expectation that
things would transform very soon or overnight won’t happen.”  Head Start  Overseas retailers such as  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  Metro AG  may not
be able to set up more than 10 stores each in the first year and
may take at least five years to break even because of
infrastructure and real estate hurdles, Ramanathan said. “I
don’t think any of the foreign players is looking at a return
over the next five years,” he said.  Shares of India’s three biggest retailers jumped in Mumbai
trading on news about the changes. Pantaloon climbed 13 percent
on Nov. 24, the day after a government official said the cabinet
may ease restrictions, and rose a further 16 percent the day
after the news was confirmed. The stocks fell back on Nov. 29
when lawmakers demanded the policy be reversed. Still, Pantaloon
as well as  Shopper’s Stop Ltd. (SHOP) , India’s No. 2 retailer, and 
 Trent Ltd. (TRENT) , the third-biggest, are all up since Nov. 23.  Local companies have a “positive” outlook because they
may get chosen as partners by retailers seeking to do business
in India, said Nangia. They also have a head start over foreign
companies that were barred from multi-brand retailing in India
and restricted to wholesale ventures before last week’s
decision.  Possible Credit Boost  The easing of rules may improve Indian companies’ credit
profiles as they gain access to equity and improved liquidity,
Fitch Ratings India Pvt. said in a statement today. The effect
would be moderated by the need for investment in logistics and
increased competition in the long term, the statement said.  Pantaloon, which began as a men’s clothing retailer in
1997, operates as many as 498 supermarkets and department stores
and more than 17 million square feet of retail space, according
to the company’s website.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s
largest public company, has more than 1,200 stores through a
subsidiary.  India’s retail industry will get investments of $8 billion
to $10 billion over the next five to ten years as overseas
competitors enter and local companies spend to keep pace,
according to billionaire  Kishore Biyani , Pantaloon’s founder and
managing director. “It’s still going to be a while” before a
foreign retailer can catch up, Biyani said in a Nov. 18 phone
interview.  Bharti Venture  Wal-Mart has 14 wholesale outlets through a joint venture
with Bharti Enterprises,  Germany ’s  Metro  owns six and  France ’s
Carrefour announced the opening of its second wholesale store on
Nov. 28.  Less than $1 billion of Wal-Mart’s $422 billion sales last
year came from  India . The company has plans to aggressively
expand its India operations,  Scott Price , chief executive
officer for  Asia , said in March.  The chains face the challenge of finding affordable
locations and the competition may intensify as newcomers enter,
said Nangia.  As the industry grows, “spaces won’t be available where
the customers are,” said Biyani. The nation’s largest retailer
on Nov. 10 reported a 36 percent drop in fiscal first-quarter
earnings because of interest costs on borrowing to increase
retail space. India has the highest  interest rates  among Asia’s
major economies.  Rising Overhead  Real-estate costs for retailers have risen at least 2 1/2
times since 2006, according to Kumar Rajagopalan, chief
executive of the Retailers Association of India. Merchants in
India pay 9 percent to 10 percent of revenue in rent, he said.
The global average is 3.5 to 4 percent, Rajagopalan said.  Retailers such as Carrefour, the world’s second-biggest,
and Tesco, the U.K.’s largest supermarket chain, face
infrastructure that lags  China ’s and  Brazil ’s. “There are still
very frequent power outages in a number of cities and the roads
need a hell of a lot of improvement in terms of operating an
efficient supply chain,” said Bryan Roberts, director of retail
research at Kantar Retail in  London .  That means the global chains need to build trucking and
distribution systems in India, where government estimates show
40 percent of fruit and vegetables rot before being sold because
of a lack of cold-storage facilities and poor transport
infrastructure.  India’s roads are of “very poor quality” and local trucks
cover less than 400 kilometers (249 miles) a day, compared with
the 700 to 800 kilometers covered by trucks in the developed
world, Transport Corporation of India Ltd. said in a 2009
report. Vehicular speeds can be limited to under 15 kilometers
an hour in business areas of some cities.  Political Pressures  Indian consumers also tend to buy groceries in neighborhood
shops. Organized retail operations -- professionally managed
chains, as opposed to family-owned independent stores -- account
for just 5 percent of the retail market, according to the
 Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India .   “It’s a country in which infrastructure is not fully 
developed,” said Rajagopalan. “For any individual to travel to a 
large store is not the easiest of things.”  Political pressures remain. Shops and markets across India
were shut today as traders supported a daylong strike demanding
the government scrap its decision on foreign investment.  States have a say in allotting licenses and West Bengal may
not allow foreign investment in retailing, Chief Minister Mamata
Banerjee said in televised comments Nov. 28.  Faster Growth  Foreign firms “still need to be cautious about rushing
in,” said Kantar’s Roberts.  Arti Singh, an India spokeswoman for Bentonville, Arkansas-
based Wal-Mart, didn’t respond to calls. Carrefour India
spokesman Mohan Shukla said it was too early to comment on
retail plans.  Developing countries still offer faster growth for
companies like Wal-Mart, whose international sales grew 20% in
the quarter ended Oct. 31, compared with 3.8 percent in the
U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wal-Mart, which entered China in 1996, has in the past
decade increased its stores in the world’s most populous nation
to more than 350 from eight. Third-quarter sales grew 16 percent
in China, with 6 percent growth for stores open more than a
year, according to a Bloomberg transcript of its Nov. 15
earnings briefing.  “Their story in India is not short term,” said  KPMG ’s
Ramanathan. “These companies will not be able to face their
boards if they decide not to enter India.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  