-- 
WestLB Appeals Ruling Over Nomura Sale of Worthless Securities

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-11-30T15:39:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/westlb-appeals-ruling-over-nomura-sale-of-worthless-securities.html
WestLB AG  says it is owed $22.3
million by  Nomura Holdings Inc . after the Japanese bank decided
debt securities it created became worthless at the height of the
financial crisis.  The lender is appealing an earlier decision in favor of
Nomura by a U.K. judge, who said Dusseldorf, Germany-based
WestLB had failed to prove the valuation resulted in losses that
wouldn’t have occurred anyway.  The securities, linked to an Asian investment fund, were
due to mature in November 2008. Because of the banking crisis
caused by the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Nomura
was unable to find bidders to establish the value of the notes
and concluded they were worthless.  The judge in the original trial “should have considered
that the market conditions were not directly relevant to the
valuation exercise,” WestLB lawyer Jonathan Nash told the U.K.
appeals court today. The securities held by WestLB should have
been worth $22.3 million because the underlying assets had
“significant value,” he said.  Nomura spokeswoman Beth Brophy didn’t immediately comment
on the dispute.  Tokyo-based Nomura in 2003 sold WestLB structured notes
linked to the Global Opportunities Fund, which was managed by
First Capital Management Ltd. of Mauritius, and arranged by the
firm’s managing director, Rafat Rizvi.  Arrest Warrant  Nomura later determined there was no public information
about many of the entities in which the fund invested, and that
one of the entities was fake, according to court filings in the
lawsuit.  Indonesia  issued an arrest warrant for Rizvi, Nomura
said in the filings.  Rizvi “turned out to be unreliable, possibly fraudulent,”
Nash said. He said the judge at the original trial should have
tried to put a value on the securities instead of accepting they
were worthless.  “The judge, even with all the difficulties, could have
come up with a figure,” Nash said.  The trial court case was WestLB v Nomura Bank International
Plc & Anr, 09-497,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench
Division , Case No. 09-497.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  