-- 
With $2.5 Billion of Art, Sender Trove, Miami Basel Woos Buyers

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/with-2-5-billion-of-art-sender-trove-miami-basel-woos-buyers.html
Art Basel Miami Beach opens to VIPs
today with as much as $2.5 billion of art, ranging from Picasso
and Giacometti to emerging artists Carol Bove and Theaster
Gates.  For this 10th edition of the biggest U.S. art fair, the
 Miami Beach Convention Center  alone features more than 260
galleries showing works by 2,000 artists. Add to that numerous
satellite shows, including Art Miami, the New Art Dealers
Alliance ( NADA ), Pulse and Scope.  “All major American museum directors are expected to be
here,” said Marc Spiegler, co-director of the fair whose main
sponsor is  UBS AG. (UBSN)  He anticipates “the strongest contingent of
Brazilian and Chinese collectors ever and a strong Russian
presence.”  Local collectors Don and  Mera Rubell ,  Rosa de la Cruz  and
Adam Sender will show off their private treasures to the public.
Streets and parks will be dotted with art, including an 11-foot-
tall sculpture of a pig hauling a house on its back by Chinese
artist Zhang Huan.  “Ten years ago, Miami was not known as an art
destination,” said Mary Hoeveler, a New York-based art adviser
who grew up in the Florida city. “Now it is, particularly
during this time of year.”  In the wake of the equity markets’ worst Thanksgiving-week
drop since 1932, Miami Basel teems with events, parties, luxury
brands and celebrities like Sean John Combs.  Dior, Fendi, Ruinart Champagne and Ferrari will woo high-
net-worth clients by showing off their collaborations with
artists who’ve created videos, bikinis and at least one 8-foot-
tall stainless-steel skull dotted with 345,798 Swarovski
crystals -- and it’s not by  Damien Hirst . Michael Benisty
collaborated with Swarovski on the piece, called  “Die to Live.”   Flights, Finance  NetJets Inc., a subsidiary of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and a Miami Basel sponsor since the fair’s
inception, expects to book more than 150 fair-related flights
into the Miami area, a decline from pre-recession’s 222 flights
in 2007. The company didn’t release the figures last year.  “The art market is disconnected from the financial
markets,” said Amir Shariat, London-based art collector and
chief executive of Auctor Capital Partners Ltd. “These days,
people feel safer owning a great artwork than having money in
the bank.”  The main fair will present $2 billion to $2.5 billion in
insured art, according to Christiane Fischer, president and
chief executive officer of AXA Art’s North American operations.  Prices at the main fair include a $2.5 million Franz Kline
abstract painting and Giacometti’s $1.5 million “Standing
Woman” sculpture from  Richard Gray Gallery .  New York ’s  Untitled 
gallery has paintings and assemblages by two Los Angeles
artists, Matthew Chambers and Brendan Fowler, with prices
ranging from $10,000 to $25,000.  Warhol Cats  L&M Arts  devotes its booth to Andy Warhol drawings from the
1950s to the 1980s. Featuring cats, shoes, female heads and
electric chairs, they will be priced between $25,000 and
$400,000.  David Zwirner  offers Dan Flavin’s light sculpture “Untitled
(to Piet Mondrian)” (1985), made with red, yellow and blue
fluorescent light, for $400,000.  Paul McCarthy’s $950,000 pink silicone dwarf will be among
the priciest pieces at the booth of Hauser & Wirth gallery. More
affordable is a smeared 8-by-6-foot rectangle made of mirrored
tiles by the gallery’s new addition, 34-year-old Rashid Johnson,
for $75,000.  “To me the key is to see the art,” said Shariat. “The
art at the fair, the art at different collections, the museum
shows. If I see something fantastic, I’ll buy it.”  Art Basel  Miami Beach  runs Dec. 1-4 at Miami Beach
Convention Center;  http://www.artbaselmiamibeach.com .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 