-- 
TMX Falls After Competition Bureau Cites ‘Serious Concerns’

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-11-30T21:45:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/tmx-told-canadian-antitrust-regulator-has-serious-concerns-over-maple-deal.html
TMX Group Inc. (X)  fell the most in
almost three weeks after Canada’s competition watchdog said it
has “serious concerns” about the proposed C$3.73 billion
($3.66 billion) takeover of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner.  TMX fell 0.7 percent to C$44.43 at 4:29 p.m. Toronto time,
the biggest drop since Nov. 10. The shares slumped 8.3 percent
earlier, the most intraday since Aug. 8. The offer from Maple
Group Acquisition Corp., a 13-company group including banks and
pension funds, values the exchange owner at C$50 a share.  The exchange operator endorsed Maple’s offer, which was
made initially without TMX’s support, after failing to win
shareholder approval for its deal with London Stock Exchange
Group Plc. The agreement helped drive TMX shares up 21 percent
this year through yesterday, the third-biggest advance among the
25 companies in the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index.  “This is a real problem,”  Edward Ditmire , an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in  New York , said in a telephone interview
today. “There are serious concerns that have to be addressed
and debated, and maybe even some remedies proposed.”  The offer needs approval from provincial regulators and the
competition commissioner, who hasn’t made a final decision. The
Competition Bureau’s concerns were “primarily in connection
with equities trading and clearing settlement,” Maple said
yesterday in a statement. Maple and TMX said they will work with
the bureau to address the concerns, including identifying
possible “remedial measures” as long as they don’t result in a
“material detriment” to the agreement.  ‘Material Detriment’  “The catch here is that ‘material detriment’ as defined in
the support agreement is defined very broadly and leaves the
door wide open for Maple Group to walk away from the
transaction,” Jeff Fenwick, an analyst with Cormark Securities
Inc. in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients.  Maple wants to buy TMX and combine it with the bank-owned
Alpha Group, a stock trading platform that competes with the
Toronto Stock Exchange, as well as Canadian Depository for
Securities Ltd., which is a securities clearinghouse. Alpha
handled 20 percent of the nation’s equities trading in October,
compared with 65 percent on TMX’s three markets.  The Competition Bureau’s concerns on equities trading and
clearing threaten Maple’s proposal because its plan is
contingent on acquiring CDS and Alpha, Macquarie’s Ditmire said.  TD Bank, Manulife  Maple, whose members include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan  and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , said the
Competition Bureau’s final response “may be affected by further
factual information.” The group must meet certain conditions to
extend the deal’s expiration date to April 30 unless it gets
regulatory approvals by Jan. 31, Maple said.  “My sense is that it’s going to go through,”  Thomas Caldwell , Toronto-based chief executive officer of Caldwell
Securities Ltd., which oversees about $1 billion including TMX
shares, said in a telephone interview. “If they fight it hard,
they might still get this.”  Maple has sought a takeover of the Canadian exchange owner
since May 13, when it made an unsolicited offer that challenged
a friendly combination between  London Stock Exchange Group (LSE)  and
TMX. The LSE and TMX scrapped their cash-and-stock transaction
on June 30 after failing to get enough shareholder support.
Three weeks later, TMX agreed to negotiate with Maple and on
Oct. 30 TMX’s board agreed to support the proposal.  Public Hearings  Maple and TMX said they won’t comment further and will
attend a public hearing tomorrow convened by the Ontario
Securities Commission in Toronto.  Canadian brokers and investors told a regulatory hearing
last week in  Quebec  that Maple’s proposed takeover of TMX would
hinder competition in  capital markets . Firms including  Edward
Jones  said in written comments to the Quebec securities
regulator that integrating Alpha with TMX will limit competition
and turn CDS’s clearing and settlement service into a “for-
profit” business, which may drive up prices.  “The CDS thing is the stumbling block, and it will require
a commitment for open accessibility and also a flat structure in
costs,” Caldwell said. “To my mind, that’s going to be the
challenge.”  Melanie Aitken ,  Canada ’s antitrust regulator, is seen as a
“fearless” guardian of the country’s competition rules
following battles against Visa Inc. and Air Canada, suggesting
she may contest the proposed sale of TMX, Orestes Pasparakis, a
lawyer at Norton Rose OR LLP, said in July.  ‘Serious Concerns’  “The commissioner’s serious concerns are the result of a
thorough and efficient review of the proposed transactions,”
Alexa Keating, a Competition Bureau spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. “This matter remains a priority for the bureau.”  If the Maple proposal falls apart, TMX’s board may have to
consider alternatives to be competitive as exchanges seek to
merge worldwide, Janet Ecker, president of Toronto Financial
Services Alliance, said in an interview. NYSE Euronext and
Deutsche Boerse AG have agreed to merge in a deal creating the
world’s largest exchange operator. Tokyo Stock Exchange Group
Inc. is trying to purchase Osaka Securities Exchange Co.  “It’s a strong exchange doing really, really well in its
space, but they recognize that strategic partnerships of some
kind or another -- no matter what they may be -- are an
important part of that global growth strategy,” Ecker said from
New York.  Canada’s banks may not be too troubled if the Maple
transaction doesn’t go through, Caldwell said.  “The banks already achieved their end: they blew off
 London  and the possibility of introducing new sources of capital
and financing for Canadian industry, and that was the major
victory,” Caldwell said. “If they have to wander home
grumbling that they didn’t get this thing, I don’t think that
will be too big a hurt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  