-- 
Yemen’s Saleh Still Acting Presidential in Threat to Gulf Peace Agreement

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-12-01T12:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/yemen-s-saleh-still-acting-presidential-in-threat-to-gulf-peace-agreement.html
Last week, Yemen’s Ali Abdullah Saleh
pardoned those who committed “stupidities” during pro-
democracy protests. He also sent telegrams to world leaders and
ordered the Interior Ministry to investigate an attack on
demonstrators. All that came after he agreed to give up power.  The uncanny resemblance between the Saleh who ran Yemen for
33 years, and the one who’s now on paper only an honorary ruler,
underscores how the peace accord brokered by Gulf countries may
fail to halt Yemen’s slide toward civil war. That risks
destabilizing Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil producer,
which has taken the lead in efforts to pacify its neighbor.  Left out of the accord signed in the Saudi capital  Riyadh 
last week were the activists who have occupied the streets of
Sana’a and other cities for 10 months to drive the president
out. They have been targeted by attacks even after the accord’s
signing, yet the activists refuse to retreat. They demand that
Saleh quit immediately, that he stand trial over the deaths of
hundreds of protesters this year, instead of being granted the
immunity offered by the accord, and that his relatives should be
sacked from key army posts.  It was a “big, serious mistake” to exclude the young
activists from the agreement, said Ibrahim Sharqieh, a Yemen
expert and deputy director of the  Brookings Doha Center . It adds
to the risk that the accord may collapse during the 90-day
period envisaged before elections, and “if that happens, the
situation in Yemen could spiral toward civil war,” he said.  Taiz Fighting  There were clashes overnight in the southern city of Taiz,
where 12 people were killed and more than 50 wounded, according
to Tarik al-Shujaa, head of a field clinic there, and the state-
run Saba news agency. Among the dead are five soldiers who were
killed in a battle with tribal forces near the city, Saba said.
Thousands of protesters braved the artillery fire to denounce
the military attack on Taiz and demand Saleh’s trial.  The accord brokered by Gulf Cooperation Council members and
signed on Nov. 23 involves Vice President Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi
taking over as interim leader, before Feb. 21 elections in which
Saleh’s party and the official opposition would both support
Hadi. Mohamed Salem Basindwah, chosen to lead a national unity
government, said Nov. 29 that his Cabinet would be formed within
days, and pledged to tackle issues including fuel shortages.  The signing ceremony in Riyadh was televised by
international broadcasters and attended by Saudi King Abdullah,
Gulf ministers and Western and Arab ambassadors.  ‘Blood of Martyrs’  Abdul-Karim al-Eryani, Saleh’s political adviser, said the
president deliberately sought such high-profile gathering and
told Jamal Benomar, special adviser on Yemen to the  United
Nations , that he wanted to sign “in the limelight and not in a
dark corner or a police station.”  The presence of those dignitaries offered “an added
guarantee for Saleh’s future,” Eryani, who was present at the
meeting with Benomar, said in a Nov. 25 interview in  Beirut .  The agreement wasn’t welcomed by protesters in Sana’a or
other opponents of Saleh’s rule. Thousands rallied in the
following days, and army units who had defected to join the
protesters continued to clash with security forces.  “The blood of martyrs that forced you out is the blood
that will take you to jail,” Fuad al-Himiri, a preacher at
Friday prayers near the protest camp in central Sana’a, told the
crowds on Nov. 25, addressing Saleh.  ‘Criminal Regime’  “Where are the features of the civil state? Where’s the
participation of the youths in power?” said Fuad Alsalahi, a
professor of sociology who lectures regularly at the protest
camp in Sana’a, criticizing the Gulf agreement. “We have reaped
a quarter of the rewards of the revolution,” he said in an
interview.  Shia Houthi rebels in the north, who have been fighting the
government since 2004 in a conflict that drew in Saudi troops,
said they rejected a settlement with Saleh’s “criminal regime”
that offered “immunity for the horrible crimes it has committed
against the people.”  At their camp in Sana’a yesterday, the protesters sat in
tents stretching along Change Square, discussing the accord as
they chewed qat leaves, a mild narcotic.  “We will not move from here until we achieve the objective
we set out for, which is the complete downfall of Saleh’s
system,” said Abdulnaser al-Fuhaidi.  Al-Qaeda Target  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf countries, with backing from
the U.S., have sought to resolve the Yemeni conflict to reduce
instability. Saudi Arabia shares a border with Yemen and has
been targeted in the past by Yemen-based militants from al-
Qaeda, as well as getting drawn in to the war with the Houthis.  The unrest has cost Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, more
than $8 billion, Industry and Trade Minister Hisham Sharaf said
Nov. 13. Attacks against the country’s pipeline network have
disrupted exports and caused nationwide shortages. Last month,
Yemen LNG, the country’s liquefied-natural-gas exporter, halted
production after an attack on a  gas pipeline .  Anti-Saleh protests began with small rallies in January
that swelled into massive demonstrations a month later. Saleh’s
crackdown has left almost 900 people dead, according to the
Yemen Students’ Union, while Saleh has put the death toll on the
government side at 1,150.  Last week’s agreement nominally adds Saleh to the list of
Arab leaders forced out by protests this year. His conduct of
government duties last week shows how little he has in common
with Zine El Abidine Ben Ali,  Hosni Mubarak  or  Muammar Qaddafi .  Fled, Jailed, Killed  The Tunisian president fled to Saudi Arabia and is being
tried in absentia on multiple counts of corruption. Mubarak is
in an Egyptian prison on trial for killing protesters, while the
Libyan leader was killed soon after capture.  Saleh kept maneuvering, frequently coming close to signing
the GCC accord and then backing away again, until he got a deal
with international consensus that protects him, his family and
close aides from prosecution, and provides the honorable exit he
has long demanded. “He proved to be the smartest president of
all of them, he managed to survive,” said Sharqieh.  While it’s not too late for Yemen to bring the young
activists and protesters into the agreement, improving its
chance of success, it’s also too early to be sure that Saleh is
sincere about ceding power, Sharqieh said.  “The coming 90 days will determine whether he is going to
be completely out or whether this will turn out to be another
one of Ali Abdullah Saleh’s moves,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama, Bahrain, at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  