-- 
Euro Gains for Second Day as Spain, France Auction Bonds; Aussie Weakens

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-12-01T16:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/yen-weakens-on-prospects-stock-gains-will-curb-demand-for-haven-currencies.html
The euro strengthened for a second
day against the dollar and yen after Spain sold its maximum
target of debt today and French yields dropped at an auction.  The 17-nation currency pared gains as stocks slipped. The
euro rose yesterday when six central banks led by the  Federal
Reserve  acted to lower the cost of borrowing dollars for banks.
The Dollar Index fell today as a report showed U.S.
manufacturing grew, damping demand for safer assets. Data
yesterday showed U.S. companies’ hiring rose and pending home
sales increased. Australia’s dollar fell after building
approvals declined and  consumer spending  slowed.  “It shows something for the euro that it was able to hold
on to its momentum from yesterday,” said John Doyle, a
strategist in Washington at the currency-trading firm Tempus
Consulting Inc. “We’ve had a short slew of positive data in the
U.S.”  The euro appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.3468 at 11:02 a.m.
in New York after surging 1 percent yesterday, the biggest gain
since Nov. 11. It gained earlier today as much as 0.6 percent.
The shared currency rose 0.3 percent to 104.65 yen and touched
105.06 yen, the strongest level since Nov. 15. The yen was
little changed at 77.72 per dollar.  South Korea’s won was the best performer among the dollar’s
16 most-traded counterparts. It gained 1.5 percent to 1,126.10
per dollar.  The  Standard & Poor’s Index (SPX)  was down 0.2 percent after
capping a three-day gain of 7.6 percent yesterday, the biggest
since March 2009.  Spanish, French Sales  Spain sold 3.75 billion euros of bonds, the central bank
said, meeting the maximum target. The average yield on the five-
year notes was 5.544 percent, compared with 4.848 percent when
similar-maturity securities were auctioned Nov. 3.  France  sold
1.57 billion euros of 10-year bonds at an average yield of 3.18
percent, down from 3.22 percent at the prior offering on Nov. 3.  The Fed said yesterday it had agreed with the central banks
of  Europe ,  Canada ,  Switzerland , the U.K. and  Japan  to reduce the
premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight by half a
percentage point to 50 basis points. The so-called dollar swap
lines will be extended by six months to Feb. 1, 2013.  The six central banks also agreed to create temporary
bilateral swap programs so that funding can be provided in any
of the currencies “should market conditions so warrant.” Those
swap lines were also authorized through Feb. 1, 2013.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, fell for a second
day, shrinking to 1.18 percentage points below the euro
interbank offer rate. It touched 1.63 percentage points before
the central banks’ announcement yesterday, the most expensive
level on an intraday basis since October 2008.  ‘Huge Strategic Reaction’  “The central bank move yesterday clearly had a huge
strategic reaction in risk and risk assets and those currencies
correlated with that,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, by phone from
 London . “We’re now in a scenario where we’re reassessing as to
where we go from here in terms of these longer-term structural
dynamics which, of course, these events from yesterday have done
nothing to ease.”  The  European Central Bank  holds its next  policy meeting  on
Dec. 8. European  heads of government  will meet the following day
in Brussels.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks
the U.S. currency against those of six major U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.2 percent to 78.274.  U.S. Manufacturing  The dollar remained lower versus most major peers after the
Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index , a gauge of U.S.
manufacturing, increased to 52.7 in November from 50.8 a month
earlier. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and
contraction in the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s gauge, and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News estimated the reading
would rise to 51.8.  U.S. employers added 125,000 workers last month after
hiring 80,000 in October, a separate survey showed before Labor
Department data due tomorrow.  “The U.S. data has been a little bit more solid
recently,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “We know there’s widespread
weakness in many parts of the world, and that’s definitely a
concern, but the one modest bright spot is the  U.S. economy  for
the time being.”  The euro gained even after a report showed Europe’s
manufacturing industry contracted in November as the region
edged toward recession and global demand weakened.  A manufacturing  gauge  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region dropped to 46.4 from 47.1
in October, London-based Markit Economics said. That’s in line
with an initial estimate published on Nov. 23. A reading below
50 indicates contraction.  Aussie Slides  Australia ’s dollar fell against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as signs the economy is slowing fueled speculation
the central bank will cut  interest rates .  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments fell 10.7 percent in October from the previous
month, when they dropped a revised 14.2 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said. Growth in  retail sales  slowed to 0.2 percent
from 0.4 percent, another report showed.  The Australian currency weakened 0.6 percent to $1.0218,
and fell 0.5 percent to 79.412 yen.  Brazil ’s real rose for a fifth day, the longest winning
streak since October, after the central bank cut its benchmark
interest rate yesterday in an effort to prevent Europe’s
spreading debt crisis from stunting economic growth. The central
bank cut the interest rate by a half-percentage point to 11
percent. Policy makers said in a statement “moderate” rate
cuts can mitigate the effect of a worsening global economy  The real rose 0.8 percent to 1.7934 versus the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  