-- 
‘Pay for Delay’ Deals Over Generic Drugs Should Be Halted, FTC Tells Court

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-05-24T22:55:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/-pay-for-delay-generic-drug-agreements-should-be-halted-ftc-tells-court.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
urged an appeals court to outlaw certain settlements between
brand-drug manufacturers and generic-drug makers over the timing
of sales of copycat medicines, saying they harm competition and
hurt consumers.  The agency asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia
to reverse a lower court’s ruling that accords between Merck &
Co.’s Schering-Plough unit and generic manufacturers of K-Dur 20
high blood-pressure medicine didn’t violate antitrust laws.  The FTC is fighting agreements between companies about when
generic drugs can be marketed, known as “pay for delay” or
“reverse-payment” settlements, saying they cost consumers the
equivalent of about $3.5 billion a year in higher prices for
pharmaceuticals. These transactions compensate the generic-drug
maker in return for dropping challenges to a patent and
establish a date when the non-branded version of the drug can be
sold, the agency said.  The FTC is pressing the courts and Congress to limit the
settlements. Brand- and generic-drug makers say the deals may
bring lower-cost copies of medicines to the market sooner than
they would otherwise.  The commission filed a court brief May 18 siding with
retailers such as CVS Pharmacy Inc., Rite Aid Corp., Safeway
Inc. and Walgreen Co. that have challenged the legality of
patent settlements between Schering-Plough Corp. and two generic
drugmakers for K-Dur 20, a potassium supplement. The U.S.
Justice Department also filed a brief the same day seeking to
overturn the lower court’s ruling based on antitrust laws.  Consumer Spending   Generic drugs now account for 78 percent of the
$307.4 billion U.S. pharmaceuticals market, according to the IMS
Institute for Healthcare Informatics. Consumer spending on
generic drugs is growing, while spending on branded drugs is
declining as patents expire and patients choose lower-cost
options, IMS said on its website.  A March 2010 ruling by U.S. District Judge Joseph Greenaway
in  New Jersey  would allow name-brand companies to pay generic
rivals to stay out of the market until the patents for the
medication expire. These deals run counter to basic antitrust
principles as well as the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984, which
Congress passed to foster competition from generic drug firms,
the FTC said today in a statement.  “The vast majority of the benefit of generic entry goes
not to the generic sellers, but to the public, in the form of
lower prices,” the FTC wrote in its brief.  Deals Called ‘Outrageous’  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz called the deals “outrageous”
and said they harm consumers in a May 3 interview with Bloomberg
News. Deals that delayed the introduction of cheaper generic
medicines rose 63 percent last year, he said in the interview.  The number of deals increased to 31 from 19 in 2009, the
FTC said. The agency said there were no such settlements in
2004. The cases involved 22 products and $9.3 billion in sales.
The FTC tracks the drug patent settlements, which companies are
required to report to the agency.  “We continue to assert that patent settlements are a vital
aspect of a patent owner’s ability to protect intellectual
property,” Diana Bieri, executive vice president and general
counsel of the Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturers of America,
a Washington-based trade group, said in an e-mailed statement.
“A patent owner has the right to defend a valid patent, and
settlements are a tool that can allow this to happen without the
burden of engaging in a costly, extensive legal battle.”  Bieri said in the statement today she hasn’t reviewed the
FTC filing.  ‘Never Prevented Competition’  The settlements don’t prevent competition beyond a patent’s
life, David Belian, a spokesman for the Generic Pharmaceutical
Association, a Washington-based trade group, told Bloomberg
News.  “Patent settlements have never prevented competition
beyond the patent expiry, and generally have resulted in making
lower-cost generics available months and even years before
patents have expired,” Belian said today.  The agency sued Schering-Plough over the patent settlements
in 2001. The  Supreme Court  in 2006 refused to give the agency
more power to crack down on the practice when it left intact a
decision by a federal appeals court that overturned FTC
sanctions against Schering-Plough in 2005. Merck bought
Schering-Plough in November, 2009.  U.S. courts, including federal appeals panels in  New York ,
Atlanta and  Washington , have upheld such agreements as long as
they don’t delay the entry beyond the expiration terms of
patents held by the brand companies.  Efforts in Congress  Past efforts to persuade Congress to pass a law making the
settlements illegal have failed. Senators  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin
Democrat, and  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, have
introduced a measure that would bar the settlements. It has run
into opposition from lawmakers who say the deals actually help
consumers.  The FTC is an independent agency with authority over
antitrust and consumer-protection matters that has three
Democratic and two Republican commissioners. The FTC doesn’t
answer to the White House or the  Justice Department  and the
agency has the power to litigate its own cases.  The case is In Re: K-Dur Antitrust, 10-02077, 10-02078 and
10-02079, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  