-- 
Highland Capital, H&R Block, JPMorgan, BofA in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-24T11:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/h-r-block-abbott-labs-jpmorgan-bank-of-america-lehman-in-court-news.html
Highland Capital Management LP, the
debt manager with about $22 billion in assets under management,
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were sued by a Houston pension plan
over claims that willful looting led to the demise of the
Highland Crusader Fund.  Highland co-founders James Dondero and Mark Okada caused
the Crusader Fund to engage in “dozens of self-interested
transactions” with Highland affiliates designed to benefit the
firm at the fund’s expense, the Houston Municipal Employees
Pension System said in the complaint. The pension plan, which
invested $15 million in the fund, is seeking unspecified losses
caused by the alleged wrongdoing.  The Crusader Fund “was harmed by virtue of being stuck
with poor quality assets that it would not have had if the
partnership had been managed in the best interests of the
partnership and its limited partners,” lawyers for the pension
plan said in the complaint filed in Delaware Chancery Court.  Highland, founded by Dondero and Okada in Dallas in 1993,
announced plans in October 2008 to shutter its flagship Crusader
Fund and the Highland Credit Strategies Fund over a three-year
period after suffering losses on high-yield, high-risk loans and
other types of debt. Since then, the firm and two JPMorgan units
that administered the funds have been sued over claims of
fraudulently misleading investors about the health of the funds
and failing to provide accurate monthly statements.  “We are extremely disappointed by the action filed today
by a single law firm in the Delaware Court, which is an attempt
to derail the continued hard work of over 100 investors,”  Armel
Leslie , a Highland Capital spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “As highlighted by the recently announced agreement
among investors in the Highland Credit Strategies hedge fund, we
are confident that an equitable solution that benefits all
Crusader investors will be reached.  Highland announced in April that it had won approval from a
court in Bermuda to distribute assets of the Highland Credit
Strategies fund.  Highland froze limited partner withdrawals from the funds
in 2008 even while it managed to reduce its own investment in
the Crusader Fund from $395 million to $16 million, according to
the pension plan’s complaint.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, had no
immediate comment on the complaint.  The case is Houston Municipal Employees Pension System v.
Highland Crusader Fund GP, CA6510, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For more, click here.  H&R Block Sued by U.S. to Stop Purchase of TaxAct Maker  The U.S. Justice Department sued  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  to stop its
proposed purchase of TaxAct, saying the companies’ merger would
stifle competition and raise prices in the growing market for
consumer tax-preparation software.  The department claimed in an antitrust complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in  Washington  that the deal would
eliminate a company that has competed aggressively with H&R
Block and ‘‘disrupted” the U.S. digital do-it-yourself tax-
preparation market through low pricing and product innovation.  H&R Block, the biggest U.S. tax preparation firm, agreed to
buy privately held 2SS Holdings Inc., the developer of TaxAct
digital tax preparation products, on Oct. 13 in a transaction
valued at $287.5 million.  “The documents we acquired from parties during the course
of our investigation will show that the principal purpose of the
transaction was to eliminate a competitor,”  Christine Varney ,
the head of the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division, said
during a conference call yesterday.  An end of head-to-head competition between TaxAct and H&R
Block would leave only two major providers of digital tax-
preparation services for consumers, the department said in a
statement.  William C. Cobb, H&R Block’s president and chief executive
officer, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that the
Justice Department’s decision would “stifle smart business
growth.”  The case is U.S. v. H&R Block, 1:11-cv-00948, U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Abbott Labs Sued on Claims Humira Caused Permanent Eye Damage  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  was sued by a  New York  Web designer who
claimed its top-selling drug Humira, which she took for Crohn’s
disease, permanently damaged her optic nerves.  The doctor who treated Jamie Bixby at the New York Eye and
Ear Infirmary in  Brooklyn  in 2008 said Bixby’s optic neuritis
was “related to her use of Humira,” according to the lawsuit,
which was filed May 20 in  Chicago  federal court, near the
drugmaker’s headquarters in Abbott Park, Illinois.  Bixby said she was told by a nurse on the company’s
telephone helpline that the eye pain she began experiencing
after a month of Humira treatments wasn’t related to the drug.
An eye doctor diagnosed Bixby with permanent damage to the
myelin sheath of her optic nerves a month later, after she
sought emergency treatment when vision in one eye became blurry
with black holes.  If Abbott had warned Bixby or her gastroenterologist “that
Humira could be the source of her eye pain, she would have
immediately discontinued taking the drug and would have
immediately obtained proper emergency medical treatment,” Bixby
said in the complaint.  “Humira has more than 12 years of clinical and safety data
and best-in-class efficacy,” Adelle Infante, an Abbott
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday. “The therapeutic
risks associated with Humira, including disorders of the nervous
systems, are well known and documented in the prescribing
label.”  The case is Bixby v. Abbott Laboratories, 1:11-cv-3414,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Legal Reviews  JPMorgan, UBS, Deutsche Bank Said to Be Added to Probe  JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are being
probed in an expanded investigation by New York Attorney General
 Eric Schneiderman  into mortgage securitization, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Four bond insurers also were subpoenaed:  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ) ,  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ,  Syncora Holdings Ltd. (SYCRF)  and Assured
Guaranty Ltd., according to the person, who couldn’t be
identified because the probe isn’t public.  Schneiderman is seeking information on claims paid out
during and after the economic crisis and any information or
documents related to litigation or settlements with the banks,
according to the person.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are already part of the probe, a person familiar with
the matter said earlier this month. Schneiderman, who took
office in January, is examining mortgage practices and the
packaging and sale of loans to investors, according to a person.  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for the New York attorney
general, declined to comment. Michael Fitzgerald, a spokesman
for Ambac, declined to comment. Torie von Alt, a spokeswoman for
UBS, and JPMorgan spokesman Tom Kelly declined to comment.
Deutsche Bank said a spokesperson wasn’t immediately available
to comment.  Syncora and Assured Guaranty didn’t immediately return
telephone calls or e-mails seeking comment.  Kevin Brown, a spokesman for MBIA, confirmed that the
company has received a subpoena and that “the information
sought in the subpoena relates to the allegations in our various
RMBS complaints.”  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Higher Court Will Decide Whether Picard Can Sue JPMorgan  A bankruptcy judge doesn’t have the authority to decide
whether the trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm has the
right to sue JPMorgan Chase & Co. for $6.4 billion, a higher
court said.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in New York said she
would determine whether trustee  Irving Picard  has standing to
sue the bank on behalf of the con man’s customers, as JPMorgan
requested. The question of Picard’s status requires
“significant interpretation” of federal non-bankruptcy law
that isn’t the province of a bankruptcy court, she said in a
written opinion yesterday explaining her May 4 decision to take
the case.  In its request, “JPMorgan has satisfied the standard for
mandatory withdrawal” of the case to a higher court, she said.  JPMorgan argued that Picard was hired to liquidate the
Madoff firm, and wasn’t empowered by law to mount a class-action
suit to recover money on behalf of Madoff customers. Picard,
claiming that he was suing as a single entity, not a class,
“misses the point,” the judge said.  “The issue is whether seeking damages on behalf of more
than 50 persons or prospective class members triggers” a law
that might bar Picard from bringing his suit, the judge said.  McMahon’s opinion is another challenge to Picard, who has
filed more than 1,000 suits claiming $100 billion for investors
in the Ponzi scheme.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  has asked U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  to dismiss a $9 billion lawsuit
against it and so-called feeder funds, saying Picard isn’t
allowed by law to bring such suits on behalf of Madoff
customers.  Taking the HSBC case temporarily, Rakoff agreed with the
U.K. bank that Picard’s lawsuit raised issues beyond the
jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court where Picard filed the
suit. He said he would decide whether Picard can bring common-
law claims such as unjust enrichment and can sue on behalf of
customers, since his job is to liquidate the Madoff firm.  Picard, whose firm was paid $146 million through March for
work since Madoff’s 2008 arrest, has fought to keep his cases in
bankruptcy court. JPMorgan “no doubt hopes to distance itself
both from the thousands of victims of that scheme and from other
alleged wrongdoers” by going to district court, Picard said in
a March filing.  The appeal is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 1:11-
cv-00913, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  U.S. Faulted on Failing to Catch Credit-Crunch ‘Bandits’  In November 2009, Attorney General  Eric Holder  vowed before
television cameras to prosecute those responsible for the market
collapse a year earlier, saying the U.S. would be “relentless”
in pursuing corporate criminals.  In the 18 months since, no senior Wall Street executive has
been criminally charged, and some lawmakers are questioning
whether the U.S. Justice Department has been aggressive enough
after declining to bring cases against officials at  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Countrywide Financial Corp.,
Bloomberg News’ Justin Blum reports.  Prosecutions of three categories of crime that could be
linked to the causes of the crisis -- corporate, securities and
bank fraud -- declined last fiscal year by 39 percent from 2003,
the period after the accounting scandals at Enron Corp. and
WorldCom Inc., Justice Department records show.  “You need a massive prosecutorial effort,” said Solomon
Wisenberg, a white-collar defense attorney at Barnes & Thornburg
LLP in Washington and a former federal prosecutor. “I don’t see
evidence that it’s happening. If we were talking baseball, it
would be at the AAA level.”  The Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation
dispute that, saying they are continuing to investigate
potential wrongdoing connected to the emergency, and some probes
didn’t find criminal behavior. They say they stepped up
mortgage-fraud prosecutions, which more than doubled in fiscal
2010 from 2009, the first full year for which there is data.  For more, click here.  Ensco, U.S. Seek, Get More Time to Reach Deep-Water Deal  Ensco Offshore Co. and the U.S. Justice Department sought
and received more time to negotiate an end to its lawsuit over
deep-water oil drilling permits.  U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans yesterday
gave the government an 11-day extension until June 20 to act on
six offshore drilling permit applications that Ensco claims were
unreasonably delayed by regulators. Ensco and the government
asked for the delay in a joint filing on May 20.  Both sides said an 11-day temporary delay of the judge’s
May 10 order would “prevent further unnecessary litigation.”
If they can’t reach a settlement by June 20, they may seek to
extend the stay to continue talks, according to the filing.  On May 10, Feldman, ruling on one of six issues in the
protracted suit, agreed with Ensco arguments that the London-
based company’s applications to the U.S. Interior Department had
been “unreasonably delayed” and he ordered the government to
act within 30 days on six deepwater drilling permit requests.  The Interior Department opposed Ensco’s suit, saying that a
delay in issuing new permits was needed to give the industry
time to boost safety and spill-response capabilities after the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the Louisiana coast exploded
in April 20, 2010. The blast and spill released 4.1 million
barrels of crude from  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well.  President Barack Obama temporarily halted all drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet in May 2010. Feldman threw out the
ban as overly broad and punitive to the Gulf Coast economy. The
government imposed a similar, second ban that was withdrawn in
October. In February, Feldman found the Obama administration in
contempt for continuing to stall the resumption of deep-water
drilling through what he called a de-facto ban.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Microsoft Appeal of 899 Million-Euro Fine May Limit EU Powers  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s challenge to an 899 million-euro ($1.26
billion) European Union penalty for failing to comply with an
antitrust ruling may lead to a curb on regulators’ powers.  The world’s largest software company will tell judges at an
appeal hearing today that in 2008 the European Commission failed
to give it sufficient guidance to avoid the fine.  Microsoft is the only company in more than 50 years of EU
competition policy to be penalized for failing to comply with an
order. The Brussels-based commission said it breached an earlier
ruling by overcharging for licenses that rivals needed to
connect products to Windows computers. As the first appeal of
such a decision, the judges at the  EU General Court  in
Luxembourg will clarify the scope of the commission’s power.  “It’s not about the money for Microsoft, it’s not about
the money for the commission or the other applicants,” said
Nicolas Petit, a competition law professor at the University of
Liege in Belgium. “At the heart of the case is whether a
regulator can find and penalize infringements without really
saying what the substance of the law is.”  The commission, the EU’s antitrust authority, imposed the
899 million-euro fine as a so-called periodic penalty payment on
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft for failing to comply with a
2004 antitrust order.  Under the initial decision, Microsoft was fined 497 million
euros and ordered to provide data to competitors to allow
servers to connect to computers using the Windows operating
system.  Microsoft was also required to limit to a “reasonable”
amount the royalties it charged for the technology. An EU court
in September 2007 rejected Microsoft’s appeal of that decision.  Today’s case is the last remnant of years of disputes with
the commission that resulted in fines totaling 1.68 billion
euros. Microsoft agreed to a settlement in 2009 in a bid to
close a long chapter in the company’s uneasy relationship with
the EU regulator.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission, declined
to comment.  The case is T-167/08, Microsoft v. European Commission.  For more, click here.  Ex-Galleon Trader Slaine Recorded Meetings With Goffer  David Slaine, a former Galleon Group LLC employee who
pleaded guilty to criminal charges, told jurors in the insider-
trading trial of Zvi Goffer that he wore a body wire to help
gather evidence for the government.  Slaine, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud in December 2009, testified yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan that he cooperated with federal agents for about 2 1/2
years to try to avoid prison. Prosecutors played recordings of
meetings in which Slaine, pretending to be considering a
position with Goffer’s firm Incremental Capital LLC, tried to
learn the source of Goffer’s tips.  Prosecutors claim Goffer’s source was Jason Goldfarb, a
Brooklyn, New York, lawyer who got tips from Brien Santarlas and
Arthur Cutillo, two former lawyers in the New York office of the
firm Ropes & Gray LLP. Santarlas, who has pleaded guilty and is
also cooperating with the government, completed his testimony
yesterday. Goldfarb and Cutillo have also pleaded guilty.  Goffer, 34, founded Incremental Capital after he was fired
from Galleon, his lawyer, William Barzee, said in his opening
statement to jurors May 18. Goffer is being tried with his
brother, Emanuel Goffer, 32, and Michael Kimelman, 40, both
former traders at Incremental.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Bank of America Appeals Judge’s $502 Million Lehman Ruling  Bank of America Corp., ordered by a judge to return $501.8
million in deposits to  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and pay
interest, appealed the ruling yesterday in a higher court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck signed the final judgment
last week after a November finding that Bank of America took
deposits unrelated to its loans to Lehman during the 2008
financial crisis and must return them. He set interest at 9
percent from November 2008 to December 2010.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, argued
that it had a right to take Lehman’s deposits to offset its
loans, based on “uncontradicted legal rules and written
contracts.” It filed a notice of appeal yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  “We look forward to a review on appeal by the U.S.
District Court,” Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for the bank,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  The case is one of several involving banks such as  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. that Peck is considering as New
York-based Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history more than two years ago, sues to recover money to pay
creditors. The defunct firm, which has said creditors stand to
get an average of 18.6 cents on the dollar, lost an $11 billion
lawsuit against Barclays.  Lehman’s lenders, including Bank of America, became
“increasingly uneasy” about the investment bank’s financial
health in the summer of 2008, Peck wrote in November. Later that
year, Bank of America took collateral posted by Lehman to cover
overdrafts, using it to offset amounts owed on unrelated
derivatives deals, according to the ruling.  The bank didn’t first ask Peck for relief from the
bankruptcy law provision that prevents such seizures, called the
automatic stay, Peck said.  Peck ruled that an earlier security agreement drawn up by
Bank of America related only to Lehman’s intraday overdrafts and
shouldn’t have been used to offset derivative transactions.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, and the lawsuit is Bank of America NA v. Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-01753, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Bank of America $410 Million Overdraft Fee Accord Approved  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender by assets,
won preliminary court approval for a $410 million settlement
with consumers who claimed the bank illegally charged excessive
overdraft fees.  U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King in Miami yesterday
tentatively approved the accord between about 1 million account
holders and the bank, according to minutes from a hearing posted
on the court’s website. A final approval hearing is set for
November. The judge will award plaintiff attorneys’ fees from
the $410 million fund, said one of the lead lawyers for the
consumers, Jeremy Alters.  Anne Pace, a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said the bank already has made changes to
its overdraft policies, including the elimination of overdraft
fees for debit card transactions and reduced fees for customers
who overdraw their accounts.  “We’re pleased to reach a fair resolution to this
matter,” she said.  Institutions including  Citigroup Inc. (C) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  were named in related lawsuits.
Yesterday’s settlement is only with Bank of America. Bank of
America didn’t admit any liability in the cases, Alters said.  The case is In Re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  General Dynamics, Boeing Backed by High Court in A-12 Case  The U.S.  Supreme Court  set aside a ruling that had put the
federal government on track to collect $3 billion from  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  in a 20-year-old fight over a
canceled Navy aircraft contract.  The justices unanimously said the government forfeited one
aspect of its claim against the companies by invoking the so-
called state secrets privilege to avoid disclosing sensitive
information in the litigation.  The ruling sent the dispute back to a lower court. The
justices also rejected a bid by General Dynamics to reinstate a
$1.2 billion award the companies won at an earlier stage in the
litigation.  “Neither side will be entirely happy with the resolution
we reach today,” Justice Antonin Scalia wrote for the court.  A federal appeals court had said the Navy was justified in
canceling the A-12 Avenger contract on grounds that the
companies failed to meet their obligations. The ruling put the
government in line to recover $1.35 billion in payments, plus
the interest that has accrued over two decades.  In setting aside that ruling, the Supreme Court said the
government’s invocation of the state secrets privilege prevented
the courts from resolving one part of the case.  The fight stems from one of the largest defense procurement
fiascos in U.S. history. The A-12, designed to penetrate heavily
defended locations, never made it into production in spite of
years of development.  The cases are General Dynamics v. United States, 09-1298,
and Boeing v. United States, 09-1302.  Ex-UBS Client Jackson Given One Year Probation in Tax Case  A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  client who pleaded guilty to failing to
tell U.S. authorities about an offshore account avoided prison
at the hands of a judge who will sentence her father today for a
similar offense.  Lucille Abrahamsen Jackson, 42, got one year of probation
yesterday in federal court in Newark, New Jersey, where her
father, Harry Abrahamsen, also pleaded guilty last year. In
pleading, Jackson said that her father set up a Swiss bank
account in her name in 1992 to evade U.S. taxes and that its
value reached $759,376 in 2003.  Jackson is one of more than two dozen former UBS clients
who pleaded guilty to tax crimes. Zurich-based UBS avoided U.S.
prosecution in February 2009 by paying $780 million, turning
over the names of U.S. account holders and saying it helped
Americans hide assets from the Internal Revenue Service.  “I commend the government for going after these offshore
tax cheats,” U.S. District Judge Dennis Cavanaugh said at the
hearing. “There’s no question that this is serious. However, in
the big scheme of things, this is definitely on the lesser side
of the types of cases that the government prosecutes.”  Jackson, of Hillsdale, New Jersey, has “already paid a
significant penalty, both financially and personally,” the
judge said. He denied a request by prosecutors to sentence her
to six months of home confinement.  Jackson admitted she filed a false tax return in 2005, and
she failed to file required Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts
Reports, or FBARs, from 2000 to 2007.  As a civil penalty, she had to pay 50 percent of the
highest annual balance of the account in those years. She paid
an FBAR penalty of $379,688. With back taxes and penalties, she
paid more than $400,000, said her lawyer, Robert Mintz.  “I would like to express how deeply remorseful I am,”
Jackson told Cavanaugh as she wept. Jackson, who runs a printing
company, said her actions affected her family and her employees.  The case is U.S. v. Jackson, 10-00797, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  For an offshore tax crackdown scorecard, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Lehman Paid Managers, Lawyers $27.1 Million in April  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., whose fees to advisers have
exceeded $1.26 billion during its bankruptcy, paid lawyers and
managers $27.1 million in April.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, based in New York, was paid
$293.8 million through April for acting as Lehman’s lead
bankruptcy law firm, including almost $7.9 million last month.  Restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, whose co-founder
Bryan Marsal runs the defunct investment bank, made $431.7
million in “interim management” fees for 31 1/2 months of
work, including $8.9 million last month, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Marsal, who bills Lehman hourly, aims to raise $61 billion
by selling the defunct c ompany’s assets to pay $322 billion in
claims, giving creditors 18.6 cents on the dollar, on average.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  Once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank, Lehman is
fighting for control of a $61 billion liquidation plan with a
group of bondholders including hedge fund Paulson & Co. and a
rival group of derivatives creditors that includes  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  