-- 
A Nuclear Disaster Agency for the World

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-24T23:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/a-nuclear-disaster-agency-for-the-world.html
The Fukushima nuclear plant disaster
keeps bringing new bulletins of unexpected trouble, including
the disclosure this week by Tokyo Electric Power Co. that three
reactors suffered fuel meltdowns in the early days of the
crisis, suggesting that the accident was far more severe than
previously acknowledged.  In the first few hours of the debacle, Japanese engineers
struggled alone. Eventually, U.S. scientists, robotics experts
from Western Europe and nuclear-cleanup veterans of the 1986
Chernobyl meltdown from Ukraine and  Russia  were able to help. At
the outset, though, there was no effective mechanism for rapidly
enlisting global know-how.  Given the ease with which radiation can spread beyond
containment points and across borders, it seems foolhardy for
the world to rely so heavily on a local -- or even a national --
response.  One entity could have rallied world expertise in a hurry:
the Vienna-based  International Atomic Energy Agency . The United
Nations body has a 53-year history of involvement in all things
nuclear: publishing studies, developing safety recommendations,
promoting nuclear power and preventing radioactive fuel from
being diverted to weapons production. With more than 2,000
staffers, the IAEA’s potential is vast.  What’s missing from the organization’s mission is a crisis
fighter’s mentality and a mandate to act. As the agency’s chief,
Yukiya Amano, conceded soon after the tsunami hit  Japan , “We
are not a nuclear safety watchdog.” On reactor-safety issues,
the IAEA’s approach has been to offer voluntary guidelines, but
not to interfere too aggressively in member states’ own
regulatory reviews.  Such passivity won’t suffice. Calls for the IAEA to assume
a much greater leadership role are now coming from a range of
experts, including  France ’s environment minister, Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, the former U.S. nuclear adviser Harold
Denton, and Viktor Murogov, a former deputy director of the
Russian nuclear program. All have been blunt. As Murogov put it,
the nuclear-power industry “won’t survive another accident like
this.”  In June, the IAEA will meet to evaluate the consequences of
Fukushima. Amano now acknowledges the need to move beyond
“business as usual.” At that meeting, the agency’s chief
should set a much bolder agenda, one that states that the IAEA
will now:  -- Help set mandatory standards for safe operation of the
world’s approximately 440 nuclear plants. Whether a reactor is
in  Armenia ,  Pakistan , France,  South Africa  or the U.S., its
safety plans should comply fully with current-day knowledge of
risks and safeguards.  -- Enforce those standards. The IAEA has won high marks for
nuclear-plant inspections related to weapon-making concerns,
even when it didn’t find signs of trouble (such as its Iraq
inspections in the Saddam Hussein era.) As an independent agency
free from industry pressures, it needs to bring that same zeal
to safety reviews.  -- Improve rapid-response plans so that the best crisis
experts can put their skills to work within hours of a major
failure of reactor safety, no matter where it occurs. Some of
the IAEA’s current approaches date to a flurry of concern
immediately after Chernobyl, when rapid sharing of information
via the Internet was barely a factor. There’s no excuse for
staying so far behind the times.  A new IAEA could become a powerful international presence,
overcoming the reputation for torpor and inefficiency that often
is associated with UN agencies. Progress may require changes in
its budget, funding mechanisms, sanctioning power and
leadership. Transformation should begin with a fresh IAEA
mandate from the UN, supported by the world’s leading nuclear-
energy nations. As long as radiation’s danger transcends
national boundaries, nuclear power’s top overseer needs to be
able to do so, too.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in  Washington  at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 