-- 
Aabar Seeks to Raise $1 Billion From Bonds Exchangeable Into Daimler Stock

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-05-24T15:54:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/aabar-seeks-to-raise-1-billion-from-bonds-exchangeable-into-daimler-stock.html
Aabar Investments PJSC, the Abu Dhabi
sovereign-wealth fund that’s  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s largest shareholder,
may reduce its stake in the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars by
issuing a bond exchangeable into the manufacturer’s shares.  Aabar raised 1.25 billion euros ($1.77 billion) in the
transaction, 500 million euros more than initially sought, the
Abu Dhabi government investment unit said today in a statement.
The issue could reduce Aabar’s holding to 7.2 percent from 9.1
percent when the bond matures in 2016.  “It sends the signal that there’s limited upside” for the
company, when a large shareholder starts to monetize its
holding, said  Daniel Schwarz , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Commerzbank AG. “I doubt that Aabar wants to completely exit
Daimler, but it can’t be ruled out.”  Aabar invested 1.95 billion euros in Daimler in March 2009,
providing an injection of fresh capital in the midst of the
global recession. The Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker has
since recovered and is targeting record deliveries of Mercedes
cars this year, fueled by demand from  China  and the U.S. for the
updated C-Class sedan and revamped SLK roadster.  Daimler, based in Stuttgart,  Germany , rose 51 cents, or
1.1 percent, to 47.90 euros in Frankfurt trading. The stock has
more than doubled since Aabar paid 20.27 euros per share for its
stake. The exchange price for the bond was set at 62.40 euros.  Daimler Commitment  The bond doesn’t change Daimler’s relationship with Aabar,
which had informed the automaker prior to announcing the
security-sale plan, Florian Martens, a Daimler spokesman, said
today by phone.  Aabar, which had previously considered raising its stake in
Daimler to 15 percent, said it may exchange as many as 20
million shares, or 1.9 percent of the automaker’s capital, when
the bond matures.  “Aabar’s commitment to its investment in Daimler remains
unchanged,” the fund said in the statement. Projects with
Daimler, including a joint 7.9 percent investment in electric-
car manufacturer  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and a 40 percent stake in
Mercedes’s Formula One racing team, “reflect Aabar’s strong
belief in Daimler.”  The Abu Dhabi investor can choose to settle the bonds in
cash and holds derivative contracts to participate in further
gains in Daimler stock. The derivative contracts could lead to
“significant” trading in Daimler shares as its counterparty
covers its position, the fund said, adding that the issue takes
advantage of “attractive” market conditions.  The five-year notes will pay a coupon of 4 percent and can
be handed over for stock in Daimler when the shares rise 30
percent, Aabar said. The proceeds will be used for “general
corporate purposes,” it said.  The deal is being managed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  