-- 
Abu Dhabi’s Masdar Has $5 Billion in Solar, Wind Power Projects

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-05-24T10:55:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/abu-dhabi-s-masdar-has-5-billion-in-solar-wind-power-projects.html
Masdar,  Abu Dhabi ’s state-owned
renewable energy company, is working on a portfolio of renewable
power generation projects worth about $5 billion, according to
Frank Wouters, the director of Masdar Power.  In  Spain , the company has three solar projects worth about
$1 billion, Wouters said at a media briefing in Abu Dhabi today.
A 20-megawatt plant will start producing power this month and
two 50-megawatt facilities will start this year, he said. Masdar
also has stakes in the 1-gigawatt London Array offshore windfarm
and a 6-megawatt offshore wind project in the Seychelles.  Abu Dhabi, which holds almost all the oil reserves in the
 United Arab Emirates , is investing in solar and wind power all
over the world to pioneer the use of renewable energy. The
emirate is building Masdar City, a business and residential
complex designed to minimize  carbon emissions , and serves as
headquarters for the International Renewable Energy Agency.  Masdar is a key component of Abu Dhabi’s aim to generate at
least 7 percent of the power it uses from renewable sources by
2020. Growth in power demand to more than 20,000 megawatts by
the end of the decade would require about 1,500 megawatts from
projects such as wind and solar plants, according to data from
Abu Dhabi’s utility.  The company’s domestic projects include the Shams 1
project, the largest concentrated solar plant in the Middle
East, which is 45 percent complete and will be ready next year,
according to a statement received by e-mail today. Masdar
expects to award a construction contract for the 100-megawatt
Noor 1 photovoltaic plant by the end of 2011 and may start
building a 30-megawatt wind farm on Sir Bani Yas island.  Concentrated solar plants reflect sunlight, usually with
mirrors, to heat liquids and create steam to turn turbines and
generate power. Photovoltaic plants use solar panels, which
convert sunlight directly to electricity. Masdar already
operates a 10-megawatt facility of this type in Abu Dhabi.  Shams 1 is a venture between Masdar,  Abengoa SA (ABG)  of Spain
and  France ’s  Total SA. (FP)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at  adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 