-- 
AIG Share Sale Raises $8.7 Billion

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-25T08:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/aig-share-offering-raises-8-7-billion-for-treasury-bailed-out-insurer.html
The U.S. Treasury Department and
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  raised $8.7 billion in a share
offering, bringing the insurer a step closer to independence
after its 2008 bailout.  The Treasury sold 200 million shares yesterday at $29 each,
compared with the closing price of $29.46 on the New York Stock
Exchange. The government, which retains a majority stake, needs
to sell shares at an average of about $28.73 to recover a $47.5
billion investment. AIG disposed of 100 million shares, raising
$2.9 billion, according to a statement from the company.  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, is seeking private
capital after a government rescue that swelled to $182.3
billion, including Federal Reserve support. The Treasury in 2010
sold the last of its holdings in  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and reduced its
ownership in  General Motors Co. (GM)  to a minority stake. New York-
based AIG is the only insurer that hasn’t repaid its bailout.  “Going out and standing on their own again is definitely
what they want to do, and they’re beginning that process,”
 Cliff Gallant , a KBW Inc. analyst who rates AIG shares
“underperform,” said in an interview. “The government can’t
sell 90 percent in one swoop.”  The sales reduce the government’s AIG stake to about 77
percent from 92 percent. The Treasury plans subsequent sales to
exit its AIG holding, a process that may take 18 months to two
years, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified because the discussions were private.  Scaled Back  The Treasury had been weighing a share sale with AIG for as
much as $20 billion, according to another person familiar with
the transaction. The plan was scaled back as the stock slid 39
percent this year through yesterday after AIG disclosed a $4.2
billion charge to fix a reserve shortfall and reported an 85
percent decline in first-quarter profit on earthquake claims.  AIG fell 0.8 percent to the equivalent of $29.16 as of
10:03 a.m. today in German trading.  AIG set the record straight yesterday on its pitch to
investors, telling regulators that the Government Accountability
Office and Office of the Special Inspector General for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program hadn’t reviewed its insurance
reserves. AIG called its statement a “clarification” of
information it provided to prospective stock buyers.  AIG, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , will
use $550 million of its proceeds from the sale to compensate
investors for stock declines dating to then-New York Attorney
General  Eliot Spitzer ’s 2004 accounting probe. A pension fund
for Ohio firefighters is among the beneficiaries. AIG said the
rest of the money will be used for general corporate purposes.  ‘Important Milestone’  The offering “represents an important milestone as we
continue to exit our stake in AIG and wind down TARP,” Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a statement. “The
decision to provide this assistance was exceptionally difficult,
but it’s clear today that it was essential to stopping a
financial panic.”  The insurer may begin to repurchase stock as soon as next
year, Benmosche, 66, said during the insurer’s annual meeting on
May 11. Repurchases won’t start until the U.S. is repaid for
bailing out AIG, Chairman  Steve Miller  said at the meeting.  A rebounding economy is allowing the Treasury to unwind
bailouts from 2008 and 2009 that were designed to prevent a
collapse of the banking system and protect jobs. The government
cut its stake in Detroit-based GM to 33 percent and raised $13.6
billion in a November share sale.  Chrysler Bailout  The Treasury sold its remaining Citigroup stock for $10.5
billion in December and made more than $12 billion on its
investment in the New York-based bank, including dividends. For
the government to break even on its GM investment, it would have
to sell remaining stock at about $53 a share, compared with
yesterday’s closing price of $30.83.  Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S. automaker operated by Fiat
SpA, repaid $5.9 billion in TARP funds, the Treasury said in its
statement yesterday. The U.S. has recovered 75 percent of its
investments through the bailout program, including proceeds from
Chrysler and the AIG share sale, according to the statement.  The share offering was the first for AIG since May 2008
when it raised funds to cushion losses from subprime mortgages.
Investors who bought stock then lost more than 90 percent of
their investment if they still hold the shares.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Deutsche Bank AG,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  led underwriters in yesterday’s
sale. The banks have the option to sell 45 million more shares
to meet investor demand, with proceeds going to the Treasury.  Underwriters earned $43.5 million, or 0.5 percent, in fees,
according to Bloomberg data. The average is 3 percent in U.S.
additional share offerings this year excluding the AIG share
sale, the data show.  ‘Maximize Value’  The government won’t sell additional shares until after a
120-day lockup, Tim Massad, the Treasury’s acting assistant
secretary for financial stability, said during a conference call
with reporters after yesterday’s announcement. There’s no
“specific timetable” for disposing of the rest of the shares,
he said.  “We’re going to sell in a way to maximize value to the
taxpayer,” said Massad. “With a company this large, that means
either public offerings or dribbling it out, eventually we might
be able to do that. We’re talking about a stake the value of
which is over $40 billion.”  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 by the Fed after
trading partners demanded payments on derivatives contracts.
After three revisions, the firm’s lifeline included a $60
billion Fed credit facility, a Treasury investment of as much as
$69.8 billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked
assets owned or backed by AIG. Benmosche repaid the Fed after
AIG struck deals to sell its largest non-U.S. life insurers.  Bernanke’s Anger  AIG was deemed by the Treasury a “systemically significant
failing institution” and was the only company to receive
bailouts through a facility created for such firms. AIG had
reported the biggest quarterly loss in U.S. corporate history in
2008 and posted almost $100 billion in net losses that year,
fueled by bets on subprime-mortgage securities.  The business was akin to a hedge fund “attached to a large
and stable insurance company,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in 2009. AIG’s bailout, a day after the September
2008 failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., made him “more
angry” than any other episode in the financial crisis, he told
lawmakers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  