-- 
AIG Issues ‘Clarification’ on Presentation Before Share Sale

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-05-24T20:06:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/aig-says-statements-to-potential-investors-need-clarification-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG)  set
the record straight on its pitch to prospective investors,
telling regulators on the day of its share sale that two
government watchdogs hadn’t reviewed its insurance reserves.  “The Office of the Special Inspector General for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program did not review either Chartis’
pricing or its reserves,” AIG said today in a regulatory filing
about its main property-casualty unit. The Government
Accountability Office also didn’t review reserves, AIG said.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is seeking to
assure  Wall Street  that the New York-based company has
sufficient reserves after it was forced to book a $4.2 billion
fourth-quarter charge to make up for a shortfall. The U.S.
Treasury Department and AIG, which was bailed out amid record
losses in 2008, plan to sell 300 million shares today to help
replace government funds with private capital.  “To be clear, the U.S. government isn’t validating the
reserves, nor really could they,” said Jonathan Hatcher, a
strategist who covers financial institutions at Jefferies Group
Inc. in  New York . “This is basically saying, ‘Look as an
investor, the U.S. government isn’t putting a stamp of approval
on every fine point of this company.’”  AIG dropped 52 cents to $29.46 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The insurer has plunged 39 percent
this year, the biggest decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Reserve Shortfalls  AIG reported shortfalls in reserves in each of the last two
years, and the company is spending more on claims and expenses
than it makes in premiums from policyholders. The company set
aside $2.3 billion to bolster reserves in 2009.  The statements that needed “clarification” were made in
AIG’s “retail roadshow presentation,” the company said in the
filing. Mark Herr, a spokesman for the company, declined to
comment.  The GAO had said in March 2009 that it found no evidence of
under-pricing by AIG after its 2008 bailout. Rivals including
 Chubb Corp. (CB)  and Liberty Mutual Holding Co. had said AIG charged
unsustainable rates to retain market share as it was propped up
by the government.  ‘Raises Concerns’  Fitch Ratings  said in February that AIG’s track record of
reserve additions “raises concerns about the company’s ability
to generate consistent run-rate underwriting results.” Rivals
in the market for U.S. property-casualty coverage including
Travelers Cos. and Chubb have reported gains in the last two
years as the insurers reduced reserves.  AIG was the worst underwriter among 25 property-casualty
insurers in 2010 and 2009, according to a study by A.M. Best.
AIG paid about $1.29 on claims and expenses for every dollar it
collected in premiums last year, according to A.M. Best. AIG’s
Chartis unit, which sells coverage to companies, spent $1.19 per
premium dollar in the first quarter.  AIG plans to sell 100 million shares, and Treasury expects
to sell 200 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The offering will reduce Treasury’s stake in the insurer to
about 77 percent from 92 percent, AIG said in a regulatory
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  