-- 
AirAsia Profit Falls on Fuel, Staff Costs as Airline Expands

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-05-24T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/airasia-profit-falls-on-fuel-staff-costs-as-airline-expands.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Southeast Asia’s
biggest discount airline, said first-quarter profit fell 23
percent due to higher fuel, maintenance and staffing costs as it
added flights amid a surge in global  oil prices .  Net income in the three months through March slid to 171.9
million ringgit ($56 million), or 6.2 sen a share, from 224.1
million ringgit, or 9.1 sen a share, a year earlier, the Sepang,
Malaysia-based carrier said in a statement late yesterday. Sales
rose 20 percent to 1.05 billion ringgit.  “We are very proud of the results despite high fuel
prices,” Chief Executive Officer Tony Fernandes said on a
conference call late yesterday. “We are confident that we can
still maintain growth this year compared with last year.”  AirAsia may face tougher quarters ahead as rival low-cost
carriers like Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. add capacity to
compete for budget travelers in Southeast Asia while airlines
around the world continue to grapple with surging oil costs.
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  on May 23 predicted that annual earnings
this fiscal year will be “similar” to last year’s level as
higher fuel bill hurts profit.  Its shares have risen 21 percent this year, outpacing the
0.9 percent gain in the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , which has fallen 24 percent
this year, may report a first-quarter loss today due to higher
fuel prices and reduced travel demand, Wong Chew Hann, an
analyst at Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. on May 23.  Switch Capacity  AirAsia’s fuel bill jumped 22 percent to 376.5 million
ringgit in the first quarter, while staff costs surged 31
percent to 118.5 million ringgit, the statement said.
Maintenance, overhaul and other related charges climbed 33
percent to 146.7 million ringgit during the period, it said.  The carrier plans to transfer some capacity on its long-
haul routes to short-haul destinations including  Singapore ,
Penang and Langkawi to help counter the impact of higher fuel
costs, Fernandes said. It may lift fuel surcharges if oil prices
stabilize at the current level, he added.  Airlines stand to earn almost 50 percent less this year
than in 2010 as rising oil prices limit the benefits of a
rebounding economy, the  International Air Transport Association 
predicted in March.  IATA  cut its forecast for industry profit to
$8.6 billion from the $9.1 billion projected earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  