-- 
Malaysian Subsidy Review May Signal Election Delay as Oil Climbs

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-05-24T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/malaysian-subsidy-review-may-signal-election-delay-as-oil-climbs.html
Faztu Sabtu, a pharmacy supervisor in
Kuala Lumpur, has about 100 ringgit ($33) left every month after
paying for rent, food, fuel, groceries and utilities. That may
soon dwindle.  Malaysia is due to decide this week whether it will trim
subsidies for gasoline, diesel and electricity, which could
result in higher prices.  “The government is making our lives more complicated,” said
Faztu, 20, whose salary of 1,090 ringgit a month would take him
three years to purchase a Proton Saga FL sedan. “I would be
quite upset” if fuel and power prices rise, he said.  Faztu’s plight shows the dilemma for Prime Minister Najib Razak, who needs to keep the  budget deficit  under control
without allowing an inflation spiral that would alienate voters.
A 41 percent jump in oil costs in the past year has increased
pressure to raise state-controlled prices, which may prompt
Najib to delay holding an election until next year, said
Manokaran Mottain, a senior economist at AmResearch Sdn. in
Kuala Lumpur.  “The government is in a difficult position,” said
Manokaran, who expects the government to raise the price of
RON95 gasoline by as much as 20 sen a liter after the subsidy
review. “If the government does not do anything now, it has no
other choice but the fiscal deficit will be widening.”  Analysts including Ibrahim Suffian, a political analyst at
the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research based near  Kuala Lumpur ,
predicted earlier this year that Najib could call for an
election as soon as this year.  Budget Target  Najib, whose government’s term ends in early 2013, said in
June he aims to slash the budget shortfall to 2.8 percent of
gross domestic product in 2015, from a 22-year high of 7 percent
in 2009. Part of the plan includes trimming subsidies, estimated
by the prime minister in 2010 at about 73 billion ringgit a year
for essential items ranging from fuel to flour.  The government forecast in October the 2011 deficit will
narrow to 5.4 percent of GDP from 5.6 percent last year. That
was before oil surged to above $100 a barrel this year. Last
week, Deputy Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said the subsidies
bill for this year is likely to rise to 20.6 billion ringgit
from 10.3 billion ringgit in 2010 amid rising crude prices.  The government will decide on whether to raise power prices
at its weekly cabinet meeting today, the Edge Financial Daily
reported earlier this week, citing Energy,  Green Technology  and
Water Minister Peter Chin. Malaysia will announce this week
whether it will continue with petrol, diesel and gas subsidies,
Domestic Trade, Cooperatives and Consumerism Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob was cited by the Bernama news agency as saying.  Inflation Accelerates  Inflation accelerated to a two-year high of 3.2 percent in
April after the government cut subsidies on fuel and sugar in
December, boosting retail prices. Earlier this month, the
government further cut state sugar subsidies by 20 sen per
kilogram, a move Ismail Sabri said will result in budget savings
of 116 million ringgit per year.  The central bank raised  interest rates  for the first time
since July this month.  Najib, 57, said in March he would consider slowing subsidy
cuts to shield consumers from rising prices, noting the
government needs to “satisfy the confidence of the global market
towards  Malaysia  and at the same time we have got some domestic
considerations.”  The prime minister’s approval rating fell to 69 percent in
December from 72 percent in May last year, after the government
raised fuel and sugar prices, according to a voters’  opinion
poll  released by the Merdeka Center.  Consumer Sentiment  The Consumer Sentiment Index moderated to 108.2 in the
first quarter from 117.2 in the fourth quarter of 2010, partly
due to accelerating inflation, the Malaysian Institute of
Economic Research said April 14.  “Consumers’ confidence, especially with respect to
inflation, has been declining,” said the Merdeka Center’s
Ibrahim, who added that any increase in gasoline prices would
probably mean Najib will refrain from calling for a vote this
year. “It is going to become a defining issue if election is
going to be held some time soon.”  While any move to reduce subsidies will hurt the
government’s popularity, responsible policy makers need to
ensure the country doesn’t follow European nations like Greece
and  Portugal , which needed bailouts to avoid defaulting on their
debt, Deputy Prime Minister Muhyiddin was cited by Bernama as
saying yesterday.  That message may not appease Malaysians such as Shamdeswary
Davendran, whose husband works in neighboring Singapore to boost
the family income.  Shamdeswary, a 36-year-old mother of two who teaches
psychology at a college, fed her son milk powder after he was
born three years ago. A more than 25 percent jump in infant milk
powder prices since then has prompted her to breastfeed her
eight-month-old baby girl now.  “I have to switch to cheaper alternatives,” Shamdeswary
said while shopping for groceries at Giant supermarket in Kuala
Lumpur on April 19. “We’re left with no choice because we just
can’t survive with the salaries that we are earning here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore  at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  