-- 
Malema’s Comments May Have Cost South Africa’s ANC Votes, Mantashe Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-24T12:51:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/malema-s-comments-may-have-cost-south-africa-s-anc-votes-mantashe-says.html
Julius Malema , president of the youth
league of South Africa’s ruling party, may have cost the party
votes in elections last week by making comments that some
perceived as racist, Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe said.  Malema has sought to paint the opposition  Democratic
Alliance  as a whites-only party, intent on protecting the
economic advantages whites enjoyed during apartheid.  He refers to DA leader  Helen Zille  as a “madam” and has
called DA spokeswoman Lindiwe Mazibuko her “tea girl,” terms
which the DA said were racist and sexist as they refer to a
master-servant relationship prevalent during white minority
rule. At the largest rally before the polls, Malema told about
90,000 supporters “the DA is for the whites and not for you.”  Malema’s remarks “do not help the cause” of the  African
National Congress , Mantashe told reporters in Johannesburg
today. “I imagine that there are those people who will be
switched off by those comments which appear racist.”  The ANC’s share of the vote fell in all but one of nine
provinces in the May 18 election, while its national share
declined to 62 percent from 65.9 percent in 2009. The DA, which
won 23.9 percent of the vote, up from 16.6 percent, benefited
from some ANC officials abandoning its non-racial, non-sexist
outlook, Zille said on May 20.  Oversensitive  While criticizing Malema, Mantashe also said some whites
were too thin-skinned.  “The reality is that some communities are oversensitive,”
Mantashe said. “We are not going to disown Malema.”  White, mixed-race and Indian people make up a fifth of
 South Africa ’s 50 million people. Under apartheid laws which
were introduced after 1948, different races were forced to live
in different areas, weren’t allowed to inter-marry and had a
different status and legal rights.  Black people who did not support the ANC should be driven
into the sea, Nceba Faku, the ANC’s chairman in Nelson Mandela
Bay municipality, told supporters, the South African Press
Association reported on May 20.  Malema did not immediately respond to a message left on his
mobile phone seeking comment. The ANC’s Eastern Cape office,
which governs its Nelson Mandela Bay branches, did not respond
to a message left on its phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 