-- 
Taliban Strike Raises Concerns Over Safety of Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r ,   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-05-25T04:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/taliban-strike-raises-concerns-over-safety-of-pakistan-s-nuclear-weapons.html
A Taliban raid on a Pakistani airbase
that destroyed some of the country’s newest surveillance planes
has heightened concern that the military is unable to guard its
own assets, including nuclear weapons.  The attack May 23 on the navy base in Karachi, the
country’s biggest city, marked the deepest strike into an armed
forces facility since militants stormed a building in the army’s
general headquarters in Rawalpindi in 2009. The military, which
oversees security for the nation’s  estimated  70 to 120 nuclear
warheads, has since 2008 sought to counter  International Atomic
Energy Agency  fears about the safety of the stockpile.  “People will continue to suspect that we can’t protect our
nuclear assets,” Muhammad Waseem, a political science professor
at the Lahore University of Management Sciences, said by phone.
The militant “organizations have ideological support within the
security establishment from lower- to mid-level officers because
we trained them and fought with them before 9/11.”  The attack also underscores the drawbacks of a military
posture geared toward a conflict with Pakistan’s nuclear-armed
neighbor India, rather than the domestic threats that have
exposed the army’s vulnerability in recent years. Economic
growth, sapped by terrorism, is forecast to slow to 2.5 percent
from a targeted 4.5 percent this financial year, a fraction of
what’s needed to lift Pakistani living standards.  Nuclear Arsenal  Pakistan  army spokesman Major General Athar Abbas declined
in a phone call yesterday to answer questions about whether the
16-hour siege in Karachi by six guerrillas armed with rocket
launchers and grenades brings into question the army’s ability
to protect the country’s military facilities.  Pakistan’s military manages its nuclear arms through its
Strategic Plans Division, a unit of about 10,000 members that is
kept largely independent of the rest of the army, according to
its director, retired Lieutenant General Khalid Kidwai, who gave
a rare briefing to journalists in 2008 after the IAEA expressed
fears over Pakistan’s control of its nuclear assets.  Pakistan is able to increase its nuclear arsenal by seven
to 14 warheads per year, according to a May 16 assessment by the
 Institute for Science and International Security , a Washington-
based research center. Pakistan’s addition of three plutonium
reactors at its army-controlled Khushab nuclear complex will in
coming years allow it to double its annual production of
warheads, the institute said.  Pakistan refuses to give details on the size of its nuclear
arsenal or where it is deployed.  Army Failure  “What’s so surprising for me is that how skillfully and
tactically these attacks are carried out and there seems nothing
out of their reach,” said Rashid Khan, a professor of
international relations at the University of Sargodha in central
Pakistan. “I don’t think they can take control of our nuclear
arsenals, but they can certainly try to stage a similar attack
on such installations that we have seen yesterday.”  A car bomb exploded in the northwestern provincial capital,
 Peshawar , this morning, demolishing part of a police
headquarters and killing at least three people, according to the
Edhi rescue service. The Taliban claimed responsibility for the
attack in a phone call,  Agence France-Presse  reported.  The Pakistan military’s failure on May 2 to detect the
entry of U.S. helicopter-borne commandos as they flew 150
kilometers (90 miles) into the country to kill al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden in the town of Abbottabad, 50 kilometers north
of Islamabad, drew criticism from opposition leaders. General
Ashfaq Pervez Kayani made only the second appearance by a
Pakistani army chief before a civilian government’s Parliament
to explain the military’s inability to expose bin Laden’s
hideout or track the American force that killed him in a town
close to the capital.  U.S. Planes  The Karachi attackers damaged or destroyed two U.S.-made P-
3C Orion surveillance planes in a strike that shows “Pakistani
forces are not trained to tackle internal security threats,”
Waseem said. “Their operational readiness is to counter
external threats,” notably from  India , he said. “Now what we
have is a threat coming from Taliban and al-Qaeda.”  After troops regained control of the airbase, Interior
Minister Rehman Malik told reporters that four militants had
been killed and two had possibly escaped. The attackers “were
20 to 22 years of age and wore Western clothes with suicide
jackets beneath them,” he said.  The Taliban said it sent 15 guerrillas to attack the base
to avenge the killing of bin Laden and protest the Pakistani
government’s relations with the U.S.  The PNS Mehran Base is 10 kilometers from Karachi’s Quaid-
e-Azam International Airport. It provides all the logistic and
administrative support to the aviation unit of the Pakistan navy,
according to the navy’s  website .  Army Offensives  None of the six American contractors who help maintain the
Orion aircraft at the base were injured during the attack,
Pentagon spokesman Dave Lapan said in  Washington . The Americans
were employed by Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
and SAIC Inc., based in McLean,  Virginia , he said.  Tensions between the U.S. and Pakistan have escalated with
American officials saying Pakistan’s intelligence agency
maintains ties to guerrillas fighting American-led forces in
 Afghanistan . The U.S. military says its war against the Taliban
is hindered by Pakistan’s failure to shut down militant havens.  Pakistan’s leaders have rejected accusations they aren’t
doing enough to defeat insurgents. The army’s offensives against
the local  Taliban movement  and allied guerrillas have triggered
retaliatory attacks that the government says have killed
thousands of Pakistani citizens and security personnel.  Academy Bombing  Twin bombings on May 13 at a Pakistani paramilitary police
academy killed 80 people in what the Pakistan Taliban said was
in part revenge for the killing of  bin Laden  and a precursor to
attacks against the U.S. In the Oct. 10, 2009, attack on the
army’s Rawalpindi headquarters, the Pakistani military freed 39
hostages after soldiers stormed a building and ended a 22-hour
siege by militants.  “We need to change our mindset and cut ties with all
jihadi networks,” Khan said. “These groups are now our enemy
No. 1.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi News at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  