-- 
McCaw’s Re-Signing Keeps ‘Most Influential’ Rugby Player in New Zealand

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-25T01:41:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/all-blacks-captain-richie-mccaw-re-signs-with-new-zealand-rugby-until-2015.html
All Blacks captain  Richie McCaw , the
openside flanker described by national team coach Graham Henry
as the world’s “most influential” rugby player, re-signed with
the  New Zealand  Rugby Union through 2015.  McCaw, 30, recommitted to his country and the Canterbury
Crusaders Super 15 team with a four-year contract that will
allow him to take a playing sabbatical or a complete break from
the sport if desired, the Wellington-based NZRU said.  “I’ve always said that as long as I am enjoying playing
footy in New Zealand then I will stay, and the fact is I still
am,” McCaw said in an e-mailed statement. “There are still
things I want to achieve as a player.”  McCaw, the only three-time winner of the International
Rugby Board’s Player of the Year award, follows All Blacks and
Crusaders fly-half  Dan Carter  in re-signing for another four
years while retaining the option of a playing stint with an
overseas club.  As captain and playmaker of the All Blacks, McCaw and
Carter are “a common denominator in much of the success,” over
the past eight years, NZRU Chief Executive Officer Steve Tew
said. Since Carter joined McCaw in the lineup in 2003, the team
has won 88 percent of the 51 Tests in which they both featured.  “That alone shows how invaluable they are to New Zealand
rugby so to have both players continuing with us for the next
four years is fantastic news,” Tew said in the statement.  Player Retention  The union has now re-signed 21 Test players as it seeks to
maintain its stocks beyond the Sept. 9-Oct. 23 Rugby World Cup
in New Zealand. Winger  Joe Rokocoko , the All Blacks’ joint-
second highest try-scorer in Tests, is among those leaving after
yesterday confirming that he’ll join French club Bayonne on a
two-year contract at the end of 2011.  McCaw said although his interest in an overseas playing
spell was minimal, another four years at the elite level in a
position that demands strength and mobility “is a long time.”  “If I get burnt out it gives me a chance to take a
break,” McCaw, who made his All Blacks debut as a 20-year-old
in 2001, said at a news conference in Christchurch.  McCaw holds the joint record of 94 All Blacks Test
appearances with  Mils Muliaina  and has captained his country a
record 57 times for 50 wins, an 87.7 percent success rate. At
provincial level, he led the Crusaders to Super Rugby titles in
2005, 2006 and 2008.  “Richie McCaw is the most influential player in world
rugby right now,” said All Blacks coach Henry. “His on-field
impact is immense, he’s an outstanding player who leads and
inspires others by his actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 