-- 
Alpha Bank of Greece Posts First-Quarter Profit on Cost Cuts

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-05-24T17:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/alpha-bank-of-greece-posts-first-quarter-profit-on-cost-cuts-1-.html
Alpha Bank SA,  Greece ’s third-biggest
bank, reported a first-quarter profit from a year-earlier loss
as it reduced costs.  Net income was 10.5 million euros ($14.8 million) compared
with a loss of 10.4 million euros a year earlier, according to
an e-mailed statement from the Athens-based lender. Analysts had
expected a 6.1 million-euro profit, according to the average of
12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We continued to focus on our key priorities; deleveraging
our balance sheet, strengthening our  capital ratios , reducing
our exposure to the ECB and further building up our loan loss
reserve ratios,” Chief Executive Officer Dimitris Mantzounis
said in the statement.  The bank’s Tier 1 capital, a measure of financial strength,
stood at 12 percent and Core Tier 1 at 9.3 percent. Alpha had
loan losses and provisions of 260.3 million euros in the
quarter, compared with 200 million euros in the first quarter of
last year. Operating expenses fell 4.5 percent in the period.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s wage and pension cuts
damped profit for the country’s lenders as the economy
contracted 4.4 percent last year and unemployment rose. Alpha
has focused on reducing costs and bolstering capital to ride out
the crisis in Greece, which required a 110 billion-euro bailout
by the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  in May.  Bank Shares  Greek and Cypriot bank shares have declined 25 percent so
far this year, compared with a decline of 2.2 percent for the 48
biggest European financial stocks, as concerns over their
holdings of Greek debt mount. Greece’s credit rating was cut
three levels by  Fitch Ratings  on May 20, which said that even a
voluntary extension of its bond maturities being studied by EU
policy makers would be considered a default.  Alpha shares, down 14 percent so far this year, fell 1.8
percent to 3.27 euros today.  Alpha Bank’s holdings of Greek  government bonds  amounted to
4.6 billion euros, including 900 million euros of government
preference shares, the company said in a  slide presentation . The
holdings are equivalent to 80 percent of its statutory equity,
the bank said. Of those Greek bonds, 3.1 billion euros haven’t
been marked to market to reflect a decline in value.  The bank’s reliance on funding from the  European Central
Bank  declined to 13.5 billion euros from 14.2 billion euros at
the end of the year. Greek banks have been reliant on the ECB
amid concern over their Greek government bond holdings. The bank
said its collateral available for borrowing from the ECB
declined to 15.8 billion euros by the end of March from 21
billion euros at the end of December.  Alpha’s deposit base stood at 37.6 billion euros at the end
of the quarter, down 9.3 percent compared with a year earlier,
as Greeks continued to dip into savings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  