-- 
Manchester United Wants to Sign Villa Forward Ashley Young: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-05-24T09:33:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/manchester-united-wants-to-sign-villa-forward-ashley-young-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Young for United?  Manchester United  is the favorite to sign Aston Villa’s 15
million-pound ($24 million) rated winger  Ashley Young , the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  United has made contact with Villa and been given a price
for Young, although it’s still waiting for permission to talk to
him, the Mirror said. His Villa teammate Darren Bent believes
the England player is on his way out of the club, the newspaper
added.  Giggs to Play  Manchester United coach Alex Ferguson will keep faith with
Ryan Giggs by selecting him in his team for the May 28 Champions
League final against Barcelona at Wembley, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  Giggs was named in Parliament yesterday as having obtained
a High Court injunction to prevent details of an extramarital
affair being made public.  Hiddink Hold-Up  Guus Hiddink’s agent told Chelsea his client can’t replace
 Carlo Ancelotti  until October because of his contract with
Turkey’s national team, the Sun reported.  Hiddink has to stay with Turkey until the end of Euro 2012
but will leave sooner if the team fails to qualify, the Sun
added.  Turkey is lining up former Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez
to replace Hiddink, according to the  Daily Express .  Benitez has been out of work since being fired by Inter
Milan in December. He’s already had talks with Turkey about the
job, the Express added.  Hammers Target Jones  Cardiff manager Dave Jones is West Ham’s No. 1 candidate to
replace the sacked  Avram Grant ,  the Mail  reported.  Jones’s future in Wales is in doubt after his team failed
to reach the Championship playoff final, the Mail added.  Friedel for Anfield?  Goalkeeper Brad Friedel is poised to leave  Aston Villa  and
return to Liverpool, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Liverpool has offered the 40-year-old a two-year deal, and
he’s ready to go back to his first Premier League club, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 