-- 
Nadal, Andy Murray, Sharapova Get Victories in First Round of French Open

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-05-24T18:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/andy-murray-starts-french-open-with-straight-set-win-over-france-s-prodon.html
Defending champion  Rafael Nadal  was
taken to five sets at Roland Garros for the first time today
before beating  John Isner  of the U.S. in the opening round of
the French Open. Kim Clijsters,  Andy Murray  and Maria Sharapova
also won.  Five-time champion Nadal, 24, lost two tiebreaks in Paris
before winning 6-4, 6-7 (2-7), 6-7 (2-7), 6-2, 6-4. Six-foot-
nine Isner is best known as the winner of the longest match in
tennis history, an 11-hour, 5-minute defeat of Nicolas Mahut at
Wimbledon last year. The 26-year-old is ranked 39th on the ATP
tour.  “He was a very, very tough opponent,” Nadal said
courtside. “His serve is almost unstoppable at times, so I just
want to congratulate him for this fantastic match.”  U.S. and Australian Open champion Clijsters, No. 4 seed
Murray and three-time Grand Slam champion  Maria Sharapova  won
their first-round matches in straight sets. Sweden’s  Robin Soderling , the fifth seed, defeated Ryan Harrison of the U.S.
in four sets.  Clijsters of Belgium beat Anastasiya Yakimova of Belarus
6-2, 6-3, Britain’s Murray defeated France’s Eric Proton 6-4,
6-1, 6-3, while Sharapova beat Croatia’s Mirjana Lucic 6-3, 6-0.
Soderling got past Harrison, a so-called lucky loser who played
when Benjamin Becker of  Germany  pulled out with an injury, 6-1,
6-7 (5-7), 6-3, 7-5.  Ivanovic Out  Lukasz Kubot of Poland came back from two sets down to
upset No. 11 seed Nicolas Almagro of Spain 3-6, 2-6, 7-6 (7-3),
7-6 (7-5), 6-4. No. 20 seed Ana Ivanovic of Serbia,  French Open 
champion in 2008, lost to Sweden’s Johanna Larsson 7-6 (7-3), 0-
6, 6-2.  Murray, the runner-up at the last two Australian Opens, is
seeking his first Grand Slam title. The 24-year-old’s best
performance at Roland Garros was reaching the quarterfinals in
2009. It was the first time he’d played Proton, 29, and he said
afterwards it was a “tough match.”  “I was annoyed with the way I was moving,” Murray told
reporters. “I was hitting the ball from the back of the court,
especially towards the end of the match, and served well, but
didn’t move particularly well.”  Ryan Sweeting of the U.S. lost to Andreas Haider-Maurer of
Austria, while 21st-seeded Alexandr Dolgopolov of the Ukraine
defeated Germany’s Rainer Schuettler, and Ivan Ljubicic of
 Croatia  beat  India ’s Somdev Devvarman.  Other Winners  Germany’s Florian Mayer, the No. 20 seed, beat Igor Kunitsyn of  Russia  in four sets. There were also wins for Robin
Haase of the Netherlands and Argentina’s Juan Ignacio Chela over
Daniel Gimeno-Traver of Spain and Tim Smyczek of the U.S.  No. 8 seed Juergen Melzer of Austria beat Germany’s Andreas Beck in three sets, while 24th-seed Sam Querrey of the U.S. took
four to get past Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany.  There were also victories for Frenchman Arnaud Clement and
Pablo Andujar of Spain.  Second-seeded Clijsters has won her past 20 straight Grand
Slam first-round matches in straight sets. The four-time major
champion has never won at  Roland Garros .  Sharapova, the seventh seed, is also going for the only
major she hasn’t won after her most recent success at the 2008
Australian Open. The 24-year-old hadn’t previously played Lucic,
29.  “It was a tough beginning because she started off serving
really big, and I didn’t get too many looks on second serves,”
Sharapova told reporters. “Once I got a good rhythm I felt like
I started playing better and better.”  Li Advances  Sixth-seeded Li Na, the first Chinese player to reach a
Grand Slam final at this year’s Australian Open, beat Barbora
Zahlavova-Strycova of the  Czech Republic , 6-3, 6-7 (6-8), 6-3.  Australia ’s Jarmila Gajdosova, seeded 24th, beat France’s
Virginie Razzano, and Spain’s Anabel Medina Garrigues defeated
Corinna Dentoni of Italy.  Japan ’s Ayumi Morita got past Kristina
Mladenovic, whose French compatriot Caroline Garcia defeated
Zuzana Ondraskova of the Czech Republic in straight sets. No. 21
seed Yanina Wickmayer of  Belgium  beat Monica Niculescu of
Romania. No. 4 seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus and Lucie Hradecka of the Czech Republic also advanced.  Russia’s Ekaterina Makarova overcame Italy’s Romina Oprandi,
and Spain’s Silvia Soler Espinosa defeated Russia’s Elena Vesnina. Vania King of the U.S. beat 22nd-seed Dominika
Cibulkova of Slovakia. France’s Caroline Garcia got past Zuzana
Ondraskova of the Czech Republic, and Anabel Medina Garrigues of
Spain beat Corinna Dentoni of Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  