-- 
Applied Materials Declines After Forecasts Miss Estimates

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-05-25T13:47:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/applied-materials-third-quarter-forecasts-miss-estimates-on-order-delays.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the world’s
largest producer of chipmaking equipment, declined after
forecasting third-quarter profit and sales that missed analysts’
estimates, raising concern that semiconductor makers are
trimming orders.  Profit excluding certain costs in the current period will
be 31 cents to 37 cents a share, and sales will drop 3 percent
to 10 percent from the prior quarter,  Santa Clara , California-
based Applied said in a statement yesterday. That would indicate
sales of about $2.57 billion to $2.77 billion. Analysts in a
Bloomberg survey on average projected profit of 38 cents and
revenue of $2.83 billion.  Applied Materials and rivals are facing delayed sales
because customers are still assessing whether disruptions to the
supply of electronic parts, created by the March earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan , will curb demand for semiconductors. That’s
leading chipmakers to hold off on or cancel equipment orders,
said Patrick Ho, an analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “There’s a lot of stuff that’s going on out there that
could stall the overall consumer-electronics marketplace,” he
said. Ho, based in  Dallas , recommends buying Applied’s shares
and owns some of the stock. “We’re seeing push-outs. We’re
seeing timing delays.”  Applied lost 8 cents to $13.63 at 9:46 a.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Emerging Markets, Japan  Net income in the second quarter, which ended May 1,
increased to $489 million, or 37 cents a share, from $264
million, or 20 cents, a year earlier, the company said. Sales
rose 25 percent to $2.86 billion. Analysts on average projected
earnings of 37 cents and sales of $2.76 billion.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting the cost of production, was 41.5 percent in the second
quarter. That compares with an average analyst estimate of 42.9
percent.  Rising emerging-market inflation, reduced  consumer
confidence , unrest in the Middle East, fuel prices and the
economic impact of Japan have caused some chipmakers to push out
orders, Applied Materials said in a separate e-mailed statement.  Industrywide, spending on equipment for plants will range
from $31 billion to $34 billion this year, the company said.
Spending will be little changed to “modestly higher” in the
second half of the year compared with the first half, Applied
said.  Smartphones, TVs  In March, the company said sales in fiscal 2011 would be
more than $11 billion and profit, before certain items, would be
more than $1.50 a share. On May 4, Applied announced the
acquisition of  Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates Inc. (VSEA) 
for $4.9 billion, seeking to get back into a part of the
equipment business where it had lost market share.  Even though weaker sales of smartphones, televisions and
tablet computers in the past month have caused some of Applied’s
customers to delay equipment orders, fundamentally strong demand
for these products will drive the industry in the long term,
Chief Financial Officer  George Davis  said in a telephone
interview.  “You’ve seen some real softness in these really strong
markets,” he said. While Applied isn’t backing off its fiscal
year forecast, to reach it, “we’d have to see the
semiconductor-equipment market pick up in the fourth quarter,”
Davis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 