-- 
Arcadia Petroleum, Parnon Energy Accused of Manipulating Prices by CFTC

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-05-24T22:52:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/arcadia-petroleum-parnon-energy-accused-of-manipulating-prices-by-cftc.html
Parnon Energy Inc., an oil logistics
company, and Arcadia Petroleum Ltd., a London-based oil trader,
were sued by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission over
claims they manipulated prices for oil and oil futures.  Parnon and Arcadia, affiliated companies, allegedly
manipulated the prices of West Texas Intermediate crude oil and
derivatives based on that oil from late 2007 through April 2008
They lost money on the sale of the crude oil and gained more
than $50 million on the derivatives, according to the complaint.  Two individuals also named in the suit, James Dyer and
Nicholas Wildgoose, directed derivatives trading for the
enterprise, the agency said in its complaint filed today in U.S.
court in  Manhattan . They amassed a stockpile of crude oil in
order to dominate supplies, then bought long and short positions
in oil futures to make gains on the “artificial” rise in
prices, according to the complaint.  “The scheme artificially increased the price of crude oil
physical, derivatives and other oil products in the  United
States  and elsewhere,” the commission said in the complaint.
The scheme ended when the traders learned the commission was
investigating them, according to the court filing.  Colin Hurley, a spokesman for Parnon in the U.K., wasn’t
immediately available for comment after normal business hours.
No one answered the phone at Arcadia in  London  after business
hours. Dyer and Wildgoose couldn’t be located.  Parnon Energy, based in Rancho  Santa Fe ,  California , and
London-based Arcadia Petroleum, are subsidiaries of Farahead
Holdings Inc., a closely held company based in Cyprus.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Parnon Energy Inc., 11-3543, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  