-- 
Arizona’s Brewer Prays Before Taking on Her Own Party Over Taxes

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-05-24T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/arizona-s-brewer-prays-before-taking-on-her-fellow-republicans-over-taxes.html
After assuming  Arizona ’s governorship
in January 2009, Jan Brewer came to a conclusion most
Republicans don’t want to reach: There was no way to fill a $3
billion deficit without raising taxes.  “I spent many a night sitting on my patio at 2 o’clock in
the morning praying,” Brewer, 66, said in an interview this
month in her office on the top floor of the Executive Tower in
Phoenix. “It was a decision I deliberated on for a long time.”  That decision almost cost Brewer her job. Even though the
1-cent sales tax increase was approved by 64 percent of
Arizonans in a May 2010 special  election , Republican challengers
attacked her on the issue in a primary race, which she
eventually won three months later.  Outside Arizona, Brewer is known mainly for sparking a
national outcry after she signed legislation requiring police
officers to check the immigration status of suspects, a move
that led to  boycotts  and a court challenge by the Obama
administration. She also slashed Medicaid funding for organ
transplants and signed legislation allowing any citizen over 21
to carry a concealed firearm without a permit.  “I think that there’s a liberal element out there that
finds me not acceptable,” she said. “They don’t like my stance
on a lot of issues because I am conservative.”  Changed Thinking  A closer look shows Brewer, a former state senator, isn’t
as conservative as her reputation suggests, said  Frederic Solop ,
chairman of the department of politics and international affairs
at  Northern Arizona University  in Flagstaff. In addition to the
tax increase, her vetoes of bills that would have allowed guns
on college campuses and required candidates to prove they are
U.S. citizens also reveal a pragmatic side, he said.  “Her political thinking changed from being in the
Legislature and focusing on her base to thinking about the state
as a whole,” Solop said in a telephone interview. “It seems as
if she has moderated.”  It’s not the hot-button politics that Brewer said she wants
to be remembered for. It’s the decisions she made that kept
Arizona solvent during the 18-month recession that began in
December 2007, the worst since the 1930s.  To do that, she slashed the state’s general-fund spending
on personnel by 19 percent and universities by 30 percent,
according to her budget director, John Arnold. She also borrowed
$2.1 billion, in part through the sale and leaseback of state
buildings, including the offices of the  Supreme Court  and the
Legislature.  Tough Decisions  Her economic plan, passed by the Legislature in February,
includes income- and property-tax cuts for businesses and the
creation of the joint public-private  Arizona Commerce Authority ,
which is charged with boosting employment though tax and other
incentives.  “We will be successful in getting the economy turned
around,” she said in the interview. “I hope at the end of four
years that will be my legacy. I took the reins at a difficult
time, the biggest crisis since the Depression, and we made tough
decisions.”  Brewer said her beliefs in limited government and self-
reliance were shaped by the death of her father from  lung
disease  when she was 11. Her mother, Edna Drinkwine, opened a
dress shop in suburban  Los Angeles  to support Brewer and her
older brother, Paul. The future governor worked in the shop
after school and on weekends, ironing clothes, waiting on
customers, washing windows and balancing the books.  “It was a lot of hard, long work,” Brewer said. “If
there was money left over, then you got paid, if there wasn’t,
you didn’t, as simple as that.”  Next in Line  She married Arizona native John Brewer, a chiropractor,
and moved to the Phoenix suburb of Glendale, where she served as
a state legislator and county supervisor before being elected
secretary of state in 2002. She was next in line for the top
spot when Governor Janet Napolitano, a Democrat, accepted
President  Barack Obama ’s offer to head the U.S. Department of
 Homeland Security  two years ago.  Brewer got an immediate bump in public approval after
criticizing Obama’s 2010 health-care overhaul and signing the
 immigration legislation  in April of last year, according to
Rasmussen Research.  Civil rights groups organized a boycott of Arizona
businesses, saying the law would lead to racial profiling. The
Los Angeles City Council and others banned trade with the state,
and the U.S. Justice Department sued Brewer to block the measure
on the  grounds  that immigration is under federal jurisdiction.
On May 9 Brewer  petitioned  the U.S. Supreme Court to lift a
lower-court ruling blocking parts of the law.  Unforeseen Reaction  Brewer said she knew the immigration would be
controversial, though “never did I believe it was going to be
as large as it is today. It became bigger than life.”  She said people not on the border with  Mexico  don’t
understand the costs that illegal immigration imposes on the
state, in terms of education, health care and public safety.  “We all know that police officers and  law enforcement  can
ask people for their identification,” Brewer said. “The
federal government doesn’t want to do the job, so we put it in
state law.”  Brewer garnered national attention again last year when she
cut some forms of organ transplants from coverage under
Medicaid, the joint federal-state program for low-income
patients. Arizona’s Medicaid spending rose 65 percent to $2.7
billion over the past four years, according to a presentation by
the governor.  ‘Human Outcry’  Transplants that were cut were those least likely to work,
Brewer said in the interview. After what she called a “human
outcry,” she reinstated the funding this year.  The governor has vetoed 29 bills from the Republican-
controlled  Legislature  this year, including ones that would have
limited spending to  population growth  plus the rate of inflation
and increased tuition tax credits for parents sending their kids
to private schools, according to her spokesman, Matthew Benson.  Brewer said she looked at the merits of each bill and
vetoed ones that were too expensive or difficult to enforce,
such as the so-called birther bill, which would have required
candidates to prove they were born in the U.S. before they could
get on Arizona’s ballot. Supporters of similar legislation
around the country question whether Obama was born in the U.S.,
even though a Hawaii birth certificate proves he was.  “It was a huge distraction,” she said.  The governor is writing a book called “Scorpions for
Breakfast: My Fight Against Special Interests, Liberal Media,
and Cynical Politicos to Secure America’s Borders,” which is
due to be released in November by  HarperCollins Publishers . She
acknowledges that it won’t please everyone.  Her policies have managed to win over some Arizona
Democrats and independents, including Gregory Melikian, 86, the
owner of the  Hotel San Carlos  in downtown Phoenix.  “I like her more and more, because she’s making better
decisions,” he said. “She’s on the right track.”  Jan Brewer at a glance:  Born: Sept. 26, 1944, Los Angeles (Age 66)  Party: Republican  Spouse: John  Children: Three sons, one of whom died of cancer in 2007.  Education: Radiologic technologist certification, Glendale
Community College, Glendale, Arizona.  Career: Arizona House of Representatives (1983 to 1987), Senate
(1987 to 1997), Maricopa County Board of Supervisors (1997 to
2003) and Secretary of State (2003 to 2009).  Hobby: Gardening  Favorite Music Group:  ABBA   To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  