-- 
Marks & Spencer’s Bolland Aims For Stores to Reflect Local Demographics

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-05-24T10:31:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/marks-spencer-s-bolland-aims-for-stores-to-reflect-local-demographics.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  said the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer plans to tailor stores to their local demographics as
he aims to build on a profit gain in his first year in charge.  The layout and merchandise range at each store will be
determined by considerations such as the affluence, age and
ethnicity of the surrounding population, the 51-year-old CEO
said today on a conference call. Local competition and regional
characteristics will also be taken into account, he said. Trials
of the format will begin in October.  “If we are in an area that is kid-rich and is highly
affluent then that store will get more space for the kidswear
department” as well as higher-priced Autograph and Indigo
clothing ranges, Bolland said. “We have to make sure we give
proportionately more to what the catchment area has.”  A “large chunk” of this year’s planned 300 million pounds
($484 million) of capital expenditure will go to stores, with
the rest for the online and international businesses, the CEO
said. Bolland has increased market share across both Marks &
Spencer’s main divisions by improving presentation of clothing
ranges and adding new food ranges since he joined last year.  “What we’re going to do is improve navigation with
different signage,” Bolland said today. Some customers have
told the executive that the positioning of clothing ranges is
“not too clear.”  ‘Lot Going On’  “We’re also going to give more life to the sub-brands and
make it easier for people to find what they like,” he said.  The retailer reported today that pretax profit climbed to
714.3 million pounds ($1.15 billion), excluding property gains,
in the year through March, beating the 711 million-pound average
estimate of 24 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is a lot going on at M&S,”  Simon Irwin , an analyst
at  Liberum Capital  in  London , said in a note. “With so many
changes to everything, people, systems, strategy, there is a
clear risk to good execution in the initial stages.” Irwin has
a “hold” recommendation on the shares.  Marks & Spencer fell as much as 2.3 percent in London
trading, and was down 7.6 pence at 389.4 pence at 10:46 a.m.  A squeeze on consumers’ disposable incomes and rising
prices for commodities mean the retailer is “cautious” about
prospects, Marks & Spencer said in a statement.  The retailer ruled out acquisitions in overseas markets, as
it seeks to increase selling space by 10 percent this year,
which includes a focus on India and  Shanghai .  Asked if Marks & Spencer would be interested in Iceland
Foods Ltd., the U.K. food retailer that Landsbanki Islands hf is
seeking to sell, Finance Director Alan Stewart said most people
would “struggle” to see the business as a good fit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  