-- 
Harry & David to Fight Regulator in Court Over Plan to Cancel Pension

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-24T19:37:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/harry-david-to-fight-regulator-in-court-over-plan-to-cancel-pension.html
Harry & David Holdings Inc., the
gift-box retailer that began selling fruit by mail in the 1930s,
is preparing to fight federal regulators in court over the
company’s proposal to cancel its underfunded  pension plan , a
lawyer said.  Brad Erens, an attorney for Harry & David, told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath today that the company must either
win court approval to cancel the plan or negotiate a settlement
with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. before it can exit
bankruptcy in August, as planned.  “It’s critical that we do move this along,” Erens told
Walrath in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Harry & David, based in Medford,  Oregon , filed for
bankruptcy in March, blaming competition from Internet
retailers, warehouse-style stores and the recession. To get out
of bankruptcy, the company agreed to give itself to senior
noteholders in exchange for canceling more than $200 million in
debt.  That agreement, which includes a $55 million equity
investment and $100 million in exit financing, requires Harry &
David to cancel the pension plan and exit bankruptcy by Oct. 1,
Erens said in court.  The pension plan is underfunded by about $23.6 million,
Harry & David said in a May 9 court filing. PBGC said the
company would owe $45 million should the plan be canceled. PBGC
would be forced to take over payments if Harry & David persuades
Walrath to allow the company to cancel the plan.  Walrath will hold a hearing on the pension in June or July,
depending on a schedule the two sides will try agree on in the
next few days.  The case is In re Harry & David Holdings, Inc., 11-10884,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 