-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen on Economic Growth and Interest-Rate Outlooks

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-05-24T08:38:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/asian-currencies-strengthen-on-economic-growth-and-interest-rate-outlooks.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by
 South Korea ’s won and Taiwan’s dollar, on speculation the
world’s fastest economic growth and rising  interest rates  will
attract funds.  Thailand’s economic growth accelerated in the first quarter
to the fastest pace in a year a report showed yesterday, while
Taiwan’s gross domestic product grew more than economists
estimated, according to data last week. China,  India , Malaysia,
South Korea, Thailand, Taiwan, Indonesia and the Philippines all
boosted borrowing costs this year to tame inflation, widening
the region’s yield advantage over developed economies.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index rose 0.2 percent
to 117.82 as of 4:36 p.m. in  Hong Kong , after falling 0.6
percent yesterday. The won gained 0.4 percent to 1,093.41 per
dollar, the Taiwan currency climbed 0.3 percent to NT$28.93 and
the Indonesian rupiah strengthened 0.2 percent to 8,573,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Malaysia ’s ringgit
appreciated 0.3 percent to 3.0510.  “Asia’s outperformance in economic growth will continue,
while interest rates are on an uptrend due to accelerating
inflation,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life
Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “When there is a risk-on mood
in the market, money will flow into the region.”  Overseas investors bought $4.5 billion more Indonesian,
Taiwanese and Thai equities than they sold this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Benchmark interest rates of 7.25
percent in India and 6.75 percent in Indonesia compare with a
maximum 0.25 percent in the U.S. and  Japan .  Rebounding Won  Emerging-market economies in Asia will expand 8.4 percent
in 2011, compared with 2.4 percent for developed countries,
according to International Monetary Fund forecasts in April.
First-quarter year-on-year economic growth was 3 percent in
 Thailand , 4.6 percent in Malaysia, 6.6 percent in Taiwan and 8.3
percent in Singapore, compared with 2.3 percent in the U.S., 2.5
percent in the euro zone and minus 1 percent in Japan.  The won rebounded as exporters took advantage of the
currency’s decline to a seven-week low to repatriate earnings.
Overseas shipments climbed 26.6 percent in April from a year
earlier to a record $49.77 billion, the Ministry of Knowledge
Economy said on May 1. The currency dropped by the most in six
months yesterday as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen
spurred investors to favor safe-haven assets.  “Exporters are selling a lot” of dollars, said Ko Yun Jin,
a currency dealer at Kookmin Bank in  Seoul . “We are not really
sure whether this selling will continue through the day. Europe
is the main factor affecting the Asian currencies,” including
the won, she said.  ‘Selling Overdone’  The ringgit gained on speculation its decline yesterday by
the most in a week was excessive as the central bank may still
raise interest rates to damp inflation. The currency rebounded
from a one-week low on optimism exporters will repatriate
overseas earnings.  “The selling was overdone yesterday because of risk
aversion,” said Yeo Chin Tiong, head of financial markets at
Alliance Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “The ringgit’s rise is
limited as developments in Europe will continue to weigh down
sentiment.”  Indonesia ’s rupiah rose on speculation the central bank is
tolerating gains to curb rising prices. The currency has
strengthened 4.7 percent this year and Bank Indonesia said May
12 that exchange-rate movements are helping policy makers
suppress inflation without derailing economic growth. Consumer-
price gains moderated for a third month in April, after
exceeding 7 percent in January for the first time since April
2009.  Controlling Inflation  “The rupiah is following the regional currencies after the
decline yesterday,” said Lindawati Susanto, head of treasury at
PT Bank Resona Perdania in Jakarta. “The central bank uses the
currency as a weapon to control inflation. Bank Indonesia is
comfortable with the level below 8,600 per dollar.”  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar advanced 0.2 percent to
S$1.2463 against its U.S. counterpart, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Philippine peso and the Indian rupee
added 0.1 percent to 43.395 and 45.200, respectively, while the
Thai baht was unchanged at 30.41.  China ’s yuan strengthened 0.12
percent to 6.4975.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  