-- 
Massey Managers Believed Coal Company Was Target of Obama ‘Conspiracy’

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-24T21:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/massey-directors-saw-government-conspiracy-against-company-filing-shows.html
Massey Energy Co. (MEE) ’s management
believed government officials, including President  Barack Obama ,
conspired to destroy the coal producer, according to unsealed
court records in a case related to a fatal mine accident.  Don Blankenship , Massey’s former chief executive officer,
and Chairman Bobby Ray Inman, a retired U.S. Navy admiral, made
clear in sworn testimony that they “firmly believed the company
was being targeted by the government,” lawyers for Massey
investors who are suing the company’s directors said in filings
unsealed today in state court in Delaware.  Inman, a former deputy director of the  Central Intelligence
Agency , “was unequivocal in his assertions” in pre-trial
depositions that mine regulators, union officials, plaintiffs
lawyers “and President Obama himself harbored a secret agenda
to destroy Massey, and that the large numbers of safety
violations Massey received were proof of the conspiracy,”
according to the lawyers.  The filings were made public today as part of a lawsuit
brought by the New Jersey Building Laborers Pension Fund seeking
to hold Massey directors liable for the Richmond, Virginia-based
company racking up more than $25 million in assessed violations
by the  U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration .  29 Killed  The suit accuses Massey’s board of allowing managers to
systematically disregard safety regulations, contributing to a
blast that killed 29 miners in April 2010 at the Upper Big
Branch mine in West Virginia.  Micah Ragland, a Massey spokesman, declined to comment
today on the unsealed files in the Delaware case.  Massey agreed in January to be acquired by  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR)  for $7.1 billion. Pension fund officials contend
Massey’s board agreed to sell the coal company at a fire-sale
price because of its poor safety record. They contend Massey
officials could have gotten at least another $1.5 billion for
the shares.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine is scheduled to
hear the investors’ request to block the deal at a May 26
hearing in Wilmington.  A state investigator concluded last week that Massey
officials were responsible for the Upper Big Branch explosion.
The company “operated its mines in a profoundly reckless
manner,” according to the report issued May 19 by J. Davit McAteer, a former federal mine administrator named by  West
Virginia ’s governor to investigate the blast.  Safety Procedures  McAteer found that Massey officials could have prevented
the disaster by following “basic, well-tested” safety
procedures. The report cited failures to maintain a proper
ventilation system, comply with federal and state rock-dust
standards and poor maintenance on safety equipment.  Hughie Stover, the Upper Big Branch mine’s security chief,
pleaded not guilty today to charges of obstruction of justice
and lying to the FBI and mine-safety regulators in connection
with the explosion at the facility. Stover is accused of
ordering an associate to destroy thousands of security documents
tied to the mine.  The mine, about 46 miles (76 kilometers) south of
Charleston, West Virginia, is run by Massey’s Performance Coal
Co. unit. The nonunion mine opened in October 1994.  Over the years, federal safety inspectors cited the
operation hundreds of times for violations including the buildup
of explosive methane and coal dust, according to filings by the
pension fund’s lawyers.  Blankenship, who worked with Massey for almost 30 years
before stepping down as chairman and CEO in December, battled
with mine-safety regulators over conditions at the company’s
facilities.  ‘Run Coal’  The pension fund’s lawyers cite a 2005 memo Blankenship
wrote to Massey mining managers telling them to disregard
instructions to improve safety in the mines or orders “to do
anything other than run coal.”  “This memo is necessary only because we seem not to
understand that coal pays the bills,” Blankenship wrote.  While studying the company in preparation for a bid, Alpha
officials found “the Massey culture is driven by a strong focus
on production, with the other facets of the operations such as
employee safety and regulatory compliance receiving minimal
consideration,” according to filings unsealed in the Delaware
case.  Ted Pile , a spokesman for Abingdon, Virginia-based Alpha,
didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment.  Investor Complaints  In the wake of the Upper Big Branch explosion, Massey’s
board formed a committee to examine whether investor complaints
about directors’ lack of oversight had merit.  In November, Massey’s directors concluded the company had
to be sold and  Blankenship  ousted after the committee found
longstanding operational problems and a corrosive relationship
with mine regulators, according to the unsealed papers.  The group told directors that “a change in top leadership
was required to rebuild the company’s reputation,” the pension
fund’s lawyers said in the filing.  Massey officials denied last week that directors forced
Blankenship to step down. The board’s independent directors
“did not make a recommendation to the board to remove Mr.
Blankenship or request his resignation,” officials said in a
May 19 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  ‘Clean Slate’  The sale to Alpha was motivated by directors’ desire to be
protected from liability for shareholder suits, the lawyers
added. The pension’s fund case was filed as a so-called
derivative suit, which would return any recovery to the company.
Individual shareholders wouldn’t receive any direct payments as
a result of the suit.  “The Massey board did not negotiate the merger from a
clean personal slate,” the pension fund’s lawyers said.  Massey fell 45 cents to $60.75 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Alpha dropped 39 cents to
$49.89.  The case is New Jersey Building Laborers Pension Fund v.
Blankenship, CA5430,  Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 