-- 
Maturity Wall Hitting Record as Spreads Reach 3-Year Low: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-05-25T06:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/maturity-wall-hitting-record-as-spreads-reach-3-year-low-australia-credit.html
The record A$31.1 billion ($32.6
billion) of bonds coming due next month is fattening investors’
wallets as demand for corporate debt drives relative yields to
the lowest levels in three years.  Federal and state governments will repay A$20.2 billion of
local currency debt, while A$10.9 billion of supranational,
financial and company notes will mature, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , whose credit ratings were cut one
rank to Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service last week, have a
combined A$5.2 billion to redeem.  Investors are signaling they are ready to soak up extra
supply as Australian  government bonds  returned 3.3 percent this
year, more than three times the global average, and the gap
between yields on corporate notes and sovereign debt fell 36
basis points to 161, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.
Tightening spreads are helping companies keep borrowing costs in
check after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia increased  interest
rates  to the highest in the developed world to contain inflation
amid the nation’s biggest resources boom in a century.  “People will have cash and they’re going to be looking for
a home for it,” said Mat McCrum, the investment director at
Melbourne-based Omega Global Investors Pty, which manages A$1
billion. “There’s definitely a bid for credit, as well as
enormous offshore demand for government paper.”  Bond offerings have increased 3 percent to A$54.9 billion
this year from the same period of 2010, Bloomberg data show, not
including the A$22.3 billion sold by the Australian government.
That compares with a 45-percent surge in sales in the U.S. and a
20-percent increase in the Asia-Pacific region.  ‘Starved’ Investors  Australian corporate bonds have returned 4.3 percent in
2011, beating the 3.8 percent gain for U.S. debentures and 2.8
percent for company debt globally, Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “Investors are starved for corporate paper and that has
pushed spreads tighter,” Mark Mitchell, a portfolio manager and
head of credit at Sydney-based Kapstream Capital, which manages
about A$3.9 billion. “We will have an increase in maturities
across our portfolio next month and look forward to new
issues.”  Bond offerings by Australian non-financial companies
represent about 6 percent of total sales this year, Bloomberg
data show.  Goldman Sachs Bonds  Kapstream bought bonds sold by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
earlier this month when the New York-based bank issued A$1.25
billion of 5 1/2-year fixed- and floating-rate notes, according
to Mitchell. The spread on the 7.75 percent securities narrowed
to 192 basis points more than swap rates on May 13 from 205 when
they were sold and was at 212 today,  Australia  & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. prices show.  Spreads on Australian bank bonds may shrink by as much as
10 basis points in the second half of the year as the nation’s
lenders sell an estimated A$25 billion to A$35 billion of debt,
Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts wrote in a May 23 report.  The yield on Commonwealth Bank’s A$1 billion of 6.5 percent
notes has fallen to 97 basis points more than swap rates from
105 at issue on Jan. 13, ANZ Bank prices show.  Moody’s cut the credit ratings of Australia’s four largest
banks one level on May 18, citing concern their reliance on
wholesale debt markets makes them vulnerable to swings in
investor confidence.  The spread to government debt on Australian dollar
financial bonds narrowed 38 basis points to 156 this year, and
reached 152 on May 11, the lowest since January 2008, a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index shows. Relative yields on Australian
dollar company bonds touched 157 the same day, also the lowest
since January 2008.  Mining Boom  Corporate bonds are generating positive returns for a ninth
consecutive quarter in Australia, advancing 1.4 percent since
March 31, Merrill Lynch indexes show, as the mining boom drives
economic growth. Global corporate debt has returned 2.3 percent
this quarter.  The RBA forecasts the economy will expand 4.25 percent this
year as Chinese and Indian demand for  iron ore  and coal spurs
investment. The central bank raised its benchmark interest rate
seven times between October 2009 and November 2010, bringing it
to 4.75 percent.  The rate increases and demand for commodities helped spur a
27 percent advance in the local currency against the U.S. dollar
over the past year to $1.0475 at 3:27 p.m. in Sydney today.  Australian government debt advanced faster this year than
Treasuries after Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  pledged to cut
borrowings. Yields on Australia’s benchmark 10-year bonds
dropped 29 basis points in 2011 to 5.26 percent today. The rate
on similar-maturity Treasuries declined to 3.1 percent from 3.29
percent.  Sovereign Debt  The government is planning to sell A$53 billion of debt to
fund its deficit in the next financial year. The  International
Monetary Fund  forecasts the nation’s sovereign debt burden will
shrink to 21.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2015 from
22.3 percent last year, taking it to the smallest among
developed nations after  Estonia ’s 5.2 percent.  Central banks looking to diversify away from the euro and
 U.S. dollar  are adding to demand for Australian federal and
state government bonds, Omega’s McCrum said. The Bank of
 Thailand  has bought more Australian dollar assets recently,
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said May 12.  The so-called Aussie dollar is gaining stature as a reserve
currency for foreign central banks, Robert Nicholl, head of the
 Australian Office of Financial Management , said at a conference
in  Singapore  yesterday.  The A$31.1 billion of Australian debt maturing in June
compares with A$7.1 billion due this month, Bloomberg data show.
Total monthly redemptions have averaged A$12.3 billion this
year, the data show.  “Whenever there’s a lot of maturities, we tend to have a
lot of issuance to take advantage of the fact that investors
have a bunch of cash that they need to invest again,” said
David Plank, Sydney-based head of research at Deutsche Bank AG.
“That demand generates supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 