-- 
Australian, New Zealand Dollars Strengthen as Commodities, Stocks Advance

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-05-24T06:17:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/australia-s-dollar-halts-slide-as-commodities-rebound-stocks-pare-losses.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars strengthened against most of their major counterparts as
a rally in commodities and stocks bolstered demand for higher-
yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie snapped two days of losses after the
head of the government’s debt management office said the local
dollar was gaining stature as a global reserve currency. New
Zealand’s dollar advanced after a central bank report showed
company executives raised their expectations for inflation.  “There is a little bit of recovery across risky assets,”
said Adarsh Sinha, head of strategy for Group of 10 foreign
exchange at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Hong Kong . “It’s
not surprising because we saw a pretty big move yesterday, and
the Aussie and kiwi are seeing a little bit of a relief rally.”  Australia ’s currency rose to $1.0538 as of 4:15 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0505 yesterday in  New York , when it tumbled 1.5
percent. The currency gained 0.1 percent to 86.21 yen. New
Zealand’s dollar climbed 0.6 percent to 79.47 U.S. cents, after
reaching 79.99 cents on May 20, the strongest since May 3. It
gained 0.3 percent to 65.02 yen.  The Australian dollar appreciated versus 14 of the 16 major
currencies as copper gained as much as 1 percent in  London  and
crude oil rose 0.6 percent in New York. Commodities make up a
majority of Australia’s exports.  ‘Fresh Longs’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended investors establish
“fresh longs” in oil, copper and zinc. A long position is a
bet an asset will advance.  Australia’s terms of trade, a measure of earnings from
exports, will be at historic highs this year and twice the
average of the preceding four decades, Robert Nicholl, chief
executive of the Australian Office of Financial Management, said
at a conference in  Singapore .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rallied 0.1 percent,
ending a three-day decline. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index also rose 0.1 percent.  The so-called kiwi climbed toward a three-week high versus
the dollar as business managers surveyed in a quarterly poll by
the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand predicted inflation will average
3 percent in two years.  Expectations rose from 2.64 percent in the previous survey
in February. Inflation will average 3.12 percent in one year’s
time, according to today’s survey.  Europe Concern  The two South Pacific currencies weakened earlier on
concern Europe’s debt crisis will deepen and global economic
growth is slowing.  “Developments in  Europe ’s debt issues are catching the
market’s attention again and that’s prompting investors to
adjust their positions,” said Yousuke Hosokawa, a senior
currency dealer at Chuo Mitsui Trust & Banking Co. in Tokyo.
“The market will continue to be unstable, so the bias for the
commodity currencies is to weaken against the  U.S. dollar  and
the yen.”  Industrial orders in the euro area slid 1.1 percent in
March from the previous month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before today’s report. Sales of new homes in the U.S.
were unchanged at a 300,000 annual pace in April, another survey
showed before the Commerce Department data today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at   myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 