-- 
U.K. Stocks Advance; Barclays Climbs as C&W Communications Shares Tumble

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-05-25T15:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/aveva-group-bae-systems-plc-shell-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks climbed, with the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rising for a second day, as gains at
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  outweighed losses at  Cable & Wireless
Communications Plc. (CWC)   Barclays advanced 2.3 percent, tracking a rally in bank
shares across western  Europe . Cable & Wireless Communications
sank 12 percent after saying that it is “cautious” on the
outlook for the Caribbean and that the company continues to face
“weak or declining economies across the region.”  The FTSE 100 rose 0.2 percent to 5,870.14 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London . Even so, the gauge has fallen 3.3 percent this
month amid a commodity slump and concern that Europe’s debt
crisis will derail the global economic recovery. The FTSE All-
Share Index added 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
increased 0.4 percent.  “There remains a fair degree of negative and concerned
sentiment in the markets regarding the European sovereign-debt
situation and what may be down the road for not just  Greece , but
also Spain, Portugal and  Italy ,” said Joshua Raymond, a market
strategist at City Index Ltd. in London.  The FTSE 100 has declined 0.5 percent this year, dragging
its valuation to 10.3 times the estimated earnings of its
companies. That’s near the cheapest since July last year.  Amec Plc, Next Plc and International Power Plc all traded
without the right to their latest dividend today.  Barclays, LLoyds  Barclays rose 2.3 percent to 271.8 pence.  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  climbed 2 percent to 50.7 pence.  Cable & Wireless Communications tumbled 12 percent to 42.4
pence, its largest drop in more than six months.  “We expect consensus expectations to come down nearer to
ours,”  Mark James , a London-based analyst at Liberum Capital
Ltd. wrote in a report today. Its dividend may “come under
scrutiny,” he wrote.  3I Group Plc (III) , the U.K.’s largest publicly listed private-
equity firm, increased 1.5 percent to 288.2 pence as Evolution
Securities Ltd. upgraded the shares to “buy” from “add.”  “The outlook for 2011-12 is much better given the dynamics
of the portfolio,” Bill Barnard and Michael Sanderson, London-
based analysts at Evolution wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  