-- 
Bankers Can’t Avoid Risk by Hiding It

-- B y   P a u l   W i l m o t t
-- 
2011-05-24T19:03:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/bankers-can-t-avoid-risk-by-hiding-it.html
One of the supposed silver linings of
our recent economic disaster was the idea that we finally
understood how hazardous our exotic financial instruments are
and that bankers were finding a better way to "manage"’ that
risk. But if at least one of the common practices in banking is
anything to go by, risk-management procedures in many cases
continue to hide the very dangers they are trying to measure.  This may result in banks taking bigger positions, and end
up taking more real risk than they should. And it gets worse.
The practice in question goes by the name of "calibration,"
which is best described using a non-financial example.  Springs are the basis for simple weighing machines. Attach
a weight to the end of a spring and it will stretch. Measure how
much the spring stretches. Repeat using a different weight. You
will find that the extension is proportional to the weight. (Up
to a certain point. If the weight is too great this relationship
breaks down, and the spring may not even return to its rest
state.)  This relationship is named Hooke’s Law for the English
scientist who described it in the 17th century,  Robert Hooke .
F=kx, where F is the force or weight, x is the extension of the
spring and k is some constant. To use this in practice, just
attach a known weight to the spring and measure its extension.
You know F, you know x, you can then infer the k. This is
calibration. Once you know k, you can weight anything else, take
the extension and multiply by k and hey presto!  Now let’s see how this idea is applied in finance.  Unknown Parameters  Your goal is to value some complex financial structured
product. You have a valuation model with lots of lovely
mathematics. But the model requires the input of parameters. You
may need volatility, probability of default and other numbers,
depending on the model and the instrument. A collateralized-debt
obligation, for example, would require the input of lots of
default parameters. Yet those parameters are for future
volatility, future  default risk  and so on. How can we possibly
know what these parameters are?  Typically, people seek guidance from simpler products, such
as options and credit-default swaps, that are widely traded in
the market. These simpler products also depend on the same
unknown parameters, but their value is known since they are
traded. With these simpler products, you work backwards, from
value in the market, to find the unknown parameters -- in much
the same way as you find the k for the spring. Once the
parameters have been found, you can then use them in valuing
other, non-traded, so-called exotic financial instruments.  So where’s the harm?  Model Failure  The beauty of Hooke’s model is that whatever weights are
used to calibrate the spring, you get the same k. The stability
of the parameter is a sign of a good model. This doesn’t happen
in finance. You calibrate your derivatives one day, and then
come back a week later to find your parameters have changed.
This indicates the model is wrong. If finance were a proper
science, then this simple and blatant failure of the model would
result in it being tossed out and require a trip back to the
drawing board.  In the context of the CDO, we might get information about
the probability of default of the individual companies making up
the instrument by looking at the credit-default swaps for those
companies. But how much real information can there be in those
CDS prices, especially since the company in question hasn’t yet,
by definition, gone bankrupt and therefore the statistical
sample size is zero.  Repeatable Results  You can see where I’m heading with this. Finance doesn’t
meet the first requirement of science: repeatable results. The
models aren’t capable of any great level of precision. In
finance, when models are calibrated, they always have to be
recalibrated a week later. But those parameters are supposed to
remain fixed for evermore. If they have to be changed, then the
model either was wrong before, is wrong now, or more likely
both.  I’m not saying that we’ll ever find a perfect finance
model, but we should be aware of the limitations -- that is to
say the model error -- of whatever model we do use. And by
calibrating we throw out all objective measure of model risk.
Risk has been very effectively hidden.  The only objective test of the accuracy of the model is how
well the theoretical value matches market prices for traded
instruments. And in a calibrated model it does that perfectly,
but only at that one instant in time. Next week, or even
tomorrow, or just an hour later, theory and practice will
inevitably diverge. But if you are forever recalibrating, you
never see this. Recalibration means that risk managers remain in
blissful ignorance of the errors in their model and hence the
risk. If anything ever gave a false sense of security, this is
it. All that risk management has done is to hide the risk,
making it harder to spot, to estimate and to hedge.  New Set of Teeth  I visited a regulator (who shall remain nameless) in
 Washington  recently. People say that regulators don’t have
enough bite, so I went there to offer a set of teeth. My goal
was to arm them with one simple, surefire way to frighten the
pants off any bank. My advice was to ask the banks one simple
question: "So, how stable are your calibrated parameters?" They
would then find some respect for the regulators. Instead, I
found myself surrounded by quants praising calibration, not even
appreciating the negating effect of recalibration.  It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to figure out the
fallacy in calibration, but it does take someone who can look
beyond the math.  (Paul Wilmott is the founder of London-based Wilmott, a
journal of quantitative finance. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Paul Wilmott at  paul@wilmott.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
   mberley@bloomberg.net  