-- 
Barcelona to Leave Early for Champions League Soccer Final as Ash Spreads

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-24T12:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/barcelona-counts-on-fans-at-champions-league-final-as-ash-cloud-spreads.html
Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola is
concerned that a volcanic ash cloud will stop fans traveling to
 London  for the Champions League soccer final, further boosting
 Manchester United , which he said already has home advantage.  Barcelona will leave tonight, two days earlier than
planned, for the May 28 match at Wembley Stadium as ash from a
volcano in Iceland threatens air traffic, the team said today.
British Airways Plc canceled all flights between London and
 Scotland  today until 2 p.m. local time following forecasts of
“significant” volcanic ash in Scottish airspace. Some 20,000
Barcelona supporters plan to travel from  Spain  to the final.  “Playing in their country is a handicap” for us,
Guardiola told a news conference late yesterday. “It’s more
comfortable when you play at home. It’s more comfortable for the
supporters, the team. Let’s hope our people can come.”  Last year, Barcelona had to take a 12-hour bus ride to
Milan, with an overnight stop in the French town of Cannes, for
a Champions League semifinal after ash from another volcano
closed European airspace for six days. Barcelona lost the game
3-1 to eventual champion  Inter Milan .  Barcelona, which beat Manchester United 2-0 in  Rome  in the
2009 final, was scheduled to fly on May 26. Thousands of
Barcelona fans are scheduled to travel on May 27, the club said.  “It’s not a problem for the players to go early, the
problem is for the 20,000 fans,” Barcelona Vice President
Javier Faus said in an interview. “It would be frustrating if
the stadium is half full.” Barcelona may help fans by
chartering buses, Faus added.  Guardiola, a midfielder for Barcelona when it won the 1992
European Cup final against Sampdoria at Wembley, said while
United’s players are more familiar with the London stadium, his
squad has enjoyed its previous trips to the capital.  “We know in  England  how the atmosphere is and for us it’s
a pleasure, it’s marvelous,” Guardiola said, citing recent
Champions League games at Arsenal and Chelsea. “We’ll try to
show our football, to show what this club means.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  