-- 
Biden Says Negotiators Seeking $1 Trillion in Budget Cuts

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-24T23:24:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/biden-says-negotiators-seeking-1-trillion-in-budget-cuts-1-.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said a
bipartisan group of six Senate and House lawmakers is seeking at
least $1 trillion in budget cuts as a "down payment" as they
work to reach a deal tied to raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  The vice president said the group is discussing the use of
"trigger mechanisms" that could force fiscal policy changes as
large as $4 trillion over an unspecified period.  "Everybody knows that at the end of the day, we’re going to
have to make some really tough decisions on some of the big-
ticket items," Biden said after he met with the lawmakers for
the fourth time since negotiations began weeks ago. "But I think
we’re in a position where we’ll be able to get above $1
trillion" for a "down payment on the process. We’re going to be
discussing trigger mechanisms and how you use that to get to $4
trillion."  Biden said he is insisting that the package of fiscal
changes include some tax increases. “I made clear today that
revenues have to be in the deal,” he told reporters.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican
and participant in the talks, said tax increases can’t be in any
compromise package.  “I am confident that we can get to over $1 trillion in
immediate cuts,” he told reporters. “This process shows that
if people come together, finding spending cuts isn’t that hard,
and I reiterated that tax increases cannot pass the House.”  Both parties are trying to reach an agreement that can be
attached to legislation boosting the nation’s $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said that
the current limit will be reached in early August, and
Republicans are insisting on fiscal policy changes in exchange
for their support in raising it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  