-- 
Biggs Says Stock Bears Wrong Even as Economy Slows: Tom Keene

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-05-24T14:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/biggs-says-bears-have-it-wrong-on-u-s-stocks-even-as-global-economy-slows.html
Barton Biggs , the hedge fund manager
who bought stocks when the market bottomed in March 2009, said
he is bullish on U.S. equities and likes industrial shares even
though the global economy has slowed.  “The U.S. and the global economy have clearly slowed
pretty significantly,” Biggs, who runs New York-based Traxis
Partners LP, said in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Surveillance. “That’s arousing the bears, who believe
we’re going to slip back into a long soft patch at best or maybe
even a double-dip at worst,” he said. “For a number of reasons
I don’t think that’s right.”  Biggs favors companies such as  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Deere &
Co. (DE)  because their earnings growth continues to exceed
expectations and demand for farming and construction equipment
remains strong.  “I don’t see anything the matter with Deere and
Caterpillar and the big American industrial companies, and in
terms of valuation they’re still very reasonable,” he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed to an almost three-
year high on the final trading day of April. It slumped 3.4
percent from that point through yesterday as economic data
missed economists’ estimates and investors prepared for the
Federal Reserve to complete its $600 billion bond-purchase
program, known as quantitative easing, at the end of June. The
benchmark equity gauge rallied 4.8 percent from the end of 2010
through yesterday amid government stimulus measures and higher-
than-estimated earnings.  Investor Reaction  Biggs, who oversees $1.3 billion, said last week that
investors are overreacting to negative economic news such as the
European debt crisis, housing and reduced stimulus from the U.S.
 Federal Reserve . Housing starts in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in
April as flooding and tornadoes in the South shut down
construction, the Commerce Department said May 17. Those issues
will be resolved, while the U.S. market remains reasonably
priced on an earnings basis for the next year.  “I still believe in emerging markets, particularly  Asia ,”
he said today. “China is going to be a terrific stock market in
the second half of the year. China maybe has one or two more
tightenings ahead.”  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped for the fourth time
today, losing 7.5 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,767.06. The
measure has lost 9.5 percent from the close of 3,057.33 on April
18, after earlier sliding as much as 10 percent, a level
analysts say means the market has entered a correction.  ‘They Have Succeeded’  The Shanghai Composite, which tracks the bigger of  China ’s
stock exchanges, plunged 2.9 percent yesterday, erasing this
year’s advance of as much as 8.9 percent, after a manufacturing
gauge fell to its lowest level in 10 months. China’s preliminary
manufacturing index, known as the Flash PMI, was at 51.1 in May,
compared with the final reading of 51.8 in April, HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics said yesterday. A number above 50
indicates expansion.  “It’s apparent from the PMIs that came out yesterday that
they have succeeded in slowing the economy very significantly,”
he said. “At the same time it’s still a very dynamic economy.
Now, is it going to grow 10 or 11 percent in real terms? No,
it’s not,” Biggs said. “They’re going to slow it down to 7 or
8 percent, but with a moderate inflation rate I don’t see
anything the matter with that and we can find a lot of
attractive companies to own in China.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas R. Keene in New York 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 