-- 
Billionaire Carlos Slim Said to Pay $15.5 Million for Manhattan Townhouse

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-24T21:52:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/billionaire-slim-said-to-pay-15-5-million-in-cash-for-manhattan-townhouse.html
Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim 
bought a townhouse in midtown Manhattan that will be used for
 office space , extending his purchases of real estate in the city
as property values increase.  A limited liability company set up by Slim paid $15.5
million in cash for the property, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction. The deal for the 16,000-square-
foot (1,400-square-meter) building was completed on May 19, less
than a week after an offer was made, said the person, who asked
not to be named because the details are private.  “New York is a great city,” said  Arturo Elias , a
spokesman for Slim who confirmed the purchase. “We always think
there’s great value in real estate there.”  The price per square foot for  Manhattan  office buildings
that changed hands in March jumped 89 percent from a year
earlier, to $477.90, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a
New York-based property research firm. Sales prices for retail
properties increased 17 percent to $1,548 a square foot. Slim
has made purchases in the city last year including an  office
tower  and the Duke Semans mansion, both on Fifth Avenue.  The townhouse, at 10 West 56th St., is a commercial
property investment and will be used for offices, Elias said.
Slim won’t use the space for his own companies, he said.  Felissimo Corp.  The seller was Felissimo Corp., a Japanese designer and
seller of household goods, cosmetics and accessories, according
to the company’s broker, Faith Hope Consolo of Prudential
Douglas Elliman Real Estate in  New York . Felissimo, which owned
the building for more than 20 years, was negotiating a lease
agreement with a luxury retailer and instead received a purchase
offer, said Consolo.  “They made us an offer we couldn’t refuse,” Consolo, the
chairman of retail leasing, marketing and sales at the
brokerage, said in a telephone interview.  Felissimo asked $18 million for the property, Consolo said.  The deal was reported earlier today by the New York Post.  The six-story townhouse is a mixed-use building, with four
floors of retail space and offices on the top two levels,
according to the listing on Consolo’s website. It has a private
garden, and was once the home of actress  Elizabeth Taylor  and
her third husband, Michael Todd, Consolo said.  The limestone mansion was built in 1903 and designed by
Warren & Wetmore, the architectural firm that crafted Grand
Central Terminal, according to Consolo.  Luxury Retailers  Felissimo operated a retail store and offices at the
property until 2009, Consolo said. The townhouse is  next door  to
jeweler Harry Winston, and just west of the Fifth Avenue
corridor of luxury retailers that includes the Henri Bendel
department store, Swarovski and Tiffany & Co.  “The key to this building: It’s the location,” Consolo
said. “It’s got a Fifth Avenue presence without a Fifth Avenue
address.”  Slim, the world’s richest man according to Forbes magazine,
controls Mexican telecommunications firms America Movil SAB and
Telefonos de Mexico SAB. Inmobiliaria Carso SA, a closely held
investment vehicle for Slim’s family, bought an office tower at
417 Fifth Ave. last year for $140 million. Inmobiliaria Carso is
also the biggest shareholder in  Saks Inc. (SKS) , whose properties
include its Fifth Avenue flagship store.  Slim’s real estate firm paid $44 million in July 2010 for
the Duke Semans mansion, a city landmark on Fifth Avenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  