-- 
Bloomberg View: The World in Focus

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-24T19:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/bloomberg-view-the-world-in-focus.html
Today we introduce Bloomberg View,
the new opinion section of Bloomberg News. Bloomberg View will
publish regular columns, op-ed articles by occasional
contributors and unsigned editorials. The last of these -- the
editorials -- require some explaining.  Why editorials? In an age of celebrity, when everybody is
marketing his or her own brand, an unsigned opinion article
seems old-fashioned. Done right, editorials can do things that
other news and opinion articles can’t do, or at least not as
well. Editorials can see the world whole. That is, they can be
logically consistent with one another, each a piece of the
larger puzzle, and each able to withstand changing
circumstances.  In our case, we hope that over time a general philosophy
will emerge. Right now, we can’t say precisely what that
philosophy will be, only that it will be committed to
transparency and tolerance, to nonpartisanship and intellectual
honesty, to free markets and data-driven solutions to national
and international problems -- values embodied by Mike Bloomberg,
the founder of Bloomberg LP. We hope to shape our vision, too,
by drawing on Bloomberg’s reporting and analytics, as well as
experts the world over.  There are always pressures that prevent people from seeing
the world clearly, or at least from describing clearly what they
see. Politicians have their eyes on the next election or the
needs of their political party. Corporate leaders have private
interests that may conflict with the public interest. Even the
most selfless advocates may find it hard to see the justice in
causes that conflict with their own.  The job of an editorial, by contrast, is to describe the
world clearly and honestly; to test its opinion against
legitimate counterarguments. That doesn’t mean it is always
right. But it has no purpose other than to get things right --
and to give readers enough understanding to disagree with what’s
been written.  In a world of omnipresent spin, having a project dedicated
to these pursuits is no bad thing. So let’s begin.  For related news and information:  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net