-- 
BNDES May Approve Record $2.5 Billion for Wind Power Projects in Brazil

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-05-24T16:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/bndes-may-approve-record-2-5-billion-for-wind-power-projects-in-brazil.html
Brazil , which gets about 80 percent
of its energy from hydroelectricity, may approve a record 4.1
billion reais ($2.5 billion) for wind farms this year to
diversify its power supply.  That’s more than the total 3.3 billion reais Brazil’s
development bank Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e
Social has approved for wind since financing its first project
in 2005, Antonio Tovar, the lender’s head of renewable energy,
said in an interview.  The country has organized three auctions in the last two
years for developers of renewable energy projects to sign power-
purchase agreements.  “The big benefit with wind is that you’re producing most
energy during the dry season between May and November,” when
hydro reserves may run low, Jorge Trinkenreich, director of the
Rio de Janeiro-based consulting company PSR Consultoria, said
today in a telephone interview.  Developers of wind energy projects received 69 percent of
the contracts that were offered in two auctions last year,
according to the national energy research agency  Empresa de
Pesquisa Energetica , known as EPE.  The high rate led Rio de Janeiro-based BNDES to approve 1.2
billion reais for wind projects in 2010, more than any other
energy source excluding large hydro power.  Gas vs Wind  Wind power may not receive as large a share of the
contracts that will be available in two power auctions scheduled
for July following Brazil’s decision to include natural gas-
fired thermoelectric plants, Trinkenreich said. Those plants
have advantages over wind, he said, notably that they “can be
turned on and off when you want.”  Natural gas comprised 39 percent of the projects registered
to participate in July’s auctions, in terms of generation
capacity, and wind accounted for 40 percent, according to EPE.  Developers signed contracts to sell 3.9 gigawatts of wind
power, or 3 percent of the country’s total grid capacity, in
Brazil’s three last renewable energy auctions, according to
electricity regulator Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica,
known as Aneel. The country currently has 1 gigawatts of wind
capacity in operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  