-- 
BofA ‘Has Work to Do’ on Future GSE Claims, Moynihan Says

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-05-24T13:06:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/bofa-has-work-to-do-on-future-gse-claims-moynihan-says-1-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, still faces costs to settle disputes with
mortgage firms Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .  “We still have work to do on future claims, Fannie Mae
especially,” Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said today at a conference in  London . “We continue to
make adjustments, which in the scheme of the overall cost are
relatively minor.”  Bank of America announced $3 billion in settlements with
the so-called government-sponsored entities in January,
prompting Moynihan to tell investors that he was “pleased to put
the GSEs behind us.” Unresolved demands for loan refunds surged
$2.9 billion to a record  $13.6 billion  the quarter after the
deals, fueled mostly by claims from  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac.  The bank resolved a “major portion” of its liabilities
with the deals, Moynihan, 51, said today. The company’s 2008
takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp. saddled the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank with demands that it repurchase loans
marred by false or missing data about borrowers and properties.  “It will continue to be in front of us as we work for the
next couple of years to get the rest of the GSE work behind
us,” Moynihan said. “We continue to fight through these
issues.”  Bank of America declined 29 percent in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading for the year ended yesterday, making
it the worst performer in the 24-company KBW Bank Index. The
lender was left behind as competitors including JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. won Federal Reserve approval to
increase dividends following a review of their financial health.  Moynihan told investors in January and March that the bank
could raise its dividend this year, then said in April that the
firm has “work to do” and an increase may not happen until
next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 