-- 
Boston Properties to Restart New York Tower as Law Firm Signs as Tenant

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-05-24T22:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/boston-properties-to-restart-new-york-tower-as-law-firm-signs-as-tenant.html
Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  signed law
firm  Morrison & Foerster LLP  as the first tenant at a planned
tower in midtown  Manhattan , paving the way for the office owner
to restart the stalled $1.05 billion project.  Morrison & Foerster agreed to lease about 180,000 square
feet (16,700 square meters) at the planned skyscraper on Eighth
Avenue and West 55th Street, Boston Properties said in a
statement today. The Boston-based real estate investment trust
may resume work on the tower, which was suspended in 2009, as
soon as the fall.  The planned 1 million-square-foot, 39-story glass tower may
kick off an office building boom in Manhattan, as developers
anticipate demand for energy-efficient, technologically advanced
workspaces. More than 25 million square feet of projects may be
completed between now and 2020, making this the city’s busiest
decade for office construction since the 1980s, according to
brokerage Cassidy Turley.  The Boston Properties tower, “upon its completion, will be
considered among the elite office buildings in Manhattan,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mortimer Zuckerman said in
the statement.  Mid-2014  Morrison & Foerster expects to move into the completed
building at 250 W. 55th St. by mid-2014, according to the
statement. The company’s current New York office is at 1290
Avenue of the Americas, a tower near Rockefeller Center owned by
 Vornado Realty Trust. (VNO)   Under the 15-year lease deal, Morrison & Foerster will have
the ability to add two additional floors of almost 50,000 square
feet apiece before the building is completed, the law firm said
in a separate statement. The company also will have options to
take more space throughout the life of the lease.  The firm was “extremely desirous of an environmentally
sensitive building,” said Mark Edelstein, the Morrison partner
who negotiated the lease. “It’s how we envision our firm for
the future, and we feel will be important to the students,
lawyers and staff that we recruit in the future.”  Project Suspension  Boston Properties suspended construction in February 2009
when law firm Proskauer Rose LLP abandoned plans to take space
at the tower. The loss of the tenant made the project
“economically infeasible” in the aftermath of the credit crash
of the year before, the REIT said at the time.  The foundations and below-the-street concourse floors are
already in place for the building, and the steel is in storage
in  South Carolina , Boston Properties President Douglas Linde
said in an interview last week.  The company has invested about $480 million in the project
and expects to spend another $400 million, according to today’s
statement. The total cost will be about $1.05 billion, Boston
Properties said.  Development Plans  Competitors Vornado, Related Cos. and Brookfield Office
Properties are among the companies also seeking to start
building new skyscrapers Manhattan in the next year or so.  Related Chairman Stephen Ross told CNBC last week that his
company is talking to nine potential anchor tenants for the
first phase of the $12 billion Hudson Yards development, to be
built over the Long Island Rail Road switching yard near the
 Hudson River . That project may involve as much as 4.5 million
square feet in three buildings.  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)  represented both Boston
Properties and Morrison & Foerster in the lease agreement.  Boston Properties fell 25 cents today to $103.27 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is up 20
percent this year, compared with an 11 percent rise in the
Bloomberg REIT Office Property Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  