-- 
Bruins Defeat Lightning 3-1 to Move Within One Win of Stanley Cup Finals

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-24T04:04:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/bruins-defeat-lightning-3-1-to-move-within-one-win-of-stanley-cup-finals.html
The  Boston Bruins  are one win away
from the National Hockey League’s Stanley Cup finals after a 3-1
victory over the Tampa Bay Lightning.  Brad Marchand’s goal with 4:04 left in the second period
snapped a 1-1 tie last night at TD Garden in  Boston .  Nathan Horton scored the Bruins’ first goal and Rich Peverley added an empty-net score with 13 seconds left as Boston
took a 3-2 lead in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference finals.  The Bruins can return to the Stanley Cup finals for the
first time since 1990 with a Game 6 victory tomorrow in Tampa,
Florida. The Lightning need a win to force a decisive seventh
game, which would be played May 27 in Boston.  “It’s going to take our best game to advance. When a team
has its back against the wall it comes out with the best of
efforts,” Bruins coach Claude Julien said at a news conference.
“We can’t be tight. But this is the position you want to be in.
We’ve got two games to win one.”  While  Tampa Bay  held a 34-20 edge in shots last night,
Bruins goaltender Tim Thomas finished with 33 saves after
allowing a goal to Simon Gagne 69 seconds into the game.  “We’re still trying to figure out the Thomas enigma,”
said Lightning coach Guy Boucher, whose team won 5-3 in Game 5
after erasing a 3-0 deficit.  The Lightning trailed the Pittsburgh Penguins 3-1 in the
first round before rallying to win the series in seven games.  The Eastern Conference winner advances to face the
 Vancouver Canucks  or  San Jose Sharks  in the Stanley Cup finals.
The Canucks hold a 3-1 lead in the Western Conference finals
with Game 5 scheduled for tonight in  Vancouver .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  