-- 
Bullard Says Fed May Keep Rates, Balance-Sheet Steady to Assess Economy

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-24T03:12:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/bullard-says-fed-may-hold-rates-balance-sheet-level-steady.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the central bank may keep its
policy rate, the size of its balance sheet and policy language
the same after completing asset purchases in June to provide
more time to assess inflation and the U.S. economic outlook.  “Past behavior of the FOMC indicates that the Committee
sometimes puts policy on hold,” Bullard said today in a speech
in Farmington,  Missouri . A pause “gives the Committee more time
to assess economic conditions.”  Fed officials are discussing how quickly to begin
tightening policy after completing the purchase of $600 billion
in U.S. Treasuries by the end of June. They are also considering
a strategy for how to remove stimulus, with a majority favoring
ending the policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing
securities first before raising  interest rates  or selling
assets, minutes of their April 26-27 meeting showed last week.  Bullard told reporters after the speech that the central
bank may withdraw liquidity in response to stronger economic
data later this year by allowing its balance sheet to shrink.  “If the economy comes in reasonably strong in the second
half of the year, which I think it will, the likely next move
would be to tighten policy,” he said. “The most likely way to
do that would be to allow some runoff of the balance sheet.”  First-quarter growth had been a disappointment, but the
slow pace wasn’t likely to last, Bullard said during his speech.  ‘Reasonably Robust’  “I think the economy will be reasonably robust in the
second quarter and the second half of the year,” he said.  The St. Louis Fed official told reporters that increased
private-sector job growth was likely to continue because
companies had become lean during the recession and would need to
hire to meet growing demand. In addition, manufacturing has been
“fairly good” and household spending has “held up well.”  At the same time, Bullard said the European debt crisis
poses a risk to the expansion and warrants careful attention.
The 10-year U.S. Treasury bond yield has fallen near a low for
2011 because of investor concerns about  Europe .  Global demand may push the cost of energy out of line with
other prices in the U.S., making a policy focus that excludes
food and energy unreliable, Bullard said at a lecture hosted by
the Mineral Area College Foundation.  Understate Inflation  “It is at least a reasonable hypothesis that global demand
for energy will outstrip increased supply over the coming
decades,” he said. “If that scenario unfolds, then ignoring
energy prices in a price index may systematically understate
inflation for many years.”  Bullard, repeating a theme from a speech last week, urged
that the Fed drop its focus on  core inflation , which excludes
volatile energy and food prices.  “The ‘core’ concept has little theoretical or statistical
backing” and is very arbitrary, he said. “Headline inflation
is the ultimate objective of monetary policy with respect to
prices,” Bullard said.  He also reiterated his support for a formal inflation
target to help anchor households’ expectations on prices.  Bullard’s concern this year over inflation represents a
change from last July, when he urged purchases of Treasuries to
head off the risk of deflation. He was the first Fed official to
support a second round of so-called quantitative easing. Policy
makers in November approved the asset purchase plan.  The consumer- price index  increased 3.2 percent in the 12
months ended in April, the biggest year-over-year gain since
October 2008, figures from the Labor Department showed this
month. The index excluding food and energy rose 1.3 percent from
April 2010, the most since February 2010.  Bullard has rotated this year into an annual non-voting
position. He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the bank in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  