-- 
Canada Dollar Falls Versus Euro, Most Other Major Peers on Growth Concern

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-05-24T21:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/canadian-dollar-at-almost-the-weakest-since-march-on-global-growth-concern.html
Canada ’s dollar declined against the
euro on concern indicators are showing the pace of the global
recovery may be faltering.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the aquatic bird
on the C$1 coin, weakened against 12 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after a gauge of manufacturing in China fell to its
lowest in 10 months. The Canadian dollar on May 20 capped its
longest weekly losing streak against its U.S. counterpart since
November amid stagnating  oil prices  and worse-than-expected
domestic economic data.  “The external factors are clearly worrisome” for the
Canadian dollar, said Darcy Browne, managing director of capital
markets trading at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC
World Markets unit, said in a telephone interview from Toronto.
“ China  is slowing and the European issues are key.”  The Canadian dollar lost 0.3 percent against  Europe ’s
shared currency, trading at 1.3772 per euro at 5 p.m. in
Toronto. It was little changed at 97.67 cents per  U.S. dollar ,
compared with 97.80 yesterday, when it touched 98.11, the
weakest since March 28. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0239.  China’s preliminary manufacturing index, known as the Flash
PMI, was at 51.1 in May, its lowest level in 10 months, compared
with the final reading of 51.8 in April, HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics said yesterday. A number above 50 indicates
expansion.  European Policy  European Central Bank leaders and European Union policy
makers are clashing about how to prevent the currency region’s
first default, after 256 billion euros ($361 billion) in
bailouts to  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  failed to stop
contagion from the debt crisis.  The yield on Canada’s benchmark two-year bond was little
changed at 1.60 percent today. It fell eight basis points to
1.61 percent on May 20, the biggest drop in more than a month,
after  Statistics Canada  said the country’s consumer price index
increased 0.3 percent in April, lagging behind the 0.5 percent
median forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  A separate report May 20 showed retail sales were little
changed in March, a result that was weaker than all of the
forecasts in another Bloomberg News survey.  “The market is trading in a way that people are clearly
reducing their expectations of a rate hike and they are reducing
their Canada positions,” CIBC’s Browne said. A significant
portion of the market was pricing in a rate hike for July, but
CPI and retail sales weren’t what people were looking for.”  The central bank on April 12 kept its target rate for
overnight lending between commercial banks at 1 percent, where
it has been since September. Policy makers meet on May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  