-- 
Carstens Says IMF Doesn’t Need European Chief to Resolve Euro-Zone Crisis

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-05-24T23:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/carstens-says-imf-doesn-t-need-european-chief-to-resolve-euro-zone-crisis.html
Mexico’s Agustin Carstens, governor
of the country’s central bank and a candidate to head the
 International Monetary Fund , said a European doesn’t need to
lead the Washington-based lender to help it resolve a debt
crisis in the euro zone.  Carstens, in an interview, said it was too early to say
which countries will back his nomination, though he “has a
chance” of winning the race to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn
if the selection process is conducted in a transparent way that
takes into account each candidate’s merits.  “I have heard expressions of sympathy, but most countries
in a responsible way are waiting to see who all the candidates
are,” Carstens, a former deputy managing director of the IMF,
said today from Mexico City in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness” with Margaret Brennan.  Mexico ’s nomination of Carstens provides developing nations
an experienced candidate they can rally around as they seek to
end Europe’s 65-year hold on the job. Still, it may not be
enough to overtake French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde ,
who emerged as the frontrunner after  Germany , Italy and Sweden
expressed support for her candidacy and a French government
spokesman said China is also “favorable” to her bid.  Carstens said he’s aware of press reports that China has
thrown its support behind Lagarde, though he hasn’t discussed
the IMF position with policy makers from the Asian nation. He
said he’s discussed his candidacy with U.S. officials.  Next Crisis  “I don’t see why,” Carstens said, “to contribute to
solving the crisis in  Europe , a European has to be the managing
director.” The fund can help Greece, Portugal and Ireland make
“tough decisions” about their debt, though the next managing
director will have to focus on economic concerns beyond Europe,
he said.  “Right now the crisis is in Europe, but we don’t know
where the next crisis will be,” said Carstens, who oversaw 80
countries while IMF deputy managing director from 2003 to 2006.  French government spokesman  Francois Baroin , in an
interview with Europe1 radio, said China is “favorable” on the
prospect of Lagarde leading the IMF. Baroin is also France’s
budget minister, working alongside Lagarde.  China hasn’t publicly commented on any candidacy for the
IMF job. Spokespeople for the Foreign and Finance Ministries
didn’t respond to faxed requests for comment yesterday. Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu told reporters in Beijing May 19
that the IMF’s management should be chosen on the basis of
“impartiality” and “merit.”  Brazil Support  Brazil will privately support Lagarde to head the IMF,
according to a Brazilian government official who requested
anonymity because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly on the
issue. In exchange for private support, Brazil will push for
Lagarde to run the IMF only until the end of next year, when
Strauss-Kahn’s term would have expired, the official said.  Strauss-Kahn resigned as managing director of the IMF to
defend himself against criminal charges including attempted
rape. The institution said this week it aims to select his
successor by June 30.  France  has supplied four of the 10 IMF
chiefs so far, including three of the past five.  The U.S., whose 17 percent share of the IMF board’s votes
make it the “swing vote” in the leadership race, can provide a
critical boost to Carstens by declaring support for his bid,
said Simon Johnson, an IMF chief economist from 2001 to 2008.  Emerging Markets  “Having a European run the IMF at a time like this makes
no sense,” said Johnson in a phone interview from  Washington ,
where he’s a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics. “The IMF is going to be called upon to
commit a lot of its resources to help Europe. You need to have
somebody who has some critical distance from the crazy schemes
that the Europeans have gotten themselves into.”  Carstens’ bid has yet to win endorsements from any other
nation, even as  Thailand  and the  Philippines  backed  Singapore ’s
Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam for the job.  Russia  and
 South Africa  are supporting policy makers from their own parts
of the world.  Peruvian central bank President Julio Velarde said today he
was open to supporting a candidate from Latin America and spoke
with Carstens about his bid, though hadn’t yet committed to
supporting it.  Brazil, Russia,  India  and  China , known as the BRIC
countries, are holding consultations on finding a candidate,
 Arkady Dvorkovich , Russian President Dmitry Medvedev’s economic
aide, said today. Leaders from the Group of Eight nations won’t
discuss the matter at their meeting this week though informal
consultations may be held, he told reporters.  ‘Growing Role’  The IMF needs reform to reflect “the growing role of
developing countries in the world economy,” according to a
statement today from executive directors representing the BRIC
nations. Choosing a head based on nationality undermines the
IMF’s legitimacy, the directors said.  John Lipsky , the IMF’s acting managing director, said
yesterday that Lagarde would make an “excellent” head.  Carstens, who has a doctorate in economics from the
 University of Chicago  and is a Chicago Cubs fan, led Mexico’s
response to the global financial crisis as finance minister.  In 2009, Mexico was the first nation to request a flexible
credit line from the IMF, a mechanism to help support economies
pursuing strong macroeconomic policies. The IMF renewed and
boosted the facility to $72 billion in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  