-- 
Carstens Says Mexico GDP Growth May Reach 4%-5% Forecast for This Year

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-05-24T20:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/carstens-says-mexico-gdp-growth-may-reach-4-5-forecast-for-this-year.html
Mexico ’s central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens said that the country’s economy can still
expand as much as 5 percent this year even after the first
quarter’s slower-than-expected growth.  The combination of a stronger  U.S. economy , the recovery of
domestic consumption and private investment “may help us reach
the central bank forecast,” Carstens said today in an interview
in Mexico City.  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy grew less than
analysts and President Felipe Calderon forecast in the first
quarter, as mining and agriculture underperformed. Carstens said
economic activity in the first three months of the year was
affected by frost in the northern region of the country as well
as by slower U.S. output.  “Mexico’s private investment has lagged but is recovering
at a rapid rate and that can stimulate growth,” Carstens said.
Banks are also more willing to lend, “supporting consumption,
construction and housing. I believe bank lending may contribute
to higher growth,” Carstens said.  Gross domestic product, the broadest measure of a country’s
output of goods and services, grew 4.6 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the national statistics agency said
May 19. Economists expected a 5 percent rise, according to the
median of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  “Very Good Number”  The central bank on May 11 raised its 2011 GDP forecast to
4 percent to 5 percent, up from a forecast of 3.8 percent to 4.8
percent previously.  Economists expect Mexico’s economy to expand 4.4 percent
this year and the benchmark lending rate to remain unchanged at
4.5 percent until January 2012, according to a May 18 survey of
economists by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  The central bank today said consumer prices fell 0.75
percent in the first two weeks of May. Economists expected a
0.41 percent decline, according to the median estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This is a very good number,” Carstens said. Central bank
policy makers next meet May 27 and all 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg expect the board to pause at 4.50 percent for a 19th-
straight meeting.  Yields  Asked about the recent decline in the yields of Mexico’s
dollar-denominated long-term bonds, Carstens said the fall “is
consistent with the fact that Mexico had a better-than-expected
inflation performance.”  The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due 2024 fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.22 percent,
according to Banco Santander SA. The price of the security rose
0.29 centavo to 123.95 centavos per peso.  Mexico’s peso strengthened as crude oil, the country’s
second-largest export, rose and on the mid-month decline in
consumer prices.  The peso gained 0.5 percent to 11.6896 per  U.S. dollar  at
3:46 p.m. New York time, from 11.7455 yesterday.  The peso has advanced 5.6 percent against the dollar this
year, the best performer among the seven major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Credit Rating   Carstens expressed confidence in current state of the
Mexican economy and when asked about what may derail the
country’s economic performance in the coming months.  “We have pillars well placed” Carstens said.  Fiscal equilibrium, a good balance of payments, record
international reserves and well-capitalized banking systems are
providing “a lot of economic certainty going forward,” he
said.  Put together, those factors may help Mexico regain the
credit rating it lost at the end of 2009.  Mexico’s credit rating was cut one level by  Standard &
Poor’s  on December 2009 after tumbling oil output and the worst
recession since the 1930s swelled the  budget deficit .  S&P lowered Mexico’s foreign-currency debt rating to BBB,
the second-lowest investment grade, from BBB+, with a stable
outlook. The cut followed a downgrade by  Fitch Ratings  on Nov.
23.  S&P cited “diminishing” prospects for widening Mexico’s
tax base in the second half of President Felipe Calderon’s
administration, according to a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net 
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  