-- 
Chagall Flies in ’Masters’ as De Kooning Colors: N.Y. Galleries

-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/chagall-flies-with-modern-masters-as-de-kooning-colors-n-y-galleries.html
From the day Marc Chagall met his
future wife, “they ceased to walk on the ground,” Sidney
Alexander wrote in his biography of the artist. “Their life
together was one long nuptial flight.”  Married in 1915, they are still aloft, floating above a
French town in the lyrical “ Saint-Paul dans la nuit bleue ,”
painted in 1969, 25 years after her death. The work was on view
at the  Hammer Galleries ’ “Modern Masters” show until a buyer
grabbed it last week.  Gallery president and director Howard Shaw, who doesn’t
like a bare spot on his walls, has already added another
Chagall to the show: “Le quai a Paris,” which dates from the
same period. Other recent additions include “Tete de femme au
chapeau” (1962) by Picasso, and two Legers.  They join cataloged works by Chagall, Picasso and Leger, as
well as Matisse and a striking portrait by Modigliani, his 1919
“Jeune fille assise, les cheveux denoues (Jeune fille en
bleu),” which depicts a blue-eyed girl with red hair. It was
painted not long before Modigliani’s death.  Prices range from a few hundred thousand dollars to more
than $20 million. “Modern Masters” is at 475 Park Ave., at
58th St. through July 29. Information: +1-212-644-4400;
 http://www.hammergalleries.com/html/home.asp   Fashion Photographs  Rita Hayworth was behind Georges Dambier’s career launch
when the photographer captured her at Le Jimmy’s nightclub in
Paris and swapped the pictures for a permanent job at  France
Dimanche .  Dambier soon shifted to fashion. He was hired by Helene
Lazareff, director of Elle magazine, and started working with
well-known models such as Suzy Parker, Bettina and Dorian Leigh.
He brought a change to fashion photography by taking models out
of the studio and shooting them in the open air.  Bonni Benrubi Gallery has mounted never-before-shown images
of restored color negatives from the 1950s. In a 1953 shot,
Parker poses with a hat as brilliantly red as the tulips she
holds.  “What’s amazing about them is the very authentic old
color,” said Rachel Smith, director of the gallery. “It’s a
different kind of color, and you don’t get that with
contemporary photography.”  Dambier also boasts distinctive black-and-white images,
such as an elegantly dressed Fiona Campbell-Walter holding a
horse by the muzzle as if she were about to kiss it.  Prices range between $1,800 and $5,000. “Who’s That Girl?
Georges Dambier: Fashioning the Fifties” is at 41 E. 57th St.
through May 27. Information: +1-212-888-6007;
 http://www.bonnibenrubi.com/index.html   De Kooning  Willem de Kooning drowns you in color at  Manhattan ’s Pace
Gallery, where “The Figure: Movement and Gesture”
presents 12 paintings made by the Dutch artist from the late
1960s to the late 1970s.  After the figurative elements of his “Women” series a
decade earlier, here is a shift toward abstraction, with
stretched twisted human forms agitating the canvas.  “The figure is nothing unless you twist it around like a
strange miracle,” de Kooning once said.  In “Two Figures III,” a ballerina almost disappears in a
blend with orange, reds and greens. The multicolored
“Amityville” leaves feet and hands obscured.  Charcoal, ink and pencil drawings are also on view, as well
as three bronze sculptures. De Kooning started three-dimensional
work in  Rome  after an accidental encounter with a friend who
owned a foundry.  A de Kooning retrospective featuring more than 200 works
will open on Sept. 18 at the Museum of  Modern Art .  All works at Pace are on loan from private collections and
not for sale. “Willem de Kooning: The Figure: Movement and
Gesture” is at 32 E. 57th St. through July 29. Information: +1-
212-421-8987;  http://thepacegallery.com/   (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 