-- 
Chanos Misses Out as Chinese Stocks in U.S. Plunge on Accounting Concerns

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-24T23:51:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/chanos-says-hedge-fund-may-not-be-bearish-enough-on-chinese-real-estate.html
Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager
known for predicting Enron Corp.’s 2001 collapse, says he’d
short sell Chinese companies listed in the U.S. if it were
feasible to borrow shares to open the bearish positions.  The Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index has plunged 41
percent since Nov. 8 amid speculation financial statements from
companies such as  China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME)  can’t be
trusted. The concern intensified this week after  Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT) , whose initial public offering was
underwritten by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG,
said its auditor quit because of false records.  “Almost all of them have odd looking financial
statements,” Chanos, the president and founder of  New York- 
based Kynikos Associates LP, said on Bloomberg Television
yesterday. “We wish we could borrow almost all of them.”  The Securities and Exchange Commission began an
investigation last year into the use of reverse takeovers, in
which a closely held firm becomes public by purchasing a shell
company that already trades. The cost to bet against the stocks
is keeping Chanos away.  Renren Inc., a Beijing-based social-networking company that
went public in the U.S. earlier this month, is among the most
expensive U.S. equities to short. The stock is difficult to
borrow with 72 percent of the lendable supply out on loan,
according to Data Explorers, a New York-based research firm.  Lendable Supply  Short sellers have borrowed 96 percent of Beijing-based
 China Shen Zhou Mining & Resources Inc. (SHZ) ’s lendable supply,
meaning there is almost no equity available for short sellers to
bet against. Its shares are also among the most expensive for
short-sellers to borrow according to Data Explorers.  China MediaExpress, which began trading in the U.S.
following a 2009 reverse takeover, has sunk 92 percent since
Jan. 27. It’s being delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market after
auditor  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  said that it was “no longer
able to rely on the representations of management.” China Shen
Zhou has declined 59 percent since its Jan. 5 high after its
chief financial officer resigned.  Longtop retreated 43 percent between April 4 and May 16,
the last time it changed hands before trading was halted.  During yesterday’s interview, Chanos said investors
concerned that U.S. technology stocks such as LinkedIn Corp. are
overvalued should turn their attention to  China .  The 53-year-old investor said his “dramatic” bet against
Chinese real estate may not be sufficient. While LinkedIn, the
first social-media company to go public in the U.S., traded as
high as 31 times sales last week, overvaluation is more
widespread in China, he said.  A Bubble  “The bubble is really on the other side of the world,” he
said in New York. “What my team found, they actually came back
saying we’re not bearish enough,” he said. “The signs of
overcapacity were even much greater than their last visit, which
was late last year, and increasingly the executives that they
met with were sounding a little bit more uncomfortable about the
current situation.”  Chanos said Chinese developers have too much land on their
balance sheets, similar to the U.S. before its housing market
tumbled. He has been forecasting a Chinese housing crash since
last year.  China’s economy  expanded 10.3 percent in 2010 and the
country has been aiming to curb climbing  house prices .  “If you look at the balance sheets of the developers,
you’d be hard-pressed to see how healthy they are because
they’re all loaded up with land just as our developers were at
the top of our market,” he said. “We’ve maintained our pretty
much dramatic overweight in our Chinese shorts.”  Prices Rise  China’s home prices rose in 67 of 70 cities monitored by
the government last month. While housing prices slowed in major
cities, they increased at a faster pace in smaller ones,
according to data on the statistics bureau’s website. The
Chinese government said this month it will maintain property
curbs after it raised the minimum down payment for second-home
purchases this year and introduced residential taxes in Shanghai
and Chongqing.  China has lifted reserve-ratio requirements for major banks
11 times since January 2010 and raised  interest rates  four times
since October to restrain increases in asset prices, including
real estate.  Chanos said in March that a property bubble in China is
“as big or bigger than what we saw in the West” when compared
with the size of the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  