-- 
Chevron Seeks to Restart Its Richmond Refinery Project

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-05-24T01:40:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/chevron-seeks-to-restart-richmond-california-refinery-project.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  sought permission from
Richmond,  California , regulators yet again to upgrade equipment
at its refinery there, according to an e-mailed statement.  A California court halted construction on new equipment at
the Richmond refinery in 2009 amid concerns the upgrades would
allow it to refine heavier and more polluting crude oil. The
company said its new permit application will address questions
raised by a California appellate court last year about an
environmental impact report prepared for the project.  The appeals court found that the environmental report
failed to specify whether the upgrades would allow Chevron to
refine heavier oil and to outline measures for mitigating
increases in greenhouse gas emissions.  The Richmond City Council had relied on the report when it
voted 5-4 in 2008 to issue permits for the project.  “We are committed to working with the city of Richmond to
move the Renewal Project forward with an open and transparent
permitting process,” said Mike Coyle, general manager of the
Richmond refinery.  Coyle said the environmental review will confirm that the
project will not change the refinery’s capability to process
light-intermediate crudes and “eliminate any confusion created
by project opponents about the refinery’s ability to process
heavy crude oil.”  Hydrogen Plant  As part of its application, Chevron is seeking to build a
hydrogen plant capable of supplying other refineries in the Bay
Area. It is also seeking to upgrade equipment that would allow
it to process higher-sulfur feedstocks.  Chevron said it had built about 50 percent of the project
when a Contra Costa County Superior Court judge deemed its
environmental permit inadequate. In response, Chevron halted the
project and cut more than 1,000 workers.  Richmond Mayor Gayle McLaughlin said in a statement today
that she was “very happy to receive Chevron’s application.  “We look forward to reviewing it as promptly as possible
while ensuring full transparency and welcoming public input,”
she said.  The Richmond refinery is capable of processing 257,200
barrels of crude daily, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vivek Shankar at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net  