-- 
Chicago Lawyer Daugerdas Found Guilty in Tax Shelter Trial

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-24T23:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/chicago-lawyer-paul-daugerdas-found-guilty-of-selling-phony-tax-shelters.html
Paul Daugerdas, a former lawyer at
the defunct law firm Jenkens & Gilchrist, and three others were
convicted of a 10-year tax shelter scheme that generated more
than $1 billion in phony losses.  A federal jury in  New York  reached the verdict today
following a 10-week trial of Daugerdas and his co-defendants,
Denis Field, the former chief executive officer at accounting
firm BDO Seidman LLP; Donna Guerin, a Jenkens & Gilchrist
lawyer; and Robert Craig Brubaker and David Parse, two certified
public accountants who formerly worked as client advisers at a
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit called Alex.Brown.  Field, Guerin and Parse were found guilty of tax evasion
and other charges. Brubaker was acquitted of all nine counts
including mail fraud, conspiracy and obstruction. The jury began
deliberations on May 12.  Daugerdas, the former head of Jenkins & Gilchrist’s Chicago
office, was convicted on more than 20 counts, including
conspiracy, multiple counts of tax evasion and attempting to
impede the  Internal Revenue Service . U.S. District Judge
William Pauley allowed the defendants to remain free pending
their sentencing on Oct. 14.  Filing Appeal  After court, Daugerdas’s lawyer, Chris Gair, said, “We’ll
be filing appeal and post trial motion papers and look forward
to sentencing.” Daugerdas declined to comment as he left court.  Daugerdas and six other people were indicted in June 2009
on charges of conspiracy and  tax evasion  for selling phony tax
shelters from 1994 to 2004. Two of those indicted, former BDO
Seidman LLP partner Robert Greisman and former Jenkens &
Gilchrist attorney Erwin Mayer, pleaded guilty and are
cooperating with the government.  The case stems from a wider U.S. probe of illegal tax
shelters. Prosecutors said the defendants used shelters named
“Short Sales,” “Short Options Strategy,” “Swaps” and
“Homer,” to generate fraudulent tax losses for at least 931
wealthy individuals.  The scheme generated $1 billion in phony tax losses,
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement.
Daugerdas earned more than $95 million; Guerin made $17 million;
Field received $18 million and Parse earned $6 million, Bharara
said.  Daugerdas, 60, of Wilmette,  Illinois ; Guerin, 50, of
Elmhust, Illinois; Parse, 49, of Elmhurst, Illinois and Field,
53, of Naples,  Florida  were all convicted of mail fraud and
could face as long as 20 years in prison.  Avoided Prosecution  Barry Berke, who defended Brubaker with co-counsel Paul Schoeman, said after court that their client “did not belong
here and we are thrilled and gratified by the jury’s verdict.”
They said Brubaker could have faced more than 50 years in prison
if he had been convicted of all nine counts.  Jenkens & Gilchrist avoided prosecution in March 2007 by
admitting it developed and marketed tax shelters that generated
more than $1 billion in phony losses, the U.S. said. In January
2005, Jenkens agreed to pay $81.6 million to clients who had
sued over its tax-shelter advice. Jenkens shut down after
reaching the non-prosecution agreement, which didn’t apply to
lawyers at the Dallas-based firm. The firm blamed its demise on
its lawyers in  Chicago , where Daugerdas ran the office.  The case is: U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 