-- 
China Economic Growth Estimates Lowered as Wen’s Monetary Tightening Bites

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-24T06:07:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/china-economic-growth-estimates-lowered-as-wen-s-monetary-tightening-bites.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. joined banks
lowering their forecasts for  China ’s growth as Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to rein in inflation restrains the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  China’s gross domestic product will gain 9.4 percent in
2011, less than a previous call of 10 percent, Goldman analysts
Yu Song and Helen Qiao wrote in a note to clients today. Credit
Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., ING Groep NV and Daiwa
Securities Group also pared their estimates this month.  The changes underscore increasing concern among investors
about the impact on corporate earnings from Wen’s efforts to
curb credit, with the benchmark stock index today falling to its
lowest level since January. Evidence of the slowdown may prompt
policy makers to ease off on further monetary tightening, the
Goldman analysts said.  “We see little room for further rate hikes,” Song and
Qiao said in today’s report. “Even if the State Council decides
to keep the tightening bias in monetary policy, we see stronger
opposing forces for rate hikes since such measures will have a
universal impact across sectors.”  The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index was down 0.7 percent
at 1.11 p.m. in Shanghai after tumbling 2.9 percent yesterday in
the wake of a private report indicating the smallest
manufacturing gain in 10 months.  Higher Inflation  A preliminary purchasing managers’ index compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 51.1 in May from a
final reading of 51.8 in April, the bank said yesterday.  Goldman economists said they expect one 25 basis-point
increase in borrowing costs and savings rates in the next two
months, with “little room” for further adjustments. In
contrast,  Joseph Yam , former head of the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority, said today China will continue to raise interest
rates to control inflation and that he “can’t rule out” the
possibility that deposit rates will be higher than gains in
consumer prices by the end of the year.  China’s benchmark one-year deposit rate is 3.25 percent
while inflation in April was 5.3 percent. The rate has lagged
behind consumer-price gains for more than a year.  Goldman Forecast  Goldman’s economists today raised their forecast for
China’s full-year inflation to 4.7 percent from 4.3 percent.
Consumer-price gains will likely peak in June at an annual 5.6
percent, partly driven by the recent surge in pork prices, and
won’t ease to below 5 percent until August, Song and Qiao said.  The cost of the meat climbed 44 percent from a year earlier
on May 14 due to tighter supplies, the official Xinhua news
agency reported on May 16.  “The overall inflation problem seems more entrenched now
than last year,” the economists wrote. As costs including
energy are “allowed to rise when inflation falls to less
politically-sensitive levels, and as food price inflation is not
falling as we had hoped, the decline in headline inflation is
likely to be more gradual,” they said.  Inflation accelerated to a 32-month high of 5.4 percent in
March and has exceeded the government’s 2011 target of 4 percent
every month this year.  China raised  interest rates  four times since mid-October
and boosted banks’ reserve requirement ratio eight times since
November, most recently on May 12.  Lowered Estimates  ING cut its estimate for China’s full-year growth to 9.8
percent from 10.2 percent in a research note dated May 12 and
reduced its second-quarter forecast to an annual pace of 9.6
percent, from 10.3 percent. The bank also said its call for a 25
basis-point increase in interest rates by the end of next month
is subject to “downside revision.”  Credit Suisse adjusted its 2011 expansion estimate to 8.8
percent from 9.1 percent on May 1 and Daiwa on May 11 said it
now sees GDP growth of 9.2 percent this year rather than 9.6
percent. JPMorgan changed its estimate to 9.4 percent from 9.5
percent on May 20.  Government researcher  Ba Shusong  said he’s “concerned
about a policy over-adjustment” as “ China’s economy  faces a
risk of an excessive downturn” if the central bank’s tightening
measures last too long. His comments were published in today’s
Economic Information Daily. He expects China’s tightening steps
will continue into the third quarter while consumer inflation
may peak in the middle of this year.  Inflation a Priority  Premier Wen said in March that tackling inflation is
China’s top priority. Last month, he said the government must
gauge the “lagging effects” of tightening monetary policy to
avoid future harm to the economy.  The People’s Bank of China is focused on controlling prices,
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  wrote in the bank’s annual report posted
on its website on May 17. He didn’t mention threats to growth,
indicating he is more concerned about inflation than any risk of
a slowdown.  While the central bank has yet to announce a shift in its
policy tone, government economists including Ba and Yu Yongding
have publicly called for policy makers to be more aware of the
risks of excessive tightening.  Yu, a former central bank adviser, said in an interview in
Beijing on May 5 that the nation’s economic growth can exceed 9
percent this year, although it faces uncertainties including the
risk of over-tightening, which may lead to a sharper downturn in
economic growth.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Zheng Lifei in Beijing.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  