-- 
World’s Biggest Dam Opens Sluices to Refill China’s Parched Yangtze, Lake

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-25T03:11:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/china-orders-release-of-three-gorges-dam-water-to-ease-drought.html
China   ordered  the operator of the
world’s biggest dam to begin disgorging about 5 billion cubic
meters of water today to replenish the Yangtze River and counter
the Hubei region’s lowest rainfall in half a century.  The Three Gorges Dam will discharge enough water to fill 2
million Olympic-sized swimming pools by June 10, according to a
government statement. Lower water levels on the 6,264-kilometer
(3,915-mile) river may increase China’s oil demand by 300,000
barrels a day to make up for lost hydropower generation,
Barclays Capital said last week.  China’s longest river sustains 65.7 percent of the nation’s
 paddy fields , according to the Agricultural Yearbook. Poyang
Lake, China’s biggest, has shrunk to less than a fifth of its
usual area, the country’s meteorological agency said. State-run
 China Daily  said there was 40 percent less water in almost 1,600
reservoirs in Hubei province than a year ago.  “Rainfall along the  Yangtze River  in April and May was
40-50 percent below the historical average,” said Ma Wenfeng, a
senior analyst at Beijing Orient Agribusiness Consultant Ltd.
“The cause is being debated, but I think global warming is
partly to blame for more frequent extreme weather, and partly
the Three Gorges might have stored water in the upper-stream.”  About 4.4 million people and 3.2 million farm animals are
already suffering shortages of drinking water, the  Office of
State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters  said May 20.  Rice Futures  Hubei and Hunan provinces alone produce about 30 percent of
the early indica rice crop, according to the Agricultural
Yearbook. Soldiers and armed police are on standby to ensure
water supplies to rice fields, the flood control office said.  Early indica rice futures gained for a third day in
Zhengzhou, bringing the advance this week to as much as 3.9
percent. The 2.2 percent rise on May 23 was the biggest since
Feb. 11.  “The drought’s overall impact on grain production isn’t
clear yet,” Ma said. “More acreage was planted with the early
indica rice crop, so whether output drops depends a lot on
future rain.”  The central government has sent water pumps and diesel
generators to help Hubei and Hunan combat the drought.  “The water supply prospects for hydropower companies isn’t
good at all as major basin areas are facing severe shortages,”
the Hunan branch of the State Electricity Regulatory Commission
said in a statement posted on the regulator’s website on May 16.  Power Shortages  A drop in hydropower risks exacerbating electricity
shortages that China State Grid Corp. said may be more severe
than the summer of 2004, the worst on record, according to a May
23 report by Xinhua News Agency.  China slashed exports of diesel by almost half last month
to ensure supply of the fuel used in power generation, data
released yesterday by the Beijing-based General Administration
of Customs showed.  The drought may push up demand for coal for power
generation, UBS AG said on May 5.  “While coal burn is likely to rise as baseload generation,
diesel’s usage as the swing fuel for power could easily
translate into an additional 200,000 to 300,000 barrels a day of
potential oil demand,” Amrita Sen, a London-based oil analyst
at  Barclays Capital , said in a report last week.  Baseload power is delivered at a steady rate around the
clock, while diesel is more suited to meeting spikes in demand.  --Yidi Zhao and Feiwen Rong. Editor: Ben Richardson  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Yidi Zhao in
Beijing at +86-10-6649-7575 or  yzhao7@bloomberg.net  Feiwen Rong
in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or  frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  