-- 
China Unicom Offers $10 IPhone Package Amid Competition

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-24T22:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/china-unicom-offers-10-iphone-package-amid-competition.html
China  Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.,
China’s second-biggest mobile-phone operator, offered a
cheaper iPhone package amid rising competition with larger
rival  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  in the world’s biggest wireless-phone
market.  The Beijing-based company started offering a 66-yuan-a-
month ($10) plan for the iPhone after previously setting the
lowest-priced package at 96 yuan, President Lu Yimin said
yesterday after meeting shareholders in Hong Kong.  Unicom beat China Mobile in 2009 to become the first
carrier in the country to offer the iPhone. China Mobile is
boosting investment in its network of wireless hotspots to
attract users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s best-selling handset, while
China Telecom Corp. is also in talks with the U.S. company to
introduce the product.  “It is a trend” for rival carriers to offer services
based on the iPhone device, Chief Executive Officer Chang Xiaobing said yesterday. “We don’t have a choice in this,
and must be ready to face this environment.”  Demand for the iPhone will help Unicom exceed its target
of adding 25 million customers for its 3G, or third-
generation, services this year, Lu said.  China Mobile, whose 3G network technology isn’t
supported by the iPhone, has 4 million subscribers using the
Apple handset through the company’s network of Wi-Fi hotspots,
Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  said last week. Wang said he expects
Apple to develop an iPhone for the fourth-generation
technology that the company hopes to commercialize next year.  Unicom fell 1.5 percent to HK$16.02 in Hong Kong trading
yesterday. The stock has gained 44 percent this year,
compared with a 10 percent decline for China Mobile, the
world’s biggest carrier by users.  Service Contract  Unicom, the only carrier in China offering the iPhone
with a service contract, added 1.82 million 3G subscribers
for a total of 20.4 million in April, the company said this
month. That lagged behind the 29.4 million 3G users for China
Mobile, whose total customer base of 606.2 million is almost
double Unicom’s 323.6 million.  China Telecom, the country’s biggest fixed-line carrier,
is in talks with Apple to offer a CDMA version of the iPhone,
Chairman Wang Xiaochu said last week.  China Mobile said last week it cut call rates by an
average of at least 15 percent for some customers. Still,
Unicom’s Chang said yesterday he sees “little room” for
carriers to lower tariffs further.  Unicom plans to sell more short-term notes and bonds to
finance the company’s expansion, Executive Director Tong Jilu
said yesterday, without elaborating.  --Edmond Lococo,  Mark Lee . Editors: Terje Langeland, Joshua
Fellman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  