-- 
New Jersey Supreme Court Orders Christie to Restore Some School Fund Cuts

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s ,   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-05-24T17:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/christie-s-fight-to-remove-school-funds-overruled-by-new-jersey-high-court.html
The New Jersey Supreme Court ordered
Governor  Chris Christie  to increase aid to the state’s poorest
school districts by $500 million next fiscal year, while saying
it couldn’t order the $1.6 billion advocates wanted.  The court  ruled  3-2 that current spending levels violated
the School Funding Reform Act of 2008, which lays out a formula
to support the districts. Christie, a first-term Republican, and
the Democratic-controlled Legislature failed to honor their
constitutional obligations to adequately fund the 31 poorest
school systems, known as Abbott  districts , the court said.  “Their right to full funding is a constitutional
mandate,” the Trenton-based court ruled. “Schoolchildren from
the Abbott districts cannot be deprived of the full SFRA
funding.”  The majority, citing the Office of Legislative Services,
estimated that it would cost $500 million to fully fund the
poorest districts in the budget that starts in July.  The
Education Law Center , a Newark-based advocate for the poorest
districts, asked the  Supreme Court  to restore $1.6 billion to
all school districts statewide.  Separation of Powers  Christie, 48, said he would follow the court’s order, which
he called bad education and fiscal policy. The decision
oversteps the separation of powers and usurps the authority of
the governor and Legislature to set spending levels, he said.  “I’ve gotta comply with what the court ordered because I
have a constitutional obligation to do so,” Christie said today
at a news conference in Trenton. “The ball is now fully in the
Legislature’s court.”  The $500 million is about how much more tax revenue
Christie’s treasurer, Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, said last week
the state would have through June 2012 than he predicted in
February. The treasurer attributed the windfall to rising
income-tax collections, and said it should be used to increase
property-tax rebates and the state’s pension contribution.  Christie had previously said that the education cuts were
needed to balance the budget and that the court should let him
resolve the question with the Legislature. He warned of
“unthinkable” reductions in other state programs if the court
ruled against him.  July 1 Deadline  The governor, who cut $1.3 billion of school aid since
taking office in January 2010, said the decision leaves
lawmakers with just over a month to reconcile the budget and
pass a balanced plan by a July 1 constitutional deadline.  Giving more money to the Abbott districts won’t improve
them, Christie said. The governor is pushing to change teacher
tenure, link pay to performance and make it easier to fire
educators deemed ineffective.  “This will just be another $500 million in taxpayer money
that will be thrown at the Abbott districts and still, ninth-
graders in  Newark  still have a 23 percent chance of graduating -
- whether we spend another $500 million or not,” Christie said.  The court, which previously upheld the constitutionality of
the 2008 funding formula, ruled that it wouldn’t order a
restoration of spending in the current budget year. Had the SFRA
been fully funded, districts would have received $8.45 billion
in school funding in the current budget instead of the $6.85
billion allocated, according to the ruling.  ‘Conscious and Calculated’  “The state made a conscious and calculated decision to
underfund the SFRA formula when enacting” the current budget,
the majority ruled. “It was not inadvertent or a mistaken
exercise of governmental authority. It directly contravened
representations made by the state when procuring relief from
prior judicial remedial orders.”  Justice Jaynee LaVecchia, a Republican appointee, wrote the
majority opinion. She was joined by Judge Edwin Stern, a lower-
court judge sitting temporarily. Justice Barry Albin, a
Democrat, wrote a separate, concurring opinion. Justice Robert Rivera-Soto, a Republican who plans to retire in September,
dissented, as did Justice Helen Hoens, a Republican.  Chief Justice Stuart Rabner, a Democrat who worked in
former Governor  Jon Corzine ’s administration when the 2008
school-aid formula was developed, and Justice Virginia Long, a
Republican, didn’t participate in the vote.  ‘Same Disadvantages’  Albin, in his separate opinion, said he would order funding
for all 205 school districts that weren’t receiving enough money
to provide a “thorough and efficient education.” Those
districts “were constitutionally shortchanged” by a total of
$972.9 million for fiscal 2011, Albin wrote.  “The at-risk children in the 187 underfunded non-Abbott
districts suffer from the same disadvantages of poverty as the
children in the former Abbott districts,” Albin wrote. “I will
not deny the remedy of a constitutionally adequate education to
at-risk children in 31 districts because I believe the same
remedy should be provided to at-risk children in 187 other
districts.”  Suburban Districts  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford Democrat,
said the state’s higher-than-projected tax revenue should be
used to increase aid to all 205 underfunded districts in light
of the decision.  “The governor, who as a candidate promised no school cuts,
was well aware that his draconian cuts to education were
illegal,” Sweeney said in a statement. “The governor has
learned that his actions have consequences. Adequate funding and
quality education are not urban-versus-rural or suburban issues.
Education is a New Jersey issue.”  The litigation, in a case known as Abbott v. Burke, has
vexed governors and lawmakers for three decades.  During arguments to the court, Christie’s lawyer, Peter Verniero, said that ordering funding restored would violate the
state’s constitutional obligation to balance the budget.  `Thorough and Efficient'  Education Law Center attorney David G. Sciarra had argued
that failing to restore the funding would violate the
constitution’s guarantee of a “thorough and efficient system of
free public schools.” A state court judge studied the issue and
reached the same conclusion in March, saying the next step was
up to the Supreme Court.  Sciarra didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Christie as far back as his 2009 campaign accused the
seven-member  high court  of “legislating from the bench” and
forcing governors and lawmakers to raise spending to comply with
its decisions. Last year, he angered Democrats with a decision
to replace Justice John Wallace, the only black and the first
sitting justice to be denied tenure since the current state
Constitution was adopted in 1947.  Court Truce  That move prompted Sweeney to block Christie’s nominee,
Anne Murray Patterson, and led Rabner to name Stern as a
temporary replacement for Wallace. Christie and Sweeney ended
their impasse earlier this month, agreeing to have Patterson
considered for Rivera-Soto’s vacancy instead of Wallace’s.  Christie, 48, has become a national Republican star after
battling government unions and slashing spending to close a
$10.7 billion deficit without raising taxes. At home, his
disapproval rating rose in the past three months.  Forty-four percent of those surveyed by Fairleigh Dickinson
University’s PublicMind from May 16-22 disapproved of his
performance as governor, compared with 41 percent in an April
survey, the school said. It was Christie’s biggest disapproval
rating since he took office.  The case is Abbott v. Burke, M-1293, New Jersey Supreme
Court (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in New York at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Nj Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  