-- 
Christie Negative Ratings Rise to Record Among New Jersey Voters in Poll

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-05-24T14:55:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/christie-negative-ratings-rise-to-record-among-new-jersey-voters-in-poll.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s
ratings turned more negative this month as the percentage of
voters giving him low job-performance scores climbed to the
highest since he took office in January 2010, a survey found.  Christie, a first-term Republican, is doing a fair or poor
job according to 60 percent of voters queried, up from 55
percent last month, according to a PublicMind poll released
today by Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison, New Jersey.  Fewer people had a “favorable” opinion of the 48-year-old
governor -- 40 percent, down from 47 percent in April. At the
same time, 45 percent had an “unfavorable” view of him, up
from 41 percent last month and the highest since he took office,
the poll shows.  “May may be good for flowers, but it’s not so good for the
governor,”  Peter Woolley , director of the PublicMind polling
institute, said in a statement. “May is budget tensions in
Trenton, budget battles in towns and budget disappointments in
school districts.”  The telephone survey was conducted May 16-22, when
lawmakers were deliberating Christie’s proposed $29.4 billion
spending plan for the 2012 fiscal year, which starts in July.  Approval Split  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, said in an e-
mail that polls are “snapshots” and declined to comment on the
findings.  Forty-four percent of those surveyed disapproved of his
performance as governor, compared with 41 percent in an April
survey, the school said. It was Christie’s biggest disapproval
rating since he took office.  Christie’s disapproval rating also climbed in a Monmouth
University  survey  released May 18. Forty-nine percent of
residents disapproved of the governor, up 9 points since
February and the most negative rating since he took office.  In the PublicMind poll, the shift was most pronounced among
women, with 53 percent disapproving of his job performance and
36 percent of men giving him a similar rating. Woolley said the
difference presented a “dramatic contrast” in the views of the
two groups.  Voters who said the state should cut programs rather than
raise taxes dropped to 54 percent from 64 percent in April.
Those who said the state should raise levies first slipped to 25
percent from 26 percent.  Researchers questioned 804 registered voters statewide,
producing a survey with a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in  New Jersey  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  