-- 
Chrysler Repays U.S., Canadian Governments as Fiat Increases Stake to 46%

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-05-24T19:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/chrysler-repays-u-s-canadian-loans-as-fiat-increases-ownership-to-46-.html
Chrysler Group LLC repaid $7.6
billion in U.S. and Canadian government loans, and  Fiat SpA (F) 
increased its stake in the automaker as it plans an initial
public offering.  The U.S. government was repaid $5.9 billion, and Export
Development  Canada , which holds the debt for Canada and the
Ontario provincial government, received $1.7 billion, Auburn
Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler said today in a filing. Repaying
the loans allowed Fiat to boost its stake in Chrysler to 46
percent from 30 percent.  “In the eyes of most, Chrysler had been condemned to
death,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive of both automakers,
said today in a speech at the company’s plant in  Sterling
Heights ,  Michigan . “Repayment of our government loans closes an
important chapter in our history.”  Chrysler retired the loans by issuing new debt and using
money Turin, Italy-based Fiat paid to increase its stake. The
repayment comes almost two years after Chrysler emerged from
U.S. government-backed bankruptcy reorganization that gave
control of the automaker to Fiat.  “They’ve made remarkable strides,” David Cole, chairman
emeritus at the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan, said in a telephone interview. “They’re in a position
to be successful.”  Marchionne is preparing to sell Chrysler shares to the
public later this year or in 2012, depending upon market
conditions and cash needs.  Chrysler Profit  Chrysler’s global sales rose 18 percent during the first
quarter compared to last year, helped by increasing deliveries
of the Jeep and Dodge brands. The automaker earlier this month
reported a first-quarter net profit of $116 million, its first
under Fiat.  Marchionne is pushing Chrysler to raise global sales 32
percent to 2 million vehicles this year and turn its first
annual net profit since emerging from bankruptcy reorganization.  Marchionne has said he expects to get an additional 5
percent stake in Chrysler by the end of the year, giving Fiat 51
percent ownership.  Chrysler said it has more than $10 billion in liquidity
following the repayment of the loans.  The U.S. government now owns 6.6 percent of Chrysler, the
Canadian governments own 1.7 percent and a retiree health-care
trust managed by the United Auto Workers union holds 45.7
percent, Eileen Wunderlich, a Chrysler spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. The Treasury said today it isn’t likely to recover its
remaining $1.9 billion investment in Chrysler.  Jobs Saved  Ron Bloom , President  Barack Obama ’s special assistant for
manufacturing policy, said the loans to Chrysler and General
Motors Co. were a success because they saved jobs.  “Outsiders have concluded that had we not acted, 1 million
jobs would have been lost,” Bloom said in a speech. “Since GM
and Chrysler emerged from bankruptcy, the  auto industry  has
added 115,000 jobs.”  The government will be “opportunistic” in selling its
remaining stakes in GM and Chrysler, Bloom said in an interview.  “It doesn’t mean as soon as possible,” he said. “It also
doesn’t mean being a long-term investor.”  Fiat has options to increase its Chrysler stake to more
than 70 percent, Chrysler said this month in a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Those options include
the right to buy the  U.S. Treasury ’s remaining stake in the 12
months after it repays the government.  UAW Stake  Fiat also has an option to acquire 40 percent of the
original stake held by the UAW retiree health-care trust,
Chrysler said. The option is exercisable from July 1, 2012, to
Dec. 31, 2016, and in amounts of as much as 8 percent in any
six-month period, according to the filing.  Fiat may be eager to increase its ownership in Chrysler
before the U.S. automaker’s IPO,  Max Warburton , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in  London , wrote in a note to investors.  Marchionne is “acutely aware that acquiring additional
equity in Chrysler once listed will prove to be more expensive
than is currently the case,” he said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  advised Chrysler on the financing,
and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  advised the automaker’s finance
committee, Chrysler said. Lazard Ltd. advised the Treasury on
the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  