-- 
CICC Said to Become First Local Brokerage to Manage Trust

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-24T03:51:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/cicc-said-to-become-first-chinese-brokerage-to-take-control-of-trust-firm.html
China  International Capital Corp.,
the nation’s top-ranked investment bank last year, is set to
become the first domestic securities firm to take control of a
trust, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  CICC expects to get approval from the banking regulator in
about a month to buy 35 percent of Hangzhou-based Zheshang Trust
Co., said the person, who declined to be identified as the
information is confidential. CICC will name Managing Director
John Cheng as general manager of Zheshang and appoint most
executives for the first three years, the person said.  Acquiring the trust would allow Beijing-based CICC’s
clients to lend to companies by buying credit-related trust
products, the person said. Foreign rivals including  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  have invested in the trusts, which charge higher loan
rates and offer more financial products, as policy makers
grappling with spiraling inflation tighten curbs on local banks.  “Trust companies are like department stores for the
financial sector,” said  Li Yang , an analyst at Use Trust, a
Nanchang-based consulting and research firm for the Chinese
trust industry. “Securities companies can expand their playing
field to include businesses that otherwise are off limits to
them, including lending,” using the trusts, he said.  Yang Guang, a Beijing-based spokesman at CICC, declined to
comment. A press officer at the China Banking Regulatory
Commission, who asked not to be named citing the agency’s
policies, declined to comment.  Curbs on Banks  Trusts, which are overseen by the banking regulator,
typically collect funds from individuals and companies without
guaranteeing returns and invest the proceeds.  Loans from trusts are growing in demand in China, the
world’s second-biggest economy, after the central bank this
month raised  reserve requirements  for the biggest lenders to a
record 21 percent to restrain inflation and lending that
exceeded economists’ estimates in April. Lenders last month were
also ordered to conduct new stress tests on property loans and
demand faster repayment on government debt.  The measures led Chinese banks to dole out 2.24 trillion
yuan of new loans in the first quarter, 14 percent less than the
same period a year ago, according to the central bank.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the nation’s largest,
in March said it will expand credit at the slowest pace in three
years.  Those restrictions have led Chinese developers, for
instance, to pay interest and fees totaling 17 percent to 20
percent of loans to borrow from  trust companies , according to a
May 17 report to clients from Standard Chartered Plc.  Investors in Trusts  Foreign banks that have bought stakes in Chinese trusts
include New York-based Morgan Stanley and Barclays Plc.  Morgan Stanley in 2008 got regulatory approval to buy 19.9
percent of Hangzhou Industrial & Commercial Trust Co. The Wall
Street bank is now working with the trust to raise a 1.5 billion
yuan ($230 million) local currency fund for their joint venture
private equity firm, according to a May 18 statement.  A unit of London-based Barclays in 2008 acquired a 19.5
percent stake in New China Trust Co., according to the trust’s
website and annual report.  Domestic lenders led by China Construction Bank Corp., the
nation’s second largest, have also invested in such companies.
Beijing-based Construction Bank owns 67 percent of a trust
company, while smaller rival Bank of Communications Co. holds 85
percent of another.  CICC may take a 35 percent stake in a trust after its
restructuring, the 21st Century Business Herald had reported on
Dec. 28, citing a person it didn’t name.  Zhejiang International Business Group Co. , an international
trading and property development company backed by a provincial
government, holds more than 50 percent of closely held Zheshang
Trust. Three calls to Hangzhou-based Zhejiang International’s
board line weren’t answered.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  