-- 
Copper Rises as Goldman Sachs Recommends Buying on Demand Growth

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-05-24T19:16:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/copper-rises-as-goldman-sachs-recommends-buying-on-demand-growth.html
Copper futures rose in  New York  as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., one of Wall Street’s leading commodity
traders, advised investors to buy the metal.  Goldman Sachs also recommended buying zinc and crude oil,
saying economic growth will probably be strong enough to tighten
some markets with supply constraints in the second half, leading
prices to climb. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said copper is “well
supported” and “will not collapse.” Yesterday, the metal had
the biggest drop in almost two weeks.  “We believe that current copper-price levels offer an
attractive opportunity to establish long positions in the
metal,” Goldman Sachs analysts, led by the London-based head of
commodity research  Jeffrey Currie , said today in a report.  Copper futures for July delivery advanced 2.15 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $4.013 a pound at 1:12 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Yesterday, the metal fell 3.2 percent, the most since May
11.  Futures have dropped 14 percent from a record $4.6575 a
Feb. 15, partly on concern that interest-rate increases in
 China , the world’s biggest consumer of industrial metals, will
curtail demand.  “The question is not if Chinese consumption will grow by
12 percent or 9 percent, but that it is growing,” Christian Schirmeister, an executive director of JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.,
said today at a conference in  Singapore . “China physical demand
is finally beginning to show up in the nearby spreads, although
the volumes still are soft.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months gained $67, or 0.8 percent, to $8,861 a metric ton ($4.02
a pound). Aluminum, lead, nickel, zinc and tin also advanced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 