-- 
Cory Lidle Planemaker Cirrus Cleared by Jury in Crash That Killed Yankee

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-24T21:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/cory-lidle-planemaker-cirrus-cleared-by-jury-in-crash-that-killed-yankee.html
Cirrus Design Corp. won a jury
verdict clearing the company of liability in the death of  New
York  Yankees pitcher Cory Lidle, who was killed when his plane
slammed into a  Manhattan  building in 2006.  The jury of four men and two women returned the verdict
today in U.S. District Court in Manhattan following a four-week
trial, Duluth, Minnesota-based Cirrus Design said in a
statement. The jurors began deliberations this morning over
wrongful-death claims filed by the widows of Lidle and his
flight instructor, Tyler Stanger, who were flying Lidle’s
single-engine SR20 plane, made by Cirrus Design.  “Our hearts are with the Lidle and Stanger families who
are still grieving,” Bill King, vice president of business
administration for Cirrus Design, said in the statement. “We’re
gratified that the jury reached a decision that confirmed what
the  National Transportation Safety Board  found and what we have
always believed: the SR20 did not cause this accident.”  The women said in their February 2007 complaint that the
flight-control system failed because of a design defect, causing
Lidle and Stanger to lose control of the  aircraft . Cirrus, which
in February  agreed  to be acquired by China Aviation Industry
General Aircraft Co., said the pilots started a turn too close
to the eastern shore of Manhattan at too low an angle, leaving
them too little room to finish the maneuver.  Appeal Planned  Hunter Shkolnik, an attorney representing the widows, plans
to appeal the verdict to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan.
Shkolnik said he had asked the jury to award damages of about
$43.5 million -- $40 million to Lidle’s family and $3.5 million
to Stanger’s relatives.  “My clients are devastated,” Shkolnik said in a telephone
interview. “We think we have some very good grounds.”  Shkolnik said he expected the verdict because U.S. District
Judge Barbara Jones didn’t allow the jury to hear that the
company changed its manufacturing processes after the accident.
The judge also refused to allow the testimony of a flight
instructor who almost crashed in the same model less than a year
earlier because of an issue with the flight controls, Shkolnik
said.  Lidle started his Major League Baseball career with the  New
York Mets  in 1997 and played for five other teams before joining
the Yankees from the  Philadelphia Phillies  in a trade in July
2006. He had a career record of 82 wins and 72 losses.  Hudson Flight  The crash came four days after the Yankees were eliminated
from the American League playoffs. Lidle and Stanger were
planning to fly from Teterboro Airport in  New Jersey  to
 California  after flying down the  Hudson River , around the Statue
of Liberty and up the East River.  About a mile north of the Queensboro Bridge, the plane
began a 180-degree turn and crashed into the 50-story Belaire, a
red-brick luxury condominium tower built in 1988, killing Lidle
and Stanger and injuring three people in the building.  The four-seat SR20, the first production aircraft fitted
with a parachute as standard equipment, smashed into the
building 332 feet (101 meters) above the street and plunged in
flames.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  restricted flights over
New York’s  East River  two days after the crash, requiring pilots
of small planes to get air-traffic controllers’ permission to
enter the corridor.  A National Transportation Safety Board  report  issued in May
2007 found that poor piloting caused the crash. A sudden, 300-
foot loss of altitude could have been caused by a loss of lift,
known as an aerodynamic stall, from the steepness of the turn,
or because the pilot lowered the plane’s nose to pick up speed
in an attempt to avoid stalling, investigators said.  The case is Lidle v. Cirrus Design Corp., 1:08-cv-01253,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  