-- 
Crackdown on ‘Monopolistic’ Slim Business Can’t Stop Rally: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-05-24T21:59:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/crackdown-on-monopolistic-slim-business-can-t-stop-rally-mexico-credit.html
America Movil  SAB, the biggest
wireless carrier in the Americas, is beating peers in the  bond
market  as investors bet Mexican regulators’ efforts to foster
competition won’t erode the company’s ability to pay debt.  The yield on America Movil’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell
22 basis points this year to 4.23 percent, compared with a
decline of 12 for global telecommunication companies, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America Corp. The
Mexico City-based company’s notes yield two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, more than debt due in 2021 sold by AT&T
Inc., the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier.  America Movil, owned by billionaire Carlos Slim, was fined
$1 billion by  Mexico ’s antitrust commission on April 15 for
anticompetitive practices, part of a series of measures aimed at
reducing the company’s market share. President Felipe Calderon
said on May 10 antitrust legislation he signed the previous day
aims to end “monopolistic behavior” by companies including
those in the telecommunications industry owned by Slim.  “The number one question is whether they’re going to get
me my money back,”  Alonso Madero , who helps oversee $5.5
billion of debt at Mexico City-based Corp. Actinver SAB, said in
a telephone interview from Mexico City. “I don’t have the
slightest doubt that with America Movil the answer is yes.”  America Movil’s bonds yield 21 basis points more than
Mexican government notes due the same year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company is rated A2, the sixth-lowest
investment grade and two steps above the Mexican government, by
Moody’s Investors Service. The average yield on Mexican
corporate bonds climbed 10 basis points this year to 6.14
percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ‘Terrific’  Moody’s has no plans to change the company’s rating based
on the latest ruling, Nymia Almeida, an analyst in Mexico City,
said in a telephone interview. America Movil had $7.9 billion in
cash and short-term investments through the first three months
of the year, according to the company’s website.  “America Movil generates a lot of cash and has a terrific
debt repayment capacity,” Almeida said. “Something far more
serious has to happen to change that.”  The company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that it
will ask the antitrust agency to reconsider the fine. America
Movil said any other legal actions the company takes are
independent of its plans to use the antitrust agency’s official
appeals process to request a review of the decision. It said it
won’t comment on any other details of the case.  Market Share  America Movil, which has 70 percent of Mexico’s wireless
market, is facing competition from  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  NII
Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , which are introducing high-speed Internet plans,
and broadcaster Grupo Televisa SA. Regulators sided with
competitors this year by cutting the fees that America Movil
wanted to charge rivals to connect calls by more than half.  “We’re not going to see America Movil drop a huge amount
of market share overnight,” Chris Buck, a corporate debt
analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s going to be a slow process. The company is
proving to be a formidable competitor. That doesn’t go out the
window.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 139, according to JPMorgan.  The peso rose 0.5 percent to 11.6922 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell one basis point to 101, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  Shares Slump  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day interbank rate
due in October fell one basis point to 4.94 percent.  America Movil’s stock sank the most in five months on April
18 after the company disclosed that the Federal Competition
Commission had assessed its fine. The shares are among the 10
worst performers in the Mexican Bolsa this year after falling 15
percent. They rose 1.2 percent today to 30.31 pesos.  Profit at America Movil’s Mexico business, including fixed-
line unit Telefonos de Mexico SAB, fell 1.2 percent to 32.4
billion pesos in the first quarter, from the same period a year
earlier, excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda. Its Brazilian profit, using the same
measure, retreated 11.2 percent to 1.6 billion reais.  ‘Potential Risk’  “There’s a potential risk here that as regulators force
America Movil to provide more access to its network that its
competitors will compete more effectively,” Drake Johnstone, an
equity analyst at Davenport & Co. in Richmond,  Virginia , said in
a telephone interview. “My concern is about the decline in
Ebitda in Mexico and  Brazil . That’s exacerbated by these
regulatory pressures.”  America Movil’s businesses outside of Mexico and plan to
provide television service will help the company weather the
increase in competition, Barclays’s Buck said.  Mexican revenue represented 40 percent of America Movil’s
156.2 billion pesos of sales while the Brazilian mobile and
fixed-line businesses made up about 25 percent. Slim, 71, is
urging regulators to allow him to offer television service over
his phone lines to compete with Grupo Televisa SA, which is
selling packages of video, voice and Internet.  “America Movil has a lot of businesses outside of Mexico,
in the rest of  Latin America ,” Buck said. “This is not the end
of the world. They really want a TV license. America Movil and
 Carlos Slim  will continue to be very important players in this
market for a long time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  