-- 
Credit Suisse Raises Switzerland’s First Dollar Covered Bonds

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-24T19:40:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/credit-suisse-to-sell-1-billion-of-five-year-covered-bonds.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  raised $1
billion in the first sale of covered bonds in the currency from
a Swiss bank.  Switzerland ’s second-biggest lender sold five-year AAA
rated notes backed by prime Swiss mortgages, according to a
banker involved in the transaction, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. The 2.6 percent
debt paid a spread of 83.2 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks raised a record $18 billion this year from dollar-
denominated covered bonds, which get the top ratings because
they’re backed by home or state-sector loans and guaranteed by
the issuer. The notes yield about 96 basis points more than
Treasuries, 31 basis points less than the start of the year,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index of U.S.
covered bonds with an average maturity of four years.  “American investors are running out of investment
opportunities in the AAA segment,” said Florian Hillenbrand, a
Munich-based analyst at UniCredit SpA. “They are already fully
loaded with Treasuries, which recently earned a negative
outlook” from  Standard & Poor’s , he said.  S&P said on April 18 that there’s a one-in-three chance of
the U.S. AAA credit rating being downgraded unless lawmakers
agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt.  Credit Suisse’s sale follows a $1.25 billion issue of five-
year covered bonds from  Norway ’s Sparebank 1 Boligkreditt
yesterday. The Oslo-based bank’s notes were priced to yield 62
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc managed the sale with Zurich-
based Credit Suisse, the banker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  