-- 
Crystal Sugar Reaches 8-Month Low in Brazil on Stepped-Up Output

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-05-24T11:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/crystal-sugar-reaches-8-month-low-in-brazil-on-stepped-up-output.html
Crystal sugar dropped to an eight-
month low in  Brazil , the world’s largest sugar producer, on
stepped-up local output.  The Cepea/Esalq crystal sugar index fell to 58.21 reais
($35.61) a 50-kilogram (110 pounds) bag on May 20, data from
Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research group, and compiled by
Bloomberg showed. That was the lowest level since Sept. 17. The
crystal variety, used to make soft drinks, chocolate and dough,
accounts for 68 percent of all sugar sold in Brazil.  “Crystal sugar prices have been dropping more expressively
in the Brazilian market,” Cepea analyst Heloisa Lee Burnquist
said in a report yesterday, adding that supply of the variety
had “picked up.” She cited stepped-up output and lower crystal
sugar prices in the domestic market in a separate report on May
16.  “Some mills are more willing to trade in this early period
of the season, rather than trading at the peak period, when
prices might be lower,” Burnquist said in the latest report.
She also said demand slowed down because buyers were “unwilling
to trade in light of expectations of a supply increase due to
the stepping up of crushing activities, which might press down
quotes.”  Sales of crystal sugar in the state of  Sao Paulo  were 10
percent more profitable than exports, Cepea calculations showed.
Producing the variety was 47 percent more profitable than making
anhydrous ethanol, the type blended into gasoline, and 73
percent more advantageous than output of hydrous ethanol, used
in flex-fuel vehicles.  Crystal sugar has an ICUMSA level of between 130 and 180,
according to the Cepea website. A lower level corresponds to a
higher degree of whiteness. Refined, or white, sugar futures
traded on NYSE Liffe in  London  call for an ICUMSA level of 45.
The ICUMSA is the International Commission for Uniform Methods
of Sugar Analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 