-- 
Gates Says Military Troop Cuts May Protect F-35, Submarine

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-05-24T22:12:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/defense-secretary-says-cuts-needed-to-protect-core-priorities.html
Outgoing U.S. Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  said the Pentagon may have to cut pay, benefits and
the size of the armed forces to reduce costs while protecting
weapons programs such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter
jet.  President  Barack Obama ’s goal of paring $400 billion over
the next 12 years from the  defense budget  won’t be accomplished
by piecemeal trimming or efficiency savings, Gates said in a
speech at the  American Enterprise Institute , a policy group in
Washington. Meeting the goal will require “real cuts” and
“real choices,” he said.  “To reduce the resources and the size of the U.S.
military, people need to make conscious choices about what the
implications are for the security of the country,” said Gates,
who plans to retire next month once the Senate likely confirms
his successor, Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta.  “To shirk this discussion of risks and consequences and
the hard decisions that must follow, I would regard as
managerial cowardice,” said Gates, 67, who first entered
government service in 1966.  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new Air Force refueling tanker and Lockheed
Martin’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter are among the programs that
must be retained, Gates said. Other priorities include building
more Navy ships and replacing its ballistic missile submarine
fleet, he said.  $400 Billion Review  Speaking at AEI, a group that he said generally backs
increases in defense spending, Gates sought to lay the
groundwork for cuts beyond the $78 billion he proposed in
January, as Obama aims to lower the  U.S. budget deficit . The
Pentagon last week began a review of priorities, strategy and
risks to meet the target of holding national security spending
$400 billion below current projections, to a level just below
inflation.  “There is going to be a considerable amount of pressure on
the Pentagon’s budget beyond what we’ve seen already,”
Christopher Preble, director of foreign policy studies at the
 Cato Institute  in Washington, told the AEI audience after
Gates’s address. “The question is how do you balance roles and
missions and rethink roles and missions in a way that does not
result in a hollowing out of the force.”  ‘Modest Gains’  The deficit itself might become a national security risk if
not reduced, Gates said. “What’s being proposed by the
President is nothing close to the dramatic cuts of the past,”
he said.  Gates questioned the results of what he said was a near-
doubling of spending on new weapons after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terror attacks. The more than $700 billion in additional
spending over the past 10 years “resulted in relatively modest
gains in actual military capability.”  While defense spending isn’t the cause of the nation’s
fiscal woes, the Pentagon can’t be spared in addressing them,
Gates said.  “As a matter of simple arithmetic and political reality,
the  Department of Defense  must at least be part of the
solution,” he said.  Gates reiterated his push for targeted cuts rather than
“taking a percentage off the top of everything.” He cited his
efforts in the past two years, canceling more than 30 programs
that otherwise would have cost $300 billion and plowing the
savings into higher priorities such as a bomber for the  Air
Force  and a ground-combat vehicle for the Army.  Cuts Harder  The most questionable weapons programs no longer exist, he
said, making today’s cuts harder.  The Pentagon review will consider spending areas that
politicians have avoided, Gates said, including pay, retirement
benefits, health care and the size of the armed forces.  “The overarching goal will be to preserve a U.S. military
capable of meeting crucial national security priorities even if
fiscal pressure requires reductions,” he said.  Gates recalled that he went to Congress during both of his
first two years in office seeking a slight increase in fees
under the military’s Tricare health plan “and got my head
lopped off. So the third year, I didn’t try.”  He’s trying again this year.  Gates also called for a more flexible retirement system to
retain military and civilian personnel with critical skills. The
current system provides full retirement benefits to those who
have served for 20 years or more, giving them “every incentive
to leave,” even if the military needs them.  Troop Benefits  About 70 percent of the military force doesn’t stay for
retirement. “Somebody who serves for 10 years leaves with
nothing,” Gates said. “That doesn’t make any sense. That’s not
fair.”  Administrative costs offer potential savings, Gates said,
while calling his search for such cuts in the past year
“disappointing.” They amounted to less than $1 billion from
organizations that account for $64 billion in annual spending,
he said.  Gates called them “an amalgam of fiefdoms without
centralized mechanisms to allocate resources, track expenditures
and measure results.”  “There are still too many headquarters, offices and
agencies employing too many high-ranking personnel and
contractors consuming too many resources relative to real
military missions and measurable results,” Gates said.  Analysts, including Michael O’Hanlon, director of research
at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington , said they’re
skeptical Congress will follow Gates into controversial terrain,
at least before the 2012 general election.  “We have a fundamental conflict going on in the Congress
between deficit hawks and defense hawks that seems almost
irreconcilable,” said Danielle Pletka, vice president of
foreign and defense policy studies at AEI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  