-- 
Defending Champ Nadal Recovers to Oust Isner in Five Sets at French Open

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-24T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/defending-champ-nadal-recovers-to-oust-isner-in-five-sets-at-french-open.html
Rafael Nadal  trailed 2-1 in sets
after an error-strewn start to the defense of his French Open
title. He turned it around with tennis that his American
opponent said was some of the best he’s ever seen.  “What it came down to is the way he played in the fourth
and fifth sets,”  John Isner  told reporters after his 6-4, 6-7
(2-7), 6-7 (2-7), 6-2, 6-4 loss yesterday. “I haven’t seen
tennis like that ever.”  With his No. 1 ranking on the line, along with the
continued pursuit of a record-tying sixth French Open title,
Nadal tied the first-round match with an error-free fourth set
before completing the recovery by attacking his opponent’s serve
with powerful returns.  “Tough, tough moments for me,” Nadal told reporters. “I
didn’t play well the tiebreaks. I played too nervous.”  Nadal, 24, won his only five-set match at the  French Open 
to avoid his first opening-round exit at a Grand Slam tournament
and the ignominy of becoming the only defending men’s champion
to lose in round one at Roland Garros.  The victory takes the Spaniard’s record at the clay-court
major to 39-1, his only loss having come in 2009 to  Robin Soderling  in the round of 16.  Unless he wins the second major of the year, Nadal will
relinquish his No. 1 ranking to Novak Djokovic, the Serb who
beat him in the finals of Rome and Madrid before Roland Garros.
Even if Nadal ties Bjorn Borg’s record of six titles, Djokovic
will still top the rankings if he reaches the final.  Djokovic vs. Hanescu  Djokovic, whose unbeaten run since the start of 2011 stands
at 38 matches, plays Victor Hanescu of  Romania  today in the
second round.  Former champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  faces  France ’s
Maxime Teixeira, women’s top seed  Caroline Wozniacki  plays
 Canada ’s Aleksandra Wozniak and defending women’s champion
Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  meets  Russia ’s Vesna Dolonts.  Nadal, a nine-time major champion, looked to be in command
of yesterday’s match, leading by a set and by 4-2 in the second.
Isner then broke back for 4-4 and won the set in a tiebreak as
Nadal committed unforced errors from the baseline.  In the third set, Isner kept Nadal under pressure by
rushing to the net and overcame two set points at 6-5 down with
a pair of service winners.  Booming Serves  In the tiebreak, the 6-foot-9 (2.05 meter) American sent
down serves as fast as 229 kilometers per hour (142 mph) to take
a 3-0 lead.  Nadal then dumped a forehand into the net to hand his
opponent four set points. Isner shouted and pumped his fist when
he won the set with a forehand return.  “I had the match under control and then I didn’t have
chances to win the second and the third,” said Nadal, who made
21 unforced errors in the first three sets.  The champion turned it around when he had to, producing
eight winners and no errors as he twice broke Isner’s serve to
win the fourth set.  “The first break of the fourth was very, very important
for me,” Nadal said. “Because if I go to another tiebreak, I
would have been in big danger. So when I won the fourth, I know
in the fifth there is no tiebreak. So I felt a little bit more
confident.”  Nadal broke Isner’s serve early in the decider.  “It was just too good,” Isner said. “He basically hit
three return winners.”  The Spaniard said he hadn’t been intimidated by Isner’s
reputation as a five-set fighter. The 26-year-old last year won
the longest match in tennis history, an 11-hour, 5-minute
marathon against Nicolas Mahut at Wimbledon.  “I have a good record, too, in five setters,” said Nadal,
who has won 15 of the 18 he’s played. “That gave me confidence
when I was in the fifth set.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  