-- 
Draghi Channeling Bradley Deploys Self-Reliance in Crisis at ECB

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-05-25T13:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/draghi-channeling-bill-bradley-deploys-self-reliance-through-ecb-in-crisis.html
On the basketball court of Rome’s
Liceo Massimo high school about five decades ago, Mario Draghi
modeled his playing on that of future Hall of Fame hoopster and
U.S. Senator Bill Bradley, then shooting for Olimpia Milano.  Former teammates say the drive and attention to detail that
shaped Bradley’s career also are hallmarks of Draghi, the Bank
of Italy governor who is set to be the next president of the
 European Central Bank . From worshipping “Dollar Bill,” Draghi
stands to inherit the title of “Mr. Euro,” the No. 2 monetary-
policy maker after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke.  “He was a perfectionist, certainly competitive, definitely
a team player,” said Paolo Vigevano, chief executive officer of
electricity trading company Acquirente Unico SpA and a former
center to Draghi’s guard. “He has always lived with the same
determination in all the jobs he has been asked to do.”  The father of two, who lost both of his own parents as a
teenager, will need such determination as he becomes the ECB’s
third chief since the euro began trading a dozen years ago. From
Jean-Claude Trichet Draghi will inherit a central bank that’s at
loggerheads with governments over how to resolve a sovereign
debt crisis ricocheting through  Europe .  Inflation Tensions  Inflation is rising at the fastest rate in more than two
years and the bond yields of  Greece , Portugal and Ireland are
close to euro-area records, exacerbating a two-speed economy
across the 17-country bloc.  “Monetary policy will take into account the emergence of
fresh inflationary tensions,” Draghi said today at a conference
in Berlin. “To ensure financial stability in a monetary union
three conditions must in each member country be satisfied: price
stability, fiscal discipline, national economic policies
conducive to growth. The first was and is ensured by the ECB,
but in some countries we do not have the second and the third.”  In his 63 years, Draghi has worked as an economics
professor in Italy, a financial diplomat at the  World Bank , a
bureaucrat at his country’s Treasury and a banker at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  He has sat since 2006 on the ECB’s governing
council and chaired an international panel of regulators charged
with revising the rules of international finance.  Firm, Polite  “Mario has strong views, which he expresses firmly but
politely,” said Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer, who
taught at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the mid-1970s
when Draghi received a doctorate there. “He doesn’t bang on
tables and things like that. But he knows what he wants and he’s
been very successful.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank itself has undergone a
revolution in recent years. The credit crunch and subsequent
debt turmoil forced it to ease lending to banks, buy 75 billion
euros ($105.6 billion) of debt from stressed nations and cut
 interest rates  to a low of 1 percent, all while Draghi was on
the governing council.  “The role has changed since Trichet was appointed,” said
former U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling, who
knows Draghi from Group of Seven summits. “The ECB is buying
bonds from some countries and he’s had experience with that.”  Draghi must coalesce the 23-member governing council around
a plan to unwind the stimulus and aid measures and at the same
time help it play a greater role in financial regulation. That
marks a shift from when Trichet took the post in 2003: He was
able to wait more than two years before shifting interest rates.  Following Trichet  Laurent Bilke, a former ECB economist who is now head of
European interest rate strategy at Nomura International Plc in
 London , says he expects Draghi to maintain Trichet’s direction
on rates after the central bank lifted its benchmark a quarter
point to 1.25 percent in April.  Where he may differ from the incumbent is on debt
restructuring, which Trichet has opposed in the case of Greece
even as it struggles to tackle its 329-billion euro debt burden.
Finance chiefs last month began floating the idea of asking
bondholders to voluntarily extend Greek’s repayments.  “What can evolve is the ECB’s opposition to any form of
restructuring,” said Bilke. “They’ll have to change because
they’ve taken an extreme position and a number of governments
are now pushing in a different direction.”  As the ECB raised its key rate in April, inflation was
accelerating to 2.8 percent, the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years. It
was a breach of the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a fifth month. The
focus on headline inflation differs from the Fed, whose policy
makers have signaled no imminent change to their near zero
benchmark as they ignore more volatile food and energy prices
and follow their mandate to also support employment.  Addicted Banks  Other ECB challenges include deciding how to deal with
banks addicted to ECB aid and whether to revamp how the bank
auctions securities, said  Gilles Moec , a former Bank of France
economist and now co-head of European economics research at
Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Draghi has known hard times in the past: He was orphaned in
high school when his parents died within months of each other,
leaving him the oldest of three children. At the time, he was
getting a Jesuit education under headmaster Father Franco Rozzi,
a philosophy professor known for constantly challenging students
by asking “why” whenever they presented answers.  “The school was very difficult, with Mass early in the
morning and long hours hitting the books,” said Giancarlo Magalli, a schoolmate and now a  talk-show  host on state-owned
television network Rai SpA. While Magalli was expelled, Draghi
“was very polite, well educated and funny.”  ‘Serious Boy’  Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, now the chairman of Ferrari
SpA, remembers Draghi as a “serious boy” whom classmates would
turn to for help and also rib for his elegant attire.  “Mario was never uncombed, he was always tidy,” said
Montezemolo. “Those of us who sat in the classroom behind him
tried to find a fault in the way he was combed or dressed, but
he was always so perfect and paid attention to details.”  Draghi went on to graduate from La Sapienza University of
 Rome , where he studied under Keynesian economist Federico Caffe,
before heading to  MIT , where Bernanke also was a student. The
Italian was taught by Nobel laureates Franco Modigliani and
Robert Solow, who said he expected Draghi to become an academic
as well.  World Bank   After a professorship at the University of Florence and a
time advising the Bank of Italy, Draghi became his country’s
representative to the World Bank in  Washington  before returning
to the finance ministry in Rome in 1991 as its director general.  Just months later, Italy was being whipped by a currency
crisis that forced it to devalue the lira 3.5 percent and then
quit Europe’s exchange rate mechanism, a precursor to the euro.
Draghi began more than $100 billion of asset sales.  “Privatization is a fundamental component in keeping the
deficit within the limits of the European single currency,” he
said in March 1998 testimony to the Italian parliament.  On the block went stakes in energy companies  Eni SpA (ENI)  and
 Enel SpA (ENEL) , as well as telephone company  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and
Banca Nazionale del Lavoro SpA. The windfall earned Draghi the
nickname “Super Mario” in local newspapers, after the computer
game developed by Nintendo Co. in the 1980s.  “His experience at the Italian treasury in the pre-euro
days has given him a hands-on experience with the challenges of
a seemingly unsustainable sovereign debt,” said  General
Electric Co. (GE)  Chief Economist  Marco Annunziata .  Draghi Law  Draghi also wrote 1998 legislation that overhauled Italian
financial market rules. The measure forced companies to pay more
attention to corporate governance and gave additional powers to
internal auditors and minority shareholders.  Goldman Sachs hired him in January 2002 to “develop and
execute business” as a London-based managing director and vice
chairman of its international division. By November 2004 he had
joined the firm’s global management committee, a two-dozen-
strong executive including then-Chief Executive Officer and
future U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson .  Draghi stayed three years at Goldman Sachs, often traveling
to its London office by subway rather than using a company-paid
limousine.  In 2005 he was named to succeed Italian central bank
governor Antonio Fazio, who resigned in the face of two criminal
probes into whether he favored Italian lenders in takeover
battles. The bank’s reputation had already been tarnished by its
failure to detect the financial fraud behind the 2003 bankruptcy
of Parmalat Finanziaria SpA.  Saint Sebastian  The banks Fazio had sought to protect were taken over and
lenders were encouraged to consider more mergers. Draghi
streamlined the central bank’s sprawling branch network.  Draghi also changed the tone within Palazzo Koch, the 19th
century Rome headquarters. He removed the portrait of an arrow-
riddled Saint Sebastian that had hung above Fazio’s desk, to be
replaced by abstract works by Italian artists.  Staff members were allowed to access the Internet from
their desks and to carry Blackberries, as he did. He came to be
called “Governatore atermico,” the cold-resistant governor,
for his penchant for avoiding coats.  Outside  Italy , Draghi was named chairman of what became
known as the  Financial Stability Board , a panel of regulators
now charged with revamping the rules of global finance to avoid
a repeat of the global financial crisis.  Banker Pay  While the board published guidelines on  bank pay policies 
and central clearing of over-the counter derivatives, Simon Johnson, former chief economist at the  International Monetary
Fund , criticized Draghi for not pushing for more capital buffers
at banks. He predicted the incoming chairman won’t do so when at
the ECB either.  “I don’t hear that he was pushing for more capital,” said
Johnson, a Bloomberg News contributor. “Some say the ECB should
just focus on inflation targeting, but I think regulation is an
essential central bank function.”  Italy’s own finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, has clashed
with Draghi. He attacked the governor’s regulatory push at a
meeting of European finance chiefs in Paris in December 2008.
While Draghi was addressing the other ministers, Tremonti told
reporters it would be “stupid to listen or take lessons from
people who don’t understand anything.”  Draghi began this year with only an outside chance of
ending it as Europe’s central bank chief. While Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi had made him the only candidate to be publicly
nominated, investors were betting Bundesbank President Axel Weber would win the job.  Goldman Swaps  Then Weber announced his resignation in February, telling
Der Spiegel there was a lack of “acceptance” among euro-area
leaders for his views on monetary policy.  At the time, authorities in Europe were questioning Goldman
Sachs’s involvement in currency swaps that helped Greece hide
the extent of its deficit and debt. A 2010 inquiry by the
government in Athens uncovered a series of deals with securities
firms, saying that they may have allowed it to mask the real
state of the public finances.  Draghi’s office released a statement in February 2010
denying he had any involvement in the Greek trades, and Draghi
said in interviews that he had focused only on private
investors.  Bild, Germany’s biggest selling newspaper, expressed
concerns about Draghi’s inflation-fighting credentials in
February with a headline that declared: “Please not this
Italian! Mamma mia, for Italians inflation belongs to life like
tomato sauce to pasta!”  Wooing Merkel  He also had to deal with  Chancellor Angela Merkel , who was
sliding in the polls after signing up her taxpayers to bailouts
for Greece, Ireland and Portugal. She was under pressure to
ensure the next ECB chief shared Germany’s support for hard
currency, balanced budgets and low inflation.  Draghi used newspaper interviews to describe Germany as a
model for the rest of the euro area, while calling for tougher
sanctions for budget-rule breaches and vowing to ensure price
stability.  The charm offensive paid off. Merkel announced her support
for Draghi on May 11, calling him a “very interesting and
experienced” man who shared Germany’s “ideas of the stability
culture and solid economic policy.” Five days later he was
endorsed by all 17 of the euro area’s finance ministers;
national leaders are to affirm his nomination by June 24.  Triple Champion  Bradley, 67, who was a senator from New Jersey from 1979 to
1997, was the first player ever to win a triple basketball
championship: He was on the U.S. team that won the Olympic gold
medal in 1964 and then, after taking Milano to the European
title in 1966, won two NBA championships with the New York
Knicks.  He was known for a peripheral vision of 195 degrees, which
he developed as a teenager by looking straight ahead and trying
to see into store windows at the same time. His basketball
skills were honed by dribbling around chairs while wearing
glasses that kept him from seeing the ball. He  practiced  three
hours a day during the week and five hours on weekends.  Draghi may try to deploy his idol’s skills as he takes the
court in Frankfurt against Europe’s debt crisis.  “Mario has always been very serious,” said Montezemolo,
the Ferrari chairman. “He remained like that throughout his
life. The institution that  Mario Draghi  will lead is one of the
most important for our future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  