-- 
The Case for a Non-European IMF Leader

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-05-24T18:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/the-case-for-a-non-european-imf-leader.html
The debate over choosing the next
managing director of the  International Monetary Fund  is
ostensibly about whether its succession process is transparent
and merit-based. But this is code for a more important issue -–
whether the time has come for Western  Europe  to give up control
of the IMF. There is a valid economic case that the next chief
should come not from Europe, as tradition dictates, but from one
of the emerging markets. India,  South Africa ,  China , Mexico and
 Brazil  all have strong candidates.  One reason to make the shift now is that the IMF needs to
rebuild its legitimacy in the emerging economies, particularly
in  Asia . The fund was criticized for causing severe damage in
its handling of the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis. Not all the
critiques were fair, but Asian leaders correctly feel they
received far less favorable deals than  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  recently got. The IMF initially lent Greece, for
example, almost twice what Korea was able to borrow in 1997,
relative to each country’s size.  But the bigger reason for a change is that the economic
tide has gone out on Europe, and it no longer can claim to be a
bastion of sensible fiscal management. Either the IMF is running
a U.S.-European club, with second-tier membership for
“others,” or it is a truly international organization as
specified in its Articles of Agreement between participating
countries.  Those articles, drawn up in 1944, are silent on whether
someone from a particular nation should be managing director
(see Article XII, section 4). The charter makes it clear that
this job is all-important: The managing director is both
chairman of the executive board and chief of the operating
staff. All other staff members are appointed by him (of the 10
managing directors to date, all have been Western European
males).  IMF Quotas  The key to understanding the original IMF arrangements can
be found in an arcane place -– under Quotas in Schedule A of the
Articles of Agreement. In IMF terminology, a country’s quota
measures its capital contribution, voting power and how much it
can readily borrow from the fund. This lists how shares in the
IMF were allocated among the original members. The U.S., which
has always been the largest shareholder, had a quota of $2.75
billion in the original allocation. Britain was No. 2, with $1.3
billion.  The organization reflected the supremacy of U.S. and
Western European economies after World War II. The most
influential non-European shareholder was arguably  India , with
$400 million. Compared with  France  at $500 million, India was a
significant shareholder (probably because British officials
thought the empire would hold together).  Middle-Income Countries  At the time, most others among today’s middle-income
countries were small in economic and financial terms, even
compared with war-torn Europe. Brazil’s quota was $150 million,
less than Belgium’s $225 million. Mexico’s quota was $90
million, while the Netherlands weighed in at $275 million.  In that original arrangement, it made sense to balance the
power between the U.S. -– the biggest creditor to the world in
1945 -– and countries that were presumed likely to need
financial help either from the IMF (for short-term balance-of-
payments needs, so they could afford imports) or from the  World
Bank  (for longer-term reconstruction and development
investments). But it no longer makes sense now that roughly half
the world economy lies outside the U.S.-Western European sphere
and almost 50 percent of IMF votes are in the hands of emerging
markets. The entire European Union has only about 30 percent of
voting rights.  Burden Sharing  Today, the central issue for the IMF is burden-sharing. It
must decide which banks and bondholders will bear losses, and in
what amounts. To restore growth and assure repayment, it must
negotiate terms that determine, for example, how much and how
quickly the annual  budget deficit  and total debt must be
reduced. And hardest of all is figuring out who within the
troubled country will pay, either with fewer government services
or higher taxes, or both. Borrowers and lenders want the other
to bear the brunt of the painful measures that an IMF loan
usually entails.  The Western Europeans are arguing that only a European
managing director could possibly manage this process for the
 euro zone . This flies in the face of common sense. When
 Argentina  had a crisis, no one suggested that an Argentine
should become managing director, or even that the fund should be
run by someone from  Latin America .  Possible Contenders  The IMF head should be an experienced policy maker,
preferably someone who has been a minister of finance or central
bank governor during difficult times and succeeded in putting a
country back on the path to sustainable growth. Hiring a
satisfied IMF customer would be ideal. Agustin Carstens, a
former IMF deputy managing director and now the governor of the
Bank of  Mexico , is one such contender. Arminio Fraga, the head
of Brazil’s central bank from 1999 to 2002, a turbulent time for
that country, is another.  The IMF isn’t a piggybank for European countries and must
not be used to paper over fiscal cracks or to run an “extend
and pretend” scheme that facilitates regulatory forbearance for
French, German and other banks that made irresponsible loans to
the euro zone periphery. German and French leaders are complicit
in the errors of Greece, Ireland, Portugal,  Spain ,  Italy  and
Belgium by allowing these countries to run current-account
deficits financed by large inflows of bank credit. This is what
it means to mismanage a currency union.  ( Simon Johnson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: 
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paula Dwyer at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  