-- 
EDF Keeps Focus on Nuclear After Fukushima Disaster, CEO Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-24T15:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/edf-keeps-focus-on-nuclear-after-fukushima-disaster-ceo-says.html
Electricite de  France  SA, Europe’s
biggest power producer, will focus development on nuclear energy
even after the disaster in Japan threatens to delay new projects
and tighten safety rules.  EDF should be a world “reference” for nuclear energy as
the state-run utility enters a period of uncertainty following
the accident, Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  told an
annual  shareholders’ meeting  in Paris today. “Safe nuclear
generation is possible.”  The utility aims to remain the biggest power producer in
the world by 2020 with 200 gigawatts of installed capacity, half
of which will be atomic and a quarter each from hydroelectric
and thermal sources. EDF, which has about 150 gigawatts, plans
to boost generation outside France by 50 percent over the
period, notably by building U.K. reactors.  GDF Suez SA, EDF’s French rival, has about 132 gigawatts of
installed capacity taking into account a tie up with
International Power Plc. That utility, owner of  Europe ’s biggest
natural gas network and operator of seven reactors in  Belgium ,
said in March it wants to raise installed power capacity to 150
gigawatts by 2016 from 112 gigawatts.  EDF, which operates 58 nuclear reactors in France and 16 in
the U.K., is developing third-generation EPR reactors at
Flamanville in Normandy and in  China .  The company will focus on high-growth countries including
Brazil, Poland and  Turkey , Proglio said today. Before the
accident at Fukushima in Japan, the strategy was to develop and
operate reactors in Asia, Europe, the Middle East and the U.S.  Projects on Hold  Plans for new reactors in  Italy  and the U.S. have been put
on hold and existing plants will be put through so-called stress
tests to determine whether they can withstand earthquakes and
floods like those that struck  Japan .  The European Union and national regulators are still in
discussions about the criteria for the testing. French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , unlike his German counterpart, has said the
country will continue to invest in nuclear energy.  “Let’s avoid stop and go and fashion trends,” Proglio
said today, calling for long-term investment in nuclear,
renewable energies and natural gas supplies. The disaster at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant underlined
the need for operators to have full mastery of their technology.
It was the operator that “bore all the weight of
responsibility,” he said.  Closer to home, Proglio has struggled to raise atomic
output in France due to a series of technical faults. Prime
Minister Francois Fillon has said boosting power output from the
French fleet should be a top priority.  Anti-Nuclear Push  Nuclear generation in France increased 6.5 percent, or 7.3
terawatt-hours during the first quarter, allowing the utility to
keep a full-year production target of between 408 terawatt-hours
and 415 terawatt-hours with a “minimum” measure of reactor
availability of 78.5 percent.  EDF and the French government are also under pressure from
anti-nuclear groups and Swiss authorities to shut down the
country’s oldest reactor at Fessenheim about 40 kilometers (25
miles) north of Basel. The French regulator is deciding whether
to extend the reactor’s lifespan by a decade to 40 years.  Chief Financial Officer Thomas Piquemal today reiterated
the company’s financial targets for the year, which were based
on being able to charge rivals 42 euros a megawatt-hour under a
government-led overhaul of the French  electricity market , the
second biggest in Europe after  Germany .  Under the plan, EDF can charge that price starting in
January and 40 euros a megawatt-hour in the interim starting
July 1. The higher rate, more than generation costs alone
justify, includes safety spending made necessary by the Japan
disaster, France’s energy regulator has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  