-- 
Medtronic’s Fourth-Quarter Profit Drops on Defibrillators

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-05-24T20:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/medtronic-s-fourth-quarter-profit-drops.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s biggest
maker of heart-rhythm devices, said fourth-quarter profit
dropped 19 percent as sales of defibrillators fell and it spent
money to shed employees.  Net income in the three months ended April 29 declined to
$776 million, or 72 cents a share, from $954 million, or 86
cents, a year earlier, the Minneapolis-based company said in a
statement. Profit excluding one-time items was 90 cents a share,
missing the 93-cent average estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The company forecast earnings of $3.43 to $3.50 per share
for fiscal 2012, with a share buyback of $1 billion to $1.1
billion. The earnings set the stage for the arrival of Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Omar Ishrak, who will take the helm
on June 13, as weak demand and concerns about safety and overuse
have eroded sales of the company’s best-selling pacemakers and
defibrillators.  “In the short term, the reason we are being somewhat
cautious is because the markets are soft,” Gary Ellis,
Medtronic’s chief financial officer, said in a telephone
interview. “Our internal plans are higher than that,” he said.
“Ultimately, people will need our products, because there’s not
an alternative to them.”  Already Introduced  All the novel products in Medtronic’s pipeline, including a
pacemaker that’s safe for use with advanced imaging, a
defibrillator with fewer inappropriate shocks, a spine-
stabilizing device, new catheters and  heart valves , have been
introduced, said  Michael Weinstein , a JPMorgan analyst in  New
York , in a note to investors today.  “Medtronic is pointing to a weaker market, but share loss
and customers reducing inventories of Medtronic products is not
a market issue,” Weinstein said. Fourth-quarter results suggest
that layoffs, the consolidation of the cardiovascular sales
organizations and contract terminations have created problems,
he said.  Medtronic fell 38 cents, less than 1 percent, to $40.88 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Market composite trading. The stock has
risen 10 percent so far this year.  Revenue increased to $4.3 billion from $4.2 billion a year
earlier. Sales of pacemakers and defibrillators, the company’s
biggest products, dropped 7.7 percent to $1.3 billion, while
revenue from devices used in spinal surgery was little changed
at $875 million.  Defibrillator Sales  Defibrillator sales plunged 14 percent from a year earlier,
when Medtronic benefited after rival Boston Scientific Corp.
pulled its products from the market for failing to seek approval
from federal regulators for two manufacturing changes.  Medtronic spent $261 million in the quarter for employee
severance and restructuring.  William Hawkins, the current chief executive officer,
announced his retirement in December. Ishrak was the president
and chief executive officer of GE Healthcare Systems, a $12
billion division of  General Electric Co. (GE)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  