-- 
Egypt Refers Mubarak, Two Sons to Criminal Court Over Protesters’ Deaths

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 
2011-05-24T16:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/egypt-will-try-mubarak-two-sons-for-killing-protesters-prosecutor-says.html
Egypt’s public prosecutor ordered
that former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and his two sons,
Gamal and Alaa, be sent to a criminal court on charges of
killing demonstrators and abusing public office.  Mubarak is accused of instructing police officers to shoot
at protesters in rallies that began on Jan. 25 and of acquiring
benefits by misusing his position as president, the prosecutor’s
office said in a faxed statement from Cairo today.  Alaa Mubarak and  Gamal Mubarak  are charged with acquiring
properties by abusing their father’s position, the prosecutor
said. The former president is also accused of participating with
former Oil Minister  Sameh Fahmy , other Oil Ministry officials
and businessman Hussein Salem in embezzlement of public funds
through deals involving gas sales to  Israel .  Mubarak, 82, is hospitalized in the Red Sea resort of  Sharm
el-Sheikh  and his sons are being held in prison after the public
prosecutor on April 10 ordered the three men to be summoned for
questioning.  The prosecutor ordered the assets of Mubarak and his family
to be frozen and banned them from traveling, the state-run
Middle East News Agency reported on Feb. 28.  Mubarak’s three-decade rule ended in February when he ceded
power to Egypt’s Supreme Council of the Armed Forces after 18
days of mass protests. Egyptian activists have called for
demonstrations on May 27 to protest what they see as a lack of
political progress and failure to prosecute members of the
ousted government.  The North African country’s economy is still reeling from
the impact of the uprising and may grow 2.6 percent in the
fiscal year that ends in June 2012 after expanding 3.6 percent
this fiscal year, Finance Minister Samir Radwan said on May 19.
The  International Monetary Fund  said in April that Egypt’s
economic growth may slow to 1 percent this year, the lowest
level since 1992.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  