-- 
Telkom to Push Ahead With Sale of Nigerian Unit Amid $252 Million Lawsuit

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-05-24T15:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/telkom-to-push-ahead-with-sale-of-nigerian-unit-amid-252-million-lawsuit.html
Telkom South Africa Ltd. will push
ahead with plans to sell its Nigerian unit as it fights a bid by
Helios Investment Partners LLP, a private equity company backed
by  George Soros , to stop the disposal.  Helios Investment Partners wants to block the sale by
Telkom unit Multi-Links Telecommunications Ltd. of its CDMA
technology business until it has paid $252 million for the lease
of 466 mobile-phone towers it provided and built for Multi-
Links, London-based Helios said in court papers filed in Lagos,
 Nigeria ’s commercial capital.  “Telkom continues with its plans to dispose of its CDMA
business,” Pretoria-based Telkom said in an e-mailed response
to questions today. “There are no restrictions, nor injunction,
on any of the parties” that prevent the sale of the unit,
Multi-Links said in a separate response. Telkom said on April 1
that it agreed to sell its CDMA-technology business to Visafone
Communications Ltd. for $52 million.  Helios Towers Africa Ltd., the investment company’s mobile-
phone towers business, entered into a 10-year lease contract to
build and maintain communications stations for Multi-Links in
2007, according to court documents supplied yesterday by the
company. The contract became “null and void” after Helios
Towers failed to get government approval to use the land on
which the towers were built, Multi-Links said in papers filed to
the Nigerian court.  Helios Towers Africa declined to comment.  Telkom gained 45 cents, or 1.2 percent, to 37.25 rand by
the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, paring a decline yesterday if
2.4 percent.  The Nigerian court has not yet informed Multi-Links of the
date on which judgment will be passed, Telkom said.  Multi-Links initiated legal action in the  High Court  of
Lagos State against Helios in December, raising concerns with
non-compliance by its Helios Africa Towers business with
Nigerian laws, Multi-Links spokesman Ijeoma Abazie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  