-- 
Emerging Market Stocks Climb, Rebounding From Steepest Slump in 11 Months

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-24T21:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/emerging-market-stocks-climb-rebounding-from-steepest-slump-in-11-months.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with the
benchmark index rebounding from its biggest drop in 11 months,
as a rally in  oil prices  lifted energy companies and some
investors judged this month’s selloff as excessive.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 1 percent to
1,124.62 as of 4:30 p.m. in New York, following yesterday’s 2.3
percent slump to the lowest level in two months. Russia’s  Micex
Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 1.6 percent and the ruble strengthened 0.5 percent
against the dollar.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index gained the most in
two weeks.  Commodities advanced after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended buying oil and copper, reversing last month’s call
to sell. Financial and energy shares led gains in the MSCI
emerging index, which traded yesterday at 10.4 times analysts’
12-month earnings estimates, the lowest level since March 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Yesterday’s selloff sparked by  Europe ’s debt crisis may
have been overdone, so we’re buying, picking up stocks
selectively,” Ang Kok Heng, who oversees the equivalent of $340
million as chief investment officer at Phillip Capital
Management Sdn., said in a phone interview in Kuala Lumpur.  The 21-country MSCI gauge pared its decline this month to
6.6 percent. The index yesterday tumbled the most since June 29
after a measure of Chinese manufacturing sank to a 10-month low,
 Spain ’s ruling party suffered its worst defeat in more than 30
years in local elections and  Italy ’s credit-rating outlook was
cut to negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s .  Middle of Storm  “When you’re in the middle of a storm like this it feels
really bad, but our view would be that once the selling is over,
and it probably won’t be too long, you have got the basis for a
pretty strong rally,” Geoffrey Dennis, global emerging-markets
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television yesterday.  The Bovespa stock index advanced 1.6 percent after Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Services revised Brazil’s foreign debt rating
outlook to positive and as commodity prices climbed.  Subsidiaries of Brazil’s biggest fixed-line phone company
surged the most in over two years after the parent company said
it will merge its units, including Telemar Norte Leste SA and
Brasil Telecom SA, into a company that will trade under the name
Oi SA. Vale SA and Petroleo Brasileiro SA followed metal and
crude prices higher.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas-export monopoly, advanced 2.7
percent after Goldman Sachs raised its price estimate for the
stock. Mol Nyrt led a 2.7 percent gain in  Hungary ’s BUX Index
after the government said it bought 21.2 percent stake in the
refiner from  Russia ’s OAO Surgutneftegas. Russia’s OAO Lukoil
climbed 1 percent as  Brent crude  rallied 2.2 percent to $112.53
a barrel.  Oil Outlook  Goldman, which correctly advised investors to sell crude
oil and copper last month before a price slump, raised its 12-
month prediction for Brent crude to $130 a barrel from $107,
analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie  said in a report today. Morgan
Stanley raised its Brent estimate by 20 percent to average $120
a barrel this year and by 24 percent to $130 in 2012, it said.  The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.3 percent, leaving
the gauge 9.5 percent below this year’s high, after Goldman cut
 China ’s economic growth estimates. The New York-based bank said
it wouldn’t “rule out” a further decline of as much as 10
percent for Chinese stocks as growth in the world’s second-
biggest economy slows and inflation accelerates.  “One major concern in China is that the action taken by
the Chinese government may result in a hard landing,” Phillip
Capital’s Ang said.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over Treasuries was little changed at 304, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co’s global index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  