-- 
Engineering Undergrads Reap Top Salaries

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/engineering-undergrads-reap-top-salaries-among-college-majors.html
College students’ choice of major can
mean the difference between median earnings of $120,000 for
petroleum engineering and $29,000 for counseling psychology, a
study by  Georgetown University  showed.  Of the top 10 undergraduate majors with the highest median
salaries, eight were in engineering, including aerospace,
chemical and mechanical, according to the study released today
by  Georgetown’s Center on Education and the Workforce .  Many of the least popular majors, including naval
architecture and marine engineering, command among the highest
pay, while some popular subjects -- elementary education and
psychology -- generate some of the lowest, according to the
report. While a bachelor’s degree holder can expect to earn 84
percent more over a lifetime for full-time work than someone
with only a high school diploma, a student’s major is correlated
to income, said Anthony P. Carnevale, director of the center.  “It’s not the way most people see college,” Carnevale said
in an interview from  Washington . “Most people think it’s about
getting a degree,” rather than what you major in, he said.  Researchers categorized 171 undergraduate majors into 15
groups including health, humanities and liberal arts, and law
and public policy. They analyzed data from more than half a
million respondents to the U.S. Census Bureau’s 2009 American
Community Survey, who reported their undergraduate major and how
much they earn. All were between the ages of 25 to 64.  As a group, engineering majors of all disciplines reported
the highest median earnings at $75,000, the study showed. The
lowest pay, at $42,000, came from two groups -- education and
psychology and social work, which includes such categories as
clinical psychology and communications disorders.  Race, Gender  Race and gender play a role in salary, according to the
report. African-Americans who graduated with finance majors
earned an average of $47,000 per year, less than Hispanics and
Asians at $56,000 and whites at $70,000, it showed.  While women hold the majority of degrees in many lower-
paying fields, even those with specialties that command the
highest pay, such as chemical engineering, earned $20,000 less
per year on average than men with the same education, according
to the study.  About 25 percent of respondents reported majors in the
business group, which had 13 subcategories, including finance,
accounting and marketing. Those with a degree in business
economics had the highest median earnings -- $75,000. That
compares with the $70,000 median for an economics degree in the
social science group.  About 41 percent of undergraduates with humanities and
liberal arts majors -- including history, English language and
literature and foreign languages -- went on to earn a graduate
degree, the study showed.  The Georgetown study had a margin of error of plus or minus 3
percentage points or less, Carnevale said.  In a separate report last week from the Pew Research
Center, more than half of U.S. adults said that higher education
fails to provide students “good value” for the money they and
their families spend. The March telephone survey was released by
Washington-based Pew on May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  