-- 
Tennis Star Edberg Bets on Bonds in Second Career at Case Asset Management

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-25T09:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/tennis-star-edberg-bets-on-bonds-in-second-career-at-case-asset-management.html
Stefan Edberg won six Grand Slam
singles titles thanks to an aggressive serve-and-volley style.
The Swede is taking a more careful approach when it comes to
investing as he bets on bonds.  Edberg, 45, retired in 1996 with 42 singles titles, four
Davis Cups and an Olympic bronze medal. The Hall of Famer, a
former No. 1-ranked player who earned more than $20 million
during his tennis career, now manages most of his wealth himself
and is a part-owner and board member of Stockholm-based
investment company  Case Asset Management , which manages 5
billion kronor ($800 million).  “I retired and suddenly, I had a lot of time,” Edberg
said in a telephone interview from Vaxjo, where he lives with
his wife and two teenage children in a farmhouse about 275 miles
south of  Stockholm . “I didn’t have to train three to four hours
every day. That’s really where the interest in investing
started.”  Case, which Edberg co-founded with Swedish investors Bo Pettersson and Fredrik Svensson, in January introduced a Nordic
corporate bond fund called Safe Play, which manages 750 million
kronor. Together with Swedish bank Sparbanken 1862, Edberg has
invested 50 million kronor in the fund, which is mainly focused
on Nordic corporate loans with high credit ratings.  “We felt that this is a growing business, especially in
the Nordic region, because the corporate bond market is very
small here compared to London and central  Europe ,” Edberg said.
Safe Play is aiming for returns of 5 to 7 percent, he said, and
it has risen 3.4 percent so far this year.  Fair Play  Case started another fund, Fair Play, in 2004. It focuses
on the Swedish stock market and interest-rate markets as well as
derivatives, and posted a 27 percent return in 2009 and a gain
of 10 percent last year, he said.  Investors in Sweden’s benchmark OMX stock index made a
total return, including dividends, of almost 25 percent last
year. Holders of Swedish  government bonds  maturing in one year
or more made 3 percent, including reinvested interest.  Pettersson sits on the board of watchmaker Sjoo Sandstrom
and A-Comm AB, a Stockholm communications company. Svensson is
on the board of several real-estate companies.  Case may expand into sports business in the future.  “In general in sport, there are a lot of people who make
bad investments,” Edberg said. “Athletes should educate
themselves a lot better.”  Edberg had success on fast surfaces such as grass and hard
court with his single-handed backhand. He won Wimbledon, the
Australian Open and the U.S. Open two times each, and reached
the final at the  French Open  in 1989. This year’s  French Open 
started May 22 on the clay courts of  Roland Garros  in Paris,
where  Rafael Nadal  and Francesca Schiavone are defending
champions.  Different Strategy  Edberg still plays tennis regularly and competes as often
as six times a year on the ATP Champions Tour for retired former
champions and top-ranked players. He described his investment
strategy as ‘completely different” from his tennis tactics.  “I am pretty conservative and I probably have become more
conservative over the last few years,” Edberg said. “It’s
about preserving the wealth, and trying to beat inflation. I
don’t need to take a lot of risk. Especially going through the
last crisis with  Lehman Brothers , I managed very well because I
was very diversified, which I think is key for investing in the
future. And understanding what you invest in.”  Since taking charge of his own finances, Edberg said he’s
averaged annual returns of 5 to 10 percent on his portfolio.
 Sweden ’s Consumer Price Index has increased by an annual average
rate of 1.86 percent in the past five years.  Lehman’s Collapse  The Swede sold shares in 2008, the year that Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse helped trigger a global
financial crisis and recession. He’d started to diversify his
investments in 2004 by buying rental property in Vaxjo, a
university town in southern Sweden with about 60,000 residents.  The discipline needed to work on different strokes and
forge a successful tennis career can be good preparation for
business, said Jonathan Pastel, a former professional player who
is now a vice president of equity research sales at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  New York .  “It’s a grind, from start to finish,” said Pastel, who
made the qualifying round for the ATP World Tour’s Pilot Pen at
Yale event last year at age 34. “The fear of losing makes you
tougher. It makes you work harder, too.”  Edberg said he and his Case colleagues spotted an
opportunity in the corporate  bond market  in the Nordic region in
2008. They bought corporate bonds in banks and insurance
companies, based mainly in Sweden, Norway and  Denmark .  ‘Crazy Prices’  “Especially here in the Nordic region, prices just fell
apart,” Edberg said. “We bought into a lot of these corporates
at crazy prices to start with. You could get incredible returns
on those assets, which are a lot safer than equities. That’s
really where I changed my strategy, sort of more into the bond
market in 2008. I’ve stayed there through the course and
obviously increased equities a little bit.”  Professional athletes still don’t do a very good job
tracking their money, he said. Schools and coaches have a
responsibility to educate children about the economics of daily
life, such as getting a mortgage or creating a pension.  “Once you succeed in tennis, financially you become quite
well off,” Edberg said. “It was a matter of taking control of
your life through the end of your career and knowing where the
money was, where it was invested and who took care of it. It’s
probably a pretty wise thing to do to get more control of your
life for many athletes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the  London  sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  