-- 
Fukushima Containment Chambers Probably Damaged, Computer Simulation Shows

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-05-25T06:24:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/tepco-confirms-meltdown-of-no-2-3-reactors-at-fukushima-1-.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said the
containment chambers of damaged reactors at its Fukushima
nuclear plant were likely breached, identifying additional
source of radiation leaks that may exceed Chernobyl.  Computer simulations of the meltdowns of three reactors in
March indicates holes formed in chambers, the company known as
Tepco said in a report.  The analysis confirms what independent researchers have
said occurred after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami hit the
plant. The report to the government raises fresh questions about
how Tepco, which took more than two months to acknowledge fuel
rods had melted, is handling the crisis, a nuclear researcher
said.  “Unfortunately I can’t find any consistency in the
report,” Hironobu Unesaki, a nuclear engineering professor at
Kyoto University, said by phone. “Tepco hasn’t released
sufficient radionuclide analysis of leaked contaminated water.
Now they’ve confirmed fuel rods melted, they should also release
more data including plutonium and uranium readings.”  Containment chambers surround the reactor vessel, which
holds the fuel rods, and are meant to stop radiation and coolant
leaks in the case of overheating.  Japan ’s government in April raised the severity rating of
nuclear crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant to the
highest, matching Chernobyl in 1986. At the time Tepco officials
said the crippled plant may release more radiation than the
Chernobyl.  Tepco shares fell 5.4 percent today to 315 yen in Tokyo.
The shares are down more than 85 percent since the quake and
tsunami struck.  Pumping Water  The Fukushima plant 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of
Tokyo hasn’t yet released as much radiation as Chernobyl,
Junichi Matsumoto, a Tepco general manager, said yesterday. The
company doesn’t expect large releases in future.  Tepco has been struggling to cool reactors and spent fuel
pools to stop radiation leaks, including using pumps and fire
engines to get water into the reactors to keep fuel rods and
spent fuel cool after the quake and tsunami knocked out cooling
systems.  Tepco’s analysis shows the No. 1 chamber has one hole and
the No. 2 unit has two breaches, according to a report filed to
a Japanese nuclear watchdog. Cooling systems may have been
breached at the No. 3 reactor at the site, Tepco said.  “The breaches were created awhile ago, so they won’t cause
rapid increases in radiation doses,” said Ken Nakajima, a
professor of nuclear engineering at  Kyoto University  who
specializes in reactor safety. “However, I’m concerned about a
possible increase in tainted water leaking from the holes, which
may lead to contamination of groundwater and seawater.”  Tepco yesterday confirmed meltdowns of fuel rods in the No.
2 and 3 reactors at the station north of Tokyo, which has been
emitting radiation since an earthquake and tsunami knocked out
power and cooling systems on March 11.  It revised the time the No. 1 reactor melted to within 15
hours of the quake, an hour earlier than it gave last week when
it announced the damage to the reactor was worse than thought.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  