-- 
Tessera Technologies, Zynga, Art & Fragrances: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-24T11:07:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/tessera-technologies-zynga-art-fragrances-intellectual-property.html
Tessera Technologies Inc. (TSRA)  lost an
appeals court ruling in its efforts to get new licensing revenue
from makers of computer-memory chips, including  Acer Inc. (2353)  and
 Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)   The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit yesterday
upheld a trade agency’s finding that the companies weren’t
infringing a Tessera patent. The court vacated the agency’s
finding of no violation of two other patents because they had
already expired.  Tessera owns patents related to packaging that protects
silicon wafers from damage while allowing the chips to be made
smaller and faster. Patent 5,663,106, which was the subject of
the case before the U.S. International Trade Commission, covers
a method for encapsulating wafers without contaminating the
terminals that connect the chips to a circuit board.  In its ruling yesterday, the appeals court said that the
commission was correct in its December 2009 determination that
the patented innovation related to a different layer of the
packaging than what is used by the chipmakers.  The court also said Tessera couldn’t make a claim against
products made by  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  of  Tokyo  because the company
bought its products from firms that already had a license with
Tessera.  San Jose , California-based Tessera filed complaints against
companies that refused to license the technology and in December
won an appeals court ruling against  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,   Spansion
Inc. (CODE)  and STMicroelectronics NV.  The ITC, a quasi-judicial agency that investigates claims
of unfair trade practices, said the computer-chip makers weren’t
violating Tessera’s rights. Tessera had sought an import ban on
certain dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM, chips that act as
the main memory in computers and electronics.  Royalties and licensing fees accounted for $279.6 million,
or 93 percent of the company’s 2010 revenue, Tessera said in its
annual report.  The companies named in Tessera’s complaint included Acer of
Taipei; Kingston Technology Co. of Fountain Valley, California;
Nanya of Taoyuan, Taiwan; Powerchip Semiconductor Corp. of
Hsinchu, Taiwan; Ramaxel Technology Ltd. of  Hong Kong ; and Smart
Modular Technologies Inc. of Fremont, California.  The case is Tessera Inc. v. ITC, 10-1176,  U.S. Court of
Appeals , Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The ITC case is In the
Matter of Semiconductor Chips with Minimized Chip Packaging,
337-630, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Zynga Sued by Learning Company Over ‘Oregon Trail’ Trademark  Zynga Inc., the creator of Farmville and other games used
on social media sites, was sued for trademark infringement by
Houghton Mifflin Riverdeep Group Plc’s Learning Co. unit.  The suit, filed May 18 in federal court in  Boston , accuses
the San Francisco-based game designer of infringing “The Oregon
Trail” trademark used for a Learning Co. game by that name.  According to court papers, the Learning Co.’s Oregon Trail
game is used to teach elementary-school students about the
migration across the Oregon Trail that took place in the 19th
century. The company says it’s used by more than 60 percent of
all third- through fifth-grade teachers in the U.S., and 40
percent of those who teach sixth through eighth grades.  In 2010 Zynga and the Learning Co. had discussed having the
San Francisco-based company create a version of the game for
Facebook Inc.’s social-media website. Discussions came to
naught, according to the complaint, and Learning Co. used a
different developer . That game  was offered on Facebook beginning
in February and has now been used by more than 1.2 million
users, the company said in its pleadings.  Zynga has posted  a preview  on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-
sharing site promoting its Oregon Trail game, according to court
papers. This game, which will appeal to similar customers and is
promoted through similar channels to those used by Learning Co.,
will confuse customers and cause them to believe erroneously
that a connection exists between the two companies.  Learning Co. claims that Zynga has a reputation as a
“corporate bad actor” and that it deliberately chose the name
as a way of trading off the goodwill associated with the
existing Oregon Trail game.  Zynga didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  Learning Co. asked the court for an order barring the use
of its mark, and for awards of Zynga’s profits related to the
alleged infringement, money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs. Alleging the infringement is deliberate,
Learning Co. asked the court to triple the damages award.  Representing Learning Co. are  R. David Hosp , Mark S.
Puzella ,  Sheryl Koval Garko  and  Erin M. Michael  of Boston’s
Goodwin Procter LLP.  The case is The Learning Co. v. Zynga Inc., 1:11-cv-10894,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  Arizona Antiques Seller Says It Doesn’t Infringe Lalique Marks  Art & Fragrance SA’s Lalique unit was sued by an Arizona
seller of antiques who seeks a court declaration it doesn’t
infringe the Lalique marks.  City Concession Co. of Arizona Inc. sells antique art items
made by the late  Rene Lalique , a French artist who lived from
1860 to 1945. He designed both jewelry and art glasss, according
to court papers.  Greg Zimmerman, the owner of City Concession, operates a
website rlalique.com through which it sells items made by
Lalique and provides information about real and fake Lalique
items offered for sale. In November 2009 City Concessions
received a cease-and-desist letter from Lalique NA claiming its
marks were infringed on the website.  In January 2009, City Concession said it received a second
letter from Lalique NA saying that although it wouldn’t pursue
infringement actions, it wanted to have further discussions
about disclaimers posted on the website.  The Arizona company received a new letter from an attorney
for Lalique on May 3, demanding transfer of its domain names and
that the name Lalique not be used on the City Concession
website, according to court papers.  City Concessions said its disclaimers make it clear it has
no affiliation with the Lalique company, and that it’s necessary
to use the artist’s name in order to refer to the artist and his
work.  It asked the court to declare that it’s not infringing on
Lalique trademarks, and that its use of the artist’s name in its
domain name constitutes a fair use. Additionally, City
Concession asked for awards of litigation costs and attorney
fees.  City Concession is represented  by Shane E. Olafson  and  Sean
D. Garrison  of Phoenix-based Lewis & Roca LLP. The case is City
Concessions Company of Arizona Inc., v. Lalique North American
Inc., 2:11-cv-01003-DKD, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Social Worker Sues Corrections Employees Over Copyright  A psychiatric social worker who developed a series of self-
study packets for use by prison inmates sued 10 employees of the
Washington State Department of Corrections for copyright
infringement. The department itself isn’t a defendant in the
case.  Jane E. Snyder of Washington’s Walla Walla County said she
developed the work on her own time, and not within the scope of
her employment by the state’s Department of Corrections. She
registered her copyrights and, according to the complaint filed
May 20 in federal court in  Seattle , had never assigned the
copyright to anyone.  The work focused on such issues as self esteem, ethical
decision-making and taking responsibility. She accused the 10
employees of the corrections system of making copies or inducing
others to make copies of her work and using them without
authorization.  Snyder said she did grant the corrections department a
limited license to use her work from March 2010 through
September 2010. This license didn’t apply retroactively to the
defendants she is suing and she said she didn’t waive any claims
for past infringement.  No use of her work was authorized before March 2010 or
after September 2010, she said in her pleadings.  She asked the court to bar further infringement and for
awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Snyder is represented by Stuart R. Dunwoody of Seattle’s
Davis Wright Tremaine LLP and Floyd E. Ivey of Kennewick,
Washington.  The case is Jane E. Snyder v. Sean M. Murphy, 2:11-cv-
00840-RAJ, U.S. District Court, Western District of Washington
(Seattle).  Viacom Sued by Creator of ‘Ghetto Fabulous’ Concept  Viacom Inc. (VIA) , owner of Nickelodeon and MTV, was sued for
copyright infringement by a  Pennsylvania  resident.  Charles S. Sims of New Kensington, Pennsylvania, created
the concept for a reality TV series called “Ghetto Fabulous,”
which he registered with the Writers Guild of America in
February 2004, according to court papers.  He said he collaborated with television producer Allison
Jordan, who submitted the concept to “various television
companies, cable companies, producers, directors and actors.”
It was submitted to Viacom’s VH1 channel where officials told
Jordan they “Were ready to make an offer” and that they
“loved” the idea, Sims said in the complaint he filed May 20
in federal court in Pittsburgh.  In April 2007, VH1 began airing its “Charm School”
reality series that Sims claims is based on his idea. Sims said
he never signed a release to VH1, and that he hadn’t authorized
Jordan to sign one on his behalf.  He claims the VH1 program is “substantially similar, and
in most cases identical” to his “Ghetto Fabulous.” The
program infringes his copyright, and causes him to suffer
“serious and substantial damages,” he claimed in his
pleadings.  He asked the court to bar VH1’s broadcast of the allegedly
infringing show, and for awards of money damages, litigation
costs and attorney fees. He also seeks additional damages
intended to punish the defendant for its actions.  Viacom didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Sims is unrepresented by counsel. His petition for
permission to file his action without paying a filing fee was
denied by the court and he was given until June 23 to pay the
fee.  The case is Charles L. Sims v. Viacom Inc., 2:11-cv-00675-
AJS, U.S. District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania
(Pittsburgh).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Wilson, Elser Adds Entertainment Specialist to IP Practice Group  Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz, Edelman & Dicker LLP hired
William. F. Fitzgerald for its IP practice group, the New York-
based firm said in a  statement .  Fitzgerald , a litigator, has represented clients in the
entertainment, sports, fashion, music, film, television and
publishing industries. He has also represented professional
athletes working in  Europe  and the Swedish music industry.  In addition to litigation, he has also done transactional
work, negotiating deals with record, publishing, fashion, film
and television companies and modeling agencies. He has also
handled the court-approval process for contracts for child
performers.  He has an undergraduate degree from Bethany College and a
law degree from the City University of  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  