-- 
ETFs Are Becoming a Shadow Banking System, Tullett’s Smith Says

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-24T14:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/etfs-are-becoming-a-shadow-banking-system-tullett-s-smith-says.html
Exchange-traded funds are developing
in a similar way to the shadow banking system that almost
brought down the world’s financial system in 2008, according to
 Terry Smith , chief executive officer of  Tullett Prebon Plc. (TLPR)   ETFs often fail to track the underlying asset whose
behavior they’re designed follow, are exposed to the risk of a
provider going bankrupt and are vulnerable to heavy short-
selling, Smith, 58, wrote today in a blog titled “ETFs - Worse
than I thought.”  Smith, a former analyst at UBS Phillips & Drew, founded
London-based money-management firm Fundsmith LLP last year and
is aiming to raise funds from retail investors seeking low-cost
equity funds. Tullett Prebon is a London-based inter-dealer
broker with a market value of almost 800 million
pounds ($1.3 billion). Smith was dismissed from his job at UBS
in 1992 after publishing a book called “Accounting for
Growth,” which showed how companies manipulated profit figures.  “We may soon have to worry about the direct retail
involvement in ETFs,” Smith wrote. “There are echoes of the
parallel banking system in the credit crisis here.”  ETFs are typically designed to mimic the performance of
gauges such as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Unlike mutual
funds, whose shares are priced once daily after each trading
session, ETFs are listed on an exchange where shares are bought
and sold throughout the day. Global ETF assets grew to $1.37
trillion as of February from $74.3 billion in 2000, according to
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager.  ‘Obvious Dangers’  Without owning the underlying assets, ETFs can move in the
opposite way to which investors expect, Smith said. As they
consist of various swaps, they are also exposed to the risk of a
counterparty failing, he said.  “There are obvious dangers in such an arrangement in the
areas of counterparty risk and collateralization of the sort
which caused so many problems during the credit crisis,” Smith
wrote.  The speed of recent development in the ETF market and its
growing complexity calls for “closer scrutiny,” the  Financial
Stability Board , a panel of global regulators in  Basel ,
 Switzerland  charged with rewriting the rules for international
finance,  said  last month.  “The drivers and implications of the recent wave of
financial innovation in ETF markets warrants closer surveillance
of potential vulnerabilities by financial stability authorities
to ensure that the market grows in a sustainable and safe way,”
the FSB said.  ETFs are also vulnerable to unlimited short-selling because
of the ease of creating new shares, according to Smith, who said
short-selling in some funds has reached 1,000 percent. “The
scope for a short squeeze is tremendous,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 