-- 
EU Lawmakers Endorse Clearing Rules for OTC Derivative Trades

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-05-24T14:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/eu-lawmakers-endorse-clearing-rules-for-otc-derivative-trades.html
The European Union moved closer to
adopting measures to force some trading of over-the-counter
derivatives through clearinghouses in a bid to safeguard
financial markets.  Lawmakers in a  European Parliament  committee approved
proposals to empower the European Securities and Markets
Authority to decide on types of derivatives that should be
centrally cleared. Traders that flout the rules face penalties
including fines.  OTC derivatives lack transparency and “can make it
difficult to identify the nature and level of risks” that banks
and other companies are taking, the lawmakers said in a report
approved by the Parliament’s Economic and Monetary Affairs
Committee in Brussels today.  Regulators from the Group of 20 countries have sought to
toughen rules on OTC derivatives such as credit-default swaps
after the failure in September 2008 of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the rescue of American International Group Inc., two of
the largest CDS traders. The G-20 said trades should pass
through clearinghouses and be logged in trade repositories.  Clearinghouses -- such as Eurex Clearing and  London ’s
LCH.Clearnet Ltd. -- operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  Lawmakers in the Parliament voted that clearinghouses
should have to hold capital of at least 10 million euros ($14.1
million) to absorb possible losses.  The European Commission made proposals in September to
implement the G-20 agreement in the 27-nation EU. The region’s
governments and the Parliament must agree on the rules before
they can enter into force.  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
central bankers, regulators and finance-ministry officials from
the G-20 countries, warned last month that nations were taking
too long to implement the derivatives rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  