-- 
Euro-Area Industrial Orders Fell in March

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-05-24T10:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/euro-area-new-industrial-orders-fell-more-than-forecast-in-march.html
European industrial orders declined
more than economists forecast in March, led by a drop in demand
for durable  consumer goods , such as appliances and furniture.  Orders in the euro area slipped 1.8 percent from February,
when they increased 0.5 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had forecast a drop
of 1.1 percent, the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Orders jumped 14.1 percent from a year earlier.  The euro-region recovery may struggle to gather strength
after expanding at the fastest pace in almost a year in the
first quarter as governments deepen budget cuts and surging  oil
prices  squeeze companies’ spending power. European manufacturing
growth weakened in May, German business confidence held steady
and French executives grew more pessimistic.  “While the marked dip in euro-zone industrial orders in
March needs to be treated with caution, there are nevertheless
signs that the hitherto buoyant manufacturing sector may be
coming off the boil,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . Companies “could be
starting to find life more challenging in the face of
significant headwinds.”  The euro pared gains after the data were released, trading
at $1.4100 at 11:28 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.4 percent.  German Growth  European manufacturers have boosted spending and hiring to
meet export demand, helping shield the economy from the impact
of tougher austerity measures in peripheral nations.  Continental
AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker, on May 5 reported
its highest quarterly profit in more than three years.  Euro-area orders for durable consumer goods declined 6.8
percent and those for capital goods dropped 4.6 percent, today’s
report showed. Orders for intermediate goods rose 0.6 percent
from February. Total orders excluding heavy transport equipment
such as ships and trains fell 1.1 percent.  The European Commission in Brussels on May 13 forecast the
euro-region economy to expand 1.6 percent this year and 1.8
percent in 2012. German gross domestic product may rise 2.6
percent in 2011, with French GDP increasing 1.8 percent. The
economies of Greece and  Portugal , which both received external
aid, will contract this year, the commission said.  With spending cuts and tax increases in some countries
curbing consumer demand, companies have relied on faster-growing
economies to bolster sales. PSA Peugeot Citroen, France’s
biggest carmaker, said on May 11 it will raise its engine
production capacity in  China  to meet surging demand.  A 41 percent gain in crude oil prices in the past year is
clouding the growth outlook by sapping purchasing power of both
companies and consumers. European economic confidence probably
weakened in May, according to a Bloomberg Survey. The European
Commission will release the report on May 27.  Industrial orders in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
dropped 3.4 percent from the previous month, when they rose 2.6
percent, today’s report showed. French orders fell 0.7 percent
and Italy reported a gain of 4.5 percent. In  Spain , orders
increased 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  