-- 
Commodities Gain as Goldman Turns Bullish; Treasuries Advance, Stocks Fall

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 
2011-05-24T20:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/euro-weakens-for-third-day-asian-exporter-stocks-fall-amid-debt-concerns.html
Commodities rebounded from the
biggest drop in two weeks after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
it’s turning “more bullish” on raw materials as demand
improves. Treasuries gained and U.S. stocks retreated.  Oil and gasoline rose 1.9 percent each. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1 percent to 1,316.28 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , its lowest close since April 19, while the MSCI All-
Country World Index rose 0.3 percent after losing 1.8 percent
yesterday. The euro rebounded from a two-month low versus the
U.S. currency, helping send the Dollar Index down 0.3 percent.
Ten-year Treasury yields lost two basis points to 3.11 percent,
near their 2011 low.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities gained 1.2 percent,
recouping about three-quarters of yesterday’s 1.7 percent slump,
as Goldman Sachs suggested buying oil, copper and zinc in a
reversal of last month’s call to sell commodities, while Morgan
Stanley raised its forecast for Brent crude by 20 percent.
Before today, the S&P GSCI gauge had lost 11 percent since April
8, when it reached its highest level since August 2008.  “The market was pricing in a global growth story up until
February, then it shifted into a supply-shock story and then
within the last week or two it shifted back into a demand driven
story,”  Jeffrey Currie , head of commodity research at Goldman
Sachs in London, said in an interview today. “This shift back
to a demand-driven market, albeit weaker demand, is very
significant. We are substantially more confident when the market
is focused on demand growth.”  Commodity Rally  Silver, zinc and nickel climbed at least 2.3 percent to
lead an advance in 16 of 24 materials tracked by the S&P GSCI
index. Oil gained 1.9 percent to $99.59 a barrel in New York and
Brent crude climbed 2.1 percent to $112.46 in London. Goldman,
which correctly advised investors to sell crude oil and copper
last month before a price slump, raised its 12-month prediction
for  Brent crude  to $130 a barrel from $107.  The S&P 500 swung between gains and losses for much of the
day after tumbling 1.2 percent yesterday to close at the lowest
level in a month. The index remained below its average from the
past 50 days after closing below the technical level yesterday
for the first time in more than a month.  Chevron Corp., Alcoa Inc. and Exxon Mobil Corp. rose at
least 0.8 percent for the top gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average . General Electric Co. and  Intel Corp . had the biggest
losses, falling more than 1.1 percent.  Yandex NV, owner of  Russia ’s most popular Internet search
engine, jumped 55 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market trading after
raising $1.3 billion in an initial public offering that sold
above the proposed price range.  New-Home Sales  Early gains in U.S. stocks came as purchases of new U.S.
houses rose in April to the highest level so far this year after
plunging to a record low two months earlier. Sales climbed 7.3
percent to a 323,000 annual pace last month, figures from the
Commerce Department showed. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists was for sales at a 300,000 annual
rate. Housing prices rose from a year earlier.  The  S&P 500  climbed to an almost three-year high on the
final trading day of April. It has slumped 3.5 percent since,
while 10-year Treasury yields reached their lows for the year
last week, as economic data missed economists’ estimates and
investors prepared for the  Federal Reserve  to complete its $600
billion bond-purchase program at the end of June. Still, the
benchmark has increased almost 5 percent this year amid
government stimulus measures and improving earnings.  ‘Arousing the Bears’  Barton Biggs , the hedge fund manager who bought stocks when
the market bottomed in March 2009, said he remains bullish on
U.S. equities and likes industrial stocks even though the global
economy has slowed. He favors companies such as Caterpillar Inc.
and Deere & Co. because their earnings growth continues to
exceed expectations and demand for farming and construction
equipment remains strong.  “The U.S. and the global economy have clearly slowed
pretty significantly,” Biggs, who runs New York-based Traxis
Partners LP, said in a Bloomberg Surveillance radio interview
with  Tom Keene . “That’s arousing the bears, who believe we’re
going to slip back into a long soft patch at best or maybe even
a double-dip at worst,” he said. “For a number of reasons I
don’t think that’s right.”  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.2 percent, recovering
some of yesterday’s 1.7 percent decline.  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  and Hellenic Postbank SA
climbed more than 4.3 percent as the Greek government said it
will step up plans to sell its holdings in the companies.
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA tumbled 17 percent after saying it
will reduce output of wafers, cells and modules in response to
current market conditions.  Note Auction  Two-year Treasury notes gained after the U.S. sold $35
billion of the securities. The two-year note yield slipped two
basis points to 0.51 percent following the first of three
Treasury auctions this week totaling $99 billion.  The securities drew a yield of 0.560 percent, compared with
the average forecast of 0.562 percent in a Bloomberg News survey
of nine of the 20 primary dealers obliged to participate in U.S.
debt offerings. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with amount of securities offered, was
3.46, compared with 3.06 last month and an average of 3.38 at
the past 10 sales.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1 percent,
rebounding from its biggest slide in 11 months yesterday.
Russia’s Micex Index rose 1.6 percent as OAO Gazprom, the
country’s gas-export monopoly, climbed on an increased share-
price estimate by Goldman. The Shanghai Composite Index slipped
0.3 percent, leaving the gauge 9.5 percent below this year’s
high, on concern the government’s measures to curb inflation are
slowing growth.  Euro Gains  The euro strengthened 0.5 percent versus the yen. The Ifo
institute in Munich said its German business climate index held
at 114.2 from April, compared with a projected decline to 113.7
in a Bloomberg survey with 24 forecasts.  Portugal ’s 10-year bond yield rose 11 basis points to 9.76
percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold the country’s
debt instead of German bunds, Europe’s benchmark government
securities, increased five basis points to 6.69 percentage
points after touching a record 6.81 percent.  The euro rebounded 0.5 percent to $1.4113 after yesterday
slumping below $1.40 for the first time in two months. Greek 10-
year bonds rose today for the first time in seven sessions,
sending the yield down 27 basis points to 16.76 percent. The
yield reached a record of more than 17 percent yesterday.  Greece  endorsed an asset-sale plan and 6 billion euros
($8.4 billion) of budget cuts to win extra aid, while European
Central Bank council member  Christian Noyer  said a restructuring
of Greek debt would be a “horror story.”  “The market has been trading not so much euro  default
risk , but the euro zone’s management of the euro solvency
crisis,”  Lena Komileva , global head of G10 strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co., said in an interview with Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Television. “I think we are not really seeing the
culmination of the crisis, we’re seeing probably the transition
point where the crisis is becoming more globally significant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  