-- 
Franc Strengthens Against Major Counterparts on Greek Debt-Crisis Concern

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-05-25T21:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/euro-maintains-gains-as-greece-restructuring-concerns-abate-kiwi-climbs.html
The Swiss franc climbed against all
of its 16 most-traded peers, reaching a record versus the euro,
on concern  Greece ’s debt crisis threatens the region’s economic
recovery as European leaders struggle to resolve it.  The pound advanced versus the dollar and euro after the
U.K.’s gross domestic product rose in the first quarter. The
franc climbed versus  Europe ’s shared currency for a fourth day,
the longest winning streak in a month. European Central Bank
Executive Board Member Juergen Stark said Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  need a “drastic change” in economic policy.  “We have various pieces of evidence of tension in the  euro
zone ,” said  Jens Nordvig , global head of G-10 currency strategy
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York. “People are certainly
searching for nations that are deemed safe. Swiss franc is
clearly among them.”  The franc strengthened 0.9 percent to 1.2293 per euro at 5
p.m. in  New York , after earlier reaching a record 1.2271, and it
gained 0.9 percent to 87.26 centimes per dollar. The dollar was
little changed at $1.4088 per euro, after earlier appreciating
as much as 0.6 percent. It gained to $1.3970 on May 23, the
strongest level since March 17. The greenback traded at 81.97
yen, compared with 81.95 yen yesterday.  Europe’s common currency pared losses against the dollar as
stocks rallied. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose as much as
0.7 percent after earlier falling 0.3 percent.  Disagreement on Greece  The euro fell against the franc as European officials
disagreed over how to resolve the region’s debt crisis, which
began in Greece.  “There are still so many questions out there about Greece;
you have half the world who says it needs to restructure, the
other half saying don’t do it,” said  Greg Salvaggio , senior
vice president of capital markets at the currency-trading firm
Tempus Consulting Inc in  Washington .  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  told the French newspaper  Les Echos  in an interview
Greek debt maturities could be extended on a voluntary basis.  Restructuring Greece’s debt “cannot, must not be the
solution,” Stark, a former vice president of  Germany ’s
Bundesbank, said in a speech in Berlin. Euro-area leaders should
“please consider the consequences” of a debt restructuring,
Stark said.  “There is increased nervousness surrounding this Greece
scenario,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at
the online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “The EU and
the IMF have an uphill battle to gain their own support for
providing additional aid,” she said.  The EU and the  International Monetary Fund  provided a 110
billion-euro ($155 billion) rescue package for Greece.  Euro Weakens  The euro dropped 1.9 percent over the past month, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The franc climbed 3.1 percent,
and the greenback gained 2 percent.  German consumer confidence index will fall for a third
consecutive month in June, GfK AG said in a report today, with
speculation that Greece may need to default clouding growth
prospects.  The yen was little changed versus the euro at 115.45.  “The yen has been taken out of the equation in terms of
the hedge on  risk aversion , which has helped the franc,” said
Nick Parsons, head of markets strategy in  London  at National
Australia Bank Ltd., the country’s largest bank by assets. “The
Swiss franc is the best alternative. If you look at relative
growth, the Swiss economy is in far better shape than the
Japanese.”  Swiss Interest Rate  The franc also strengthened as investors speculated the
record exchange rate against the euro won’t prevent
Switzerland’s central bank from raising interest rates as the
economy expands. Jan-Egbert Sturm, head of the KOF Swiss
Economic Institute, told state television the central bank may
increase borrowing costs from near zero as soon as next month.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said in a report today the Swiss central bank should start
raising borrowing costs this year to counter emerging
inflationary pressures.  The pound climbed against all of its most-traded
counterparts except the franc after GDP rose 0.5 percent in the
first quarter and 1.8 percent from a year earlier, matching
initial estimates.  Sterling appreciated 0.7 percent to 86.55 pence per euro
and gained 0.6 percent to $1.6274. U.K. exports rose 3.7 percent
in the first quarter and net trade added a record 1.7 percentage
points to gross-domestic-product growth, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London.  Swedish Krona  The Swedish currency gained versus the euro as the central
bank said inflation will accelerate and unemployment fell more
than predicted. Sweden’s krona snapped two days of losses
against the euro as Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden said the
non-seasonally adjusted jobless rate declined to 7.9 percent in
April from 8.1 percent in March.  Sweden is “getting a stronger and stronger economy, the
situation in the labor market is strengthening and we’re seeing
that unit labor costs, which previously fell, are now beginning
to rise,” Riksbank Deputy Governor Barbro Wickman-Parak said
yesterday in an interview in  Stockholm , underlining the bank’s
commitment to further tightening this year.  The krona gained 0.2 percent to 8.9239 per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  