-- 
Ex-Xinhua Finance Officials Plead Not Guilty to Insider Charges; Bush Ill

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-24T16:34:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/ex-xinhua-finance-officials-plead-not-guilty-to-insider-charges-bush-ill.html
Two former board members of Xinhua
Finance Inc. accused of taking part in a $50 million insider-
trading scheme said they aren’t guilty of defrauding investors
and lying to regulators.  Shelly Singhal and Dennis Pelino today made their first
appearance in federal court in  Washington  after being charged
May 10 with conspiracy, mail fraud and false statements.  Loretta Fredy Bush, Xinhua Finance’s former chief executive
officer, who is also charged in the case, didn’t appear in court
because of illness, her lawyer said.  “She is under doctor’s orders not to fly,” Bush’s lawyer,
Charles Leeper of Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP in Washington, told
U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth. Leeper said it was unclear
when his client, who lives in  Hawaii , will be able to appear in
court.  Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed on the
Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products focused on
Chinese and international financial markets.  The three are accused of using entities to disguise the
sale of shares in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and investors and engage in
 insider trading , according to an indictment. They are also
accused of manipulating the company’s balance sheet to avoid
impairment charges.  False Statements  Singhal and Bush face nine charges. Pelino, who was charged
with an additional false statements count, faces 10. Each mail
fraud count is punishable by a maximum penalty of 20 years in
prison.  Singhal and Pelino will remain free pending trial, Lamberth
said today. Both entered pleas of not guilty.  Bush, 52, co-founded Xinhua Finance with Pelino in 1999.
She was the company’s chief executive and vice chairman of its
board of directors until January 2009, according to the
indictment.  Pelino, 63, was chairman of the compensation committee and
a member of the audit and investment committees, according to
the indictment, and Singhal, 43, was chairman of Xinhua
Finance’s audit committee and a member of its compensation and
investment committees.  This is the second criminal case against Singhal. He was
indicted last year in Washington and is accused of a running a
$10 million stock manipulation conspiracy. Three lawyers have
pleaded guilty in that case and agreed to cooperate.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 