-- 
Exxon Trails BP After $35 Billion XTO Natural-Gas Gamble Amid Supply Glut

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-05-24T04:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/exxon-lagging-bp-following-35-billion-xto-natural-gas-gamble.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S.
natural-gas producer since its acquisition of XTO Energy Inc.
last year, is slowing drilling in Texas gas fields amid a supply
glut that slashed prices for the fuel.  Chief Executive Officer Rex Tillerson may be pressed at
tomorrow’s annual meeting in Dallas to show that the $34.9
billion XTO purchase -- Exxon’s largest transaction since he
became CEO in January 2006 -- hasn’t been a bust, said Manuj Nikhanj of Ross Smith Energy Group Ltd.  Since Exxon completed the XTO acquisition on June 28, Exxon
shares have lagged Chevron Corp., ConocoPhillips and even  BP Plc (BP/) ,
operator of the deep-sea well that triggered the worst-ever U.S.
marine oil spill last year. All those companies have benefited
to a greater degree than Exxon from rallying crude prices.  “It’s a gas bet that obviously hasn’t worked yet,”
Nikhanj, an analyst at Calgary-based Ross Smith, said in a
telephone interview. “Exxon isn’t making any money off the
commodity that XTO was known for.”  North American energy markets were flooded with gas after
new drilling techniques allowed producers to tap into previously
inaccessible geologic formations. U.S. gas futures tumbled as
much as 30 percent in the months after the acquisition closed in
June, and remain down 7.7 percent.  Engineers and Scientists  In the XTO purchase, Exxon gained gas and oil fields from
the Texas-Mexico border to  North Dakota , as well as a workforce
of 3,000 that includes engineers and geoscientists who pioneered
techniques for tapping gas encased in shale rock. The acquired
assets helped drive a 24 percent increase in first-quarter gas
output for Exxon, compared to a 0.6 percent decline in crude
production.  The merger also tilted Exxon’s proved reserves from 51
percent oil at the end of 2009 to 53 percent gas a year later, a
shift that may signal lower earnings in years to come because
gas is 75 percent cheaper than oil, on an energy-equivalent
basis.  Exxon, based in Irving, Texas, is taking steps to curb its
exposure to low natural- gas prices . XTO, which now operates as
an Exxon unit, filed 371  applications to drill wells  in  Texas 
during the first four months of this year, a 16 percent decline
from the same period in 2010, according to the  Texas Railroad
Commission , which oversees drilling in the largest oil-and gas-
producing state.  Holding Steady  Exxon doesn’t plan to reduce the number of rigs drilling
wells on XTO projects this year, David Rosenthal, Exxon’s vice
president of  investor relations , said during an April 28
conference call to discuss the company’s first-quarter results.
Drilling will concentrate as much as possible on oil-rich areas
“to make sure that we’re maximizing the value of that
program,” Rosenthal said.  “The Exxon Mobil and XTO merger brought together two
highly complementary organizations whose combined strengths
deliver strong  shareholder value  and open new opportunities for
the production of clean-burning natural gas,” Karen P. Matusic,
spokeswoman for Exxon, said in an e-mailed statement. “I do not
think you can jump to any conclusions based on a couple months
of rig data in one state.”  Gas prices have averaged $4.23 per million British thermal
units this year, after production from  U.S. wells  rose 4.8
percent to 21.58 trillion cubic feet in 2010, the highest since
1973, according to the Energy Department in  Washington .  “Prices would need to come up to the $5.50 or $6 range for
a sustained period to allow for perpetual drilling,” said Rick
Smead, a Houston-based energy analyst at  Navigant Consulting Inc. (NCI) 
who has advised gas producers such as Chesapeake Energy Corp. on
strategy.  Competing Fuels  Natural gas has benefited in recent months from rising
prices for coal, a competing fuel for  power plants  and  steel
mills , said Robert Ineson, senior director of global gas at IHS
Inc.’s Cambridge Energy Research Associates. Surging demand for
coal in expanding economies such as  China  pushed prices to a 26-
month high, and is prompting some electricity generators to
switch to lower-cost gas, he said.  Tillerson, 59, told analysts in March that he intends to
dispatch XTO engineers worldwide to assess fields considered
unconventional because of the intensive techniques required to
harvest the gas or crude. Gas fields in  Asia ,  Europe  or  Latin
America  have the potential to generate higher profits than U.S.
finds because demand has outpaced local production in those
markets, elevating prices, said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis .  The XTO transaction has brought Exxon new expertise to
produce fuels from unconventional formations such as shale or
dense sandstone, known as tight sands, said Douglas Ober, chief
executive officer at  Petroleum & Resources Corp. (PEO) , for whom Exxon
is the largest holding among $837 million under management.  Unconventional Expertise  Exxon already is benefiting from XTO’s expertise, Rosenthal
said in the April earnings conference call. “If you look at the
objectives we have of improving capital efficiency, improving
productivity, and lowering operating costs, we are making good
progress and are very pleased with how that’s going,” he said.  In November 2009, Exxon abandoned a $75 million effort to
crack open a tight-sand formation in  Hungary  after striking more
water than gas. Exxon’s geologists and engineers had failed to
detect an underground aquifer on seismic maps of the prospect,
Stephen Schultz, a spokesman for Exxon’s partner in the project,
Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd., said at the time.  The Hungarian prospect involved tight sands similar to
those in the Freestone Trend in Texas that accounted for 28
percent of XTO’s pre-merger production.  Shale formations have the potential to more than double the
world’s gas reserves, the U.S. Energy Department’s Energy
Information Agency said in  an April 5 assessment , adding 6,622
trillion cubic feet to 6,609 trillion of conventional gas.  Mobil Acquisition  The XTO transaction has been more positively received by
investors than the $87.7 billion Mobil Corp. transaction in 1999
that was the largest-ever oil industry merger. Exxon’s 16
percent increase since the XTO agreement was announced 17 months
ago is more than double the 8.9 percent gain during the same
time span after the Mobil deal.  Buying XTO was smarter than spending years trying to build
an unconventional drilling business from the ground up and
risking failure, Ober said.  “From a financial-returns basis, it’s difficult to say
what kind of result they’re getting at this point from XTO,”
Ober said. “But from an intellectual-returns perspective, it’s
already paying off. This was never really about XTO’s gas fields
as much as it was about getting hold of their technology and
their people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 