-- 
Mezzanine Loans May Quadruple as Rate Rises Increase Floating-Note Allure

-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-05-24T09:21:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/mezzanine-loans-may-recover-quadrupling-next-year-as-interest-rates-rise.html
Mezzanine loans to fund leveraged
buyouts may rebound next year as rising  interest rates  increase
the allure of the floating-rate debt, according to Ipes U.K.
Ltd., which oversees $40 billion of assets.  Sales of the debt that gets paid after senior creditors
could increase as much as four-fold to 4 billion euros ($5.6
billion), said Nigel Strachan, a managing director at St.
Helier, Jersey-based Ipes, which administers funds for private
equity and mezzanine managers.  Junk bonds  are displacing mezzanine loans as a credit
market rally drives relative yields to less than half the cost.
Investors demand 4.76 percentage points over benchmarks to hold
speculative-grade bonds compared with 10.3 percentage points for
mezzanine debt, according to data from Bank of America Merrill
Lynch and  Fitch Ratings . Loans and other securities pegged to
interbank lending rates may find favor again as central banks
raise interest rates to curb inflation.  “The pendulum swung in bonds’ favor in large-cap
transactions for a while but that could easily swing back as
interest rates increase,” said David Wilmot, joint head of
mezzanine and private equity at Babson Capital Europe in London,
which manages about 1.5 billion euros of mezzanine debt.  Mezzanine Comeback  The  European Central Bank  lifted borrowing costs by 25 basis
points to 1.25 percent in April and will increase them by a
further 50 basis points by the end of the year, according to the
median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The  Bank
of England  will raise borrowing costs once this year, with the
key rate ending 2011 at 0.75 percent, a separate survey shows.  “As interest rates start to rise, there will be more of an
appetite to have a flexible financing product so mezzanine
should come back,” said Strachan.  At the peak of the market in 2006, 13.4 billion euros of
mezzanine debt was sold, according to Fitch Ratings. Companies
raised 336 million euros of mezzanine financing in  Europe  so far
this year, down from 635 million euros in the same period of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Fitch. Ipes
forecasts full-year issuance of at least 1 billion euros in
2011, about flat to last year.  Mezzanine loans are a type of debt used in leveraged
buyouts. Like bonds, they rank below senior loans and can be
used to bridge a funding gap between senior loans and equity.  Mezzanine lenders and private-equity firms will convene in
Paris this week at a conference organized by IIR Ltd. that’s
expected to draw about 180 delegates.  Banks Retrench  Banks are cutting their holdings of mezzanine debt after
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which sets minimum
standards for banks in 27 countries and territories, proposed
stricter regulations on leverage ratios to deter lenders from
taking risky bets on credit. The debt is typically provided by
specialist funds including Boston-based Babson Capital
Management LLC and Park Square Capital LLP in London.  While high-yield bonds have increasingly been used for
buyouts of larger companies this year, including Staffordshire,
England-based Phones 4u Group Ltd. and U.K. operator of mental-
health clinics Priory Group Ltd., mezzanine is still popular for
smaller buyouts, according to Wilmot at Babson Capital.  “We’ve been quite active in the mid-market,” Wilmot said.
“It’s not affected by high-yield bonds or senior secured bonds
and there is a more cautious approach by the banks to leverage
multiples and underwriting levels, so there’s often a natural
financing gap for subordinated debt.”  High-yield bonds and leveraged loans are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Babson Capital provided 30 million euros of eight-year
mezzanine notes in October to help fund IK Investment Partners
Ltd.’s 190 million-euro buyout of GHD GesundHeits GmbH
Deutschland.  U.K. noodle bar chain Wagamama and online travel agency
Karavel-Promovacances are both currently using mezzanine debt to
fund their buyouts. Investment firms Euromezzanine and Capzanine
provided 45 million euros of mezzanine loans to LBO  France  for
its buyout of Paris-based Karavel, Bloomberg data show. Hutton
Collins Partners LLP provided 30 million pounds ($48 million) of
pay-in-kind mezzanine debt, alongside 52 million pounds of
equity, for Duke Street LLP’s takeover of Wagamama, the data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in  London  
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 