-- 
FDIC Says U.S. Lenders Earned $29 Billion in First Quarter

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-05-24T16:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/fdic-says-u-s-lenders-earned-29-billion-in-first-quarter.html
U.S. lenders had net income of $29
billion in the first quarter, a 66 percent increase from a year
earlier, as loan-loss provisions declined, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. said.  Income rose from $17.4 billion, the seventh consecutive
quarterly increase as lenders recover from the 2008 financial
crisis, the FDIC said today in its  Quarterly Banking Profile . It
was the sixth straight quarter where earnings were driven by
lower provisions for bad loans, the FDIC said.  Another indicator of improved health in the banking
industry was the FDIC’s confidential list of “problem banks,”
which saw its smallest rise in 3½ years, the agency said. Four
lenders were added to the tally of lenders at risk of failure,
pushing the total to 888, the most since the tail end of the
savings-and-loan crisis in 1993, the FDIC said.  “The industry shows continuing signs of improvement,
though there is a limit to how far reductions in loan-loss
provisions can boost industry earnings,” FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  said today in a statement released with the report.  Funds set aside for loan losses fell to $20.7 billion in
the first quarter from $51.6 billion a year earlier, the FDIC
said. At the same time, net interest income fell by $3.2 billion
from a year earlier -- the first year-over-year decline since
1989 -- as margins narrowed and banks experienced weak asset
growth, the agency said.  Net operating revenue was 3.2 percent lower than a year ago
and realized gains on securities fell by $1.7 billion, according
to the report.  “If banks are to continue to increase their profitability,
they will have to grow their revenues,” Bair said in a briefing
for reporters today.  Insurance Fund  The deposit insurance fund, which protects customer
accounts up to $250,000 in the event of a failure, improved its
net worth to a deficit of $1 billion during the first quarter,
according to the FDIC’s report. The fund, depleted by a wave of
 bank failures  stemming from the collapse of the U.S. housing
market, narrowing the deficit from $7.4 billion at the end of
the preceding three-month period, the FDIC said.  “Barring unforeseen circumstances, the reported DIF
balance at June 30 should turn positive, after seven quarters in
the red,” Bair said in the agency’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  