-- 
Fed to Add Government-Sponsored Entities as Counterparties

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-24T17:46:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/fed-to-add-government-sponsored-entities-as-repo-counterparties.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
is seeking to expand its counterparties to include government-
sponsored enterprises for use when policy makers begin to drain
the record amount of cash they added to the financial system.  Government-sponsored enterprises such as Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac must apply to the New York Fed by June 3 for the
designation. If they’re approved, that will expand the central
bank’s counterparties for reverse-repurchase, or repo,
operations from the Fed’s primary dealers and domestic money
funds, which were added last year.  The criteria for the added counterparties include being a
“consistent” cash investor in the tri-party repo market and
being able to confirm and arrange settlement of a “significant
volume” of transactions with the  New York  Fed, according to the
statement on its  website . The proposal comes as the U.S. seeks
to wind down the mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
for their role in the collapse of the housing market during the
economic crisis of 2008.  “This will further enlarge the number of counterparties
the Fed can do reverse repos with and will allow them to do more
transactions than they could otherwise,” said Ray Stone,
principal at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Plainsboro,
 New Jersey . “The GSEs are lending about $150 to $175 billion a
day in the fed funds and repo markets, and much of that could be
redirected to the Fed.”  Policy makers  are debating how to withdraw emergency
stimulus programs without disrupting financial markets or bank
liquidity as the economic recovery gains strength. Fed officials
have said they may use reverse repos, pay interest on excess
bank reserves and sell securities directly to investors to
withdraw or neutralize cash in the banking system. They also
oversee the overnight bank lending rate.  Reverse Repos  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, draining cash from the banking system. At maturity, the
securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash to the primary
dealers. In a tri-party repo, a clearing bank acts as a third
party to make sure there’s adequate collateral behind the repo
and that it conforms throughout the life of the transaction to
the investor’s requirements.  The central bank’s 20 primary dealers, which trade directly
with the New York Fed’s markets desk and are obligated to bid at
U.S. debt auctions, include BNP Paribas SA, Bank of America
Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Target Rate Gap  The addition of GSEs as counterparties in the Fed’s reverse
repos may help narrow the gap between the fed funds rate traded
in the market and the central bank’s target rate for overnight
loans, which matches the interest rate it pays banks on excess
reserves, according to Stone.  While the Fed promises to pay banks 0.25 percent to keep
excess funds on deposit at the central bank, the so-called fed
effective rate, or market rate, has averaged 0.09 basis point
this month.  Fannie Mae  and other government-sponsored
enterprises that are ineligible to deposit money at the Fed
“have pulled down” the fed funds rate by selling funds in the
market, New York Fed researchers said in a paper published in
December 2009.  “This will almost be the same as paying interest on
reserves to the GSEs, which the Fed can’t do without
Congressional approval,” said Stone. “If the Fed did reverse
repos with the GSEs that may mop up some of their liquidity,
which may otherwise find its way into the fed funds market. That
will probably provide for a better alignment between the funds
rate and the interest rate on reserves.”  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  have been in conservatorship
since 2008 and have received more than $160 billion in
government support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  