-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says Demand May Push Up Oil Faster Than Prices for Consumers

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-24T19:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/fed-s-bullard-says-demand-may-push-up-oil-faster-than-prices-for-consumers.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said demand from emerging markets may
push up  oil prices  faster than other goods, making unsuitable a
Fed focus on price indexes excluding energy and food.  “It is at least a reasonable hypothesis that global demand
for energy will outstrip increased supply over the coming
decades,” Bullard said today in a speech at Cape Girardeau,
 Missouri , that was identical to a talk yesterday. “If that
scenario unfolds, then ignoring energy prices in a  price index 
may systematically understate inflation for many years.”  A focus on overall price indexes can bolster the Fed’s
credibility, which may decline if policy makers seem out of
touch with households struggling to pay more for food and
energy, Bullard said. Oil advanced 2 percent at 3:25 p.m. in  New
York  after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it’s turning “more
bullish” on raw materials.  The Fed may keep its main interest rate, monetary policy
language and the size of its balance sheet the same after
completing $600 billion in purchases of U.S. Treasury securities
next month, Bullard said, reiterating comments this month.  Such a decision would allow time for assessing inflation
and the U.S. economic outlook and may be followed by a
tightening of policy later this year, Bullard said.  “We are close to the high tide for easy monetary policy,”
he said. “If all goes well, we will be in a good position to
take back some of the accommodation in the second half of the
year or after that depending on how the economy performs.”  Sustainable Recovery  Bullard told reporters after his speech he was confident
the U.S. economic recovery was sustainable, supported by a
pickup in private-sector  job creation . First-quarter growth may
be revised higher from the reported 1.8 percent, Bullard said.  “The second quarter, I think, will come in between 3 and 4
percent, and I think job growth will continue,” he said. “We
are in good condition in the  U.S. economy . There is some risk
from these events around the world, but generally speaking, we
are in good shape.”  The European debt crisis is the top risk to U.S. growth,
Bullard said. While not a “global macroeconomic shock,” it
poses the possibility of such instability, he said.  While unemployment is forecast to be about 8.5 percent in
the fourth quarter, according to a survey of economists this
month by Bloomberg News, such joblessness wouldn’t be so high as
to postpone the start a tightening cycle, Bullard said.  ‘Right Direction’  “As long as unemployment is moving in the right direction,
we’ll be fine,” he told reporters. “Even if we start to remove
some accommodation, monetary policy will still be very easy. It
is not a matter that you are taking away the entire punch bowl
at once,” he said.  Bullard urged Congress to work to fix the growing U.S. debt
and deficits. Without a fix, yields on U.S. government bonds
could go “much higher,” he said. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note was 3.12 percent at 3:52 p.m. today in New
York, less than the average of 4.08 percent during the last
decade, Bloomberg data show.  “It is imperative Congress come to a solution for our very
high debt and deficits,” he told reporters. “Our numbers as a
nation look worse than some of the worst offenders in  Europe .
The only reason we are able to get away with this is we have a
long track record.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  