-- 
Fed’s Hoenig Says Banks’ Business Should Be Limited to Avoid Crisis Repeat

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-05-24T16:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/fed-s-hoenig-says-banks-business-should-be-limited-to-avoid-crisis-repeat.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said banks’ business should be confined
to loans and deposits to avert a recurrence of the federal
bailouts and near-collapse of the financial system in 2008.  “The consequence of expanding the safety net to an ever-
increasing range of activities is to invite a repeat of our most
recent crisis,” Hoenig said today in a speech in Philadelphia.
“With separation of activities, risks will remain in the
financial system, but unlike the past decade, this risk will be
priced more correctly and failure can be resolved more
equitably.”  The proposal by Hoenig, 64, the longest-serving current Fed
policy maker, is in line with his previous calls for the breakup
of large financial firms and for tougher  bank regulations  than
officials such as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  have publicly
supported. Hoenig, who retires Oct. 1, said last month that
international  capital requirements  are too lax to prevent
another U.S. banking crisis.  “Banking organizations that have access to the safety net
should be restricted to the core activities of making loans and
taking deposits and to other activities that do not
significantly impede the market, bank management and bank
supervisors in assessing, monitoring and controlling bank risk-
taking,” said Hoenig, who doesn’t vote on Fed monetary policy
this year.  He spoke at a conference hosted by the Global
Interdependence Center and Drexel University’s LeBow College of
Business.  Cease Bets  Hoenig’s comments represent his backing of the Volcker
Rule, named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , which Congress
passed last year to force bank holding companies to cease bets
with their own money outside of traditional lending.  “I strongly support the Volcker Rule and suggest it should
be implemented with resolve and should be strengthened in its
reach and impact,” Hoenig said.  Hoenig also proposed two other rules to ensure that the so-
called “shadow banking” system doesn’t take on excessive risks
as financial institutions  evade regulation.  Money market mutual
funds should be required to have a floating net asset value
instead of being allowed to maintain a fixed value of $1, he
said.  In another change, lenders financing shadow banks wouldn’t
be allowed to immediately liquidate mortgage debt used as short-
term collateral in the event of default, rolling back a change
in a 2005 bankruptcy law, Hoenig said.  Increase Stability  The changes would “increase the stability of the shadow
banking system because term lending would be less dependent on
‘demandable’ funding and more reliant on term funding, and the
pricing of risk would reflect the actual risk incurred,” Hoenig
said.  The Kansas City Fed chief didn’t comment on the outlook for
the economy or  interest rates .  In a related policy paper released with the speech and co-
written by Hoenig and  Charles Morris , a Kansas City Fed vice
president and economist, they wrote that banks would also be
allowed to underwrite securities, advise on mergers and manage
trusts and assets. Banks would be forbidden to “conduct broker-
dealer activities, make markets in derivatives or securities,
trade securities or derivatives for either their own account or
customers or sponsor hedge or private equity funds.”  Burst Bubble  The bursting of the U.S. housing bubble and resulting
cascade throughout the world financial system resulted in $2
trillion of writedowns and losses for financial companies from
2007 to 2009.  “The combination of securities and commercial banking
activities in a single organization provides opportunities for
the senior management and boards of directors to be increasingly
influenced by individuals with a short-term perspective,”
Hoenig said. “As a result, the increased propensity of these
corporate leaders to take high risks for short-term gain leads
to more of a short-term-returns culture throughout the
organization.”  Hoenig said in his speech that restrictions wouldn’t drive
banks and jobs outside the U.S., as some critics say, because
there are “200 years of banking success in this country” and
other countries are unlikely to expand their safety net to large
banks.  Hoenig dissented all eight times in 2010 from decisions of
the monetary policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee ,
preferring tighter credit.  Minority View  Asked by an audience member why his views were in the
minority at the central bank, Hoenig said that it’s “hard to
know” and that his outlook is shaped by his experiences over
three decades and multiple banking crises.  The Fed is completing its $600 billion of Treasury
purchases next month, ending a second round of so-called
quantitative easing that was aimed at averting deflation and
boosting a sluggish recovery. Hoenig opposed the program. In the
first round of bond purchases, the central bank bought $1.7
trillion of mortgage debt and Treasuries. Policy makers are
debating how and when to raise interest rates and sell the debt
once the economy improves enough.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Philadelphia at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  