-- 
Feed-Grain Demand in South Korea May Fall 10% on Culls of Diseased Animals

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-05-24T04:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/feed-grain-demand-in-south-korea-may-fall-10-on-culls-of-diseased-animals.html
Feed-grain demand in  South Korea , the
world’s third-biggest corn buyer, may decline by as much as 10
percent this year after millions of pigs, cattle and poultry
were culled because of diseases, a local feed group said.  Consumption may fall 7 percent to 10 percent in 2011 from
an estimated 9.35 million metric tons for 2010, Kim Chi Young, a
director for grain purchases at the Korea Feed Association, the
nation’s top grain-buying group, said in an interview yesterday.  Corn futures in Chicago have doubled in the past year,
climbing to the highest since 2008, as global supplies failed to
keep pace with demand. South Korea, which relies on imports for
almost all its corn and wheat requirements, has destroyed about
9.7 million cattle, pigs and poultry after outbreaks of foot-
and-mouth and bird-flu last winter.  “The Korean livestock industry may remain sluggish for a
long time after the outbreaks,” said Kim at the group’s
headquarters in  Seoul . “It will probably take a long while for
the pork industry, in particular, to recover.”  The nation culled 3.32 million pigs, or 34 percent of the
total, and 151,000 cattle, or 4.5 percent, since late November
through April as it fought to contain the spread of its worst
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, data from the government and
the group show.  Demand for corn may fall more than wheat this year as feed
makers would seek to increase use of wheat at the expense of
corn, Kim said, without giving a forecast. Output of the so-
called compound feed made from various ingredients including
corn and wheat may decline as much as 10 percent this year from
17.53 million last year, he said.  ‘Trying Hard’  “Feed makers are trying hard to cut costs as they can
hardly raise prices, while grain prices are rising,” Kim said.  The import cost for corn was about $63 a ton higher than
wheat in April, compared with about $25 a year earlier, Kim said.  Corn futures were little changed at $7.535 a bushel at
11:38 a.m. Seoul time on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, while wheat
was also little changed at $8.035 a bushel. Corn has advanced
about 20 percent this year, while wheat rose 1 percent.  “Corn prices may remain strong as there’s always a risk of
adverse weather and high  oil prices  support demand for ethanol,
while demand from emerging markets keeps on growing,” said Park
Jong Beom, a trader at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in Seoul.  South Korea’s corn imports will drop to 8 million tons in
the year that ends Sept. 30, down from 8.46 million a year
earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s  Foreign
Agricultural Service  said in a report on May 4. Wheat imports
will slide to 4 million tons in the year ended June 30, compared
with 4.362 million a year earlier, the USDA unit said.  South Korea,  Asia ’s second-biggest grain buyer, imported
6.54 million tons of feed-corn last year, representing about 76
percent of total corn imports, data on  the website  of the Korea
International Trade Association showed. Feed-wheat imports stood
at 2.23 million tons, or about half its total wheat imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  