-- 
Fetting Said to Irk Peltz With Costs Setting Back Legg Mason’s Turnaround

-- B y   S r e e   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/fetting-said-to-irk-peltz-with-costs-setting-back-legg-mason-s-turnaround.html
Mark Fetting, chief executive officer
of  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , has disappointed the board of directors with
the disclosure of costs that have delayed his goal of lifting
profitability, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Nelson Peltz and KKR & Co.’s  Scott Nuttall , two directors
whose firms own stakes in the Baltimore-based asset manager,
have said they’re dissatisfied Fetting didn’t disclose until
this month that expenses tied to bond division Western Asset
Management will rise by $74 million this year, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the board’s deliberations
aren’t public. The board is scheduled to meet today in  New York ,
one of the people said.  Fetting, 55, has struggled to reverse client withdrawals
after leading Legg Mason back to profitability from a $2 billion
loss in fiscal 2009. Since Peltz, an activist investor and the
biggest shareholder, joined the board in 2009, Fetting cut 350
jobs to lift operating margins to 30 percent, a goal the company
said will be delayed because of the costs disclosed May 3.  “Anytime an executive has to go back on a promise, it’s a
hit to credibility,” Mike Morris, a senior analyst at Atlanta-
based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , Legg Mason’s third-biggest shareholder, said
in a telephone interview. “The turnaround is progressing
nicely, but the process could have been managed better.”  Legg Mason has lost 11 percent in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading since May 2, the day before the costs were
reported. The shares are down 54 percent since Fetting was named
CEO on Jan. 28, 2008, even after tripling from their March 9,
2009, lows.  Peltz’s ‘Standstill’  Fetting declined to comment, as did Anne Tarbell, a
spokeswoman for Peltz. Nuttall didn’t return calls seeking
comment. Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for KKR, declined to
comment.  Peltz’s Trian Fund Management LP, which owned 7.4 percent
of Legg Mason’s shares as of March 31, is known for pushing
companies to increase their value by cutting costs or merging.
Peltz helped spur Cadbury Plc’s 2008 spinoff of Dr Pepper
Snapple Group Inc.  He joined the Legg Mason board in October 2009, under an
agreement that prevents him from raising his stake above 9.9
percent during a “standstill period” that could end as early
as March 31, 2012. The accord prohibits him from forming
syndicates or partnerships to amass more voting interests, or
from forcing a sale or merger of any investment affiliates.  ‘Patience Wears Out’  “If I were a board member, I would be encouraged with some
signs of progress, but I couldn’t conclude that the turnaround
has been completely successful,” Jeff Hopson, an analyst with
Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. in  St. Louis , said in an interview.
“People’s patience wears out.”  Fetting told investors last year that he would expand the
firm’s operating margin with job cuts that would save $130
million to $150 million a year.  He and Chief Financial Officer Pete Nachtwey told analysts
and shareholders this month that its bond unit will keep a
larger portion of its revenue, as performance rebounded and
redemptions abated at Western Asset. The unit previously paid
some of its quarterly revenue to the parent company to cover
costs from a bailout of money funds it inherited through the
December 2005 acquisition of Citigroup Inc.’s investment unit,
which was integrated into the bond division.  ‘Surprise to Most’  The change means Legg Mason won’t reach Fetting’s stated
goal of expanding operating margins by March 2012 to 30 percent
from 23 percent as of March 31. Nachtwey said on the call that
while the company knew about the increase in compensation
expenses “for quite some time,” it doesn’t discuss the impact
on earnings until the start of the fiscal year.  “It came as a surprise to most of us,”  Michael Kim , an
analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said in
an interview. “While it’s going to be a headwind for margin
expansion, because they are making this commitment to Western,
it will allow them to retain their employees and improve growth
prospects,” said Kim, who rates the shares a “buy.”  Fetting took over from Legg Mason’s founder, Raymond
“Chip” Mason, in January 2008, after stock funds managed by
 Bill Miller  trailed rivals for two years in a row and the firm
started to see trouble signs in the former Citigroup money
funds. The money funds had invested as much as $10 billion in
structured investment vehicles that plunged as investors shunned
mortgage-linked debt in 2008.  Capital Injection  Legg Mason sold $1.25 billion in notes to New York-based
buyout firm KKR in January 2008 to increase its capital after
spending cash to prop up its money funds. KKR’s Nuttall joined
Legg Mason’s board as part of that transaction.  Mason started Mason & Co. in 1962 and eight years later
merged it with Legg & Co., whose predecessor firm was founded as
a regional brokerage in 1899. Mason expanded the asset-
management side of the business by making acquisitions such as
the 1986 purchase of bond investor Western Asset, the 2001 deal
for small-cap manager Royce & Associates and the 2005 pickup of
hedge-fund manager Permal Group Ltd.  Mason led the firm’s largest deal by swapping Legg Mason’s
brokerage business for Citigroup’s investment unit. Citigroup’s
bond and money funds were folded into Western Asset, while its
stock funds were organized into a new unit called ClearBridge
Advisors.  ‘Fetting’s Tenacity’  Fetting, who was previously responsible for Legg Mason’s
mutual funds and managed accounts, spent his first year as CEO
bolstering the money funds, booking $1.69 billion in after-tax
costs to remove the securities from the portfolios.  “Legg Mason was in the midst of integrating Citi and then
came the catastrophic market, so it was a double-whammy,”
Burton Greenwald, an independent consultant in Philadelphia,
said in an interview. “The fact that the firm is alive, well
and appears to be thriving is a tribute to  Mark Fetting ’s
tenacity.”  After ridding the funds of the troubled debt in early 2009,
Fetting said he would turn to reversing the redemptions that
started in late 2007 and intensified with stock and bond fund
losses amid the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008. Assets tumbled from a peak of about $1 trillion
at the end of 2007 to $672 billion at the end of April. After
pulling a net $134 billion in 2008, investors withdrew $177.5
billion in 2009 and 2010 combined.  Redemptions Slow  Redemptions abated from a peak of $77 billion in the fourth
quarter of 2008 to $8.7 billion in the three months ended March
31, the lowest amount in six quarters. Western Asset’s $6.7
billion in withdrawals was the smallest tally since December
2007, as 75 percent of the unit’s assets were in funds that beat
benchmarks over the previous one, three, five and 10 years,
according to the firm. As of March 31, about three-fourths of
Legg Mason’s long-term U.S. assets were in funds beating their
respective peers over the past three years, compared with 68
percent a year ago, the firm said.  Performance hasn’t picked up at the stock-fund division
headed by Miller. His $3.9 billion Legg Mason Capital Management
Value Trust fund, which beat the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index for
a record 15 straight years through 2005, trailed the U.S. market
benchmark in four of the last five years.  The fund averaged annual declines of 6.1 percent in the
five years ended May 20, worse than 97 percent of its peers that
invest in a blend of large-company stocks, according to data
from Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  