-- 
Finra’s Ketchum Says Structured Products Are ‘Areas of Concern’

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-05-24T15:43:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/finra-s-ketchum-says-structured-products-are-areas-of-concern-.html
Structured products are “areas of
concern” for the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, said
Richard Ketchum, head of Wall Street’s self-funded regulator.  Brokers who sell structured products, which are securities
created by banks that package debt with derivatives as
customized investment bets, must “truly understand the products
they sell,” Ketchum said today at the regulator’s annual
conference in  Washington . Sales of structured products rose 46
percent last year to a record $49.5 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Brokers can’t rely on firm approval alone to satisfy
their suitability obligations,” said Ketchum, Finra’s chairman
and chief executive officer. “This is particularly important
with the proliferation of increasingly complex financial
products, and at a time when certain investors are tempted to
chase yield in today’s lower interest rate environment.”  Broker-dealers regulated by Finra are currently required to
offer products to clients that are “suitable” to their needs.
A Securities and Exchange Commission study mandated by the Dodd-
Frank Act recommended broker-dealers instead be subject to a
fiduciary standard as rigorous as that which requires investment
advisers to act in clients’ “best interests.”  Ketchum, 60, also hinted at future enforcements, saying the
regulator would take “a close look at excess charges for
routine services which some firms appear to be treating as an
additional de facto commission,” such as postage and handling
for typical trades. “You can expect to see some enforcement
activity in this area with respect to particularly egregious
examples.”  He also said firms’ communications with investors need to
become easier to understand. “We need to get away from today’s
environment in which account statements include too much
legalistic information,” causing investors to ignore them, he
said. “That is, to my mind, a fundamentally flawed approach to
disclosure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 