-- 
Hungary Shares Rise Most in Six Weeks as State Buys Mol Stake

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-05-24T16:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/forint-rises-from-4-month-low-versus-franc-before-mortgage-plan.html
Hungarian shares rose the most in six
weeks as the government said it bought a 1.88 billion-euro ($2.7
billion) stake in Mol Nyrt., the country’s biggest refiner, from
 Russia ’s OAO Surgutneftegas. The forint rallied.  The benchmark BUX index of shares rose 2.7 percent to
23,061.29, the biggest increase since April 6, after closing at
the lowest since March 23 yesterday. Mol advanced 4.1 percent to
23,310 forint by 1:15 p.m. in Budapest, when it was suspended
for the rest of the day ahead of the government announcement.
Mol advanced 4.6 percent to 340.5 zloty in Warsaw, where it
wasn’t suspended.  Hungary’s government paid around 22,400 forint per share at
the current exchange rate for Surgut’s 21.2 percent stake in
Mol, Development Minister Tamas Fellegi told reporters today.
Mol’s advance in Budapest before the suspension already
reflected the prospect of the Surgut deal, according to Olena Kyrylenko, a Budapest-based analyst at KBC Securities.  “Uncertainty regarding the intentions of Surgutneftegas
and the relationship between Mol and this company are now
settled,” Kyrylenko said in a phone interview. “From the other
side, we are getting increased political risk because now the
government owns a stake in Mol.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its price estimate on Mol
before the Surgut announcement to 27,600 forint from 26,500
forint, maintaining a “neutral/attractive” rating, according
to a note e-mailed to clients. Goldman also said it is turning
“more bullish” on raw materials, helping to fuel a rally in
commodities today.  Goldman Recommendation  “Goldman raised its price target, and that by itself is an
attractive entry point for foreign investors,” Akos Kuti, head
of research at Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., said by phone from
Budapest before the Surgut deal was announced.  Goldman Sachs recommended buying oil, copper and zinc,
reversing last month’s call to sell commodities, while Morgan
Stanley raised its forecast for  Brent crude  by 20 percent. Brent
rose 1.9 percent to $112.23 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  The forint gained 0.7 percent to 216.932 per Swiss franc,
after ending yesterday at 218.373, the lowest closing price
since Jan 11. The Hungarian currency appreciated 0.4 percent to
269.35 per euro.  Hungarian Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  and the Banking
Association will announce the details of an agreement to help
foreign-currency mortgage holders on May 26,  Peter Szijjarto ,
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s spokesman, said at a press
conference in Budapest today. Szijjarto said “minor details”
of the package still need to be agreed upon.  Hungarian lenders and the government agreed to temporarily
fix exchange rates on household mortgage loans at 180 forint per
Swiss franc for either three years or 3 1/2 years, Janos Muller,
the chief adviser of the country’s  Banking Association , said by
phone on May 20. Muller then said a comprehensive deal, aimed at
relieving borrowers from the pressure of mounting payments, will
be announced today. The rate for euro- and yen-denominated
mortgages will also be fixed, Muller said, without giving a
rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  