-- 
France Telecom Asset Review to Focus on Austria, Portugal

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-24T14:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/france-telecom-may-sell-stakes-in-austria-portugal-ceo-says.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s review of the
future of its European portfolio is focusing on minority stakes
in Portugal and  Austria , Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard said in an interview.  In addition to those two markets, “there are perhaps one
or two countries where it’s legitimate to ask ourselves this
question,” Richard said in Paris during the  e-G8 Forum . The
Belgian operations are not being considered for sale, he said.  France’s biggest phone company said this month it will
examine options including mergers, network-sharing deals, or
outright sales of operations in  Europe , excluding France, Poland
and Spain. The Paris-based company owns a 35 percent stake in
Orange Austria, and a 20 percent holding in Sonaecom SGPS SA,
owner of  Portugal ’s smallest mobile-phone company.  “With a small amount of restructuring, it might be able to
sell the Portuguese assets back into the market, but I would
rather expect a placement” to the controlling shareholder, said
Andrew Hogley, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in
 London . “In Austria it is much less clear. I don’t think
Telekom Austria would be allowed to buy it for competition
reasons, nor would Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile.”  Orange Austria is 65 percent owned by Mid Europa Partners,
according to the French company’s  annual report . The unit
reported sales of 578 million euros and a net loss of 9 million
in 2010. Agnes Riousse, a spokeswoman for London-based Mid
Europa Partners, declined to comment.  Sonaecom Falls  A spokesman at Sonaecom said he couldn’t immediately
comment. The company, which reported 2010 sales of 921 million
euros and 41 million euros in profit, is controlled by retailer
 Sonae (SON)  SGPS, which has a 53 percent stake. Its shares fell 1.2
percent to 1.51 euros at 4:15 p.m. in Lisbon, giving the company
a market value of 553 million euros.  In the first quarter, France Telecom’s sales in smaller
European markets rose 1.2 percent compared with 5.8 percent in
 Africa  and the Middle East excluding Egypt.  “Within Europe, the assets that we see as core for France
Telecom are Spain, France, Poland, and potentially
Switzerland,” Hogley said.  Last year, France Telecom SA and TDC A/S of Denmark ended
their agreement to create the second-largest mobile-phone
operator in Switzerland after regulators rejected the merger of
their local Orange and Sunrise units.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net. 