-- 
Frieze Targets New York; $32 Million Sculpture Found in Garden

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-05-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/frieze-targets-new-york-32-million-statue-discovered-in-garden-art-buzz.html
A 17th-century bronze found in a
garden may fetch as much as $32 million at auction after being
identified as a masterpiece by Dutch sculptor  Adriaen de Vries .  The mythological figure supporting a globe has been hailed
by dealers as a major discovery that is likely to fetch a record
price for a pre-20th-century European sculpture at Christie’s
International in  London  on July 7.  “It’s a magnificent work by one of the greatest sculptors
of the period,” Stuart Lochhead, director of the London-based
dealers  Daniel Katz Ltd ., said in an interview. “It could
easily go for 15 or 20 million pounds to Qatar or  Abu Dhabi .”  The bronze, found during a routine valuation at an
unidentified castle in Northern  Europe , has a formal estimate of
5 million pounds to 8 million pounds, Christie’s said.  “Our valuer was told not to forget the things in the
garden,” Donald Johnston, Christie’s international head of
sculpture, said in an interview. “‘I’ll get to the de Vries
later,’ he joked. When he climbed a ladder and looked at the
bronze, that was exactly the signature he found.”  The 3-foot, 7-inch (1.1 meter) statue has been cleaned of
green oxidation caused by centuries of rain and is now waxed.  The globe held by the garlanded figure is thought to have
been a later 17th-century addition.  De Vries was a late-renaissance sculptor who worked in
 Prague  for the Holy Roman Emperor Rudolf II and his military
commander Albrecht von Wallenstein. The latter commissioned a
number of garden statues from the artist, of which this latest
discovery, dated 1626, may have been one, Christie’s said.  Venus, Cupid  The record for an early European sculpture is the 6.9
million pounds paid for a late-15th-century Italian gilded bronze
roundel of Mars, Venus, Cupid and Vulcan at Christie’s in
December 2003.  The buyer was Sheikh Saud al Thani, cousin of the Emir of Qatar, dealers said.  Of later works, a limestone head by the 20th-century
sculptor  Amedeo Modigliani  sold in Paris for 43.2 million euros
($53 million) in June last year.  Transatlantic Frieze  The Frieze Art Fair will be holding two new events next
year on each side of the Atlantic.  Frieze  New York , scheduled for May 3 to May 6, 2012, will
feature about 170 international galleries offering contemporary
works in a bespoke structure on  Randall’s Island Park ,
overlooking the  East River , the London-based fair said in an e-
mailed statement.  Five months later, the organizers’ 10th annual edition of
their fair in Regent’s Park -- known for its emphasis on works
produced by younger contemporary artists -- will be complemented
by Frieze Masters. The nearby sister event will feature about 70
dealers specializing in pieces dated before 2000.  “New York needed a good international fair,” said Anthony
Wilkinson, partner in the London-based contemporary-art dealers
 Wilkinson . “The reason there hasn’t been one before is that
there wasn’t really anywhere to do it. The genius of Frieze is
they provide their own building. We’ll definitely be
exhibiting.”  Randall’s Island is a 20-minute drive from  Manhattan ’s
Upper East Side. The fair, timed to coincide with New York’s
biannual series of contemporary-art auctions, will be held in a
structure designed by the Brooklyn-based architects,  SO-IL .  Frieze’s long-mooted move to New York, and its foray into
more traditional collecting areas in London, add two more dates
to what will be a busy 2012 art fair calendar.  Earlier this month, Art Basel said it had bought a majority
stake in the Hong Kong International Art Fair and was moving
next year’s edition from May to Feb. 2-5.  Globetrotting Buyers  Globetrotting contemporary-art enthusiasts will now have to
choose between three Art Basels, two Friezes, the Armory Show in
New York, Art Dubai, FIAC in Paris,  ARCO  in  Madrid  and as many
as 100 other fairs and satellite events.  “There are too many fairs,”  Todd Levin , a New York-based
art adviser and curator, said in an interview. “Collectors are
beginning to be fatigued by the circuit. Discretionary spending
on art can only support a finite number of events.”  Frieze New York will be held two months after Manhattan’s
Armory Show, which has been rejuvenated by the presence of
international galleries such as  Hauser & Wirth  and  White Cube .  “Frieze could pull some gravity from the Armory,” Levin
said. “Dealers will have to decide whether they want to do
both.”  In Europe,  Frieze 2012  will be increasingly perceived as a
competitor with  Art Basel , which includes dealers that sell
classic modernist works.  About 60 to 70 percent of the galleries exhibiting at
Frieze Masters will deal in 20th-century material. The remainder
will be an eclectic mix of specialists in Old Masters,
antiquities and other more traditional collecting areas, said
Victoria Siddall, director of the new London fair.  “We want to make Frieze week a destination for collectors,
whatever their interest. We’ll present older works in a
contemporary way and show the thread that runs through the
history of art,” Siddall said.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 