-- 
G4S Aims to Boost East Africa Sales 50%, Expand in South Sudan, Ethiopia

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-24T06:34:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/g4s-aims-to-boost-east-africa-sales-50-expand-in-south-sudan-ethiopia.html
G4S, the world’s biggest security
company, aims to increase revenue in eastern Africa by 50
percent as it expands into  Ethiopia  and Southern Sudan and seeks
acquisitions.  Sales will increase to $250 million by 2013 through
“organic growth,” Adam Miller, managing director of East
Africa for G4S, said in an interview on May 20 in  Kenya ’s
capital, Nairobi. G4S had global sales of 7.4 billion pounds
($11.9 billion) last year.  The regional office covers Madagascar, Mauritius, Tanzania,
Kenya, Uganda, Malawi, and Rwanda. G4S plans to enter Ethiopia
by August following a political “change in outlook” toward
welcoming foreign investors, and Southern Sudan after it
declares independence on July 9, he said.  G4S earns most of its African revenue from companies such
as  Barclays Bank of Kenya Ltd. (BCBL)  and Standard Chartered Bank Ltd.
or individuals, while in the U.K. and U.S. it provides more
services to governments.  The company aims to expand its African operations beyond
basic activities such as providing security guards, alarms and
emergency response, and develop businesses such as secure
transportation of shipments from the ports of  Mombasa  in Kenya
and  Dar es Salaam  in Tanzania, and handling cash for commercial
and central banks, Miller said.  G4S runs a training academy in Nairobi to teach new skills
to fraud and corruption investigators, and would consider
bidding to manage Kenya’s first privately-run prison, Miller
said. Kenya’s  Finance Ministry  has approved the idea though it
hasn’t invited bids yet, he said, citing a letter shown to him
by the prisons commissioner.  ‘Capacity Issue’  “Kenya has got a desperate capacity issue as well as a
standards issue in detention,” Miller said. “The opportunity
is to address both of those problems by using the private sector
financing capability and expertise.”  G4S is “highly acquisitive” and has identified “a few”
potential purchases in the region, Miller said, without
providing more details. The company is also considering a
listing on the  Nairobi Stock Exchange , he said.  G4S is the biggest non-government employer in East  Africa ,
with 35,000 workers, Miller said, citing data the company has
collected from labor ministries and industry associations. The
Nairobi-based  Federation of Kenya Employers  and Kenya Private
Sector Alliance said they could not confirm the numbers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 