-- 
MGA Seeks $339 Million in Damages, Fees From Mattel for Bratz Doll Suit

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/mga-seeks-339-million-in-damages-fees-from-mattel-for-bratz-doll-lawsuit.html
Bratz doll maker MGA Entertainment
Inc. asked a judge to triple the $88.4 million in damages it won
from  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  and to award it attorney fees and costs in the
seven-year fight over rights to the dolls.  In a proposed order filed yesterday in federal court in
 Santa Ana , California, MGA asked U.S. District Judge  David Carter  to award it $177 million in punitive damages, $129.7
million in attorneys fees, and $32.4 million in costs. The
company also asked the judge to award it $4.3 million in
restitution from Mattel based on unfair competition claims.  Carter, in an order yesterday, postponed a hearing
scheduled for today until tomorrow for arguments on MGA’s
requests as well as on Mattel’s motion to throw out the April 21
jury verdict holding it liable for misappropriating MGA’s trade
secrets.  Closely held MGA, based in  Van Nuys ,  California , said in a
May 6 fee request that Barbie-doll maker Mattel set out to
destroy most of the value of its business and succeeded.  Mattel has asked Carter to reject the request for legal
costs, saying its copyright-infringement claims were
“objectively reasonable.” El Segundo, California-based Mattel
also said MGA wasn’t entitled to an additional $177 million in
punitive damages for trade-secret misappropriation claims.  ‘Sneak Peek’  “At issue in this case is, at most, a sneak peek at 26
toys displayed at six toy fairs over a six-year period,” Mattel
said in a May 13 response to MGA’s request for damages. “No one
died. No towns were lost. MGA suffered no actual injury and did
not even claim at trial that it did.”  Lisa Marie Bongiovanni, a Mattel spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment after regular business
hours yesterday. The amount of attorneys fees MGA is seeking
hadn’t been disclosed in previous public filings, which were
redacted.  The jury agreed with MGA that Mattel stole its trade
secrets when Mattel’s employees gained access to MGA’s showrooms
at toy fairs using phony business cards. The jurors awarded MGA
$3.4 million for each of the 26 instances in which they found
that Mattel had misappropriated a trade secret.  The jury rejected Mattel’s claim that MGA stole its trade
secrets in 2000, when MGA made an agreement with  Carter Bryant ,
the designer whom Mattel said was working for it when he came up
with the idea for Bratz and made the first sketches. It also
rejected claims that the pouty multiethnic dolls MGA started
selling in 2001 violated Mattel’s copyright.  The case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 