-- 
General Electric Said to Invest $15 Million in Huaneng’s Wind Power IPO

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-05-24T09:29:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/general-electric-said-to-invest-15-million-in-huaneng-s-wind-power-ipo.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  plans to buy $15
million of shares in the initial public offering of Huaneng
Renewables Corp., the wind unit of  China ’s biggest power
producer, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  A  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  unit and CSR Corp., China’s
largest listed trainmaker, plan to invest $50 million each in
the offering, said the people, who declined to be identified
before an announcement. The three companies are among key
investors who have committed to buying about $300 million of the
IPO stock in total, they said.  The unit of China Huaneng Group Corp. is seeking to raise
as much as $1 billion after cutting the size of the IPO by about
20 percent, the people said. Huaneng Renewables plans to sell
about 2.5 billion shares at as much as HK$3.09 (40 cents) apiece,
they said.  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co., another key
investor, plans to subscribe to as much as $15 million worth of
shares in the offering, the Urumqi-based company said in a
statement to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange yesterday.  Beijing-based Huaneng Renewables scrapped an earlier IPO
plan because of unexpected and excessive market volatility, the
company said on Dec. 13. In the earlier attempt, it offered
about 2.5 billion shares at as much as HK$3.98 each, according
to the prospectus for the sale.  Morgan Stanley, China International Capital Corp. and
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  are managing the IPO for Huaneng Renewables,
which plans to start trading in early June, the people said. Hu
Xiaoyu, a director at China Huaneng Group’s news office in
Beijing, declined to comment. Two phone calls to GE’s U.S. media
inquiry line outside regular business hours went unanswered.  China Datang Corp. Renewable Power Co., the wind unit of
the nation’s second-largest power producer, raised HK$5 billion
in a  Hong Kong  IPO in December. The shares have since lost 1.7
percent. The stock closed at HK$2.29 today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 