-- 
Gensler Says Rising Commodity Prices Shows Need for Swaps Rules

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-05-24T16:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/gensler-says-rising-commodity-prices-shows-need-for-swaps-rules.html
Rising market prices underscore the
need for Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rules to curb speculation in
commodities such as oil, gold and natural gas,  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  Chairman  Gary Gensler  told lawmakers.  “Though the CFTC is not a price-setting agency, rising
prices for basic commodities highlight the importance of having
effective market oversight,” Gensler wrote in response to a May
11 letter from 17 senators seeking a CFTC plan for curbing
crude-oil speculation. Gensler’s letter said he was writing on
behalf of Commissioners Michael V. Dunn and  Scott O’Malia .  Regulators and lawmakers have attempted to rein in
speculation since 2008 amid concern that investors contributed
to oil’s rise to a record $147.27 a barrel. The CFTC has
proposed so-called position limits in agricultural, metals and
energy derivatives, under rulemaking authority granted by Dodd-
Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year.  “American consumers are hurting, at the gas pump, at the
grocery store, at their local bank, and it’s our responsibility
as regulators to do all we can to the fullest extent of our
authorities to ensure that the prices consumers pay are 100
percent fair and accurate,”  Bart Chilton , one of three
Democrats on the commission, said in a statement yesterday.  The CFTC has “ample basis” to proceed with limits on
speculation in fuel commodities, starting with crude oil, the 17
senators wrote in their letter to Gensler.  “Congress gave the CFTC the power to rein in excessive oil
speculation and the CFTC should use it,” Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat, said in a statement released
with the letter.  12,000 Comments  The agency’s proposal, approved on Jan. 13, prompted about
12,000 comment letters from supporters including Delta Air Lines
Inc. and opponents such as  Barclays Capital  and Cargill Inc.  Dunn, a Democrat who voted to propose the limits,
questioned whether speculation is affecting market prices.  “To date, CFTC staff has been unable to find any reliable
economic analysis to support either the contention that
excessive speculation is affecting the markets we regulate or
that position limits will prevent excessive speculation,” Dunn
said in a statement at the time.  O’Malia, a Republican, also approved proposing the rules in
the CFTC’s 4-1 vote. Republican Commissioner Jill Sommers cast
the only opposing vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  