-- 
Gere’s Corrupt Hedge Fund Manager to Follow Gekko in Hollywood

-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 
2011-05-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/gere-s-corrupt-hedge-fund-manager-to-follow-gekko-in-hollywood.html
Richard Gere is playing a financier
as twisted as that other movie villain, Gordon Gekko, and whose
downfall is no less spectacular than  Bernard Madoff ’s.  Gere is shooting “Arbitrage,” which will be released next
year. While his character Robert Miller isn’t inspired by any
real or imagined person, the film takes on hedge funds after
other blockbusters exposed the bad side of banking.  Like some of those caught up in scandals and financial
crises, Miller is wealthy, with a big New York house, a wife, a
mistress and a daughter who runs the company with him. An
investment bank moves in to buy his fund, threatening to expose
a web of fraud. Miller’s greed makes him an ideal target for
Hollywood, which has profited from films such as “ Wall Street :
Money Never Sleeps”, “Inside Job” and “The Company Men.”
Another film, “Margin Call,” will be released in October.  “People are making pretty important decisions in a
compressed period of time in highly leveraged situations,”
Nicholas Jarecki, the director of “Arbitrage,” says of its
plotline. “It’s dealing with issues of personal responsibility
and hubris and what these things say about bubble economies.”  Jarecki, 31, has pulled in some heavyweight star interest
in his independent production.  Al Pacino , who was originally to
play the title role, quit because of scheduling conflicts. Gere
came on board soon after and is joined by Susan Sarandon, Eva Green, rapper  Drake  and Tim Roth.  Corleone, Chiffre  Gere’s character is an “anti-hero” in the mould of
Michael Corleone, Jarecki says. From Le Chiffre, the reptilian
short-seller in  James Bond ’s “Casino Royale” who profits from
crashing markets, to Gordon Gekko, the original merchant of
greed, Hollywood financiers are typically stereotyped as
solipsistic individuals who exploit other people’s misery.  While the caricature may please popcorn-munching audiences,
it’s misrepresentative of the $2 trillion hedge fund industry,
says  Jim Chanos , who made his name short-selling companies and
was among the first investors to predict Enron Corp.’s collapse.  “There is an ingrained view that somehow these shadowy
 hedge funds  are behind all the world’s woes,” Chanos, founder
of New York-based Kynikos Associates LP, says. “Part of it is
my industry’s own fault -- for years we have been secretive and
people wouldn’t go on TV and they had offshore funds. There was
nothing necessarily nefarious or wrong with that -- it was done
for legal and tax reasons: It heightened every lay person’s
suspicions.”  Jarecki’s Silver  Jarecki describes his film as the “French Connection of
hedge funds” and says he’s aiming for a more realistic
depiction of finance than previous efforts. His father, Henry Jarecki, is a commodities investor who was involved with the
Hunt Brothers’ attempt to corner the world’s silver market in
the 1970s, and now runs a $13 billion commodities fund, Gresham
Investment Management LLC.  Arbitrage, which is a trading method for betting on price
moves in related markets, hasn’t troubled Hollywood much, except
in “Nine ½ Weeks” in 1986 when  Mickey Rourke ’s character says:
“I buy and sell money. Some people call it arbitrage.”  Jarecki says audiences won’t need to understand the
technicalities of the trading method to enjoy his movie.  “We will populate it with appropriate and accurate
terminology,” says Jarecki. “If we do our job as dramatists,
the impact will be felt and you will not need anything more than
a grade-school education to watch this.”  Hollywood has maximized returns by keeping things simple.
The original “Wall Street” grossed $43 million in 1987 while
the sequel made $53 million in the U.S. last year, according to
 IMDB.com , a movie box office tracking site.  ‘Trading Places’  “Trading Places,” a 1983 comedy set in the commodities
industry, earned $90 million in the U.S., the third-highest
grossing film that year. In comparison, a film like “Inside
Job,” a documentary on the financial crisis released last year,
has grossed $4.2 million to date.  “If you’re making a small-budget, independent film you can
be specific,” says Gitesh Pandya, the editor of  Box Office
Guru . “When you’re spending millions on a big film, the
producer wants it to appeal to as many people as possible. Hedge
funds are very technical, they’re very much part of the inner
circle of finance, and the subject is something most Americans
won’t understand.”  The role of hedge funds in financing Hollywood films has
grown since the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and subsequent decrease in bank lending, which shrunk the amount
of bank funds available to small studios to about $250 million
from $1 billion, according to Clark Hallren, a former  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive whose Clear Scope Partners advises film
companies.  Film Finance  “Financing for this movie took on a path similar to what’s
in the story where we had all this money come in at the
beginning and then suddenly it was all gone with the financial
crisis,” says Jarecki. “So we set out and raised a bunch of
money in a truly independent way.”  Chanos worked as consultant on  Oliver Stone ’s Wall Street
sequel -- and helped convince the director to change the main
character from a hedge-fund manager to an investment banker.
Movies that reinforce the negative stereotype of hedge funders
won’t help the industry, which is currently under intense
regulatory scrutiny, Chanos says.  “The industry is already going to face an uphill battle,”
he says. “Being painted as a villain in another set of movies
probably isn’t going to help.”  “ Arbitrage ” is due for release next spring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarfraz Thind in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 