-- 
German Construction, Exports Drove First Quarter

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-24T06:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/german-construction-exports-drove-first-quarter-economic-growth.html
German companies boosted spending to
meet increased export demand in the first quarter, while
construction rebounded from a slump in the previous three
months, fueling the fastest economic growth in almost a year.  Construction spending jumped 6.2 percent from the fourth
quarter, when it fell 2.6 percent, the  Federal Statistics Office 
in Wiesbaden said today. Exports rose 2.3 percent after
increasing 1.8 percent in the fourth quarter. Gross domestic
product increased 1.5 percent when adjusted for seasonal swings,
in line with a May 13 estimate.  Germany’s economy is powering euro-region growth as
companies boost output and hiring to meet orders, encouraging
 consumer spending .  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , is among companies reporting
record earnings and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said
yesterday the economy is in a “good” shape overall.  “Exports and in particular investments are pretty
impressive,” said  Ralph Solveen , head of economic research at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The German economy this year may
grow almost as much as in 2010” when it expanded the most since
the country’s reunification two decades ago.  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.4076 at 8:40 a.m. in Frankfurt.  Consumer Spending  German consumer spending rose 0.4 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, when it increased 0.6
percent, today’s report showed. Companies’ equipment spending
advanced 4.2 percent and imports rose 1.5 percent. Gross fixed
 capital investment  advanced 5 percent after falling 0.1 percent.  German GDP rose 5.2 percent from a year earlier when
adjusted for inflation, the statistics office said. It jumped
4.9 percent when adjusted for seasonal swings.  The German economy may expand 2.6 percent this year, after
record growth of 3.6 percent in 2010, the European Commission
said on May 13. In the 17-member euro region, GDP will increase
1.6 percent this year, with  Greece  and Portugal contracting.  BMW in the first quarter earned more money per car than
ever before in its 95-year history. German rival Volkswagen AG
plans to add factories to ensure “profitable growth” at
 Europe ’s biggest carmaker in coming years, Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said on May 3.  Budget Cuts  Tougher budget cuts in periphery states, increasing concern
that Greece may be forced into a debt restructuring and surging
energy costs are clouding the region’s growth outlook. German
business confidence probably dropped in May, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. The Ifo institute will release the report
at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  The Bundesbank said in its monthly report on May 20 that
“growth is likely to ease somewhat in the foreseeable future”
after an “explosive” start in 2011. Output growth “was
clearly lifted during the reporting period by backloading and
catching-up effects,” the central bank said.  Weidmann said yesterday it’s important to prevent stronger
growth and rising commodity costs from stoking second-round
effects by feeding into wage demands. Crude  oil prices  have
increased 39 percent over the past year, pushing  Germany ’s
harmonized inflation rate to 2.7 percent in April.  “The big picture on inflation is that we will see an
increasing passing-on of commodity prices to consumers,” said
 Andreas Rees , chief German economist at UniCredit Group in
Munich. At the same time, “the upswing is definitely broadening
and that will continue this year and probably next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  