-- 
Germany’s Business Confidence Unexpectedly Stable in May as Exports Boom

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-05-24T08:36:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/germany-s-ifo-business-confidence-remained-unexpectedly-unchanged-in-may.html
German business confidence remained
unexpectedly unchanged in May as booming exports and rising
company spending boosted economic growth.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, held at 114.2 from
April. Economists forecast a decline to 113.7, the median of 24
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  A rebound in construction spending, surging company
investment and rising exports powered  Germany ’s fastest growth
in almost a year in the first quarter, data today showed. Still,
Europe’s largest economy may struggle to maintain its momentum
as euro-region governments toughen austerity measures to lower
budget gaps while surging energy costs squeeze incomes.  “The sentiment is exuberant, we need a growth slowdown to
avoid an overheating of the economy,” said  Andreas Scheuerle ,
an economist at Dekabank in  Frankfurt . “Business confidence
will decline in coming months but this is far from being a
catastrophe. Growth rates are normalizing.”  The euro rose after the report, trading at $1.4096 at 10:34
a.m. in Frankfurt, up from $1.4048 yesterday.  A gauge measuring the current assessment rose to 121.4 from
121 in April and a sub-indicator of expectations slipped to
107.4 from 107.7 in the previous month, Ifo said. The research
institute this month reweighted its time lines and updated the
base year used to calculate the index.  Rising Exports  German gross domestic product rose 1.5 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, the Federal Statistics
Office said today. That’s the fastest growth since the second
quarter of 2010. Exports advanced 2.3 percent and construction
spending jumped 6.2 percent.  “Growth is likely to ease somewhat in the foreseeable
future,” the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said in its monthly
report on May 20. “Output growth was clearly lifted during the
reporting period by backloading and catching-up effects.”  With euro-region governments from Spain to Ireland
toughening spending cuts to lower their budget shortfalls,
German companies have relied on faster-growing economies to
bolster sales. The global economy may grow 4.4 percent this
year, with  China  expanding 9.6 percent and India 8.2 percent,
the  International Monetary Fund  forecast last month.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker,
on May 5 reported its highest profit in more than three years
and said it will “comfortably achieve” full-year targets.
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of  luxury
vehicles , earlier this month reported record profit per car,
partly on surging demand in China.  ‘Spectacular’ Growth  Still, a 40 percent increase in crude  oil prices  over the
past year is adding pressure on companies to pass on higher
costs to protect earnings and clouding growth prospects. German
producer prices rose more than economists forecast in April,
increasing 6.4 percent from a year earlier, and consumer-price
inflation quickened to 2.4 percent in April.  German investor confidence declined more than economists
forecast in May and manufacturing growth weakened.  BASF SE (BAS)  on May 6 beat analysts’ first-quarter profit
estimates as recovering demand helped the world’s largest
chemical company push through price increases. The Ludwigshafen,
Germany-based company said it aims for a “significant
improvement in sales and earnings” this year.  “The German economy is losing some momentum after the
spectacular performance of” the first quarter, said  Aline Schuiling , a senior economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  