-- 
German-Beating Czech Government Debt May Fall as Cabinet Spars Over Budget

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-05-25T08:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/german-beating-czech-government-debt-may-fall-as-cabinet-spars-over-budget.html
Bickering within the  Czech Republic ’s
ruling coalition may prevent the government from overhauling
state finances, undermining investor confidence that has helped
the country’s bonds outperform German debt.  Prime Minister Petr Necas in July pledged to cut the  budget
deficit  after assembling the largest majority since independence
in 1993 in a country plagued by political squabbling. Now the
smallest party in his coalition is threatening to quit over
appointments to the Cabinet, leaving Necas with a minority
government. Party leaders will discuss the issue next week.  “We are priced as if they delivered everything they have
said, and we know the internal divisions,” said  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-markets analyst at Danske Bank A/S
in Copenhagen. “It’s not going as fast as one could have
hoped,” he said, adding that Czech yields may rise as much as 1
percentage point if the government program faces further delays.  The yield on five-year Czech government debt has risen 6
basis points to 2.785 percent in the past year, the third-best
performance among European Union members, behind the U.K. and
 Hungary , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
German debt of similar maturity rose 90 basis points in the
period.  Necas’ goals include overhauling the deficit-plagued pay-
as-you-go pension system, boosting private savings for
retirement, and revamping the state health insurance program.
Progress has been slow.  ‘Turbulence’ Not Favorable  While the coalition parties agreed that workers will be
able to divert part of their mandatory pension insurance
payments into private accounts beginning in 2013, the ministries
have yet to draft the required legislation. The Cabinet will
send laws overhauling spending to parliament by the end of June
and will tie them to a confidence vote, Necas said April 19.  “Investors’ sensitivity to such events may rise in the
coming weeks,” because “necessary fiscal reforms must be
approved before the summer holidays,” said  Jan Vejmelek , an
economist at Komercni Banka AS in Prague, the Czech unit of
Societe Generale SA. “The recent situation and turbulence on
the political scene are not favorable for koruna investors.”  The Czech currency has weakened 2.1 percent against the
euro since April 26, the first trading day after Necas said his
government would have no reason to stay in power unless efforts
to cut public spending were passed by the end of June. It was
the biggest decline of all currencies of post-communist EU
members in that period.  The koruna is still up 5.45 percent since the May 2010
elections, the best performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It was little changed at 24.573
per euro as of 10:44 a.m. in  Prague  today.  The Czech Republic has a history of political infighting.
The EU’s second largest ex-communist economy had two minority
governments and two interim Cabinets in the past 13 years,
stalling budget measures. In 2009, the administration of Mirek Topolanek lost a no-confidence motion halfway through the
country’s six-month term as EU president.  Coalition Tensions  Tensions inside the Cabinet flared this month when the
leader of Public Affairs, smallest of the three coalition
parties, demanded that Necas dismiss Defense Minister Alexander
Vondra and Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek, saying the prime
minister had interfered with his right to select his own team.
Radek John quit as deputy prime minister on May 11, setting up a
debate between leaders of the coalition next week.  Public Affairs may leave the coalition while continuing to
support its legislative program, John said May 12. Necas says he
expects the government to continue implementing its agenda.  “I strongly hope that political responsibility will
prevail and the ruling coalition will focus on tasks it was
elected to achieve, which means reforms,” Necas said May 20,
after submitting John’s resignation to President Vaclav Klaus.  Coalition Support Wanes  The coalition parties may not want to trigger early
elections because their popularity has declined since the 2010
elections, said Jiri Pehe, a political analyst and director of
 New York University  in Prague.  Public Affairs would get 2.3 percent of the vote if
elections were held this month, below the 5 percent needed to
gain seats in parliament, according to a poll by Prague-based
Stem conducted May 2-9. Public Affairs won 10.9 percent in last
year’s elections.  Necas’ Civic Democrats were backed by 13.8 percent of those
surveyed, compared with 20.2 percent during the elections.
Support for TOP09, the third coalition member, was 10.3 percent,
down from 16.7 percent. The poll of 1,219 people had a margin of
error of 1.5 to 2.5 percentage points.  The three parties, which hold 115 votes in the 200-seat
lower house of parliament, wouldn’t be able to form a majority
government if elections were held today, according to the poll.
The opposition  Social Democrats  were the most popular party in
the poll, garnering the support of 27.8 percent of those
surveyed, up from 22.1 percent last year.  The ruling parties “are rightly afraid of an election
fiasco,” Pehe said.  ‘Substantial’ Risks  While it is in the interests of the coalition parties to
remain in government, government stability is a concern for
investors, said Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London .  “The worry is that we see a slowing down of the reform
process,” he said in a phone interview. “Political risks are
substantial and questions about the momentum in fiscal
consolidation are being raised.”  Moody’s Investors Service says threats to the government’s
program are “relatively low.” Still, Moody’s is waiting to see
progress before it raise the country’s A1 credit rating, the
fifth-highest investment grade.  “We’ve taken on board the measures, we’ve taken on board
the government’s commitment,”  Anthony Thomas , a Moody’s
analyst, said in a May 4 interview in Prague. “We just now want
to see some delivery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  