-- 
Germany’s Government Bonds Decline After Confidence Report Beats Estimates

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-05-24T15:40:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/german-government-bonds-decline-before-ifo-confidence-report-eu-debt-sale.html
German  government bonds  fell after a
report showed business confidence in Europe’s biggest economy
exceeded economist estimates, bolstering expectations that the
 European Central Bank  will continue raising  interest rates .  The drop sent the 10-year bund yield up from a four-month
low. The Munich-based Ifo institute said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, held at 114.2 in
May, after economists forecast a decline to 113.7. Portuguese
10-year yields surged to a record high on concern Europe’s debt
crisis is worsening.  “The ECB is keen to move on and lift rates from emergency
levels, given that inflation for the EU as a whole is running
comfortably above their 2 percent ceiling,” said  Orlando Green ,
a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in London. “Provided things don’t get
materially worse ahead of their June 9 meeting, the ECB should
signal a rate hike for the following month.”  The 10-year bund yield increased five basis points to 3.07
percent as of 4:24 p.m. in London. It reached 3.002 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since Jan. 14. The 3.25 percent
security due July 2021 fell 0.47, or 4.7 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,410) face amount, to 101.545. Yields on two-year notes were
two basis points higher at 1.71 percent.  Portuguese 10-year bonds fell for a third day, lifting
yields 11 basis points to 9.76 percent, after reaching a euro-
era record of 9.85 percent.  Economy Expanded  A report today showed  Germany ’s economy expanded at the
fastest pace in almost a year in the first quarter, powered by a
rebound in construction spending, surging company investment and
rising exports. Gross domestic product rose 1.5 percent in the
first three months of the year from the fourth quarter, the
Federal Statistics Office said.  The central bank lifted the benchmark rate to 1.25 percent
from a record low of 1 percent in April, the first increase in
almost three years. The central bank held the rate on May 5 and
signaled it may wait until after June before raising borrowing
costs further.  Inflation in the euro area accelerated to 2.8 percent in
the year to April, the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years, as surging
energy prices boosted price growth.  Greek bonds fluctuated between gains and losses after the
government yesterday endorsed plans to sell stakes in state-
owned companies and cut more than 6 billion euros in spending as
the country aims to win additional aid from the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund .  ‘Euros or Drachma?’  Yields on 10-year Greek debt declined 27 basis points to
16.76 percent, after earlier rising to 17.10 percent, the
highest since the introduction of the euro in 1999. Yields on
two-year Greek notes dropped 52 basis points to 25.74 percent,
down from as high as 27.19 percent, also a euro-era record.  “Who’s going to purchase Greek assets?” said  Kornelius Purps , an interest-rate strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich.
“Are you going to invest in a country which is close to
breaking down, which might abandon its currency? You’re not
going to invest if you do not know if your returns will be in
euros or Greek drachma.”  ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said that
there is “no alternative” to  Greece  paying its debts and
carrying through its economic reform program, according to an
interview with Austrian ORF radio broadcast today. The European
Commission said it “welcomes” Greece’s determination to reduce
its deficit to 7.5 percent of GDP by 2011, spokesman  Amadeu
Altafaj  told reporters in Brussels today.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of insuring debt sold by Greece surged to a
record, leading an increase in credit-default swaps on  Europe ’s
most troubled peripheral governments. Contracts on Greece soared
96 basis points to 1,496, Ireland climbed five to 661 and
 Portugal  jumped eight to 670, according to CMA. Greek swaps
imply there’s a 71 percent change of the country failing to meet
its debt agreements within five years. Italy rose one to 171 and
 Spain  fell two to 271.  Belgian bonds reversed initial declines prompted by  Fitch
Ratings  saying late yesterday that it may lower the country’s
AA+ rating should political deadlock in the country derail
efforts to reduce the nation’s deficit. Yields on 10-year
Belgian bonds dropped two basis points to 4.20 percent, after
earlier reaching 4.28 percent, within one basis point of a
three-week high.  Spain sold 2.3 billion euros of three- and six-month
Treasury bills at auction today, below the maximum target of 2.5
billion euros, the Bank of Spain said. Yields on 10-year Spanish
debt dropped five basis points to 5.47 percent.  The European Union may complete the sale of 4.75 billion
euros of 10-year bonds through banks to help fund the bailouts
of Ireland and Portugal, three people with knowledge of the
transaction said yesterday.  German government bonds have handed investors a loss of 0.2
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.
Treasuries have returned 2.2 percent. Spanish debt has gained
1.5 percent, with Greece losing 15 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  