-- 
Glencore’s Hong Kong Initial Offering May Lure Noble, Mitsubishi Investors

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-05-25T09:47:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/glencore-s-h-k-ipo-may-tempt-noble-mitsubishi-investors.html
Glencore International Plc’s debut
today in Hong Kong in the world’s biggest initial public
offering this year may tempt investors to switch from rival
Asian commodity traders.  Glencore, based in Baar, Switzerland, began trading in
 London  last week and has a market value of $58 billion, making
it the world’s biggest listed trader of commodities by
capitalization, surpassing Japan’s  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  Its size has
won it fast-track entry to seven FTSE indexes including the
benchmark FTSE 100. The Hong Kong IPO may herald more.  The trader fell 2.5 percent in Hong Kong, reflecting
declines in commodity prices since Glencore raised $7.9 billion
in its London IPO on May 19.  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , the Hong Kong-
based commodities trader that Glencore names as a rival in its
prospectus, has fallen 3.4 percent since the same date even
after posting record earnings a week earlier.  “The market was concerned that funds might switch” from
Noble to Glencore, said James Koh, an analyst with Kim Eng
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, who said some of his clients have
asked about the possibility. “People may want to switch as the
latter is five times bigger” and has “improved financial
muscle from the IPO. But it’s not a mutually exclusive trade.”  Glencore closed at HK$64.90 in Hong Kong. The MSCI World
Index of global equities has dropped 2.3 percent since May 19.  “All the markets are off around the world,” Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said in Hong Kong today. “We
are still bullish on commodities. Of course,  China  may contract
or slow down, but the demand for commodities still continues.”  BlackRock Stake  The Swiss trader, which deals in materials including coal,
oil and grain, broke with more than three decades of operating
as a closely held partnership in its IPO. Twelve cornerstone
investors bought shares, including Abu Dhabi’s Aabar Investments
PJSC and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   The two BlackRock funds with the biggest number of Noble
shares, accounting for 1.56 percent of the energy, metals and
food supplier, sold about 3 percent of their stock in April,
according to the latest filings tracked by Bloomberg. BlackRock,
the world’s biggest listed money manager, owns at least 1.5
percent in each of Japan’s six traders, with its holding in
 Marubeni Corp. (8002)  at 6.8 percent, according to the filings.  New Investors  Noble Group CEO Ricardo Leiman said he isn’t concerned over
a listed Glencore as the companies already compete for assets.  “We very much welcome a large number of peers that are
comparable to us to a certain degree, which we think will be
quite beneficial to bringing a new set of investor” to the
industry, Leiman said this month on a conference call.  Glencore’s market value alone is enough to force investors
to watch the stock, said  Alex Au , the Hong Kong-based managing
director of Richland Capital Management Ltd., which oversees
about $300 million of assets.  “I don’t think it’s very attractive but because of its
market cap and it going into the index it would generate a lot
of interest,” Au said. “You can partly compare it to Noble,
but I would say Glencore is more like a commodity play rather
than a trading company. And the scale is very different.”  Noble posted $606 million in net income for 2010 compared
with Glencore’s $3.76 billion. The Swiss trader’s profit margin
was 2.56 percent, compared with Noble’s 1.07 percent.
Mitsubishi’s net profit for the fiscal year ending March 31 was
$5.42 billion, with a margin of 8.9 percent.  ‘Definitely Attractive’  “It’s definitely attractive,” said Masahiko Ejiri, a
Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which
oversees $41 billion, including shares of  Hong Kong  and Chinese
companies listed in the city. “It’s a leading company with
strong business and track record. But, the sector is very
cyclical and I’m not sure if this is the best time” to invest,
Ejiri said, adding he doesn’t plan to buy Glencore now.  Commodities had the sharpest pullback in prices in two
years last month amid concern economic growth may slow. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities has lost about 9
percent since Goldman Sachs Group Inc. told investors on April
11 to sell holdings in the segment. Goldman said yesterday it
had turned “more bullish” on commodities, spurring a rebound.  For Asian investors to switch to Glencore, the Swiss
company will need to show how it can make more money trading the
same commodities as its rivals, said  Ben Collett , head of  Japan 
equities at Louis Capital Markets HK Ltd. The Hong Kong portion
of Glencore’s IPO accounted for 2.5 percent of the total offer.  New Stock  “Whenever a new stock enters the sector, other stocks are
sold or there is a re-jigging of the sector allocations,”
Collett said. “I don’t think that will be discernable now in
the Japanese traders but, after a period of time and trading
history, Japanese investors who can invest abroad may look at
Glencore and the swap trade may look attractive.”  A pre-IPO report on Glencore by analysts in London at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. described the company as midway
between a miner such as BHP Billiton Plc or  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and a
trader like Noble or  Itochu Corp. (8001) , Japan’s No. 4 trading house.  “It has attained a relatively unique position as a firm
that straddles both the mining and trading industries as a major
global player,” Bernstein analysts  Paul Galloway  and Jodi
Morgan wrote in the May 6 report.  The Japanese sales desk at MF Global FXA Securities
disagreed, saying in a note to clients that the Swiss trader has
more debt and lower profit margins than Japan’s biggest traders,
Mitsubishi, Mitsui & Co.,  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , Itochu and Marubeni.  “Both Glencore and the Japan traders make money in metals,
mining, energy and food,” MF Global said May 23. “They both
have upstream as well as trading activity. Glencore is not more
complex than the traders and not more difficult to value.”  Finances Question  There’s no evidence to show Glencore has stronger finances
or better assets, MF Global said in the report.  A listing alone wouldn’t make Glencore a familiar name for
Asian investors, said  Ken Morrison , a former grains trader with
Cargill Inc., who spent about nine years working for the closely
held U.S. food commodity supplier in  Singapore  and China.  The Swiss company will need to expand staff in  Asia  and
work on relationships to ease business, Morrison said by phone
from St Louis,  Missouri , where he now consults on grain trading.
It may also face heightened rivalries with suppliers should it
pursue expansion in producing assets, he said.  Glencore has about 14 percent of its staff in Asia, or 400
people, according to its prospectus. Glencore doesn’t break out
Asia in revenue generation, lumping it with  Africa , the Middle
East and  Australia  for 40 percent of total sales.  For now, Glencore’s IPO has probably given more publicity
for Noble and other Asian commodity suppliers, said Tanuj Shori,
an analyst with Nomura Holdings Inc., whose clients have also
asked how the companies compare. “The IPO means more and more
people will want to get to know how Noble is,” Shori said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  