-- 
Goldman Sachs Appoints ECB Researcher Huw Pill as Chief European Economist

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-05-24T12:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/goldman-sachs-hires-ecb-s-huw-pill-as-chief-european-economist.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  hired Huw Pill of the  European Central Bank  to replace  Erik Nielsen  as its
chief European economist.  Pill will join the investment bank on Aug. 22 in London
after a decade at the Frankfurt-based ECB, where he was most
recently deputy director general of research, according to an
internal Goldman Sachs memo sent to employees today and obtained
by Bloomberg News.  The recruiting of Pill comes a week since  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
named Nielsen its global chief economist after 15 years at
Goldman Sachs. It marks a further revamping of the U.S. bank’s
economic division following Jim O’Neill’s departure as its chief
at the end of last year to chair Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  Pill has also led the ECB’s monetary policy stance division
as well as working at the Bank of England and teaching at
Harvard University, the memo said. He holds a degree from Oxford
University and a Ph.D from  Stanford University .  Goldman Sachs’s economics team, which already includes
former ECB economist Natacha Valla, currently expects the
central bank to raise its key interest rate to 1.75 percent by
the end of this year from 1.25 percent. It predicts the euro
area economy will grow 2.1 percent this year with inflation
averaging 2.6 percent.  O’Neill was succeeded in January by Dominic Wilson and Jan Hatzius at the top of Goldman Sachs’s economics research
division. U.K. economist Ben Broadbent left it in March after
being appointed to the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy
Committee. He was replaced by  Kevin Daly .  Pill is the latest central banker to enter the private
sector. Barclays Capital said yesterday it had hired Brian Madigan, the Federal Reserve’s former top staff adviser on
interest-rate policy, to provide counsel on economic research
and regulation. Daiwa Capital Markets Europe said last month it
had employed former ECB economist Tobias Blattner to cover the
euro region.  Sophie Bullock, a London-based spokeswoman for Goldman,
confirmed the contents of the memo announcing Pill’s hiring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  