-- 
Goldman, Morgan Stanley Bullish on Commodities Boosting Oil Forecasts 20%

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-05-24T20:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/goldman-sachs-suggests-buying-oil-copper-and-zinc.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan
Stanley increased their forecasts for crude-oil prices by more
than 20 percent, signaling a bullish outlook for commodities.  Goldman, which correctly advised investors to sell oil and
copper last month before a price slump, boosted its 12-month
prediction for  Brent crude  to $130 a barrel from $107, analysts
led by  Jeffrey Currie  said today in a report. Morgan Stanley
raised its estimate by 20 percent to an average $120 this year
and by 24 percent to $130 in 2012.  While Goldman and Morgan Stanley join JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in saying price declines may present a buying opportunity,
interest-rate increases and the European debt crisis have raised
concerns that global growth may slow.  China , the world’s biggest
consumer of everything from energy to copper and soybeans, has
increased borrowing costs four times since mid-October to cool
the fastest inflation since 2008.  “Economic growth will likely be sufficient to tighten key
supply-constrained markets in the second half, leading to higher
prices from current levels,” the Goldman analysts said. They
also advised buying copper and zinc.  Brent advanced as much as 2.3 percent to $112.65 on ICE
Futures Europe Exchange. Copper for delivery in three months
climbed 0.8 percent to settle at $8,861 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange.  Commodities Decline  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
dropped about 10 percent through yesterday since New York-based
Goldman told investors on April 11 to sell a basket of
commodities including oil, copper and cotton. The gauge rose 1.2
percent today.  “We are substantially more confident when the market is
focused on demand growth relative to forward supply constraints
as opposed to near-term transient supply shocks,” Currie said
today in a telephone interview in London.  Brent jumped 31 percent this year through April 11 amid
concern that supplies from the Middle East would be disrupted as
protests spread from Tunisia and  Egypt . Rising oil prices may be
“sowing the seeds of future demand destruction,”, the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency  said on April 12.  Prices of metals and energy dropped “more in line with
near-term fundamentals,” Goldman said. A sustained loss of
Libyan crude production because of the conflict there and
disappointing output from non-OPEC nations will tighten the oil
market to critical levels in early 2012, the report said.  Gasoline Costs  A pullback in U.S. gasoline prices “makes us much more
comfortable about demand as we go into the summer driving season
that kicks off with the Memorial Day this weekend,” Currie said
in the interview.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
“very likely” raise production to make up for an estimated 1.5
million barrels a day shut in by  Libya ’s civil unrest, Morgan
Stanley analysts led by New York-based Hussein Allidina and
Chris Corda said today. The group has an estimated 2 million
barrels a day that can be brought to the market quickly, the
 U.S. bank  said.  “We see flat prices moving higher as spare capacity
continues its fall to untenable levels,” the Morgan Stanley
analysts said.  Sovereign debt in Europe, the contraction in  Japan ’s
economy and the end of the second round of quantitative easing
in the U.S. are among “potential triggers” for a loss of
confidence that pose a risk to oil, Goldman said.  Net Longs Drop  Money managers reduced their net-long positions in U.S.
commodity futures and options by 11 percent in the week ended
May 17 to the lowest since July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They also reduced bullish bets on oil to a three-
month low.  Yesterday, the MSCI All-Country World Index dropped 1.8
percent to the lowest in two months on signs that  Europe ’s
credit crisis had deteriorated as costs to protect Greek debt
from default surged to a record. Global manufacturing measured
by a JPMorgan index slowed for two consecutive months and stood
at 55 in April. A reading of 50 and above suggests expansion.  Oil and gold will lead a rally in raw materials as
production fails to keep pace with demand, Ray Eyles, the chief
executive officer of JPMorgan’s Asia commodity business, said in
an interview last week. Oil supplies will trail consumption in
the second half as OPEC and other producers won’t increase
output fast enough, the bank said in a report on May 6.  Copper has declined 13 percent from a record $10,190 a ton
on Feb. 15. Goldman analysts recommended buying futures for June
2012 delivery.  The bank also favors zinc for delivery in December 2012,
forecasting demand to outpace supply next year. The metal, used
in production of galvanized steel, has dropped 11 percent this
year.  “Although we do not see the zinc balance as tight as
copper next year, given how low current prices are relative to
industry economics, we believe that zinc price risk is
substantially skewed to the upside,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  London  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  