-- 
Goldman’s Big Short Is Levin’s Big Target

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-05-24T06:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/goldman-s-big-short-is-levin-s-big-target.html
It has been almost a year since
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to pay $550 million in a
settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating
to the creation and sale of Abacus 2007-AC1, a squirrelly
synthetic collateralized-debt obligation that could only have
been designed in the first decade of the new millennium. Now the
firm is facing a whole new round of litigation.  This is potentially troubling not just for Goldman Sachs,
but for all of Wall Street.  On May 10, Goldman Sachs said it had received subpoenas
from unidentified regulators relating to the infamous Abacus
deal and other CDOs the firm manufactured and sold during the
housing bubble, which began to deflate in the last quarter of
2005. Goldman Sachs also said the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the chairman of which is former Goldman Sachs
partner  Gary Gensler , is investigating the firm’s role in acting
as a clearing broker for an unidentified broker-dealer and
intends to "bring aiding and abetting, civil fraud and
supervision-related charges" against the Goldman Sachs unit.  And on May 16, New York State’s attorney general,  Eric
Schneiderman , said he was investigating Goldman Sachs, Morgan
Stanley and Bank of America Corp. over mortgage-securitization
transactions completed before the financial crisis of 2008.  Unwelcome News  None of this is welcome news, of course, to the executives
at Goldman Sachs’s new $2.4 billion headquarters in  Lower
Manhattan . They are still grappling with a wave of negative
publicity –- a Bloomberg News poll on May 12 found that 54
percent of financial professionals had a negative view of the
firm -- while the new Dodd-Frank law threatens some of the
firm’s traditional free-wheeling, hugely profitable ways.  But the most potentially damaging recent threat to Goldman
Sachs came in a May 3 letter from Democratic Senator  Carl Levin 
of  Michigan  and Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  to the
Justice Department and the SEC. While the text of the letter
hasn’t been made public, one can assume that it refers the two
cops on the securities beat to the April 13 report that Levin’s
 Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations compiled on the causes
of the financial crisis. Nearly 250 pages of the 640-page
document are concerned with Goldman Sachs.  At a press conference when they released the report, the
senators asked the agencies to investigate whether Goldman Sachs
violated the law when it continued to sell mortgage-backed
securities to clients and investors around the world while the
firm made a large -- and hugely profitable -- proprietary bet
against the mortgage market.  Levin said he was particularly upset that Goldman Sachs
Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and other Goldman Sachs
executives may have perjured themselves. During their April 27,
2010, testimony in front of Levin’s committee, the senator asked
Goldman executives about the firm’s proprietary bet against the
mortgage market, beginning in December 2006. Blankfein and
others repeatedly said -- under oath -- that the firm had never
made such a bet.  Conflicts of Interest  "In my judgment, Goldman clearly misled their clients and
they misled the Congress," Levin said at the press conference.
Coburn said at the same press conference that the committee’s
report shows "without a doubt the lack of ethics in some of our
financial institutions who embraced known conflicts of interest
to accomplish wealth for themselves, not caring about the
outcome for their own customers. When that happens, no country
can survive and neither can their financial institutions."  Not surprisingly, Goldman Sachs disagrees with the two
senators; the firm still maintains that it was simply managing
risk.  "The testimony we gave was truthful and accurate and this
is confirmed by the subcommittee’s own report," Lucas van Praag,
a Goldman Sachs spokesman, said in a statement. "The report
references testimony from Goldman Sachs witnesses who repeatedly
and consistently acknowledged that we were intermittently net
short during 2007. We did not have a massive net short position
because our short positions were largely offset by our long
positions, and our financial results clearly demonstrate this
point."  As Levin acknowledged, it is now up to the  Justice
Department  and the SEC to determine "whether a crime was
committed" and if Blankfein personally "violated the securities
laws."  Goldman’s Credibility  But regardless of the outcome of those investigations,
Goldman Sachs continues to damage its credibility and its
reputation by insisting that it didn’t make a large proprietary
bet against the mortgage market beginning in December 2006 and
continuing throughout much of 2007. That claim flies in the face
of evidence from its own files -- now, thanks to Senator Levin,
in the public record –- which shows unequivocally that it did.
The evidence is almost overwhelming, so a few examples will
suffice.  According to Levin’s report, e-mail correspondence among
Goldman Sachs’s senior executives routinely referred to the
mortgage department’s net short positions as being in the
"billions" of dollars. The phrase "net short" appears more than
3,400 times in the documents that Goldman Sachs produced for the
subcommittee. At one point in 2007, David Viniar, Goldman
Sachs’s chief financial officer, referred to the firm’s net
short position in an e-mail as "the big short" and marveled at
all the money the firm was making as a result. Blankfein,
though, preferred to view it as nothing more than a prudent
hedge. "The short position wasn’t a bet," he wrote in a
September 2007 e-mail. "It was a hedge."  Not so, argued Josh Birnbaum, the trader on Goldman Sachs’s
mortgage desk chiefly responsible for persuading the firm to
establish the big short." In early October 2007, Birnbaum
"contradicted that position," according to the Levin report. In
a document he drafted to argue that his desk should be
"compensated like hedge fund managers and not as ordinary
participants in Goldman’s traditional bonus pool system," he
"explicitly addressed and rejected the contention" that the
profitable net short positions managed by his desk were hedges
for long assets held by other desks."  The Levin report, which described Birnbaum as "one of the
chief architects of Goldman’s big short," quoted from his
October 2007 document in which he claimed "the shorts were not a
hedge."  Glowing Self-Evaluations  Then there were the traders’ own self-evaluations, now also
in the public realm, that show clearly that the mortgage desk’s
strategy had paid off and they wanted to get fully compensated
as a result. Birnbaum wrote that his desk "alone" generated
profits of $3 billion in 2007 and was "#1 on the street by a
wide margin" and "#2 in the world trading subprime risk (behind
Paulson Partners)," a reference to hedge-fund manager  John Paulson , who famously made $4 billion personally betting the
mortgage market would collapse.  Michael Swenson, Birnbaum’s boss, added that "it should not
be a surprise to anyone that the 2007 year is the one that I am
most proud to date" because he built "a number one franchise
that was able to achieve extraordinary profits (nearly $3bb to
date)." Another trader on the same desk, Deeb Salem, wrote,
"Obviously the most important aspect of my 2007 and my
contribution to the firm has been on the desk’s P&L. Mike, Josh
and I were able to learn from our bad long positions at the end
of 2006 and layout the game plan to put on an enormous
directional short."  Even accounting for the typical puffery found in  Wall
Street  self-evaluation forms, there is no taking away from what
these traders accomplished for Goldman Sachs, especially since
the final profit tally for their desk in 2007 was closer to $3.7
billion.  A 900-Page Trove  Why Blankfein and Goldman Sachs won’t admit what is so
obvious to the firm’s own traders -- and to anyone with the
patience to wade through Levin’s report and the 900 pages of
internal Goldman Sachs documents he released with it -- is
simply baffling. If Goldman Sachs didn’t have a "big short" on
the mortgage market in place in 2007, how else to explain its
$17.2 billion in pretax profits that year and the bonuses paid
to its top four executives of some $200 million?  Blankfein alone was paid around $70 million in 2007, the
most ever for the CEO of a publicly traded Wall Street firm.
This was at a time when Goldman Sachs’s competitors were losing
billions of dollars and Stanley O’Neal, the CEO of Merrill
Lynch, and Charles Prince, the CEO of Citigroup, were forced to
quit.  Until Goldman Sachs comes clean on this topic -- preferably
before the Justice Department or the SEC forces it to -- it is
difficult to see how the cloud that hangs over the firm and the
rest of Wall Street can be lifted.  (William D. Cohan is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For related news and information:  To contact the writer of this column: 
 wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Toby Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net  