-- 
Google ‘No Enemy’ of Phone Operators as Sarkozy Weighs Rules

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-05-25T17:36:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/google-seeks-compromise-with-phone-companies-as-sarkozy-considers-rules.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc. and
mobile-phone operators are seeking to ease tensions over who
will pay for wireless networks as data use surges and leaders
including France’s Nicholas Sarkozy consider more regulation.  A compromise can be found between operators urging direct
compensation for investment in faster networks and Google,
Facebook and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  France Telecom SA (FTE)  Chief Executive
Officer Stephane Richard said in an interview. A “very open”
meeting last week with Google CEO Larry Page in  Mountain View ,
Calif., convinced him that a deal is possible, he said.  “We are not the enemies of Google,” Richard said in Paris
yesterday. “They understand that if we don’t find a solution,
it’s not in their interest either.”  As mobile and Web companies add videos, music and games,
operators including France Telecom,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  have demanded a new deal that would force content
providers to either share revenue or participate in network
development. Phone companies say the cost of building bigger
networks may outstrip revenue growth.  The network question has taken center stage at a meeting of
executives including Facebook founder  Mark Zuckerberg , Google
Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  and News Corp. CEO  Rupert Murdoch  in Paris this week. The  e-G8 Forum , organized by French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , is being held before the full summit
of Group of Eight leaders in Deauville, France.  ‘Content Bombardment’  “It’s an issue all Web companies need to resolve
collectively,” Paolo Pescatore, an analyst at CCS Insight, said
of network expenses. “As we move forward, the bombardment of
content on broadband networks will move onto mobile. There’s a
clear imbalance in the way that revenues are flowing through the
ecosystem.”  France Telecom  climbed 0.1 percent in Paris trading to
15.71 euros, bringing its advance this year to 0.7 percent.
Vodafone fell 0.7 percent in  London  to 168.6 pence. The stock
has climbed 1.7 percent this year.  Google’s Page indicated he may be willing to cooperate when
the two executives met last week, Richard said. The France
Telecom CEO said he wouldn’t exclude the possibility of joint
work on a solution for network investments later. Operators are
“counting much more on technological co-operation than on
getting a big check,” said France Telecom executive vice-
president Pierre Louette.  Google’s Schmidt stressed both sides’ common interests in
Paris.  “I would say we’re incredibly co-dependent,” Schmidt said
yesterday. Technological solutions to help spread out data
demand are one solution operators and content companies can
pursue, he said.  Lighten the Load  Operators are exploring ways to lighten the load on their
networks, especially in busy urban areas like  New York  and
Paris, where France Telecom’s data traffic grows by 5 percent
every week. Those stopgaps include pushing more mobile traffic
onto WiFi networks and storing more online content on devices
themselves.  Raising the efficiency of radio spectrum use is another
possibility, with companies such as  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  working on how
to find and exploit “underutilized pieces of spectrum,” CEO
Paul Jacobs said.  Despite the peace overtures, both sides also used the Paris
conference to reiterate their positions.  “You can’t have telecom networks putting in tens or
hundreds of billions of dollars for someone else to take all the
credit and the revenue,” Sunil Mittal, chairman of India’s
largest mobile operator  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  Challenge  Without the networks, there would be “no Google, no
Facebook, no Apple,” France Telecom’s Richard said.  Usage statistics in western  Europe  illustrate the
challenge. While the number of mobile-data connections in the
region will rise by an average of 15 percent a year to 270
million in 2014, overall end-user revenue may fall about 1
percent a year, researcher IDC estimated last year.  Google’s Schmidt said that phone operators are nonetheless
benefiting so far from the surge in demand for data offerings.  “I would argue that the winners are the people who are
seeing enormous revenue growth rates,” he said. “The fact of
the matter is large telecom companies, and large companies in my
industry, are in fact seeing large revenue growth rates.”  Vodafone, the world’s biggest mobile-phone company, said
May 17 that full-year sales rose 3.2 percent to 45.9 billion
pounds ($74 billion) as mobile data sales surged 26 percent.
Telefonica, Spain’s largest phone company, posted a 19 percent
increase in mobile data revenue for 2010, while the increase
reached 29 percent at  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   Surfing the Web  All operators are banking on the popularity of smartphones
that can surf the Web and download music and games to bolster
data sales and make up for declining voice call revenue.  Foot-dragging by either side in the network investment
debate may create a situation where governments step in.  “We won’t take steps that would damage growth in your
industry,” Sarkozy told the assembled Internet executives
yesterday. “But you can’t escape a minimum set of rules,” he
said, adding that technology companies “need to hear our
limits, what our red lines are.”  State Investment  While never mentioning taxes directly, Sarkozy said that
taxpayers support the industry.  “States invest in the technical and technological
infrastructure that provide transport for the services and
content that are circulated on the Web,” he said. The French
state owns 27 percent of  France  Telecom and Germany has a 32
percent in Deutsche Telekom.  Some executives at the gathering responded to the warning.  “Before we decide that we need some regulatory solution,
let’s ask is there a technical solution that can scale, that can
work globally, that we all can get around and move very
quickly,” Schmidt said yesterday. “I can’t imagine any
delegate in this conference would want Internet growth to be
significantly slowed by a government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net. 