-- 
Google Said to Plan Mobile-Payment Service Unveiling in New York

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-24T16:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/google-to-unveil-mobile-payment-service.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  plans to unveil a mobile-
payment service May 26 that will be available on phones from
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , three people familiar with the matter said.  The service will let consumers with specially equipped
phones that run on Google’s Android operating system pay for
goods and redeem coupons with their handsets, said the people,
who wouldn’t be identified because the plan isn’t public. The
technology is available on the Android-powered  Nexus S  from
Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless operator.  Google is rolling out so-called near-field-communication
technology, which lets people pay at NFC-equipped cash registers
with a flick of their phone, to boost revenue from mobile
advertising and discounts. U.S. spending on mobile coupons may
rise to $6.53 billion in 2014, up from $370 million last year,
according to Borrell Associates Inc.  Sprint said last month it was working with a variety of
handset makers and technology companies on NFC payment systems.
Google plans to introduce the service in five cities -- New
York,  San Francisco , Los Angeles, Chicago and Washington, D.C. -
- three people said in March.  Google is using hardware and software from companies
including  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  and ViVOtech Inc. to run the
service, two people said at the time.  Nathan Tyler, a spokesman for Mountain View, California-
based Google, and Jennifer Walsh Kiefer, a spokeswoman for
Sprint, declined to comment. Google has sent out invitations for
a press event in New York on May 26.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , whose iPhone competes with smartphones that run
Google’s Android software, is planning a similar NFC payment
system, Richard Doherty, director of consulting firm
Envisioneering Group, said in January. Android is used by
handset makers including Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498)   Google’s mobile-payment service would also face competition
from alternatives such as  ISIS , a joint effort of  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile USA. ISIS plans to roll out its
service in two cities, including Salt Lake City, in early 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in New York, at 
   gbensinger1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 