-- 
Greek Opposition Turns Down Papandreou’s Call for Unity

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-05-24T14:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/greek-opposition-turns-down-papandreou-s-call-for-unity-1-.html
Greece’s biggest opposition party
rejected Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s overture to build
support for 78 billion euros ($110 billion) of new budget
measures and state-asset sales, saying he is condemning Greeks
to more austerity.  “Papandreou is insisting on the same old failed recipe,”
Antonis Samaras, leader of the New Democracy party, said in
comments broadcast live today on state-run NET TV. “The
government is subjecting the Greek people to new sacrifices as
it regurgitates what’s been shown to have failed so far.”  Samaras, who spoke after meeting with Papandreou in  Athens ,
said his party would support state-asset sales provided they led
to growth and investment rather than being a “panicky move.”  European Union officials have stepped up pressure on
Papandreou, whose term ends in 2013, to secure broad political
backing for the spending cuts and asset sales that will run
through to 2015, as the euro region and the  International
Monetary Fund  discuss additional financing needs to avert a
default. Greece received a 110 billion-euro bailout last May in
return for measures including wage and pension cuts.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said on May 11 that it was “absolutely necessary and urgent”
for domestic disputes to be put aside and cross-party support
achieved.  Budget Deficit   Papandreou said yesterday he’d step up plans to sell state
assets including  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  and
 Public Power Corp SA (PPC)  and pledged 6.4 billion euros of measures
to bring the budget deficit down to 7.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year. He met with political leaders today.  He got some support from George Karatzaferis, leader of the
rightist Laos Party, which backed the original bailout, as well
as Dora Bakogiannis, a former foreign minister who was expelled
from  New Democracy  for breaking ranks and supporting Papandreou.
She now heads her own party, Democratic Alliance, which has five
seats in parliament.  “Samaras’s response was widely expected,” said Dimitris Drakopoulos, an economist at Nomura International Plc in  London .
“What is clearly positive is the support of the leaders of the
two small right-wing parties. They have at least 20 MPs, which
should provide enough of a buffer for the government to pass its
medium-term fiscal strategy through parliament.”  Papandreou’s Pasok party has 156 seats in the 300-seat
parliament, enough needed to pass the legislation, which is
expected next month. He expelled three members of his party last
year for defying him on the vote of the original rescue.  Communist Party of  Greece  leader Aleka Papariga, with 21
seats, refused to meet with Papandreou. Leftist Syriza leader
Alexis Tsipras, whose party has nine seats, called for elections
after seeing Papandreou.  “If what we’re being asked to do is to sell even the
Acropolis, then the only people who can respond are the Greek
people and not Papandreou,” Tsipras said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  