-- 
Greencore Has Net Loss After Failed Bid for Northern Foods

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-05-24T08:47:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/greencore-has-net-loss-after-failed-bid-for-northern-foods-1-.html
Greencore Group Plc (GNC)  booked a first-
half loss after recording a one-off charge related to the food
company’s failed bid for  Northern Foods Plc (NFDS)  this year.  The net loss was 657,000 euros ($925,000) in the six months
ended March 25, compared with a profit of 24.7 million euros a
year earlier, the Dublin-based company said in a statement
today. The company booked a 13.6 million-euro charge,
principally related to its bid for Northern Foods, which failed
after entrepreneur Ranjit Singh Boparan countered Greencore’s
merger offer with a cash bid.  Greencore will continue to look at merger opportunities and
consolidation in the U.K. convenience food business is needed,
Chief Financial Officer Alan Williams said in a telephone
interview today. Williams said the “company is not up for
sale,” though the board is obliged to consider any offer,
declining to comment further on a report by the Independent
newspaper yesterday that Greencore had held talks with private
equity firms on such a move.  First-half sales rose 7.9 percent to 442 million euros. The
second half “has started well,” the company said in today’s
statement, adding it expects to deliver adjusted earnings per
share “in line with market expectations.” Williams said
Greencore is looking at adjusted EPS of about 15.5 euro cents
this fiscal year, from 13.3 cents a year earlier.  Greencore shares dropped 2.5 percent to 1.18 euros as of
9:24 a.m. in Dublin. The stock has dropped 7.5 percent this
year, giving Greencore a market value of 245.7 million euros.  “The interim results were an encouraging start” to the
fiscal year, Liam Igoe, a Dublin-based analyst with  Goodbody
Stockbrokers  said in a note. The results “reflect a robust
performance by Greencore in difficult market conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  