-- 
GT Solar an Acquisition Target After Raising Forecasts

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-05-24T21:40:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/gt-solar-rises-on-higher-margin-outlook-shift-from-solar-1-.html
GT Solar International Inc. (SOLR) , a maker
of solar manufacturing equipment, may be an acquisition target
after it increased its forecasts for margins and revenue and
said it would expand into new business lines.  The company is “the most profitable public equipment
company,” making it “a great acquisition target,” Theodore
O’Neill, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc., said today in
a research note. O’Neill reiterated his “buy” recommendation,
which dates to April 2010, and did not name any potential
buyers.  GT Solar sells polysilicon and photovoltaic manufacturing
equipment to solar cell producers, and last year began selling
furnaces that make synthetic sapphires for light-emitting
diodes. Expanding into a new market is helping it increase its
margins and revenue, and the Merrimack, New Hampshire-based
company said today that it plans to move into additional fields
to maintain a stable revenue stream.  “We expect to further diversify our product portfolio in
the areas of monocrystalline silicon, other crystal growth
technologies and consumables,” GT Solar Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Gutierrez said today on a call with analysts. He expects
those plans to generate revenue starting in fiscal 2013.  GT Solar said it will change its name to GT Advanced
Technologies, reflecting the shift.  Solar Lull  The diversification may help GT Solar weather a lull in
solar installations, said Weston Twigg, an analyst at Pacific
Crest Securities Inc. in  Portland ,  Oregon . European nations led
by Germany, Spain and  France  are curtailing incentives and
competition from Chinese companies, depressing panel prices.  “There is concern about their solar side, because of a
potential for overcapacity toward the end of this year,” Twigg
said. He has had an “outperform” recommendation on the stock
since April 2010 and a target price of $17 a share. Of the 15
analyst surveyed by Bloomberg, 12 have “buy” recommendations
and 3 have “hold” recommendations.  Its biggest customers now include polysilicon maker GCL-
Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. and solar panel maker LDK Solar Co.,
whose shares have slumped along with demand for panels and the
materials that make them.  GT Solar rose 38 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $11.99 a share
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, after reporting higher fiscal
fourth-quarter earnings and increasing its fiscal 2012 revenue
forecast in a statement last night.  The company has risen more than 34 percent since the start
of the year, while the WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation
Index tracking renewable energy shares fell more than 1 percent.  Wider Margins  Gross margins in fiscal 2011 widened to 42 percent from
40.2 percent in fiscal 2010. The company expects fiscal 2012
revenue to be between $1 billion and $1.1 billion, compared with
its earlier forecast of between $850 million and $1 billion.
Margins are expected to be between 42 and 44 percent.  “It shows in their results that they are able to hold
pricing and are hands down the market leader,” Twigg said.
Heller said that “if there is cost pressure, they’re able to
offset that.”  GT Solar gets 93 percent of its revenue from Asia with 19
percent coming from Hong Kong-based polysilicon maker  GCL-Poly
Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  and more than 10 percent from Xinyu, China-
based solar panel maker LDK Solar Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  