-- 
Guinea-Bissau Calls for Help in Battling Drug Trafficking Around Country

-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-05-24T11:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/guinea-bissau-calls-for-help-in-battling-drug-trafficking-around-country.html
Guinea-Bissau needs help to halt a
drug-trafficking trade that has taken root in its offshore
archipelago, said Attorney General Amine Michel Saad.  The country that borders Senegal and  Guinea  lacks the law-
enforcement resources, including a boat for its coast guard, to
control the area around its 80 islands, where narcotics, mainly
cocaine, are routed from  Latin America  to  Europe , he said May 18
in an interview in Bissau, the capital.  “Guinea-Bissau is not a narco state,” Saad said, referring
to a country that is seen to be controlled by drug cartels.
“It’s a state that doesn’t have the means to control its
judicial area or its borders.”  Drug trafficking is “probably the most lucrative trade” in
the country, according to the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency’s
World Factbook website. “The combination of limited economic
prospects, a weak and faction-ridden government and favorable
geography” contribute to the country’s allure as a hub for
narcotics, it said.  Guinea-Bissau, which gained independence from  Portugal  in
1973, wants to sign an agreement with the European Union that
will allow the EU to enter the country and arrest European
nationals involved in the drug trade, said Saad.  “We need Europe to come, increase its agreements with the
state, and take control of the islands,” he said.  Since the assassination of President Joao Bernardo Vieira
in 2009 and the election of Malam Bacai Sanha four months later,
the country of 1.7 million has tried to develop its economy,
earning debt relief from the  International Monetary Fund  in
December and the  Paris Club  on May 10. It ranks 164 out of 169
countries on the United Nations’ Human Development Index.  Economic growth may accelerate 4.3 percent this year from
3.5 percent a year earlier amid higher prices for cashews, the
IMF said March 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 