-- 
Li Ning Slumps Most in Two Months After Executives Resign

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-24T12:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/li-ning-slumps-most-in-two-months-after-executives-resign-4-.html
Li Ning Co.,  China ’s largest
sportswear maker, fell the most in more than two months in  Hong
Kong  trading after the company said three senior executives
resigned, adding to concern sales growth may slow.  The stock dropped 8.4 percent to HK$13.90 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in Hong Kong, the biggest slump since March 17.
That extends a 44 percent decline in the past year, the second-
worst performance on the  MSCI China (MXCN)  Index. The benchmark  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  was little changed.  Chief Operating Officer Guo Jian Xin, Chief Marketing
Officer Fang Shih Wei and Lin Li, head of the e-commerce
department, have left the company, Zhang Xiaoyan, a company
spokesman, said by phone today. Zhang declined to provide
reasons or exact dates for the departures.  “The fact that more than one senior executive is leaving
the company causes concern about its operations,” Katharine
Song, a Shanghai-based analyst at Sinopac Securities Asia Ltd.,
said in a phone interview. She rates the stock “neutral.”  Today’s share-price decline was the steepest since March
17, when the sportswear maker tumbled 10 percent after saying
order growth in the second half won’t surpass that of the first
six months and rising costs will hurt margins.  Li Ning , based in Beijing and founded by the former Olympic
gymnast of the same name, said March 16 income growth in the
country “has not quite translated into a sustainable increase
in purchasing power for sporting goods.” The company changed
its logo and slogan last year as part of a brand
“revitalization.”  Profit rose 17 percent to 1.1 billion yuan ($169 million)
last year, according to a stock exchange filing. Sales increased
13 percent to 9.5 billion yuan.  “Their store expansion may slow, which will result in low
order growth,” Hayman Chiu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Cinda
International Holdings Ltd., said in a phone interview. Chiu
rates the stock “neutral.”  Li Ning said in an e-mailed press statement that the
company’s operations won’t be affected by the departure of
individual employees. The three managers left over a period of
two months, the company said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  