-- 
Ash Shuts German Airports as BA Applies to Fly in ‘Red Zone’

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-25T15:56:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/iceland-volcano-may-disrupt-european-air-traffic-as-ash-cloud-reaches-u-k-.html
Volcanic dust  from Iceland grounded
flights in northern  Germany  as British Airways joined Ryanair
Holdings Plc in arguing for a relaxation of rules that ban all
operations in areas forecast to have the highest density of ash.  Airports in Berlin, Bremen and Hamburg were closed this
morning as ash from the Grimsvotn volcano drifted eastward,
leading to the cancellation of at least 450 flights, according
to Eurocontrol, which oversees air traffic in the region.
Terminals in the cities reopened as conditions eased.  Willie Walsh , chief executive officer of British Airways
parent International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, told
Bloomberg News that a test flight through skies forecast to have
high ash concentrations had revealed no dust. BA has therefore
applied to fly in previously banned “red zones” when multiple
data sources suggest predictive maps aren’t accurate, he said.  “We want to fly in areas where volcanic ash doesn’t exist,”
Walsh said in an interview. “Decisions have been taken based on
a predictive model which says that at some time in a six-hour
period at some point in the red zone volcanic ash may exist. We
think you can go to a much more detailed level of analysis.”  U.K. Transport Secretary Philip Hammond said Britain will
continue to take a “precautionary approach,” with passenger and
aircraft safety paramount. Still, France’s aviation regulator
said today that it is now taking account of data other than map
forecasts, though ash hasn’t actually reached the country.  Lufthansa Impact  British Airways,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Air
France-KLM (AF)  Group were among carriers that scrapped more than 500
flights in Scotland and northern  England  yesterday.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Germany’s No. 1 airline, halted at least 150 trips
today, spokesman Patrick Meschenmoser said. Some services in
Nordic countries were also grounded and early morning departures
from the U.K. were affected where planes were out of position.  “It is expected that ash-cloud coverage will dissipate
overnight,” Eurocontrol said in a statement. “Tomorrow, we do
not expect any significant impact on European airspace.”  Predictive maps from the Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre in
 London  showed an area of dense dust covering north Germany below
20,000 feet at midday before clearing by 6 p.m., after which
time the red zone is restricted to Arctic regions.  Closure Costs  Dust from another Icelandic volcano closed European
airspace for six days last year, halting 100,000 flights at a
cost of $1.7 billion, the International Air Transport
Association estimates. While limits on flying have since been
relaxed, predicted ash densities from the Grimsvotn volcano are
such that some areas of airspace have still been closed.  Copenhagen airport, the biggest Nordic hub, will have a few
cancelations today, spokesman Soeren H. Nielsen said, while Oslo
airport is operating as normal and “the prognosis is good,”
according to spokeswoman Lasse Sandaker-Nielsen. SAS Group,
Scandinavia’s No. 1 airline, said it expects only occasional
disruption after halting about 20 flights over three days.  IAG CEO Walsh said today that British Airways has applied
to the U.K.  Civil Aviation Authority  to extend operations based
on a test flight last night using an Airbus SAS A320 plane.  Video Checks  The twin-engine aircraft travelled through the so-called
red zone of anticipated dense ash over  Scotland  in a 45-minute
flight from 7 p.m., following which no ash was found even after
inspections with a video boroscope inserted into an engine and
checks on filters that had been replaced beforehand, Walsh said.  While the Grimsvotn blast is easing, with its “death
certificate” likely to be issued by the weekend, according to
Bjorn Oddsson, a geologist with the  Institute of Earth Sciences 
at the  University of Iceland  in Reykjavik, Walsh said that the
system must be refined to better cope with any future eruptions.  “I can’t predict what the volcano will do, but we are
working with the regulators to ensure that if we see further
volcanic activity we can continue to operate where it is safe,”
he said on Bloomberg Television’s The Pulse with Maryam Nemazee.  IAG shares rose 1.5 percent in London trading today after
declining almost 7 percent over the previous two days as the
Icelandic ash cloud was blown southeast toward  Europe .  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s biggest discount carrier,
said yesterday there was “no basis” for cancellations after
finding no evidence of ash in a test flight through skies that
the CAA and U.K. Met Office said would have a high density. The
plane’s airframe, wings and engines were dust free, it said.  The CAA collaborated on the British Airways flight, which
had added to understanding of “what is out there and what risks
there are,” spokesman Richard Taylor said by telephone, while
declining to elaborate on BA’s new safety-case application.  ‘Not Helpful’  Ryanair’s flight was organized independently and didn’t
properly traverse the red zone, Taylor said. U.K. minister
Hammond, speaking on Sky TV, said the Irish carrier’s action was
“not at all helpful” and that the CAA “won’t be bullied”
into dropping its safety-first approach.  Carriers are intervening even after Eurocontrol convened
the European Aviation Crisis Coordination Cell, established
after last year’s eruption in order to facilitate communication
between airlines and regulators during emergencies. Ash presents
a “very real risk,” to planes, Brian Flynn, Eurocontrol’s
operations chief, said yesterday.  France ’s  civil aviation authority , the DGAC, is meanwhile
already applying an approach mandated by the  European Aviation
Safety Agency  this week and based on a system devised by the
 International Civil Aviation Organization  after the 2010 event,
said Florence Rousse, its director of civil aviation safety.  Maintenance Crews  The mechanism allows for the input of real data on the
presence of ash, such as feedback from engine-maintenance crews,
in addition to the predictions from weather forecasters and
vulcanologists, Rousse today said in an interview in Paris.  While the volume of dust spewed from the volcano initially
made airspace closures inevitable, “with each day that passes
the ash cloud drifts further off the computer model,” she said.  Also, in addition to ash density, “the risk to engines
depends on several other factors including the length of time a
plane spends in the cloud,” she said.  The Grimsvotn eruption under Europe’s largest glacier,
Vatnajokull, is abating, the University of  Iceland ’s Oddsson
said yesterday, with the height of the ash plume as low as 3
kilometers (1.9 miles) compared with an initial 20 kilometers.  Johanna Sigurdardottir, Iceland’s prime minister, said
today that “the worst is over” and that problems arising in
other countries from the blast “should be resolved quickly.”  A “puff” from the volcano that last night shot 5 kilometers
into the air is thought to have been steam, not ash, the Iceland
Civil Protection Department said in a separate statement, adding
that “more powerful blows of ash plume can’t be ruled out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  