-- 
Icelandic Eruption Abates, May End by Weekend

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-24T17:34:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/icelandic-eruption-abates-could-end-by-weekend-scientist-says.html
A volcanic eruption under  Europe ’s
largest glacier, Vatnajokull, is abating after ash grounded
about 500 flights from British Airways, Air France-KLM Group and
a dozen other carriers.  “The activity has been reducing,” said Bjorn Oddsson, a
geologist with the Institute of Earth Sciences at the  University
of Iceland  in Reykjavik. “If it continues in the manner it has,
the death certificate of this eruption could be issued this
weekend.”  BA halted services to Scotland, where Glasgow and Edinburgh
airports were closed, while United Continental Holdings Inc.
scrapped three U.S. flights. Ryanair Holdings Plc, Europe’s
biggest discount airline, said there is “no basis” for
cancellations and that it found no evidence of dust in the
atmosphere during a “verification flight” today.  Ash from another Icelandic volcano closed European airspace
for six days last year, halting 100,000 flights at a cost of
$1.7 billion, according to the International  Air Transport
Association . While limits on flying have since been loosened,
ash densities after the eruption of the Grimsvotn volcano have
been sufficient to close some airspace.  The height of plume has diminished to as low as 3
kilometers (1.9 miles) from 20 kilometers, according to Oddsson.
 Iceland’s Met Office  has used a new weather radar system to
monitor the cloud.  Airports Closed  As many as 600 of the region’s 29,000 scheduled flights may
be affected today, Brian Flynn, operations chief at Eurocontrol,
which oversees regional air traffic, said in an interview. The
situation may be “a little bit worse” tomorrow as the cloud
drifts south, though no major airports should close, he said.  Five Scottish airports and four in northern  England  are
closed for the rest of the day, the U.K.’s National Air Traffic
Services Ltd. said on its  website .  Aberdeen in Scotland, a hub for the  North Sea  oil industry,
was also closed earlier and helicopters serving rigs from  Norway 
were grounded, according to airport operator Avinor.  The potential for disruption prompted U.S. President  Barack Obama  to cut short a visit to Ireland, the first leg of a six-
day trip to Europe, with Air Force One leaving a day early for
the U.K.  ‘Real Risk’  Eurocontrol said the dust presents a “very real risk,”
with the U.K. Met Office’s Volcanic Ash Advisory Center
predicting dense ash will drift over  Scotland  today, mainly at
lower altitudes, extending toward Norway,  Denmark  and  Sweden . A
forecast shows ash stretching across Scotland and northern
England at midnight local time before drifting across the North
Sea to reach Germany and the Netherlands as of 6 a.m.  Areas worst-affected tomorrow may include parts of Denmark,
southern Norway and southwest Sweden, though the impact on
flights may be “relatively low,” Eurocontrol said.  The U.K.  Civil Aviation Authority  has revised its rules to
let airlines fly in an ash density of two grams or less per 10
cubic meters of air. They can also operate where the density is
two to four grams, provided they have had their safety case for
doing so accepted, the CAA says, but flights are still banned at
levels above four grams like those predicted over Scotland.  Ryanair said in a statement today that this high-density
“red zone” is “mythical” and based only on  weather
forecasts , not real readings. Europe should instead adopt
exclusion zones around volcanoes, typically of 150 miles (240
kilometers), as employed in  Asia  and  North America , where
eruptions are more commonplace, Chief Executive Officer Michael
O’Leary said.  The latest eruption began around 6 p.m. on May 21 about 220
kilometers southeast of Reykjavik at the Grimsvotn chamber,
which lies under Vatnajokull.  The volcano, the most active in  Iceland , last erupted in
2004, a venting that began to abate within three days. Iceland,
with about 320,000 inhabitants, is one of the world’s most
volcanically and geologically active countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  