-- 
Microsoft Plans New Phone Software With Enhanced Twitter, Text Function

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-05-24T20:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/microsoft-previews-next-release-of-mango-windows-phone.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will introduce a new
version of its Windows Phone software by this fall that includes
an enhanced Twitter connection, hands-free messaging and an in-
box for multiple e-mail accounts.  Code-named Mango, the software has 500 added features and
will come out on phones produced by new partners  Acer Inc. (2353) ,
 Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , Microsoft said today in a statement.
Previously announced partners, including  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , also will
produce phones with the new software.  Microsoft is rushing to bolster its phone features after
handsets with the current operating system -- Windows Phone 7 --
didn’t sell as well as analysts projected. The Redmond,
Washington-based company, an early entrant to the smartphone
software field, has lost market share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android in recent years.  “What Microsoft introduced looks great -- from a
technology perspective, this is probably what Windows Phone 7
should have launched with,” said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst
at Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. “The problem is
it’s not something shipping immediately. Users aren’t going to
see it until fall.”  Bigger Market  Microsoft is banking on reaching more users than it could
before. Mango will be available in additional countries, at
lower prices than the current Windows Phone 7, opening up a
potential market that’s four times larger than its current
opportunity, Andy Lees, president of Microsoft’s mobile
business, said today at a company event. Microsoft is adding
support for languages, including simplified and traditional
Chinese, Japanese, Russian and Korean.  The software will have an e-mail in-box that can combine
messages from several different accounts. It also will include
better integration with Twitter Inc. and LinkedIn Corp.’s social
networks, as well as speech-to-text features that let users
write messages and chat without using their hands.  Mango has facial-recognition software, so users can easily
tag who is in the picture when they post it on  Facebook Inc. ’s
site. Customers also can switch between  text messages , Facebook
chat and Windows instant messages within the same conversation.  Users can group contacts into a personalized tile on their
main phone screen. The tile will then show updates about those
contacts on that screen, without opening any programs.  Current Windows Phone manufacturers HTC Corp., Samsung
Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc. also will make phones
with Mango, Microsoft said.  Dell’s Plans  Dell Inc., which also currently makes a Windows Phone, has
nothing to announce at present about a Mango version, said Ellen
Murphy, a spokeswoman for the  Round Rock , Texas-based company.
Melissa Havel, a Microsoft spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Dell’s plans.  Microsoft previously discussed the Mango software last
month, saying it would let users run several programs at once
and allow developers to write programs that call up information
about a place or item when it’s viewed through the handset’s
camera.  Microsoft said it shipped more than 2 million copies of its
Windows Phone software in the December quarter, a figure that
fell short of some analysts’ estimates. The company declined to
provide a similar figure for the recent quarter and has refused
to provide sales information, rather than shipments.  Microsoft’s share of the mobile operating system market
fell to 3.6 percent in the first quarter, from 6.8 percent in
the year-earlier period, according to Gartner Inc. Android rose
almost fourfold to 36 percent from 9.6 percent, while Apple’s
iOS climbed to 17 percent from 15 percent.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, fell 2 cents
to $24.15 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
The shares have dropped 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  