-- 
Netanyahu Willing to Make ‘Painful Compromises’ for Peace, Congress Told

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-24T17:41:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/middle-east-at-a-fateful-crossroads-netanyahu.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told U.S. lawmakers he is willing to make “painful
compromises” to achieve Middle East peace, suggesting some of
the 300,000  West Bank  settlers may live in a future state of
 Palestine .  The Israeli leader, addressing a joint meeting of Congress
in Washington today, said he recognizes that  Israel  will have to
give up parts of its ancestral homeland in exchange for peace.
Palestinians need to accept Israel as a Jewish state, he said.  “In any peace agreement that ends the conflict, some
settlements will end up beyond Israel’s borders,” the prime
minister said. “The precise delineation of those borders must
be negotiated.”  “We will be very generous on the size of a future
Palestinian state,” he said. “But as President Obama said, the
border will be different than the one that existed on June 4,
1967. Israel will not return to the indefensible lines of
1967.”  Netanyahu said Israel is prepared to negotiate with the
 Palestinian Authority , but it won’t negotiate with Hamas, which
he called the “Palestinian version of al-Qaeda.”  “Tear up your pact with Hamas,” he urged Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas . “Make peace with the Jewish
state.”  Saeb Erakat, the chief Palestinian negotiator, rejected
Netanyahu’s message in a telephone interview, saying the Israeli
prime minister offered “the same old speeches, the same words
and the same excuses.”  No Partner  “He proved tonight we don’t have a partner,” Erakat said.
“Netanyahu has to say the magic word, and that is, ‘I accept
the 1967 borders.’”  Arab League Secretary-General and potential Egyptian
presidential candidate Amre Moussa said on his Twitter account
that Netanyahu’s proposals “are unworkable and do not allow for
peace.” He added, “When Netanyahu says  Jerusalem  will remain
Israeli and will never be given to the Palestinians I say that
there will never be peace.”  Netanyahu, 61, is wrapping up a five-day trip to the U.S.
in which he confronted President  Barack Obama  at the White House
over the U.S. leader’s proposal to use the boundaries of the
West Bank and Gaza Strip from before the 1967 Middle East war as
a starting point for negotiations. Although Obama said those
lines could be adjusted with agreed-upon territorial exchanges,
Netanyahu said they would leave Israel indefensible.  Military Presence  Netanyahu said today it is “absolutely vital” that a
Palestinian state be demilitarized and that Israel maintain a
military presence along the Jordan River.  Netanyahu also called on the U.S. to continue sending the
“unequivocal message” that  Iran  must be stopped from
developing nuclear weapons. “Militant Islam could exact an
horrific price from all of us before its eventual demise,” he
said.  “The ground is still shifting” in the Middle East,
Netanyahu said. “This historic moment holds the promise of a
new dawn of freedom and opportunity.”  “Israel has no better friend than America, and America has
no better friend than Israel,” he said. “We stand together to
defend democracy; we stand together to advance peace; we stand
together to fight terrorism.  He also congratulated Obama on the killing of al-Qaeda
leader Osama  bin Laden .  ‘You Got Bin Laden’  “Congratulations, America, congratulations, Mr. President.
You got bin laden. Good riddance,” the prime minister said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and
other congressional figures publicly assured Netanyahu at a
conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee last
night that they would oppose efforts to force a peace agreement
on Israel that left it feeling vulnerable.  In his remarks to about 11,000 American Israel Public
Affairs Committee delegates at the  Washington  Convention Center
last night, Netanyahu emphasized that “Israel cannot return to
the indefensible 1967 borders.” He said “peace between
Palestinians and Israelis is a vital interest for us, but it is
not a panacea for the problems of the Middle East.”  The Israeli leader spoke a day after Palestinian Authority
Prime Minister Salam Fayyad underwent cardiac catheterization in
Austin,  Texas , after what spokesman Jamal Zakout said was a
heart attack. In his speech to Congress, he wished Fayyad a
speedy recovery.  ‘Ironclad’ Commitment  In his remarks to Aipac on May 22, Obama offered assurances
of an “ironclad” U.S. commitment to Israel’s security. He said
that using the 1967 lines as a starting point doesn’t mean the
borders will be the same as those that existed before the war.  “This basic framework for negotiations has long been the
basis for discussions among the parties, including previous U.S.
administrations,” Obama said. “It allows the parties
themselves to account for the changes that have taken place over
the last 44 years, including the new demographic realities on
the ground and the needs of both sides.”  Obama’s proposal, initially made in a speech at the State
Department on May 19, marked the first time a U.S. president has
explicitly backed using the 1967 boundaries as the starting
point for talks that would have Israel cede control of some land
to Palestinians in return for peace and security. He also called
for Palestinian territory to be demilitarized. Obama proposed no
specific steps to restart peace talks.  ‘Put Behind Us’  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said yesterday in a e-
mailed statement that Obama’s Aipac speech “is a way to put
behind us most of the disagreements that we had, to resolve
those that remain, and to move forward.”  The 1967 lines define the boundaries of the West Bank, the
 Gaza Strip , east Jerusalem and the  Golan Heights , which were all
captured in the war that year from Jordan, Egypt and  Syria .  In the 44 years since, Israel has built settlements in all
the territories, whose population has grown to more than 500,000
and obscured many of the boundaries between what was sovereign
Israel before and after the June 1967 war. The Arab population
of the West Bank is about 2.5 million.  Israel removed all its settlements from Gaza in 2005. The
borders there are demarcated by a security fence and the
 Mediterranean Sea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  