-- 
Tiger Woods Says He Can Still Surpass Nicklaus’s Record 18 Major Victories

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-24T17:20:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/tiger-woods-says-he-can-still-surpass-nicklaus-s-record-18-major-victories.html
Tiger Woods  said he still believes he
can surpass  Jack Nicklaus ’s record of 18 major golf titles even
with injuries and an 1 1/2-year winless streak that have dropped
him to 12th in the world rankings.  Woods is four major titles shy of Nicklaus’s record, which
he said is a benchmark that drives him.  Woods, 35, hasn’t won since November 2009 and yesterday
fell out of the top 10 of the Official World Golf Ranking for
the first time in 14 years. He’s recovering from knee and
Achilles’ tendon injuries sustained at the  Masters Tournament  in
April and aggravated two weeks ago at the Players Championship.  “I’ve had four (knee) surgeries so obviously it’s not what
it was when I was little,” Woods said during a news conference.
“Down the road it may be a little more difficult, but hopefully
I’ll be in a cart by then on the senior tour. Hopefully between
now and then I should be pretty good.”  Woods spoke today to promote the U.S. PGA Tour’s AT&T
National June 30-July 3 at Aronimink Golf Club in  Newtown
Square ,  Pennsylvania . He said he hopes to be fit enough to play
in next month’s  U.S. Open  at Congressional Country Club outside
 Washington . Woods won the last of his 14 major titles at the
2008 U.S. Open.  Since withdrawing from the Players Championship after nine
holes, Woods said he’s been in a walking boot for his injured
Achilles and using crutches to take pressure off his knee and
back. He plans to begin a strengthening program for his leg in
the next week that will determine when he can resume golf
activities, including hitting balls.  “The docs said it should be good to go” for the U.S.
Open, Woods said at Aronimink. “It has been frustrating because
I haven’t been able to do much. I like to run, I like to
practice. But that’s part of dealing with injuries.”  Four Surgeries  Woods has had four operations on his left knee, most
notably in 2008, when he underwent reconstruction of the
anterior cruciate ligament after his U.S. Open playoff victory.
He’s had other injuries in recent years, including a fracture of
his tibia, a ruptured Achilles’ tendon and a bulging disc in his
neck. Even with the injuries that have hampered his game, Woods
said he remains confident he’ll challenge Nicklaus’s record for
major titles.  “I’m looking forward to the future,” Woods said. “It
took Jack what, 24 years, 23 years to do what he did. It takes
time and I still have plenty of time. I’m excited about playing
major championships and golf again. I want to be healthy and
solid and feel like I can give it a go.”  Easy Recovery  Woods said he isn’t as concerned about his injuries as he
was in 2008, calling his current rehabilitation a “cake walk”
compared to that comeback, and that more surgery hasn’t been
discussed. He also said he isn’t bothered by his plummet in the
world rankings, where he’s outside the top 10 for the first time
since before the 1997 Masters win that gave him his first major
title.  Woods spent a record 281 weeks atop the world rankings,
which are based on results over a two-year span.  While Woods won six tournaments in 2009 after his return
from knee surgery, he’s winless since the Australian Masters in
November of that year. Later that month, he was involved in a
one-car crash outside his Florida home that led to revelations
of his marital infidelity and eventual divorce.  “When I have played, I haven’t played well,” Woods said.
“But winning takes care of all of that. I’m looking forward to
when I can get out there and compete and try to win some
events.”  He said he likely will skip the Memorial Tournament
June 2-5 in Dublin,  Ohio .  Woods said he’s been excited to spend time with his two
children when he isn’t receiving treatment for his injuries. He
said he’s also looking forward to ending his layoff and resuming
his pursuit of Nicklaus.  “The good news is I’ve done this before,” Woods said.
“I’ve gone through injuries before and taken the time out to
take it step by step. I’ve had to go back in that mindset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  