-- 
High-Paying Jobs Elusive for Women in Government, Report Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-05-24T20:08:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/high-paying-jobs-elusive-for-women-in-government-report-says.html
High-paying jobs and supervisory
positions are out of reach for many women working for the U.S.
government, according to an independent agency tasked with
examining the status of public-sector female employees.  “The glass ceiling has been fractured, but it has not been
shattered,” according to a report released today by the  U.S.
Merit Systems Protection Board . “The glass ceiling persists for
reasons other than discrimination.”  The report found that women hold about 30 percent of
positions in the senior executive service, a gain from 11
percent of women in high-level positions in 1990, according to
the agency’s previous review issued in 1992.  A wage gap persists, the board concluded. “Within a given
occupation, women often have lower salaries than men,”
according to today’s report, “and those salary differences
cannot be fully explained by differences in measurable factors
such as experience and education.”  Fewer women report being subjected to discrimination and
stereotypes, reflecting progress toward a workplace in which
hiring and promotions are based solely on abilities and
accomplishments, according to the report.  The agency found that gender differences in education and
experience are diminishing in the federal  labor force . Women
have made “great strides” in becoming physicians and
attorneys.  In other fields, such as  law enforcement , information
technology and engineering, women remain “relatively scarce,"
the board said.  ’Glass Walls’  ‘‘Occupational differences can complicate recruitment and
create glass walls -- barriers to movement across organizations,
functions, or occupations -- within the  federal workforce ,
resulting in different opportunities for women and men, even if
they are comparable in terms of education attainment, years of
experience and performance,” according to the report.  Prejudice hasn’t disappeared, the board said. “Even in the
absence of overt discrimination, many employees continue to
believe that women are subjected to unfounded assumptions about
their abilities or dedication to work,” according to the
report.  The board analyzed workforce data and federal employee
perceptions of their experiences in the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  