-- 
IKOS Says Investigation of Former Workers Was ‘Legitimate’

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-05-24T20:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/ikos-says-investigation-of-former-employees-was-legitimate-.html
IKOS Asset Management Ltd., the hedge
fund whose founders Elena Ambrosiadou and Martin Coward are
divorcing, said it used “legitimate investigative efforts” on
former employees.  IKOS started the probe after discovering software had been
copied without permission, the Cyprus-based firm said in a
statement today.  The company’s comments follow a Financial Times report on
May 21 that a former  fund manager , Tobin Maxwell Gover, had said
IKOS hired a woman to spy on him. An English court ordered
Ambrosiadou last year to pay damages to Gover in response to his
spying allegations, according to a July 26 High Court filing.  Gover said in his complaint that Ambrosiadou, 52, hired a
surveillance company to get information about whether he planned
to start a new firm or go into business with her estranged
husband. Coward had begun to hire employees and was taking steps
to form a “rival” hedge fund in 2009 while he was a director
of IKOS, according to IKOS’s statement. Coward was among the ex-
employees probed, the company said.  Coward “strongly denies the alleged wrongdoing,”
according to a statement e-mailed by Louise Beeson, his
spokeswoman. Today’s IKOS statement “gives an account of the
dispute between them which Dr Coward does not recognize.”  The IKOS statement made no mention of Gover. Spokesmen for
IKOS and Gover declined to comment.  IKOS, founded by Ambrosiadou and Coward in 1994, oversees
about $2.5 billion. The firm runs so-called managed futures
funds, which use computers to try to spot profitable trends in
prices of assets ranging from currencies to oil. Coward left the
firm in December 2009.  The IKOS FX Fund has gained 35 percent in the 12 months
ending April 29 and the IKOS Futures Fund has increased 30
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Managed-
futures funds, also known as commodity trading advisers, rose 10
percent on average over the same period, according to an index
from Paris-based Newedge Group.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  