-- 
Illinois Lawmakers May Satisfy Nobody as They Decide How Much Debt to Sell

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G r a i l
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/illinois-lawmakers-may-satisfy-nobody-as-they-decide-how-much-debt-to-sell.html
Illinois  lawmakers face the prospect
of pleasing no one as they try to pay off $8 billion in overdue
bills in the closing days of their budget session scheduled to
end May 31.  Months of negotiations over Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn ’s
proposal to borrow $8.75 billion have produced neither votes to
approve a bond sale nor consensus on how to pay the back debt
and balance the proposed $52.7 billion 2012 budget.  At the same time, there is growing demand for debt,
according to money managers, creating favorable conditions for
Illinois to balance its books by doing what has gotten it into
trouble for years: borrowing.  “What makes the solution very complex is that you have
very vocal and powerful constituents that you can’t satisfy,”
said Christopher Mier, managing director and chief strategist at
Loop Capital Markets in  Chicago , who says the state should sell
bonds. Borrowing, Mier said, may just be “a political
reality.”  Republicans, led by Treasurer Dan Rutherford, oppose debt
and argue the state must cut the budget and control spending,
particularly for unfunded pension and health-care liabilities.  Illinois, which has borrowed to make its two most recent
annual pension payments, is tied with  California  as the lowest-
rated in the estimation of Moody’s Investors Service at A1.
 Standard & Poor’s  has it at A+, one level above California.  In The Hole  After raising the personal and corporate income taxes in
January and wiping out half of a current-year deficit of at
least $13 billion, about $8 billion in unpaid bills remained.
Quinn proposed borrowing the money to pay off the vendors.  “That’s not a balanced budget,” said  Richard Ciccarone ,
managing director and chief research officer at McDonnell
Investment Management LLC, where he helps oversee $7 billion.
“It’s deficit financing. We’re not at a point where we want to
manage government with debt issuance.”  “They probably argue that this is a one-time-only event,
but how do we know that?” Ciccarone said in a telephone
interview from his office in  Oak Brook , Illinois. “They have to
show a track record that shows that.”  In the absence of agreement on cuts, the temptation to
borrow is enhanced by the appreciating value of debt.  Debt Looks Good  Interest rates  on tax-exempt debt issued by states and
cities are down about 59 basis points since April 7, according
to a Bloomberg Valuation index. Yields on top-rated bonds
maturing in 15 years touched 3.33 percent on May 17, the lowest
since Nov. 12. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The movement has helped cut the extra yield investors
demand to hold Illinois debt by about 27 percent in the past
four months, Bloomberg data show. A state general obligation
bond maturing in March 2018 was yielding 3.63 percent on May 20,
or 177 basis points above top-rated debt, according to Bloomberg
Valuation pricing. That compares with a so-called spread of 243
basis points Feb. 4.  Still, opposition to borrowing is vocal. The Chicago-based
 Civic Federation , a nonpartisan group that advocates efficient
government, said in a May 9  report  that borrowing would make the
state’s fiscal condition “worse over time.”  Rutherford said in a May 22 news release that state debt is
$42,000 per household and that Illinois needs to “cut our
spending and break our unsustainable borrowing cycle before we
realize a further financial disaster.”  ‘Dangerous Road’  In the final days of the budget session, Democrats and
Republicans are negotiating changes in retirement systems that
would cut short- and long-term costs. Illinois’s unfunded
pension liability is at least $80 billion and it has amassed a
$40 billion long-term obligation for retired public employees’
health care, according to a 2010 report from the  Pew Center on
the States .  Ciccarone said continued borrowing puts the state at
increased risk in the event of another recession.  “You may be forced to make a choice between debt service
or workers or retirees, and you don’t want that,” he said.
“It’s a dangerous road to go down.”  Mier of Loop, whose firm is the 16th biggest muni
underwriter, said he expects lawmakers will approve a smaller
amount of borrowing, along with budget cuts.  “We need to figure out the total amount of the budget
before we go out and borrow, so that we only borrow what we
need,” said  Tom Johnson , president of the  Taxpayers’ Federation
of Illinois , which argues for containing the size of government
until the budget balances.  Johnson said the unpaid bills need to be included in
negotiations aimed at reducing pension costs and establishing a
plan to reduce overall spending.  “If you borrow an amount that does not require expenditure
cuts, then it is not a long-term fiscal plan,” Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net 
Brendan McGrail in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  