-- 
IMF Lowers Kenyan Economic Growth Forecast Amid Uncertainty About Weather

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-24T15:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/imf-lowers-kenyan-economic-growth-forecast-amid-uncertainty-about-weather.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its growth forecast for  Kenya , citing the impact on agriculture
from poor rainfall, and recommended the East African nation
keeps tightening liquidity to curtail high inflation.  Growth this year may be between 5 percent and 5.4 percent,
accelerating to 6 percent in 2012, Domenico Fanizza, the IMF
mission chief for Kenya, told reporters today in the capital,
Nairobi. The IMF projected in its  World Economic Outlook  on
April 12 that Kenya’s economy would expand by 5.7 percent this
year and 6.5 percent in 2012, from 5 percent in 2010.  “It depends a lot on the kind of rainy season you get,”
Fanizza said. Kenya, the world’s largest exporter of black tea
and a producer of high-quality coffee beans, relies on farming
for a quarter of its gross domestic product.  Kenya’s Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  on May 19 projected
the economy would expand 6.1 percent this year, two days after
Planning Minister Wycliffe Oparanya said he expected economic
growth to slow to between 3.5 percent and 4.5 percent in 2011.  East Africa’s largest economy grew 5.6 percent last year,
according to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics.  Inflation accelerated for the six straight month in April
to 12.05 percent in April, the highest in two years and above
the government’s 5 percent target, as food and fuel prices rose.
Rising economic growth has led to demand-driven inflation and
the central bank should keep taking out cash from the economy to
prevent price pressures from spreading, Fanizza said.  ‘Bit Too Fast’  “Demand is growing a bit too fast as shown by pressure on
prices and the current account deficit,” Fanizza said.  The Central Bank of Kenya sold 4.91 billion shillings ($57
million) of  repurchase agreements  today, the 10th trading
session this month in which it sought to remove supply of the
local currency. The shilling traded 0.6 percent stronger at
86.27 per dollar at 4:30 p.m. in the capital Nairobi.  The IMF’s executive board in January approved a $508.7
million three-year credit facility for Kenya, targeting an
increase of the country’s currency reserves to more than 4
months of import cover. Initially, $101.7 million was released
and the second instalment of $70 million could be disbursed by
July 15, if the board approves it, Fanizza said.  Kenya’s usable foreign exchange reserves stood at $3.92
billion in the week to May 20, or 3.81 months of import cover,
almost  unchanged  from a week earlier,  central bank  data show.  Kenya should gradually narrow its  budget deficit , reducing
the public debt-to-GDP ratio to 45 percent, to support economic
stability while continuing to spend on building infrastructure
and implementing the constitution that went into effect in
August last year, Fanizza said.  Kenyatta is due to deliver his budget for the fiscal year
through June 2012 on June 8, according to the  Finance Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  