-- 
India Plans $5 Billion Credit Line Over 3 Years for Africa for Development

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-24T13:21:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/india-plans-5-billion-credit-line-over-3-years-for-africa-for-development.html
India  will provide a $5 billion line
of credit to African nations over the next three years to help
fund economic development on the continent, Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  said.  “ Africa  possesses all the pre-requisites to become a major
growth pole in the world,” Singh said in a speech at the opening
of the India-Africa Forum Summit in  Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian
capital, today. “We will work with Africa to enable it to
realize its potential.”  India is boosting economic ties with Africa amid
competition from  China , its regional rival, whose trade with the
continent totalled $106.8 billion in 2008, according to
 Consultancy Africa Intelligence ’s website. Trade between India
and Africa currently stands at $50 billion, African Union
Commission Chairman Jean Ping said today.  In addition to the line of credit, $700 million will be
provided for training programs and new institutions on the
continent in consultation with the African Union, Singh said.  Indian External Affairs Minister S.M. Krishna and Ping
yesterday signed agreements for four new institutions to be
established. Ghana will host an information-technology
organization; an institute of educational planning will be set
up in  Burundi ; Uganda will get a foreign trade body and a
diamond institute will be established in Botswana, the 53-member
continental bloc said in an e-mailed statement today.  Weather Forecasting  Trade-promotion bodies including an India-Africa business
council, food processing and textile clusters and a medium-range
weather-forecasting center are also planned, Singh said.  India will provide $300 million to help rehabilitate the
Djibouti-Ethiopia railroad, a project that began in 2004. Work
on the European Union-funded upgrade so far has cost 50 million
euros ($70.4 million), the EU Delegation to Ethiopia said in
December.  “Under the lines of credit that we offered at the first
summit, we had specifically looked at promoting regional
integration through infrastructure development,” Singh said. “On
the advice of the  African Union , we will support the development
of the new Ethio-Djibouti railway line.”  The summit that began today is the first since the India-
Africa summit in April 2008.  The South Asian country will also provide $2 million to
support the African Union peacekeeping mission in  Somalia , Singh
said. Somalia has been wracked by civil war and hasn’t had a
functioning central administration since Mohamed Siad Barre, the
former dictator, was ousted in 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 