-- 
Internet Needs Government Role to Avoid ‘Anarchy,’ France’s Sarkozy Says

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-05-24T09:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/internet-needs-government-role-to-avoid-anarchy-france-s-sarkozy-says.html
The Internet needs government
involvement to reach its full potential of linking people and
boosting economic growth, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said.  “Now that the Internet is an integral part of most
people’s lives, it would be contradictory to exclude
governments,” Sarkozy today said at a Paris forum of Internet
companies. “Nobody should forget that these governments are the
only legitimate representatives of the will of the people in our
democracies. To forget this is to risk democratic chaos and
hence anarchy.”  In his speech to 1,500 delegates at the  e-G8 Forum , which
is being held before a summit of Group of Eight leaders this
week in Deauville,  France , Sarkozy said rules were needed to
protect copyrights, prevent monopolies and keep harmful material
out of the hands of children.  “We won’t take steps that would damage growth in your
industry,” he told executives. Among those scheduled to
participate were Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  and  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch. “But you can’t escape a
minimum set of rules.”  While never mentioning taxes directly, Sarkozy mentioned
the costs taxpayers bear in supporting the industry.  “States invest in training programs for those who then
join your companies,” he said. “States invest in the technical
and technological infrastructure that provide transport for the
services and content that are circulated on the Web.”  Sarkozy said the Internet had changed the world as much as
the voyages of explorers such as Christopher Columbus. “In a
few years, you have rocked the very foundations of the world
economy in which you now play a major role,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
5068 or  gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  