-- 
Iran Nuclear Work Advances While UN Scrutinizes New Weapon Plans

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-05-24T16:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/iran-nuclear-work-advances-while-un-scrutinizes-new-weapon-plans.html
Iran  may have continued nuclear
weapons work after 2004, according to new information shared
with inspectors, the United Nations atomic watchdog said.  International Atomic Energy Agency investigators received
documents from more than one country showing that Iran may have
conducted work aimed at developing nuclear weapons in the years
following 2004, the Vienna-based watchdog said today in a nine-
page restricted report obtained by Bloomberg News. Inspectors
are assessing high-explosive, electronic and missile warhead
data.  “The agency remains concerned about the possible existence
in Iran of past or current undisclosed nuclear related
activities involving military related organizations, including
activities related to the development of a nuclear payload for a
missile,” the report said.  The 2011 U.S. National Intelligence Estimate on Iran had
“high confidence’’ that the Persian Gulf country wasn’t
pursuing nuclear weapons,  James Clapper , President  Barack Obama ’s director of national intelligence, said at a March 10
Congressional hearing. A 2007 National Intelligence Estimate
concluded that Iran had stopped trying to make weapons in 2003.  Iran increased its supply of 20 percent enriched uranium to
56.7 kilograms (125 pounds) compared with 43.6 kilograms in
February at the Pilot Fuel Enrichment Plant in Natanz, the
Vienna-based IAEA said. Iran has produced 4,105 kilograms of
uranium enriched to less than 5 percent compared with 3,606
kilograms in the last IAEA report.  Iran’s Nuclear Activities  “The agency’s knowledge about Iran’s enrichment activities
continues to diminish,” the IAEA said. “The agency is unable
to provide credible assurance about the absence of undeclared
nuclear material and activities in Iran.”  Iran’s nuclear program  has drawn four sets of UN sanctions
sanctions because of concern that it is being used to develop
weapons. Iran, with the world’s second-largest natural gas
reserves, says it’s enriching uranium to fuel nuclear reactors.  The number of installed centrifuges that Iran uses to
enrich uranium, which can be used to fuel nuclear  power plants 
and construct atomic bombs, remained at 8,000 in the three
months since the last report, the IAEA said.  About 630 kilograms of low-enriched uranium, if further
purified, could yield the 15 to 22 kilograms of weapons-grade
uranium needed by an expert bomb-maker to craft a weapon,
according to the London-based Verification Research, Training
and Information Center, a non-governmental observer to the IAEA
that is funded by European governments.  IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano will present the
report’s findings to the UN nuclear agency’s 35-member board of
governors when it convenes June 6 in the Austrian capital.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  