-- 
Mizuho Names Sato CEO; Will Combine Unit Functions

-- B y   S h i g e r o   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-05-24T03:58:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/mizuho-names-sato-ceo-will-combine-unit-functions-correct-.html
(Corrects amount of Sato’s pay cut in the third paragraph
of story published on May 23.)  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  named
Yasuhiro Sato as chief executive officer and will combine some
functions at its corporate, retail and trust units after a
computer systems failure angered depositors and regulators.  Sato will replace Takashi Tsukamoto next month, subject to
shareholder approval, and Satoru Nishibori will step down as
head of the retail unit, the Tokyo-based bank said today in a
statement. Administrative and systems operations of Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd., Mizuho Bank Ltd. and Mizuho Trust & Banking
Co. will be integrated by March 2013, it said.  Malfunctions at the retail bank delayed transactions worth
more than $10 billion after a record earthquake in March,
triggering a regulatory probe and a 13 percent drop in the
parent’s stock. Among challenges for Sato, who will take a 30
percent salary cut for three months, is achieving a third year
of profit growth as Japanese lenders compete for declining loans.  “The system glitch was a trigger that accelerated the pace
of the bank’s management reshuffle and restructuring,”
Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
said before the announcement. “A reduction of personnel
expenses has long been one of Mizuho’s issues that must be
addressed to boost local competitiveness.”  Mizuho said it will consider merging the three units, a
move that would bring it into line with bigger rivals Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. and  Sumitomo Mitsui  Financial Group
Inc., which each have one main banking subsidiary that serves
retail and corporate clients.  ‘Sense of Urgency’  The glitches “increased our sense of urgency,” Tsukamoto
said at a briefing. “We are prepared to do anything to create a
one-bank regime, and a merger is one option.” He will become
chairman next month.  Tsukamoto’s pay will be cut by 50 percent for six months,
according to the statement. Other senior executives will also
accept lower pay temporarily to take responsibility for the
systems failure, it said.  The ratio of Mizuho’s operating costs, including staffing,
to overall ordinary expenses was 60 percent in the year ended
March 31, according to its latest earnings statement. That
compares with 54 percent for Mitsubishi UFJ and 45 percent for
Sumitomo Mitsui, based on their earnings disclosures.  Combining the banking units “could at least improve the
group’s management efficiency,” Shinichi Ina, an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote last week.  Shares Fall  Sato, 59, is CEO of  Mizuho Corporate Bank . After graduating
from Tokyo University in 1976, he joined Industrial Bank of
Japan Ltd. and worked there until the company combined with Dai-
Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. and Fuji Bank Ltd. to form Mizuho in 2000.  Mizuho, Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value, fell
1.6 percent to 126 yen at the close in Tokyo before the
announcement. The bank has declined 13 percent since the day
before the systems glitch on March 15. Mitsubishi UFJ, the
country’s biggest publicly traded lender, dropped 7 percent in
the same period, and Sumitomo Mitsui lost 14 percent.  Loans outstanding in Japan have fallen for 17 months in a
row, the longest slump since 2005, as households and companies
hoard cash. The economy fell into a recession last quarter,
shrinking at an annual 3.7 percent pace after the March 11 quake
and tsunami crimped production and spending.  Japan ’s Financial Services Agency is investigating the
computer failure that delayed salary payments and halted
automated teller machines in the wake of the disaster. Nishibori
said at the time that the problem was related to a surge in
donations to victims.  History of Mishaps  The mishap was the latest to plague Mizuho in its 11-year
history. Past problems include a systems breakdown in 2002 that
led to cash-card rejections and overcharging of customers, and a
trading error in 2005, when its brokerage unit sold thousands of
shares for as low as 1 yen each.  Earnings at Mizuho have improved since the global financial
crisis, when it incurred the biggest losses on U.S. subprime
mortgage-related securities of any Asian bank. Net income will
climb 11 percent to 460 billion yen ($5.6 billion) in the year
ending March 31, buoyed by fees and commissions, the company
forecast this month.  Mizuho announced changes to its securities business in
March, saying it will turn two brokerages and a trust bank into
wholly owned subsidiaries this fiscal year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  