-- 
Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Files for Bankruptcy Protection

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-24T21:41:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/jackson-hewitt-tax-service-files-for-bankruptcy-after-loan-curb-push.html
Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc. (JTX)  filed
for bankruptcy, saying it has a deal with secured lenders that
will let the tax-preparation company exit court protection
within 60 days.  The filing comes after U.S. regulators moved to curb the
loans that tax preparers arrange for customers expecting
refunds.  Jackson Hewitt  listed as much as $500 million in assets
and debts in Chapter 11 documents filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Wilmington,  Delaware . Chapter 11 of the  bankruptcy code  is
typically used by companies trying to reorganize and continue
operating.  “The debt and interest rate burden we have carried in
recent years has limited our potential and financial flexibility
and this will no longer be the case,” Chief Executive Officer
Philip H. Sanford said in a statement.  In March, Jackson Hewitt said it was working on a
prepackaged bankruptcy with lenders and there was
“uncertainty” about its ability to continue as a going
concern.  So-called refund-anticipation loans are under scrutiny by
regulators including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The biggest U.S. tax
preparer,  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , won’t offer tax-refund loans this year
after the OCC, which regulates national banks, blocked  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  from funding them. JPMorgan Chase & Co. exited the
refund-loan business in April 2010.  New Loan  Under Jackson Hewitt’s plan, lenders would receive a new
$100 million  term loan  and all of the equity in the company once
it reorganizes and leaves bankruptcy. The company also would
sign a new, $115 million revolving credit agreement. Existing
stockholders would get nothing under the plan, which must be
approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath.  Jackson Hewitt owed about $362.3 million at the end of
January and had a $30 million payment due April 30. Should
regulators ban RALs, that debt would fall into default, the
company had said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Jackson Hewitt reported a net loss of $33.2 million on
revenue of $90.4 million for the nine months ended Jan. 31. The
loss from operations was $25.3 million.  The company prepared 2.53 million tax returns in 2010, it
said in a regulatory filing. It has about 6,000 franchised and
company-owned offices in the U.S. Last fiscal year, it earned 94
percent of its income from Jan. 1 through April 30.  Moelis & Co. is Jackson Hewitt’s financial adviser and
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is the company’s
bankruptcy law firm.  The case is In re Jackson Hewitt Tax Service, Inc., 11-
11587,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware,
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 