-- 
Japan’s Prime Minister Kan Says Europe Has No Automatic Claim to Head IMF

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-05-24T19:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/japan-s-prime-minister-kan-says-europe-has-no-automatic-claim-to-head-imf.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said
there’s no automatic right for the next head of the
 International Monetary Fund  to be European, without ruling out
supporting such a candidate.  Japan doesn’t have a regional preference in determining who
succeeds Dominique Strauss-Kahn as IMF head, Kan said in an
interview with the Financial Times, a Japanese government
official told reporters on condition of anonymity. Europeans
have picked the head of the fund since its founding at the end
of World War II.  Kan called for a transparent selection process in finding a
successor, the official said he told the FT. Developing
economies such as  China , Brazil and  South Africa  have called for
an end to Europe’s lock on the job, while European Union
countries have voiced support for French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  to replace Strauss-Kahn.  The Washington-based IMF approved a record $91.7 billion in
emergency loans last year and has provided a third of the money
to bail out European countries from their debt crisis.  Kan also expressed hope that the next leader supports
Japan’s proposal to host the IMF and the World Bank meetings in
October 2012, the official said he told the FT.  Kan today flew to France to begin a five-day trip to Europe
and attend the Group of Eight summit. Kan in the interview
reiterated his intention to tell world leaders of Japan’s
response to the March earthquake and tsunami, as well as to the
ensuing Fukushima nuclear power crisis.  Japan will continue to seek free-trade agreements even
after the disaster affected agriculture in northern Japan, Kan
also told the paper. He said he aims to discuss starting
negotiations on a Japan-E.U. free-trade accord when he meets
with European leaders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  