-- 
BOJ Signals Readiness to Boost Lending as Exports Tumble Most Since 2009

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-05-25T06:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/japan-swings-to-trade-deficit-in-april-as-exports-slump-after-earthquake.html
The  Bank of Japan  indicated its
willingness to expand lending programs to support reconstruction
efforts after the nation’s record March 11 earthquake crippled
factory production and pushed the economy into a recession.  “We’re examining whether there’s a way to enhance” a 3
trillion yen ($37 billion) lending program for industries that
can spur economic growth, Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said in a
speech in Tokyo today. Many BOJ board members in April discussed
the potential need to expand a 1 trillion yen loan program
designed to help companies in the aftermath of the quake, a
record of the meeting released today showed.  Exports slumped at their fastest pace since October 2009 in
April, a Finance Ministry report showed today, resulting in the
first trade deficit for the month in 31 years. The central bank
may hold off from boosting asset purchases, its main policy tool,
until the government unveils its next spending package in coming
months, according to analyst Hiroaki Muto.  “The BOJ won’t hesitate to boost support for quake-
rebuilding and expand the 1 trillion yen quake-aid loan program,”
said Muto, a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management Co. in  Tokyo . “They’ll probably hold off on further
action until July or August, timing their policy move to
coincide with the government’s second extra budget.”  The bank last month unveiled the one-year loan program for
banks, aimed at getting funds to companies hit by the quake. The
record quake and tsunami in northern  Japan  left about 24,000
people dead or missing, and the government estimated that
damages could be as high as 25 trillion yen.  Record Cash Injection  The BOJ injected record amounts of cash into the money
market after the quake, and doubled to 10 trillion yen a fund
that buys assets including corporate debt to real estate
investment trusts. It has kept the benchmark overnight rate
between zero and 0.1 percent since October.  Supply-chain constraints and power shortages caused by the
record temblor have disrupted production and slowed overseas
sales, prompting companies including Sony Corp. to forecast
earnings below analysts’ estimates. The value of automobile
shipments, a driver of overseas sales, fell to its second lowest
level on record since data began in 1979, today’s report showed.  “A huge drop in economic activity in coming months is
inevitable, though we may see a rebound toward the end of the
year if production recovers,” said  Yuichi Kodama  , chief
economist at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo. “Recent
economic data indicate that the blow from the earthquake is
bigger than people anticipated.”  Shipments to the U.S. fell 23.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, the biggest decline since October 2009, the report
showed. Exports to  China , Japan’s largest market, fell 6.8
percent, the first decline since October 2009. Sales to  Europe 
fell 10.7 percent, the first drop in three months.  Sony’s Struggle  Sony, Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics, is
struggling to improve its earnings after the earthquake crippled
factories and hackers invaded its online entertainment services.
Operating income in the 12 months ending March 2012 will be
similar to the 200 billion yen last fiscal year, the Tokyo-based
company said in a preliminary earnings statement released this
week. The forecast missed the 254.7 billion yen average of nine
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The nation’s economy shrank in the three months through
March as consumers and companies cut back spending and exports
fell after the disaster, sending the nation to its third
recession in a decade. Gross domestic product will probably
contract at a 3.3 percent annual pace this quarter before
growing in the second half of the year, according to the average
forecast of 43 economists in a survey by the government-
affiliated  Economic Planning Association  released on May 16.  Growth Slows  Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said
yesterday growth for the year ending March 31 may be around 0.6
percent or 0.7 percent, less than half the government’s 1.5
percent forecast made before the quake.  Shirakawa voiced optimism that the economy is recovering as
companies get repair factories and resume production.  An easing in supply constraints and corporate efforts to
restart output “suggest that Japan’s economy has started to
move toward recovery from the tumble immediately after the
earthquake,” Shirakawa said. “In the second half of fiscal
2011, the sense of recovery will be somewhat more noticeable,
although it will fall short of a V-shaped recovery.”  Shirakawa reiterated his opposition to the central bank
underwriting or monetizing government debt, warning that it can
erode confidence and weaken fiscal discipline.  ‘Something From Nothing’  “It should be noted that there is no magic wand that
creates something from nothing,” Shirakawa said. “If the
government depends on the central bank’s underwriting and
ignores the market’s risk assessment function, the government
debt could eventually expand to a level beyond the taxpayers’
funding capacity.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has pledged 4 trillion yen in
spending to help rebuild areas devastated by the temblor. Some
lawmakers have called on the central bank to finance further
stimulus packages by underwriting debt, reducing pressure on
Japan’s debt burden, which is already the largest in the
industrialized world.  At the April 28 meeting, BOJ board members cut their
forecasts for this fiscal year’s GDP to 0.6 percent from a
January estimate of 1.6 percent while they raised predictions
for consumer prices excluding fresh food to a 0.7 percent
increase from a 0.3 percent gain. The board will review those
forecasts in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  