-- 
Jet Fuel Rebounds in Europe as Iceland Volcano Concern Eases

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-05-24T15:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/jet-fuel-rebounds-in-europe-as-iceland-volcano-concern-eases-1-.html
European jet fuel rebounded from its
lowest in a week on speculation that volcanic ash from Iceland
won’t disrupt  air travel  as much as last year’s eruption.  Jet fuel swaps rose as much 1.8 percent as airlines
canceled more than 250 flights and U.S. President  Barack Obama 
curtailed his visit to Ireland after ash drifted over the
northern U.K. Particles from the Grimsvötn volcano were more
dense and would not remain in the atmosphere as long as those
from the Eyjafjallajökull blast in April, 2010 which grounded
100,000 flights, according to a forecast from New-York-based
researcher  Weather 2000, Inc .  “We are likely to avoid last year’s disaster when skies
over  Europe  were closed,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in London, said in a note today.  The June swap contract for barges of the  aviation fuel 
advanced $18.30 to $1,019.14 a metric ton in northwest Europe as
of 4:15 p.m. London time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It fell to a one-week low at $995.64 a ton yesterday.  British Airways, Air France-KLM Group and a dozen other
carriers were forced to cancel flights today. BA halted services
to  Scotland , United Continental Holdings Inc. scrapped three
U.S. flights. Ryanair Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest discount
airline, said there is “no basis” for cancelations and that it
operated a “verification flight” over Scotland and found no
evidence of dust in the atmosphere.  Not as Dramatic  “Neither the scale of the eruption, nor the likely
response of the industry and regulators are likely to be
anywhere near as dramatic as the disruptions last year,”
 Lawrence Eagles , New York-based head of commodities research at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note. “While flight delays are
likely, we would be surprised if there was a material impact on
European jet demand as a result of the eruption.”  Consumption of the fuel plunged last April as the eruption
of the Eyjafjallajökull volcano closed European airspace for six
days. The canceled flights cost the industry $1.8 billion, the
 International Air Transport Association  said in June.  Jet fuel barge prices declined yesterday in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub on worries that the
ash would curtail flights and reduce demand. One barge traded at
$989 a ton, dropping 1.4 percent from $1,003 a ton on May 20,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Premium Dropped  The fuel also traded at a $90 premium to June gasoil on
 London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange yesterday compared with a
trade at $94 a ton more than on May 20. The contract settled at
$899.50 a ton. It gained 1.7 percent to $914.50 a ton today.  European jet fuel premiums fell as much as $10 a ton as a
result of the  ash cloud  in April 2010, Bloomberg data showed.
Barges were at a $45 more than ICE gasoil when the eruption
began April 14 and dropped to as little as $35 on April 19.  Last year, airport storage tanks reached capacity in parts
of Europe, disrupting fuel shipments. Frankfurt airport canceled
supplies from a link connecting it with refineries including BP
Plc’s 400,000-barrel-a-day Rotterdam plant. Deutsche Lufthansa
AG declared force majeure, a legal clause allowing companies to
miss deliveries because of circumstances beyond their control,
on fuel deliveries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  