-- 
JSW Profit Jumps as Polish Coal Producer Prepares IPO

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-05-24T13:23:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/jsw-profit-jumps-fourfold-as-polish-coal-producer-prepares-share-offering.html
Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA said
first-quarter profit jumped fourfold as the European Union’s
largest coking coal producer benefits from rising prices before
its Warsaw share sale, planned for next month.  Net income rose to 619 million zloty ($221 million) from
149 million zloty a year earlier, the company known as JSW said
at a press conference in Warsaw today. Revenue increased 53
percent to 2.27 billion zloty and earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, and amortization climbed to 990 million
zloty from 410 million zloty.  “The earnings completely transform the image of the
company,”  Pawel Puchalski , an analyst at the brokerage of Bank
Zachodni WBK SA in Warsaw, said by phone. “The IPO will
certainly, or almost certainly, succeed” assuming market
conditions remain unchanged.  Increasing coal prices are pushing up producers’ market
values after December floods in  Australia  cut global supply.  New
World Resources NV (NWR) , the largest Czech producer of coking coal
known as NWR, has jumped 37 percent in London trading since Dec.
3, when flooding cut Australian production.  JSW, based in the southern Polish city of Jastrzebie Zdroj,
doesn’t predict any “significant” changes in the price of
coking coal for the rest of the year, Chief Executive Officer
Jaroslaw Zagorowski said. The rate for long-term contracts,
under which JSW sells 80 percent of its output at prices set
every quarter, climbed to $330 a ton in April-June from $225 a
ton in the first three months.  ‘Similar’ Quarters  Quarterly profits in the rest of the year will be
“similar” to those in the first and second quarters,
Zagorowski told journalists in Warsaw today. He didn’t give a
forecast for second-quarter profit.  “The higher price translates into profits, but the
relationship isn’t directly proportional,” he said.  Last year JSW, whose biggest clients include  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,
U.S. Steel Corp. and  Voestalpine AG (VOE) , produced 9.1 million tons
of coking coal and 4.2 million tons of thermal coal, used by
energy producers. The company, which also produces coke, exports
45 percent of its production, mostly to Germany and Slovakia.  Workers’ Stake  Poland’s government, which owns JSW, plans to cut its
holding to just above 50 percent in the June IPO. A stake of 17
percent to 19 percent will be given to workers. JSW isn’t
selling new shares and is set to start trading in Warsaw July 6.  JSW could be worth about 17.6 billion zloty if it trades at
the same ratios as the Czech NWR and posts 2 billion zloty of
net income, Bank Zachodni’s Puchalski said, adding that
investors will take a discount for potential conflict with labor
unions, which have sought to block the IPO.  The company returned to net income and reported a profit of
1.5 billion zloty last year after a 669 million-zloty net loss
in 2009.  “It’s the best moment for us to debut on the stock
exchange,” said Grzegorz Czornik, a member of the management
board. “Prices are at record highs and prospects are still
good.”  JSW plans to sign a deal with banks to open a so-called
bond program this year, Chief Financial Officer Marek Wadowski
told Bloomberg News today. The program will be for at least 1
billion zloty and the company will sell domestic bonds rather
than Eurobonds, he said. JSW, which had negative net debt of
2.19 billion zloty at the end of March, won’t tap the program
this year.  “It’s an instrument for the future," Wadowski said. ‘‘We
don’t need the money now.”  JSW plans to invest about 1.5 billion zloty a year by the
end of 2015, mostly to develop its deposits, Andrzej Tor, a
member of the management board, said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  