-- 
Juncker Strongly Against Full Restructuring of Greece’s Debt

-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 
2011-05-24T18:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/juncker-strongly-against-full-restructuring-of-greece-s-debt-1-.html
Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, said he is strongly
against a full restructuring of  Greece ’s debt.  Euro-region countries may take further steps to help Greece
with its debt crisis if the country meets all requests by the
17-member currency zone, he told reporters today in  The Hague ,
where he and Belgian Prime Minister Yves Leterme met their Dutch
counterpart  Mark Rutte . A final assessment on new measures for
Greece may come as early as next week, he said.  “As far as Greece is concerned, a certain number of
requests to some extent have been met by the Greek government
yesterday,” he said. “We were asking them to enlarge the
privatization program and we were asking for further structural
measures. If all these points are met by our Greek colleagues,
then we have to consider,” along with the  International
Monetary Fund , if a disbursement at the end of June can be made.  Juncker wouldn’t comment on possible further steps to help
Greece. The country may be allowed to lengthen the repayment
terms of its loans if all criteria are met, he said.  “We are waiting of the assessment of the so-called troika
and if this is a positive one then we can move to further steps
but it’s too early to tell you what kind of next steps can be
taken,” he said. “We are strongly committed to defend the
stability in the euro area. We have to face a public debt
problem of three of our member states and we will deal with this
matter in the course of June.”  Greece’s Cabinet yesterday endorsed another package of
spending cuts and state asset sales after the worsening bond-
market selloff across the euro region forced the government to
step up austerity measures.  European finance ministers last week for the first time
floated the idea of talks with bondholders over extending
Greece’s debt-repayment schedule, saying that last year’s rescue
failed to restore the country to financial health.  Juncker yesterday met with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  and  Chancellor Angela Merkel  in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  