-- 
Koons, 52-Ton Tank, Sleazy Star Enliven European Summer: Preview

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-05-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/koons-52-ton-tank-sleazy-star-spice-up-european-summer-martin-gayford.html
The  Venice Biennale  (June 4-Nov. 27)
is always the same, and always different.  It’s the world’s most colossal jamboree of contemporary art
and reliably huge -- in fact, huger every time. Long ago it
overflowed the public gardens where the whole event began, and
now there’s scarcely a church or palazzo in town that’s not
pressed into service as an exhibition space or party venue.  The individual ingredients -- artists, curators, stunts --
are reshuffled every time, and there’s usually a talking point.
For example, the exhibition organized by the curator of the
Biennale, which generally comprises enough cutting-edge video
and installation work to fill a shopping mall, will this time
also contain three large canvases by Jacopo Tintoretto (1518-
94).  In the national pavilions -- selected by the individual
countries, and making up in total a sort of avant-garde UN --
there will be no Old Masters, but plenty of media more exotic
than oil paint. Jennifer Allora and Guillermo Calzadilla
(representing the U.S.) are displaying, among other items, a 52-
ton military tank, a gigantic pipe organ incorporating a fully
functioning ATM, and a team of eight trained athletes.  That will be hard to upstage, though the French
installation specialist Christian Boltanski -- the best-known
participant, Tintoretto apart -- is likely to be a contender for
top prize.  Royal Academy   In  London , there’s the more traditional nuttiness of the
Royal Academy’s  Summer Exhibition  (June 7-Aug. 15), an annual
event in the art calendar since 1768. A large, transparent,
brilliantly colored sculpture by  Jeff Koons  already has been
placed in the courtyard of Burlington House, next to the statue
of the RA’s founding president, Joshua Reynolds. This sums up
the stylistic incongruities that characterize the Summer
Exhibition, sponsored by  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ’s Insight
Investment.  Another unexpected juxtaposition of Old Master and
contemporary artist will be on show in “Twombly & Poussin:
Arcadian Painters” at  Dulwich Picture Gallery  (June 29-Sept.
25). Cy Twombly, the veteran American painter, noted for
abstract splatter and graffiti-like jottings, is not the most
obvious art historical partner for the French classicist Nicolas Poussin (1594-1665). They do have a few things in common,
including both being expatriates dwelling in  Rome .  At  Tate Britain , there will be a survey of the first U.K.
avant-garde movement of the 20th century, “The Vorticists:
Manifesto for a Modern World” (June 14-Sept. 4). As often with
plucky British contenders in various fields, notably sport, the
nagging question about the Vorticists is: Were they really good?
This should help clarify the answer to that question.  Cabaret Life  The  Courtauld Gallery , meanwhile, is putting on one of
those tightly focused little shows it does so well. This time
the spotlight is on Toulouse-Lautrec and his depictions of Jane
Avril, star of sleazy 1890s Parisian cabaret in “Beyond the
Moulin Rouge” (June 16-Sept. 18).  Over at the  British Museum , there will be “Treasures of
Heaven: Saints, Relics and Devotion in Medieval Europe” (June
23- Oct. 9), which puts in the foreground the fact that, in
Christian Europe, bones matter. Many of the great churches and
cathedrals were built to contain the skulls, tibias, teeth and
other remnants of holy individuals. The exhibition is sponsored
John Studzinski, senior managing director at Blackstone Group
LP.  The exhibits will include alleged fragments of the True
Cross, the foot of St. Blaise, breast milk of the Virgin Mary,
and hair of St. John the Evangelist (as well as the beautiful
reliquaries or containers for such things). All of the above
might interest contemporary artists, not least  Damien Hirst .  Information:  http://www.dulwichpicturegallery.org.uk 
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk/summerexhibition 
 http://www.labiennale.org/   http://www.britishmuseum.org/ 
 http://www.tate.org.uk/britain/  and
 http://www.courtauld.ac.uk/gallery   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 