-- 
Korean Air Puts Shoppers in the Sky on Its First A380 Jumbo Jet

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-05-24T13:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/korean-air-puts-shoppers-in-the-sky-on-its-first-a380-jumbo-jet.html
Korean Air Lines Co. took delivery of
its first Airbus A380 superjumbo that comes with a built-in
duty-free shop for premium travelers as the carrier seeks to
trump luxury perks by rivals including  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)   The airline’s first of 10 double-decker models, handed over
by the Toulouse-based planemaker today, is fitted with 407
seats, including 12 first-class suites, 94 business-class seats
and 301 in coach, the airline said. The plane is Airbus’s eighth
A380 delivered this year out of about planned 24 for all of
2011. Airbus has delivered 49 A380s in total so far.  The Korean flag carrier, the sixth airline to offer service
on the world’s biggest passenger aircraft, will tout the lowest
number of seats on a superjumbo after dedicating the plane’s
entire top deck to business class in a bid to win corporate
clients. The Seoul-based airline is scheduled to receive nine
more A380s by 2014, as it seeks to get half of passenger sales
from premium-classes by 2019.  “The A380 will help put  Korean Air  on a par with carriers
like Singapore Air as it targets more premium passengers,” said
Jee Heon Seok, an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul. “The carrier has improved its services a great deal.”  Showers, Suites  Airlines have been reticent to pick up on Airbus’s original
marketing ideas for the A380, which featured bars or duty-free
boutiques. While Singapore offers enclosed first-class cabins
and Emirates provides showers, airlines have been generally
conservative about adding attractions that might reduce seat
availability. Customization has also hampered production of the
jet, and Airbus is years from making a profit on the A380.  Korean scrapped 13 seats to make room for the duty-free
area. The A380 will be used initially for operations to  Tokyo ’s
Narita airport and  Hong Kong , from June. The airline plans to
add Bangkok in July,  New York  in August and  Los Angeles  in
October, as additional A380s are handed over.  The aircraft will arrive in Korea on June 2 after
completing final flight and ground tests in Toulouse in southern
 France , and will perform its inaugural flight in mid June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  