-- 
NATO Strikes Tripoli Vowing to Raise Pressure on Libyan Leader Qaddafi

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-05-24T14:50:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/nato-slams-tripoli-with-heaviest-strikes-since-start-of-bombing-campaign.html
NATO  aircraft struck targets in
Tripoli as the coalition intensified its attacks on forces loyal
to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Precision-guided weapons were fired on a vehicle storage
facility in the capital that was used to supply government
forces and launch attacks on civilian sites, the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization said  on its website . As many as 18 raids
were carried out, killing three people, Agence-France Presse
reported, citing Moussa Ibrahim, a government spokesman.  “Qaddafi’s forces still represent a threat to civilians
and we will continue to strike targets that carry out this
violence,” Lieutenant-General Charles Bouchard, commander of
the NATO operation, said in the statement. NATO will continue to
intensify its attacks if conditions set out by the alliance’s
foreign ministers aren’t met, a spokesman said by phone. He
asked not to be identified in accordance with NATO’s rules.  The conflict in  Libya  between Qaddafi’s troops and rebels
trying to end his four-decade rule has left most of the east in
opposition hands and curbed oil exports. NATO said May 20 its
increased air campaign over Libya has “effectively” pushed
Qaddafi into hiding. The alliance this week also turned its
firepower on the regime’s navy, hitting eight warships.  Heaviest Bombardment  The storage facility that was targeted today was active
during the “initial regime suppression of the population in
February, and has remained so ever since,” according to the
statement. It was the heaviest bombardment of the capital in a
NATO campaign that began two months ago, AFP said.  Other targets struck by NATO forces today included an
ammunition storage facility and a command and control node near
Sirte, and truck-mounted guns near Misrata, NATO said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The allies taking part in NATO’s operations in Libya set
three conditions for ending the airstrikes: a halt to all
attacks by Qaddafi loyalists on civilians, the withdrawal of his
soldiers to their bases, and allowing aid into the country, the
alliance said in a statement April 15. The mission consists of
an arms embargo, a no-fly-zone and actions to protect civilians
from attack or the threat of attack.  At least 15,000 people have been killed in the conflict,
Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice president of the rebels’ National
Transitional Council, said May 18.  Gene Cretz , the U.S.
ambassador to Libya, said April 29 that officials have seen
estimates of as many as 30,000 people killed since mid-February.  Jordan Recognition  Jordan said today that it considers the Libyan  National
Transitional Council , the committee formed by anti-Qaddafi
rebels, as the legitimate representative of the Libyan people,
the state-run Petra News Agency reported today, citing Foreign
Minister Nasser Judeh.  The unrest in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, caused supplies from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to decline last month, the  International
Energy Agency  said May 12. Supplies from the North African
nation “will remain absent from the market for the rest of
2011,” the agency said.  Libya’s top oil official,  Shokri Ghanem , isn’t welcome to
join the rebels who are trying to oust Muammar Qaddafi’s regime,
Mahmoud Shammam, a spokesman for the rebel administration, said
in a telephone interview today from Doha, Qatar, adding that he
wasn’t sure whether Ghanem is still working for Qaddafi.
Reuters, citing oil company officials, said earlier today that
the minister continues to serve Qaddafi, after earlier reports
of his defection.  Oil gained in New York, trimming yesterday’s 2.4 percent
slump, after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley raised
their crude-price forecasts on speculation Libyan supply cuts
will reduce OPEC’s spare production capacity. Crude for July
delivery rose as much as $1.25 to $98.95 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, and was at $98.70
at 9:27 a.m. London time. Prices are up 41 percent from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 