-- 
Nestle Buys Prometheus Laboratories to Expand in Health

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-05-24T11:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/nestle-health-science-buys-prometheus-laboratories.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  said its health-science
unit agreed to buy Prometheus Laboratories Inc., a maker of
treatments for cancer and gastrointestinal illnesses, as the
world’s largest food company invests in personalized nutrition.  Nestle may have paid 500 million Swiss francs ($567
million) to 1 billion Swiss francs for the San Diego,
California-based company, Jean-Philippe Bertschy, a Zurich-based
analyst at Bank Vontobel, wrote in a note today. Nestle
spokeswoman Hilary Green declined to comment on the price, which
wasn’t disclosed.  Prometheus is forecast to have sales of about $250 million
next year from products that include tests for Crohn’s disease
and cancer. The company was founded in 1995 and takes its name
from the Greek god who gave humans the gift of fire. It’s owned
by investors including  DLJ Merchant Banking Partners  and  Apax
Partners .  Nestle, the maker of KitKat chocolate bars, opened a unit
in January to develop personalized nutrition products for
afflictions such as diabetes. The Swiss company has said it aims
to become the world leader in health-science nutrition in 10
years, extending its dominance beyond coffee, powdered milk and
baby food. The purchase is the third made by the unit since
it opened.  Higher Margins  “This shows Nestle is serious about this initiative,”
said  James Amoroso , a food industry consultant based in
Walchwil, Switzerland. “Because the group is so big, you
probably won’t see the impact for another 10 years. Ultimately
there’s quite a lot of money to be made. Pharmaceutical margins
are higher than food margins.”  The research and development pipeline will encompass areas
including metabolic conditions and brain health that are of
interest to Nestle Health Science, the company said today.
Prometheus said it expects the transaction to close early in the
third quarter and that about 500 of its employees will join
Nestle Health Science after the acquisition.  The purchase will allow “personalized health-care
solutions based on diagnostics, pharma and nutrition,” Luis Cantarell, chief executive officer of Nestle Health Science,
said in the statement.  Prometheus had a 14th consecutive year of sales growth in
2010, CEO Joseph Limber said in a statement on March 1. In
addition to its own products, Prometheus has agreements with
companies such as  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  to sell and
distribute medicines, according to the company’s website.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  advised Prometheus on the deal.
Nestle was advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  