-- 
Netanyahu’s Speech to Give Congress ‘Unvarnished Truth’ on Mideast Peace

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-24T05:33:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/netanyahu-says-israel-can-t-return-to-indefensible-1967-lines.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he will present his vision of a “secure peace”
for the Middle East in an address today to a joint meeting of
Congress.  “I intend to speak the unvarnished truth because now more
than ever, what we need is peace,” Netanyahu said last night in
an address to the nation’s largest pro- Israel  lobby, the
American Israel Public Affairs Committee, during its annual
meeting in Washington.  The Israeli leader spoke a day after President  Barack Obama 
addressed the same audience, saying upheaval in the region has
brought a new urgency to renewing Israeli-Palestinian peace
negotiations.  Obama and Netanyahu have sought to ease tensions evident in
their meeting at the White House on May 20, a day after the U.S.
president said peace talks should be based on boundaries from
before the 1967 Six-Day War, along with agreed-upon territorial
exchanges.  Netanyahu said during his speech to Congress, “I will talk
about the great convulsion taking place in the Middle East. I
will talk about the dangers of a nuclear-armed  Iran . I will also
outline a vision for a secure Israeli-Palestinian peace”  In his remarks to about 11,000 Aipac delegates at the
Washington Convention Center, Netanyahu emphasized that “Israel
cannot return to the indefensible 1967 borders.” He said “peace
between Palestinians and Israelis is a vital interest for us,
but it is not a panacea for the problems of the Middle East.”  Jewish State  Netanyahu, who was heckled at least three times during his
half-hour speech by members of a Jewish group supporting
territorial concessions, said it is crucial that Palestinians
accept Israel’s nature as a Jewish state, which Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has been unwilling to do.  “We can only make peace with the Palestinians if they’re
prepared to make peace with the Jewish state,” he said.  The Israeli leader spoke hours after Palestinian Authority
Prime Minister Salam Fayyad underwent cardiac catheterization in
Austin,  Texas , after what spokesman Jamal Zakout said was a
heart attack.  Fayyad, 59, was in Texas for his son’s university
graduation. He is recovering and is expected to be released from
the hospital within a few days, his office said in a statement
posted by the Wafa news agency.  Netanyahu said he hopes Fayyad “will feel better and
quickly return to strength.”  In his remarks to Aipac on May 22, Obama offered assurances
of an “ironclad” U.S. commitment to Israel’s security. He said
that using the 1967 lines as a starting point doesn’t mean that
the borders will be the same as existed before the war.  Basis for Discussions  “This basic framework for negotiations has long been the
basis for discussions among the parties, including previous U.S.
administrations,” Obama said. “It allows the parties
themselves to account for the changes that have taken place over
the last 44 years, including the new demographic realities on
the ground and the needs of both sides.”  Obama’s proposal, initially made in a speech at the State
Department on May 19, marked the first time a U.S. president has
explicitly backed using the 1967 boundaries as the starting
point for talks that would have Israel cede control of some land
to Palestinians in return for peace and security. He also called
for Palestinian territory to be demilitarized. Obama proposed no
specific steps to restart peace talks.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said yesterday in a e-
mailed statement that Obama’s Aipac speech “is a way to put
behind us most of the disagreements that we had, to resolve
those that remain, and to move forward.”  ‘Fair Beginning’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , in his own speech to
Aipac before Netanyahu’s address last night, said “no one
should set premature parameters about borders, about building or
about anything else.”  “A fair beginning to good-faith talks means that Israel
cannot be asked to agree to confines that would compromise its
own security,” said Reid, a Nevada Democrat.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said Israel
should have “no cause to doubt that we will be with them
through thick and thin.”  Netanyahu met with Vice President Joe Biden yesterday
morning, according to a statement from the prime minister’s
office that emphasized “the great closeness” between the
differing positions of the U.S. and Israel.  1967 Lines  Obama said a deal along 1967 lines, which has been the
basis for off-and-on talks for 20 years, needs to include land
exchanges to allow Israel to retain major settlement blocs in
return for granting offsetting land to Palestinians.  The 1967 lines define the boundaries of the  West Bank , the
 Gaza Strip , east  Jerusalem  and the  Golan Heights , which were all
captured in the war that year from Jordan, Egypt and  Syria .  In the 44 years since, Israel has built settlements in all
the territories, whose population has grown to more than 500,000
and obscured many of the boundaries between what was sovereign
Israel before and after the June 1967 war. The Arab population
of the West Bank is about 2.5 million.  Israel removed all its settlements from Gaza in 2005. The
borders there are demarcated by a security fence and the
 Mediterranean Sea .  Republican Attacks  Several Republicans, including some potential presidential
candidates in 2012, seized on the president’s position to
portray Obama as insufficiently dedicated to Israel’s security.  “Insistence on a return to the 1967 border is a mistaken
and very dangerous demand,” said former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty .  “President Obama has thrown Israel under the bus,” former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said in a statement last week.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said
May 22 that “the ‘67 lines are just not tenable.”  “The U.S. ought not be trying to push Israel into a deal
that’s not good for Israel,” McConnell said on the “Fox News
Sunday” program.  Early in the 2008 campaign, polls showed Obama performed
poorly with Jewish voters following controversy about sermons
his former pastor delivered that included what Obama denounced
as “anti-Israel” statements. By election day, Obama recovered,
receiving 78 percent of the Jewish vote -- more than the 74
percent received by the 2004 Democratic presidential candidate,
Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry , according to exit polls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Washington  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  