-- 
NFL Will Fine Teams Whose Players Accumulate Violations of Safety Rules

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-05-24T19:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/nfl-will-fine-teams-whose-players-accumulate-violations-of-safety-rules.html
The  National Football League  will
begin fining teams whose players accumulate too many fines for
safety violations under a policy presented to owners at a
meeting in Indianapolis.  Adolpho Birch, the league’s senior vice president for labor
policy and player development, said the NFL’s goal was to
encourage better coaching and guidance from teams whose players
incurred a large number of violations.  “The basic point of it would be to check the number of
fines and the level of fines that are going out for infractions
that relate specifically to various safety violations,” he said
at a news conference. “As a club’s total gets higher,
to a certain threshold, then we will enforce some sort of
penalty and payback for those clubs to help encourage them to
stay below that threshold.”  Birch said the size of fines and types of infractions
covered are still under discussion, though the fines will be
“significant and reasonable.” He said “three or four” teams
would have been affected last season if the policy had been in
place.  “Under our thought process now, nothing would occur unless
there was a league fine or suspension,” he said. “That’s what
this policy is designed to do, not simply to punish a team for a
penalty on top of the penalty itself.”  Asked if the Pittsburgh Steelers would have been affected
by the policy, Birch declined to discuss specific teams.
Steelers linebacker James Harrison, the Associated Press
defensive player of the year in 2008,  said last season  he was
considering retirement after a $75,000 fine for a hit on
Cleveland Browns receiver Mohamed Massaquoi.  Rookie Symposium  Birch also said the NFL had canceled its annual rookie
symposium, because of the lockout of players. Birch said
the event requires a lot of coordination that wasn’t possible
under the circumstances.  The symposium, scheduled for next month in Canton,  Ohio , is
designed to help rookies transition financially and socially
into their careers in professional football. The NFL locked out
players in March and players sued the league in federal court
for antitrust violations.  “We waited as long as we possibly could,” Birch said.
“It is an unfortunate casualty of where we are right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in Indianapolis at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 