-- 
Nigerian Central Bank Raises Key Rate to 8% to Help Stabilize the Naira

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-05-24T15:56:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/nigerian-central-bank-raises-key-rate-to-8-to-help-stabilize-the-naira.html
Nigeria ’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate for the third time this year and doubled
the reserve requirement as it tries to stabilize the naira and
counter the impact on prices of increased  government spending .  The  monetary policy  rate rose by half a percentage point to
8 percent, Lamido Sanusi, governor of the Central Bank of
Nigeria, said today in Abuja, the capital. The key borrowing and
lending rates climbed by the same amount to 6 percent and 10
percent respectively, while the reserve requirement on banks was
increased to 4 percent from 2 percent, Sanusi said.  The decision “reflects the central bank’s concerns over
the inflation outlook and continued pressure on the exchange
rate,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based analyst at Standard Bank
Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed statement. The increase “should
help curtail liquidity and contain to some extent speculative
pressures on the exchange rate.”  Inflation stood at 11.3 percent in April as the central
bank struggles to bring it below 10 percent. Inflation
expectations remain high, Sanusi said, calling on the government
for tighter fiscal controls on oil revenue in  Africa ’s largest
crude producer.  “Monetary policy will have to bear the burden of
adjustment through further tightening in order to rein in
inflation,” Sanusi said.  Fiscal Spending  Parliament has revised up government spending plans this
year to 4.97 billion naira from the 4.22 billion naira proposed
by the  Finance Ministry . The government has rejected the
increase and negotiations are continuing.  “Although the fiscal authorities have declared their
intention to consolidate, the MPC recognizes that time will be
required for fiscal adjustment to take place,” Sanusi said.  To ease pressure on prices, the central bank is selling
more dollars to keep the naira within a range of 3 percent above
or below 150 per dollar at twice-weekly auctions.  The bank sold all of the foreign currency sought by lenders
for the first time in five auctions on May 16, fending off
pressure that had sent the currency to its lowest  interbank rate 
in 21 months a week earlier. The bank sold $499.8 million at the
auction, the fourth-largest amount in two years.  The central bank has “clearly demonstrated that it is
still keen to preserve  exchange rate  stability to control
inflation, imports and investment,” Gadio said.  The naira weakened to 157 to the dollar on the interbank
market today from 156.63 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 