-- 
Nordic M&A to Accelerate on Financing, Danske’s Boending Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-05-24T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/nordic-m-a-to-accelerate-on-financing-danske-s-boending-says.html
Nordic mergers and acquisitions,
already close to last year’s total after four months, will
continue to accelerate as takeover financing becomes easier,
Danske Bank A/S’s corporate finance chief said.  Industrial companies “have come out of the financial
crisis stream-lined, with strong balance sheets and are looking
at Nordic assets,” Anders Boending said yesterday in an
interview at Danske’s Copenhagen headquarters. “The M&A market
is improving, but we’re not back to the peak level from before
the financial crisis.”  In the first quarter, announced Nordic M&A deals doubled
in value to $25.4 billion from the year-earlier period, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The value of European deals rose 19
percent to $261 billion and U.S. deals increased 18 percent to
$354 billion. Last week, DuPont Co., the third-largest U.S.
chemicals maker, said it will complete a $6.36 billion
acquisition of Danish food-ingredient maker Danisco A/S.  “Lending is easing and that’s benefitting M&A, in
particular for private equity,” Boending said. Danske, which
has 60 people in its corporate finance unit, advised on 11
takeover deals last year ranking it the region’s fifth-busiest
local bank.  The value of announced Nordic merger transactions so far
this year is $61.2 billion compared with $79.1 billion for the
whole of 2010.  Fewer IPOs  Fewer Nordic companies will sell shares this year, Boending
said. The value of Nordic initial public offerings is $2.82
billion so far this year. In 2010 the region was home to 4 of
the 10 biggest share sales in western  Europe , according to
Bloomberg data.  “We’re still talking to clients about IPOs, but the timing
will be unpredictable,” Boending said. “Global incidents are
having a bigger impact on the market than previously.”  ISS Holding A/S, the world’s biggest cleaning service
provider, withdrew a $2.55 billion IPO on March 17, citing a
slump in equity markets caused by political unrest in northern
 Africa  and  Japan ’s nuclear disaster.  ISS is still talking with its banks, which include Danske,
about the timing of a new IPO attempt, Jeff Gravenhorst, chief
executive officer of the Copenhagen-based company, said in a May
12 interview.  Stockholm-based SEB AB advised on the most deals in 2011,
with 32 Nordic transactions. The region had a total of 1,051
deals last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  