-- 
Noreco Climbs Most in a Week in Oslo on Brage, Hyme Fields Sale

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-05-24T15:48:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/noreco-climbs-most-in-a-week-in-oslo-on-brage-hyme-fields-sale.html
Norwegian Energy Co. ASA, an oil and
gas explorer in northern  Europe , gained the most in more than a
week after signing an agreement to sell its stakes in the Brage
and Hyme fields to Core Energy.  Noreco rose 2.1 percent to 12 kroner in Oslo, the steepest
one-day gain since May 13. The stock has dropped 35 percent
since the start of the year, valuing the company at 2.93 billion
kroner ($526 million).  Net proceeds from the sale of the two Norwegian  oil fields 
will be $85 million, the Stavanger-based company said in a
statement today. Noreco may receive additional compensation if a
development plan for other discoveries in the Hyme license is
submitted to the authorities within six years, it said.  “The sale of these assets will improve Noreco’s financial
capacity, and will also lower our investment requirements going
forward,” Chief Executive Officer Einar Gjelsvik said in the
statement. “We see this transaction as an important step toward
a more balanced portfolio and a stronger financial position.”  The Brage oil field is east of the Oseberg deposit in the
northern part of the  North Sea . Noreco owns 12.3 percent of the
Statoil ASA-operated field, and its share of first quarter
production was 2,818 barrels oil equivalent a day. Noreco has a
17.5 percent stake in the Hyme discovery in the  Norwegian Sea ,
for which a plan for development was submitted 12 May. Output is
scheduled to start in the first quarter of 2013.  Noreco announced in September the $43 million sale of
stakes in the Enoch and Oselvar oil and natural-gas fields to
Marubeni Corp., in a deal that was scrapped earlier this year
because the Japanese trading company failed to secure the
required licenses from  Norway .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 