-- 
No-Tax ‘Zealot’ Norquist Emerges as Biggest Barrier to U.S. Deficit Deal

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/norquist-emerges-as-barrier-to-u-s-debt-deal.html
When members of the House Budget
Committee gathered over sandwiches to meet with the leaders of
President Barack Obama’s debt commission in Washington, former
Senator  Alan Simpson  delivered a warning.  “If you are in thrall to Grover Norquist,” the Wyoming
Republican who co-led the debt panel said he told the group in
February, “this country hasn’t got a prayer.”  There may be enough congressional Republicans enthralled
with Norquist, a small-government advocate who has spent the
last quarter-century pressing lawmakers to sign a pledge never
to raise taxes, to kill any comprehensive, bipartisan deal to
rein in the $14.3 trillion national debt, say current and former
members of Congress.  “Until Republicans are more afraid of the deficit than
they are of Grover Norquist, we’re going to have a problem,”
said Representative Christopher Van Hollen of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the Budget Committee.  Norquist, 54, president of Americans for Tax Reform, says
he has secured written pledges from 40 of the 47 Republicans in
the Senate and 233 of 240 party members in the House. More than
1,300 state-level legislators, governors and even auditors have
also signed, Norquist said. That includes Wisconsin Governor
 Scott Walker , Texas Governor Rick Perry and Ohio Governor John Kasich, all Republicans, he said.  Those who sign gain from Norquist’s support. Those who
break the promise risk his wrath.  Under Attack  The pledge is coming under fire as two groups of lawmakers
try to negotiate a package of spending reductions and revenue
increases to curb the  budget deficit . Republicans are demanding
spending cuts as a condition of raising the statutory debt
ceiling the Treasury reached last week. If lawmakers don’t boost
the cap by Aug. 2, the U.S. risks a default, Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  said.  Norquist, whose hard line on taxes belies an inclusive view
of the  Republican Party  that welcomes Muslims, gay people and
those who favor abortion rights, is undeterred by such warnings.  Every Republican involved in the negotiations has signed
his pledge, which includes two promises: to “oppose any and all
efforts to increase the marginal income tax rates for
individuals and/or business” and to “oppose any net reduction
or elimination of deductions and credits, unless matched dollar
for dollar by further reducing tax rates.”  Showing His Clout  In an illustration of Norquist’s clout, he met on May 19
with Idaho Senator Mike Crapo, a Republican member of the so-
called Gang of Six budget negotiators who some Democrats say may
drop out of the talks. Norquist spokesman John Kartch and Crapo
spokesman Amanda Critchfield both declined to say what was
discussed.  Norquist denied that the commitment from lawmakers is
making it harder for them to negotiate.  “ The pledge  makes it difficult or impossible to raise
taxes,” he said. “It doesn’t make it difficult to cut
spending. That’s kind of the point, isn’t it?”  Some Republicans, including Illinois Senator  Mark Kirk ,
Georgia Senator Saxby Chambliss and U.S. Representative Frank Wolf of  Virginia , say any solution to the debt issue will have
to involve a revenue increase, probably the elimination of tax
breaks for certain industries or activities. Under Norquist’s
definition, that would be a violation, and he’s ready to make
them regret it.  “Taxes are when the government takes away what you create
with your own work effort and time,” he said in an interview.
“That reduces your liberty.”  13.2% a Year  A Bloomberg Government study in March showed that, without
tax increases, lawmakers would have to cut spending by $4.9
trillion, or an average 13.2 percent a year, by 2020 to meet the
debt panel’s goal of reducing government debt to 60 percent of
gross domestic product. The reductions would include $225
billion from discretionary spending in the peak cutting years of
2016 and 2017. That’s about the equivalent of zeroing out the
departments of Education, Energy, Housing and Urban Development,
Homeland Security and Justice two years in a row.  If spending were lowered and taxes raised in equal measure,
the cuts would average 6.6 percent a year, the report said.  Norquist has attacked Senator Tom Coburn, a onetime member
of the Gang of Six, because the Oklahoma Republican raised the
possibility of eliminating tax breaks. Norquist said if Coburn
agreed to a tax increase “he was elected on a lie.”  That Norquist is taking on Coburn -- who last year blocked
120 spending measures in the Senate -- has some Republicans
shaking their heads.  ‘Fly on the Wall’  “Tom Coburn is an excellent conservative,” said Simpson,
79. Norquist, he said “is a zealot and a perfectionist, a 100
percenter.”  Coburn dismissed Norquist last week as “a fly on the wall.
All noise and no substance.” Still, he has said he doesn’t plan
to run for re-election in 2016. House members who will have to
vote on any deal will face voters in 2012, and they’ve seen what
Norquist can do.  “I spent $7.5 million in the 2010 election season talking
about who has and hasn’t taken the pledge,” Norquist said.  When Abel Maldonado, a pledge-signing state senator in
 California , voted for a tax increase proposed by former Governor
Arnold Schwarzenegger to help close the state’s budget gap,
Norquist took revenge.  ‘Closed for Business’  He issued a press release saying that because of Maldonado
“California is closed for business.” He followed that up with
a video distributed on YouTube, wrote opinion pieces in
California newspapers and blogs, and just before the primary
election in 2010 when Maldonado was running for lieutenant
governor, Norquist distributed a list of state legislators who
had broken the pledge, including Maldonado, to local papers.  Maldonado, who had been appointed by Schwarzenegger in 2009
as interim lieutenant governor, lost his bid for a full term.
Maldonado didn’t respond to calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  In Virginia, Norquist distributed 90,000 posters with the
pictures of pledge-breakers, and ran similar campaigns in  North
Carolina  and  Oregon .  Norquist has built up a following over the last 25 years
that he says includes about 250,000 people who receive his
group’s mailings and e-mail communications. And he hosts a
weekly meeting that serves as a hub for conservatives to share
information.  Activists ‘Speed-Dating’  On a recent Wednesday morning, he stood by the coffee urn
in the gathering room at his 12th Street offices surrounded by
young men and women from a range of organizations who were eager
to catch his ear. Lobbyists, strategists and representatives
from corporations milled about munching bagels.  Norquist has presided over this “center-right” meeting
since 1993, when he set out to help defeat then-first lady
 Hillary Clinton ’s health-care-overhaul plan.  About 30 people a week get 3 minutes to speak, updating the
group on the progress of their cause. On this Wednesday,
presenters included a Senate hopeful, lobbyists, Hill aides and
some activist groups. The meetings are off the record, though
reporters are occasionally invited to observe.  “It’s speed-dating for political activists,” said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , the president of American Action Forum, a
Washington group that pushes for limited government, and a
former economic adviser to John McCain’s presidential campaign.  Norquist has some rules. There’s no debate and no
“emoting,” he said. “You say what you’re doing, not what
you’re feeling.” These rules have allowed the meeting to thrive
because people who disagree on some issues can come together on
others, he said.  Helping Reagan  Norquist, raised in a wealthy Boston suburb and holder of a
bachelor’s degree in economics and an MBA from  Harvard
University , created Americans for  Tax Reform  in 1985 from the
network of activists working to help President  Ronald Reagan 
pass a tax-overhaul law. The following year he wrote the
Taxpayer Protection Pledge.  He believes in coming together: He sits on the board of the
National Rifle Association and is an adviser to GOProud, an
organization of gay conservatives. He’s married to a Kuwaiti-
born Muslim woman.  Norquist, who peppers his conversation with comic voices,
Chekhov quotes and references to the movie “Grease,” is big on
numbers. He knows what year his meeting reached an average of 80
people and when it grew to 100. He keeps charts on how much
coffee and how many bagels are consumed, and his staff counts
the attendees every 15 minutes so he can graph the flow.  Abramoff Ties  He’s replicated the meeting in 45 states, building himself
a loose national network.  Said Holtz-Eakin: “He finds promising politicians at the
state level and has them sign the pledge, so when they arrive in
 Washington , they’re already committed.”  Norquist -- who opposed the 1992 re-election bid of
Republican President George H.W. Bush for breaking his own
“Read my lips, No new taxes” vow -- probably reached the
pinnacle of his influence when  George W. Bush  was president.
White House visitor logs released in 2006 showed he had visited
74 times over five years.  That was also the period when his less-savory associations,
including ties to lobbyist Jack Abramoff, who pleaded  guilty  in
connection with a corruption scandal in 2006, came to light.  Norquist was accused by the Senate Committee on Indian
Affairs, which was led by McCain, of serving as a conduit for
Abramoff to move money from the Choctaw Indians to other groups,
in an effort to disguise the source of the funds.  Politically Inspired  Norquist said the accusations were drummed up by political
opponents. He said he was never accused of breaking a law and
that the  Internal Revenue Service  never investigated his group.  “Jack was an old friend who unfortunately got involved in
some bad things,” Norquist said. “Fortunately, he did me the
favor of never inviting me into any of that.”  With Obama in the White House, Norquist remains a player on
 Capitol Hill . He, along with representatives of the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce and other business groups, meets a few times a month
with the Senate’s Republican Policy Committee. Senator John Thune of South Dakota, who heads the committee, goes to the
groups’ offices or sends his staff there to learn about issues
and get their input, Thune said in an interview.  Robert Bennett, a former Utah senator who lost his bid for
renomination for a fourth term last year at the state Republican
convention, said he would sometimes run policy positions by
Norquist before going public. An adviser to another Republican
senator, who asked not to be named, said that practice wasn’t
uncommon.  ‘Pain in the Back’  Senator Orrin Hatch, another Utah Republican, said he
agrees with Norquist that the problem in Washington is too much
spending, rather than not enough taxation.  “He holds people’s feet to the ground,” Hatch said. “I
love the guy because he works at it, and he is very dedicated
about trying to get spending under control.”  Tom Ingram, who ran the successful campaigns of Tennessee
Senators Lamar Alexander and Robert Corker, said he advises his
clients to avoid Norquist’s pledge. They usually don’t listen.  “Grover is kind of like a pain in the back,” Ingram said.
“You’re very aware of him, but you kind of wish he’d go away.”  Norquist won’t say where ATR gets its money, other than
that about half comes from wealthy people and corporations and
half from small, individual donations.  Its  goal  is to cut the size of government -- including
federal, state and local -- in half over the coming decades.
Federal spending now stands at almost 25 percent of GDP.  Elegance in Simplicity  Budget expert Maya MacGuineas said Norquist’s pledge only
deals with one side of the equation.  “It’s just so elegant in its simplicity,” said
MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal
Budget at the  New America Foundation , a nonpartisan research
group in Washington. “It’s like saying no paying your credit
card bill.”  Still, MacGuineas said, history may be on Norquist’s side
in the current budget debate, at least in part.  “The problem is now, legitimately, a spending problem,”
she said.  While most budget experts and economists agree that to
reduce the deficit for the long term will require both spending
cuts and higher taxes, Norquist doesn’t see it that way.  “If it’s not mentioned in the Constitution, that is a
strong argument that American taxpayers should not be paying for
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  