-- 
Novartis’s Alcon Unit Wins Patent Fight Over Generic Patanol

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-05-24T16:21:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/novartis-s-alcon-unit-wins-patent-fight-over-generic-patanol-1-.html
Novartis AG (NVS) ’s Alcon unit won a court
ruling that will prevent Apotex Inc. from selling a generic
version of the eye drug Patanol until a patent expires in 2015.  U.S. District Judge Richard Young in Indianapolis said that
a copy proposed by Apotex would infringe a patent owned by Alcon
and partner Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., and rejected claims that the
patent was invalid or unenforceable.  Patanol, whose active ingredient is olopatadine
hydrochloride, is the top-selling medicine to treat allergic
conjunctivitis, the most common type of allergic disease in the
eye. Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis acquired the drug with
its purchase last month of Alcon.  The court decision “is an important milestone to defend
Alcon’s intellectual property rights,” Stuart Raetzman, vice
president for global marketing at Alcon, said in a statement.  The patent covers the first compound to stabilize human
mast cells and prevent them from triggering the allergic
reactions, such as redness, itching and runny eyes, according to
the court opinion. Mast cells exist throughout the body and are
the primary cells involved in allergic reactions, Young said in
his opinion.  “Alcon invested many years and millions of dollars in the
discovery and development of an ocular allergy product that
would stabilize mast cells in the eye and provide long-term
relief of the signs and symptoms of ocular allergies,” Raetzman
said.  Closely held Apotex, based in Toronto, claimed that the
patent was an obvious variation of earlier inventions in the
field and that Alcon and Kyowa failed to adequately describe
what they claim to have invented.  The case is Alcon Manufacturing Ltd. v. Apotex Inc.,
06cv1642, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
 Indiana  (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  