-- 
Noyer Rules Out Greek Debt Restructuring, Says Austerity Is Only Solution

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-24T13:48:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/noyer-rules-out-greek-debt-restructuring-says-austerity-is-only-solution.html
European Central Bank  Governing
Council member  Christian Noyer  ruled out a restructuring of
 Greece ’s debt, calling it a “horror story” that would leave
the nation shut out of financing for years.  “There’s no solution possible” for Greece other than its
austerity program, Noyer, Bank of France governor, told
reporters in Paris today. “Restructuring is not a solution,
it’s a horror story.” If the country fails to meet the terms of
its bailout, Greek government debt will be “ineligible as
collateral” at the ECB, he said.  ECB leaders and European Union policy makers are clashing
over how to prevent the currency region’s first default, after
256 billion euros ($360 billion) in bailouts to Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal  failed to stop contagion from the debt crisis. A
year after its 110 billion-euro rescue, Greece remains shut out
of financial markets and the cost of insuring its debt against
default is at a record high.  “The lengthening of maturities raises very difficult
questions,” Noyer said. “There’s a strong chance it will be
the equivalent of a default.”  Credit-default swaps on Greek debt increased 96 basis
points to 1,496 today, after Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
government backed a new package of spending cuts and state-asset
sales yesterday. The yield on the country’s 10-year bond was
down 18 basis points at 16.85 percent.  ECB Position  Bank of France Governor Noyer’s remarks put him in line
with ECB Executive Council members  Juergen Stark  and Lorenzo Bini Smaghi as well as Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann. All
of them have said the Frankfurt-based ECB may stop accepting
Greek sovereign debt as collateral if euro-area governments
proceed with a plan to extend Greece’s debt repayment schedule.  The ECB last year suspended the minimum credit-rating
threshold for Greek bonds after the country’s banks were shut
out of credit markets for funding. Banks can borrow as much
money as they need for up to three months against collateral.  The ECB “accepted temporarily to reduce our minimum level
of collateral to BBB,” Noyer said. “If the program is no
longer respected, if a country is found off track, immediately
our assumption of BBB disappears. If it goes out of the EU
program, the collateral is ineligible.”  Rescheduling  European Union finance ministers on May 16 floated the idea
of talks with bondholders over extending Greece’s debt-repayment
schedule, saying the bailout has failed to restore the country’s
financial health. On May 20,  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece’s credit
rating to B+ from BB+, saying that extending its debt maturities
would “trigger a credit event and default rating.”  To avert that possibility, Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s Cabinet agreed to sell stakes in Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA by the end of next month, as
well as Public Power Corp SA, Hellenic Postbank SA, and the
country’s ports. The state’s stakes in those three companies
currently have a market value of 2.1 billion euros.  The government, which also endorsed 6 billion euros in
budget cuts, said it would create a fund comprising assets to
accelerate the sales, intended to raise 50 billion euros by
2015. The bulk of that will come from selling 35 billion euros
of real estate.  Linking Aid  EU policy makers have linked the possibility of further aid
to Greece to faster asset sales and additional budget cuts. The
Greek Cabinet’s decision may allow EU and International Monetary
Fund inspectors, due in  Athens  this week, to sign off on the
bailout’s next installment of 12 billion euros. Greece may have
to stop paying its creditors if it does not receive the payment,
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  has said.  Greece now needs to implement the asset sales, reduce
monopolies and improve tax collection, Bini Smaghi said in an
interview with Austrian ORF radio broadcast today. “People may
not like to pay taxes, but that’s the way it is in the European
Union,” he said.  Credit-default swaps signal that Greece has about an 80
percent chance of default,  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at
IHS Inc., said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack” with  Deirdre Bolton . “The markets are getting
impatient, they don’t see a real sort of light at the end of the
tunnel,” and will impose a negotiated solution to the Greek
crisis “in the next three, four, five months.”  Moody’s Concern  Moody’s Investors Service said today that debt-repayment
extensions -- what European officials term “soft
restructuring” -- would constitute a default and shut Greece
out of capital markets for a “sustained period.”  In the case of a default, “the Greek banking sector would
require recapitalizing to offset banks’ losses on Greek
 government bonds , and continued liquidity support from the
European Central Bank, at least for as long as the sovereign’s
own access to the capital markets remained impaired,” according
to the Moody’s note.  Any restructuring of Greece’s debt would cost European
taxpayers more as Greek banks would become insolvent, requiring
government support that would eventually have to come from other
countries, Noyer said. Among other losers in a restructuring
would be Greek pension funds, the ECB and European governments
who have already lent to Greece, he said.  “No one would be able to finance the Greek state for
coming years,” Noyer said. “This is the horror scenario.”  The ECB is also concerned that allowing Greece to renege on
some of its obligations would create similar expectations for
other indebted euro-area nations such as Portugal and Ireland,
which followed Greece in accepting bailouts. The ECB has bought
76 billion euros of bonds of fiscally stressed countries in the
past year and may suffer along with private investors in any
restructuring.  Contagion Risk  A Greek restructuring wouldn’t improve the sustainability
of the country’s debt and “the risks for contagion to other
countries would significantly rise,” Weidmann said on May 20.
That day,  Standard & Poor’s  warned it may cut Italy’s  credit
rating , while  Belgium  had the outlook on its investment-grade
credit rating lowered to negative by Fitch yesterday.  ECB policy makers have called on governments to toughen
austerity measures and step up efforts to restore investor
confidence in the 17-member currency union. Greece’s additional
budget cuts are worth about 2.8 percent of gross domestic
product and aimed at reaching a 7.5 percent deficit target for
2011, Papaconstantinou said yesterday.  The ECB has provided banks with unlimited liquidity over
three months. Greek banks’ reliance on ECB liquidity amounted to
87.9 billion euros in March, the Greek central bank said May 11.  Any restructuring would undermine the collateral Greek
banks use to gain ECB loans, Stark said on May 20. Bini Smaghi
that day said restructuring would “jeopardize all of  Europe .”  For Greece ‘to reduce the stock of debt, the only solution
is ambitious privatization,” Noyer said. “It is necessary to
have the equivalent of an internal devaluation. Cut production
costs. There is no other solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 