-- 
NYSE Euronext May Pay Special Dividend to Win Merger Support, Repetto Says

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-24T17:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/nyse-euronext-may-pay-special-dividend-to-win-merger-support-repetto-says.html
NYSE Euronext, the U.S. exchange
operator planning to merge with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , may offer a
one-time dividend as a sweetener to help win shareholder
approval, said Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP’s  Richard Repetto .  “Management did not make any definitive statements
regarding future capital-management plans, but provided a number
of data points that indicated it remains a real alternative,”
Repetto, an analyst in New York, wrote today in a note about his
meeting with Chief Operating Officer Larry Leibowitz and Chief
Financial Officer Michael Geltzeiler. “The potential remains
for NYSE and  Deutsche Boerse  to optimize their capital position
and pay a one-time dividend to shareholders at the closing of
the deal.”  The owner of the New York Stock Exchange agreed in February
to merge with Frankfurt’s Deutsche Boerse in an all-stock
transaction that aims to create the world’s largest exchange
operator.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  stock fell the most in two years on May
16, the day  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. (ICE)  withdrew an unsolicited rival joint bid to buy NYSE
Euronext for $11.3 billion and split the company between them.  While New York-based NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse have
boosted their initial estimates for cost and revenue synergies,
a special dividend may help secure shareholder votes for the
deal because investors like the idea of a cash component,
according to Repetto. The transaction requires approval from 50
percent of NYSE Euronext owners and 75 percent of Deutsche
Boerse holders.  No Buybacks  A special dividend is likely because neither company can
buy back its shares before the merger is complete and there are
limits on other dividend payments, wrote Repetto, who recommends
buying NYSE Euronext shares. The one-time payment would likely
be set up to benefit each companies’ owners equally, he added.
Both NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse now pay their holders
quarterly dividends.  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse said in the February
announcement that they expect the deal to close by the end of
the year, though it still requires regulatory approval.  Shares of NYSE Euronext rose 0.2 percent to $35.30 at 10:25
a.m.  New York  time. That compares with the value of the Deutsche
Boerse deal, at $36.28 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ; 