-- 
OAS to Vote to Restore Honduras as Zelaya Plans Return Home

-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 
2011-05-25T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/oas-to-vote-to-restore-honduras-as-zelaya-plans-return-home.html
The  Organization of American States 
may vote to restore  Honduras  next month as a member of the
regional group after the Central American nation agreed to
ensure the safe return of former President Manuel Zelaya.  The vote to restore Honduras, which was expelled by the OAS
following the military ouster of Zelaya in June 2009, will take
place June 1, according to a resolution passed yesterday at an
OAS meeting in  Washington . Only Ecuador voiced opposition to
Honduras’ return to the 35-member state group.  The country’s possible reinstatement comes after Honduran
President Porfirio Lobo signed an accord May 22 with Zelaya,
allowing him to return from exile and help reform the country’s
laws. The agreement, brokered with the help of Colombian
President  Juan Manuel Santos  and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, also guarantees that Zelaya supporters can return safely
to Honduras and form a party to participate in elections.  “Zelaya’s return will probably ratchet up tensions in the
country, which has been beset by workers’ protests and rising
crime and violence in recent months,” Heather Berkman, a
political risk analyst at the Eurasia Group in  New York , said by
e-mail. Still, she added, “Zelaya’s political ambitions will
probably not hamper the efforts of the Lobo administration to
get the country’s economy back on track.”  Honduran soldiers sent Zelaya on a plane to  Costa Rica  in
June 2009 after the country’s Supreme Court ruled that his push
to rewrite the constitution was illegal. A court dropped the
last remaining charges against the former president on May 2.  Zelaya, who spent almost five months in the Brazilian
Embassy in Tegucigalpa after sneaking back into Honduras last
year, has since remained in exile in the  Dominican Republic .
Zelaya has said he plans to return home before the end of May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 goodman@bloomberg.net  