-- 
Obama to Survey Missouri Tornado Damage, Pledges Aid

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-24T10:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/obama-to-survey-missouri-tornado-damage-pledges-aid-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said he was
“heartbroken” by images of destruction in Joplin, Missouri,
after one of the deadliest tornadoes on record and said he plans
to go there May 29 to inspect the damage and offer condolences.  Obama told reporters in  London  that he wants people in
areas hit by the storm, which killed at least 116 people, to
know that “all of America cares deeply about them and that we
are going to do absolutely everything we can to make sure that
they recover.”  A three-quarter-mile wide tornado tore through Joplin at
about 6 p.m., destroying and damaging buildings including St.
John’s Regional Medical Center, state and local officials said.
Winds may have reached 198 miles (319 kilometers) per hour, said
Jack Hayes, director of the  National Weather Service .  Obama said he told Missouri Governor Jay Nixon yesterday
that “we will give him every ounce of resources that the
federal government may have to bring to bear.” Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano also called Nixon.  Federal Emergency Management Administrator Craig Fugate is
in Missouri today to make sure the state is getting full federal
support. Obama spoke with Fugate this morning, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said.  “It’s going to be important for us to make sure that we
are sustaining our efforts at rebuilding after the news cameras
leave,” Obama said at Winfield House, home of the U.S.
ambassador to the U.K., during a stop on his four-country tour
of  Europe .  Like  Alabama   Obama said devastation could be equivalent to what he saw
during an April 29 visit to Tuscaloosa, Alabama, where a tornado
killed more than 200 people.  Joplin Mayor Mike Woolston declared a local disaster,
according to the city’s website, while Nixon declared a state of
emergency and sent National Guard troops.  Seven people were rescued in Joplin yesterday, according to
Nixon. There were also reports of scattered looting in the city
of 50,000 about 290 miles southwest of  St. Louis .  At least 481 people have died in tornadoes so far this
year, the earliest that such a toll has been reached, Schneider
said.  The president left Dublin for the U.K. yesterday, a day
earlier than scheduled to stay ahead of a volcanic ash cloud
spewing from Iceland. He will attend a state dinner with Queen Elizabeth II tonight, followed by meetings Prime Minister  David Cameron  and a summit of leaders from the Group of Eight nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in London at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in London at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  