-- 
Obamas Arrive at Buckingham Palace to Open State Visit to U.K.

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-24T14:50:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/obamas-arrive-at-buckingham-palace-to-open-state-visit-to-u-k-.html
     May 24 (Bloomberg) --President  Barack Obama  and first lady
Michelle Obama began their state visit to the U.K. with a
welcome to Buckingham Palace from  Queen Elizabeth II  and Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, followed by a tour and a private
lunch.  Under sunny skies, Obama, 49, led by Prince Philip, 89,
watched as troops of the guard of honor 1st Battalion Scots
Guards delivered a royal salute. Members of the Guard band,
dressed in cardinal red uniforms, played the U.S. national
anthem in the palace’s gardens. A 41-gun salute sounded from
Green Park, where the cannons fired while the queen, 85, and the
first lady looked atop the steps of the palace’s west terrace.
Across town, at the tower of  London , there was a 61-gun salute.  The state visit is a chance to feature and strengthen the
historically close ties between the two countries, said Heather Conley, director of Europe Program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in  Washington .  “The focus for the visit of the U.K. is really to put the
‘special’ back into the U.S.-U.K. special relationship,” she
said a briefing last week.  Tomorrow the president will address both houses of
Parliament, an “anchor speech of this trip to Europe,” said
 Ben Rhodes , the U.S. deputy national security adviser for
strategic communications. Rhodes told reporters in a briefing
last week that in light of the tumult in the Middle East and
North Africa, “it’s imperative” that the U.S. and  Europe  work
at “retaining and strengthening our cooperation around the
world.”  Cameron Meeting  Obama will meet briefly today with Prime Minister  David Cameron  and the two will have a more extensive meeting, followed
by a news conference, tomorrow.  Buckingham Palace , home to British sovereigns since Queen Victoria took up residence there in 1837, has 775 rooms
including 19 state rooms and 52 guest rooms which cover 77,000
sq meters.  The queen showed the president and first lady the suite
where they will be staying during the next two nights, which was
last occupied by Price William and Catherine, the duke and
duchess of Cambridge, on their wedding night, according to a
palace spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The
Obamas also met the couple, who recently returned from their
honeymoon.  Earlier, at Winfield house, the U.S ambassador’s official
residence where they spent last night, Obama met Prince Charles
of  Wales  and his wife, Camilla.  Gifts Exchanged  In an exchange of gifts, the queen presented Obama a
selection of letters from the royal archives to and from Queen
Victoria from U.S. presidents starting with John Quincy Adams up
to William McKinley.  Michelle Obama  was given an antique brooch
in the form of roses made from gold and red coral.  The president and first lady gave the queen a handmade
leather-bound volume containing memorabilia and photographs of
the visit to the U.S. by her parents, King George VI and  Queen
Elizabeth , in 1939. It was the first such visit by a reigning
British monarch to the U.S. Prince Philip received a custom-made
set of horse bits and shanks engraved with the presidential
seal.  After lunch, the president and first lady viewed exhibits
from the royal collection at the Portrait Gallery and toured
Westminster Abbey. Obama will also meet with Cameron at 10
Downing Street and with opposition Labour Party leader,  Ed Miliband .  The president left Dublin for the U.K. yesterday, a day
earlier than scheduled to stay ahead of a volcanic ash cloud
spewing from Iceland. Tonight will be capped off with a state
dinner hosted by Queen Elizabeth II at  Buckingham palace .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in London at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in London at 
 kandersen7@bloomerg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  