-- 
Obama and Cameron Pledge U.S.-U.K. Teamwork on Economy, Security Matters

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-24T11:42:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/obama-and-cameron-pledge-u-s-u-k-economic-security-teamwork.html
President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  pledged to work together on economic and
security matters in a joint article timed to coincide with
Obama’s state visit to Britain.  “One area where we need to cooperate is on rebuilding our
economies,” Obama and Cameron wrote in the London-based Times.  “What’s at stake now is whether new jobs and businesses
take root in our countries or somewhere else.”  Obama yesterday began a six-day European trip that includes
an address tomorrow to Britain’s Parliament. He arrived in
London after a visit to Ireland that included a speech pledging
U.S. support in overcoming an economic slowdown and  Europe ’s
government-debt crisis. The U.S. president was greeted at
 Buckingham Palace  this morning by  Queen Elizabeth II  and Prince Philip, who will be the hosts for a state dinner tonight.  In the article, Cameron and Obama hinted at separate
approaches to deficits and spending while pledging to cooperate
to create jobs.  “We are two different countries but our destination must
be the same: strong and stable growth, reduced deficits and
reform of our financial systems,” they wrote.  Obama has proposed reducing cumulative deficits by $4
trillion over 12 years, a plan his Republican critics say does
not cut enough. The plan includes spending cuts on defense and
domestic programs and calls for raising taxes on the wealthy.
Negotiations with congressional leaders have failed to produce a
deal to lower long-term budget shortfalls.  Spending Cuts  Cameron’s administration has embarked on the deepest public
spending reductions since World War II. The U.K. government
plans to reduce the fiscal deficit to 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product by 2015 from 9.6 percent, or 141.1 billion
pounds ($227.1 billion), in the year through March 2011.  In conjunction with Obama’s visit, the two leaders will
announce the creation of a joint U.S.-British  security council ,
according to an administration official.  Obama and Cameron praised the push for political reforms in
the Middle East and North Africa, saying supporting democratic
aspirations was necessary to combat the religious extremism of
groups like al-Qaeda. U.S. special forces killed the group’s
leader,  Osama bin Laden , in a raid in Pakistan three weeks ago.
They also pledged continued support for the rebel uprising
against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Critical Missions  “Our efforts against al-Qaeda -- and our mission in  Libya 
-- are critical to the type of world that we want to build,”
Obama and Cameron wrote. “Bin Laden’s ideology is one that has
failed to take hold. Gaddafi’s reign represents the region’s
past.”  The White House will rely on the Joint Strategy Board to
help coordinate long-term cooperation on security issues and
greater sharing of intelligence, said the official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss an initiative before it was
announced.  The president arrived in  London  last night after leaving
Ireland early to avoid a volcanic ash cloud from Iceland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in London at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  