-- 
Obama, Cameron Seek Ways to Keep Up Pressure on Qaddafi

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-24T19:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/obama-cameron-seek-ways-to-keep-up-pressure-on-qaddafi-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime
Minister David Cameron will discuss ways to sustain pressure on
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  when they meet tomorrow in London
before Obama’s address to Parliament.  The NATO campaign against Qaddafi and measures to support
the opposition in Libya will be “one of the lead agenda items”
for the meeting at 10 Downing Street, the prime minister’s
office,  Ben Rhodes , the U.S. deputy national security adviser
for strategic communications, said today.  “It’s essential that the U.S. and  Europe  continue to serve
as that catalyst for global action” in Libya and countries in
the Middle East and North Africa that are in a state of
upheaval, Rhodes said.  Obama is on a two-day state visit in the U.K. before
heading to Deauville,  France , for a summit of leaders from the
Group of Eight nations. The turmoil that toppled longtime rulers
in Tunisia and Egypt and sparked civil conflict in countries
including Yemen, Syria and Bahrain also will top Obama’s agenda
at the G-8.  Tomorrow, in addition to meeting with Cameron, Obama also
will address members of Parliament. He will be the first U.S.
president to do so in Westminster Hall. The speech will
highlight the U.S.-U.K. relationship, “which is both essential
for our countries and for the world,” Rhodes said.  NATO Campaign  The U.S., along with U.K. and France, is leading efforts
within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to push Qaddafi
from power. NATO has intensified attacks on forces loyal to the
Libyan leader, hitting targets in the capital, Tripoli.  “There’s a steady erosion of Qaddafi’s ability to endanger
his own citizens that we believe demonstrates that time is going
to work against him,” Rhodes said.  He said Cameron and Obama will discuss ways to support the
opposition, including the transition once Qaddafi is removed
from power.  The conflict between Qaddafi’s troops and rebels trying to
end his four-decade rule has left most of the east in opposition
hands and curbed oil exports from  Libya , holder of Africa’s
largest oil reserves. The  International Energy Agency  said May
12 that supplies from the North African nation “will remain
absent from the market for the rest of 2011.”  Among the other topics for the two leaders are the
transition and eventual withdrawal of U.S. and allied combat
forces in Afghanistan and efforts to curb Iran’s pursuit of
nuclear weapons capability.  The two leaders also will announce the creation of a joint
U.S.-British security council focused on coordinating long-term
strategy and increased sharing of intelligence, according to the
administration.  The U.S. president will be the guest of honor at a formal
state dinner tonight at  Buckingham Palace . Earlier in the day,
he and first lady  Michelle Obama  were welcomed to the palace by
 Queen Elizabeth II  and Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  London  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in London at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  