-- 
Obama’s Agenda For European Trip Progresses From Ceremony to Statecraft

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-25T09:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/obama-s-european-agenda-progresses-from-ceremony-to-statecraft.html
     May 25 (Bloomberg) --President  Barack Obama  moves from
ceremony to statecraft in London today as he meets with Prime
Minister  David Cameron  on issues including Libya and the economy
and delivers an address to Parliament in Westminster Hall.  Obama arrived at Cameron’s Downing Street office in his
motorcade this morning. The two men shook hands on the steps
before going inside for talks that will be followed by a news
conference. The president was the guest of honor last night at a
state dinner given by  Queen Elizabeth II  at Buckingham Palace at
which he offered a toast that set out the theme for his two-day
U.K. visit.  “Our relationship rests on common language, common
history, common adherence to the rule of law, the rights of men
and women -- the very ideals born in this nation,” Obama said
in his dinner toast. “And yet, our relationship never rests.”  The president’s remarks to both chambers of Parliament
today will serve as the cornerstone of his European trip, which
included a stop in Ireland. He will travel tomorrow to
Deauville,  France , for a meeting of leaders from the Group of
Eight nations and then make a visit to  Poland .  The speech marks the first time a U.S. president has
addressed both the House of Commons and the House of Lords in
Westminster Hall, which was built between 1097 and 1099. The
building has served as a marketplace and court of law. Plaques
in the floor mark the spots where King Charles I and William
Wallace, a leader of the Wars of Scottish Independence, were
tried for treason.  Pope, Mandela  “Apart from the queen, previous speakers in the hall
include the pope,  Nelson Mandela  and  Charles de Gaulle ,” said
 Philip Cowley , professor of politics at Nottingham University.
“It’s not an honor given lightly.”  The president will reaffirm the shared interests of both
countries, including cooperation on the economy and security,
and confront changes in the world from the turmoil in the Middle
East and North Africa to the growing power of other nations,  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national security adviser for strategic
communications, said at a briefing in  London  yesterday.  The president used last night’s dinner to thank the people
of the U.K. for the “solidarity” they have shown with the
U.S., especially in the decade since the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.  “From that day to this, you have been our closest partner
in our struggle to protect our people from terrorism attacks and
violent extremism, despite very heavy sacrifices here,” he
said.  ‘Catalyst for Action’  Rhodes said Libya will be “one of the lead agenda items”
in the meeting between Obama and Cameron. They planned to
discuss ways to intensify the pressure on Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  to step down and how to give greater support to rebels.  “It’s essential that the U.S. and  Europe  continue to serve
as that catalyst for global action” in  Libya  and countries in
the Middle East and North Africa that are in a state of
upheaval, Rhodes said.  The U.S., along with the U.K. and France, is leading
efforts within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to push
Qaddafi from power. NATO has stepped up attacks on forces loyal
to the Libyan leader, hitting targets in the capital Tripoli.  Among other topics for the two leaders are the transition
and eventual withdrawal of U.S. and allied combat forces in
 Afghanistan  and efforts to curb  Iran ’s pursuit of nuclear
weapons capability.  Budget Deficits  The economy also will be on the agenda. The U.K. is
embarking upon the deepest public-spending reductions since
World War II to narrow its budget shortfall. In the U.S., Obama
has proposed reducing cumulative deficits by $4 trillion over 12
years, a plan his Republican critics say doesn’t cut enough from
federal spending.  “What we’re focused on is staking out the goals that we’re
both trying to achieve, which is a global economy that is able
to have balanced and sustainable growth,” Rhodes said.  In a joint article in the  Times newspaper  in London
yesterday, Obama and Cameron said they are committed to working
together “on rebuilding our economies.” They hinted at
different approaches to dealing with deficits.  “We are two different countries, but our destination must
be the same: strong and stable growth, reduced deficits and
reform of our financial systems,” they wrote.  International Bailouts  Two euro-area nations -- Ireland, the first stop on the
president’s six-day trip, and  Greece  -- received international
bailouts last year to end speculation that the cost of propping
up their banks would overwhelm the nation’s finances.  Obama’s state visit began yesterday morning when the queen,
85, and her husband Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, 89,
greeted the Obamas at a ceremony at  Buckingham Palace  complete
with a 41-gun salute. The first lady and the president spent
most of the day making ceremonial stops including laying a
wreath in Westminster Abbey, at a grave for the unknown warrior,
who perished in World War I.  Yesterday’s events, as the queen said in her toast at last
night’s state dinner, were meant to “celebrate the tried,
tested, and yes, special relationship between our two
countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in London at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in London at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  