-- 
Oil Rises After Biggest Loss in Week; Goldman Sachs Boosts Price Forecast

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-24T12:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/oil-rises-after-biggest-loss-in-week-goldman-sachs-boosts-price-forecast.html
Oil rose in  New York  after its
biggest loss in more than a week, on signs of shrinking crude
inventories and as a drop in the dollar heightened the oil’s
appeal for protecting against inflation.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley increased their
oil-price forecasts as conflict in  Libya  prolonged the loss of
supplies. An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S.
crude inventories fell last week. Gasoline demand typically
jumps from the Memorial Day holiday as motorists take to the
roads for summer vacations. Oil also gained as the dollar
weakened versus the euro after data showed  Germany ’s economy
grew at the fastest pace in almost a year.  “Oil fundamentals remain extremely constructive,” Amrita Sen, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London, said in Bloomberg
television interview with Francine Lacqua. “Libyan supply is
not going to come back to the market anytime soon. We should get
a good Memorial Day driving season in the U.S.”  Crude for July delivery rose as much as $1.47, or 1.5
percent, to $99.17 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , and was at $99.01 at 1:30 p.m. London
time. It tumbled $2.40 yesterday, the biggest drop since May 11.
Prices are up 41 percent from a year earlier.  Brent crude for July settlement gained $1.55, or 1.4
percent, to $111.30 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Prices are up 57 percent the past year.  ‘Matter of Time’  “It is only a matter of time until inventories and OPEC
spare capacity will become effectively exhausted, requiring
higher  oil prices  to restrain demand, keeping it in line with
available supplies,” Goldman Sachs analysts led by New York-
based David Greely said in a note e-mailed today.  Crude exports from Libya, holder of  Africa ’s biggest
reserves, slumped 79 percent in March from February, as
political unrest curbed shipments, official data posted on the
Joint Organization Data Initiative website showed May 18.  Morgan Stanley increased its average forecast for Brent
this year by 20 percent to $120 a barrel and by 24 percent for
2012 to $130 a barrel. Goldman Sachs raised its 12-month price
estimate for the European benchmark to $130 a barrel and
recommended investors buy Brent for settlement in December 2012.  Petromatrix GmbH, a consultant based in Zug,  Switzerland ,
said that prices cannot sustain levels of $130 a barrel because
the burden of higher fuel costs would reduce demand, according
to consultants.  “What we know from 2008 and early 2011 is that, at $130,
there is demand destruction,”  Olivier Jakob , Petromatrix’s Zug-
based managing director, said in a report. “The sustainability
of those price levels is difficult due to demand destruction.”  Brent traded at a premium of $12.69 a barrel to U.S.
futures, compared with $12.40 yesterday. The difference between
front-month contracts in  London  and New York surged to a record
$19.54 on Feb. 21. It averaged 76 cents last year.  OPEC Help  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries meets in
Vienna on June 8. The  International Energy Agency ’s statement
last week on a “clear, urgent need for additional supplies”
suggests it may coordinate the release of emergency oil
stockpiles if OPEC doesn’t raise production, the London-based
Centre for Global Energy Studies said in a report yesterday.  “OPEC has probably got room to increase production, so if
the market is tight in any way they can come in and help,” said
David Lennox, a resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, who
predicted oil will average $115 this year.  Brent crude  has climbed 18 percent this year as unrest in
the Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to Libya, Iran and Syria.  Oil Inventories  U.S. crude stockpiles dropped 1.9 million barrels last week
from 370.3 million, according to the median of 11 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies probably
gained 500,000 barrels, the survey showed. The industry-funded
 American Petroleum Institute  will report its own data today.  The euro climbed 0.2 percent to $1.4081 as of 1:32 p.m.
London time, after earlier weakening to $1.4002. German gross
domestic product increased 1.5 percent when adjusted for
seasonal swings, in line with a May 13 estimate.  At least one person was killed and 25 hurt in a fire and
explosion at a refinery in Abadan,  Iran , during a visit by
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, state news agencies reported.  The fire occurred in one wing of the facility and was
extinguished immediately, the state-owned Fars agency said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  