-- 
Lonmin Starts Dismissing as Many as 9,000 Striking Workers in South Africa

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-05-24T14:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/lonmin-starts-process-to-fire-striking-employees-at-karee-in-south-africa.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-largest
platinum producer, said it started the process of firing as many
as 9,000 workers who took part in a strike at its Karee
operation in  South Africa .  Some of the 9,000 employees “did try to get into work, but
it’s a small number,” said Tanya Chikanza, head of  investor
relations , by phone from Johannesburg today. New workers will be
hired once the dismissal process is complete, she said.  Karee, part of Lonmin’s  Marikana operation , produces about
17,000 metric tons of ore per day, contributing 30 percent of
the company’s underground output. Chikanza declined to say what
the likely impact will be on output, which has been halted since
the night shift of May 17, when the strike started.  The action is due to a dispute between the Rustenburg
office of the  National Union of Mineworkers  and the leadership
of its local Karee branch, and not because of a grievance with
the company, union spokesman Lesiba Seshoka said.  “We’re not entertaining the issue of people losing jobs,”
he said by mobile phone today. “We believe that a solution can
still be found with Lonmin.”  While about 5,000 of the striking employees want to return
to work, they’re being intimidated by colleagues who want to
continue the industrial action, he said. “We need to come back
to the table and ensure that these workers, all of them, are
able to be taken back and we will then find a way to recover
lost time,” Seshoka said.  The union plans to organize a meeting with Lonmin toward
the end of the week to find a solution, he said.  Shares in Lonmin were up 1.2 percent at 1,499 pence as of
2:59 p.m. in  London , giving the company a value of 3.04 billion
pounds ($4.9 billion).  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and Impala Platinum Ltd. are
the largest producers of the metal, used in jewelry and in
devices to reduce vehicle emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen at  at
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  