-- 
Greek Restructuring Would Leave Banks Tied to ECB, Moody’s Says

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-24T08:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/moody-s-says-a-greek-default-likely-to-have-adverse-implications.html
A Greek debt restructuring would
leave its lenders dependent on the  European Central Bank  for the
foreseeable future, according to Moody’s Investors Service,
underscoring the central bank’s opposition to such a move.  Repayment extensions or voluntary swaps -- what European
officials term “soft restructuring” -- would constitute a
default and foreclose Greece’s access to capital markets for a
“sustained period,” Moody’s said in a note today.  “The Greek banking sector would require recapitalizing to
offset banks’ losses on Greek  government bonds , and continued
liquidity support from the European Central Bank, at least for
as long as the sovereign’s own access to the capital markets
remained impaired,” according to the note, which sought to
assess the impact of a default rather than its likelihood.  Fitch Ratings  cut  Greece ’s credit rating three levels to B+
last week and said the country could face a further reduction in
its creditworthiness. After a year of austerity that included
cuts to wages and pensions and higher taxes, Greece’s debt will
still reach almost 158 percent of gross domestic product, more
than twice the European Union limit and the biggest in the
euro’s history, according to European Commission estimates.  European finance ministers on May 17 for the first time
floated the idea of talks with bondholders over extending
Greece’s debt-repayment schedule, saying that last year’s rescue
failed to restore the country to financial health. The cost to
insure Greek debt against default rose to a record yesterday and
the yield on its 10-year bonds increased to a euro-era high.  ‘Horror Story’  ECB Governing Council member  Christian Noyer  ruled out a
restructuring of Greece’s debt today, calling it a “horror
story” that the central bank cannot accept. ECB Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  said this month a debt restructuring should be
a “last resort” as it would trigger “enormous consequences.”  “There’s no solution possible” other than for Greece to
follow its austerity program, Noyer said. “Restructuring is not
a solution.”  The ECB has provided banks with unlimited liquidity since
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to unlock credit
markets. While most banks have returned to money markets to
refinance themselves, some are still reliant on central bank
funding. Policy makers will have to decide next month whether
they’ll continue to allow banks to borrow as much cash as they
want against  eligible collateral  for maturities of up to three
months.  A Greek default may have implications for “other stressed
European sovereigns, and the Greek banks, regardless of the
efforts made to achieve an ‘orderly’ outcome,’” Moody’s said.
“The full impact on  Europe ’s capital markets would be hard to
predict and harder still to control. The fallout would have
implications for the creditworthiness, and hence the ratings, of
issuers across Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Vienna at  jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  