-- 
Loomis Sayles’ Dan Fuss Says Greek Debt Extension Is Favorable

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-05-24T16:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/loomis-sayles-dan-fuss-says-greek-debt-extension-is-favorable.html
An agreement to extend the maturity
of Greek sovereign debt would be a favorable outcome for bond
investors, Loomis Sayles & Co. Vice Chairman  Dan Fuss  said.  “It is the most favorable, reasonable outcome from a
bondholder’s view,” Fuss said in an interview in London today.
Boston-based Loomis Sayles manages $156 billion. Fuss, 77, said
he wouldn’t object to extending Greek debt, “not if you don’t
mark it down.”  The  Greek economy  has to start growing to resolve the
nation’s economic crisis, Fuss said. “The only way to deal with
it is to grow,” he said.  European Central Bank  and European Union policy makers are
clashing over how to prevent the currency region’s first
default. ECB Governing Council member  Christian Noyer  ruled out
a restructuring of Greece’s debt, calling it a “horror story”
that would leave the nation shut out of financing for years.  “The lengthening of maturities raises very difficult
questions,” Noyer said today. “There’s a strong chance it will
be the equivalent of a default.”  European Union finance ministers on May 16 floated the idea
of talks with bondholders over extending  Greece ’s debt-repayment
schedule, saying the bailout has failed to restore the country’s
financial health. On May 20, Fitch Ratings cut Greece’s credit
rating to B+ from BB+, saying that extending its debt maturities
would “trigger a credit event and default rating.”  Fuss also said Loomis Sayles will open an office in London
this year to be closer to U.K. clients. Loomis Sayles will
initially have seven employees including analysts in the office,
which will be overseen by Jeff Seaver, Fuss said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  