-- 
Nadal Comes Back to Win First-Round French Open Match Over American Isner

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-24T18:22:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/top-seeded-nadal-ties-french-open-first-round-match-with-isner-at-2-sets.html
Rafael Nadal  kept his quest for a
sixth  French Open  title alive by coming back to beat  John Isner 
in the opening round of Roland Garros.  Nadal defeated the American, 6-4, 6-7 (2-7), 6-7 (2-7), 6-
2, 6-4. Nadal, playing his first five-set match at Roland
Garros, would have lost his No. 1 ranking on the ATP World Tour
to Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  if he hadn’t won today.  “It was very difficult,” Nadal, a Spaniard who is seeking
to tie Bjorn Borg’s record of six titles in Paris, said in a
courtside interview. “His serve was almost unstoppable. I want
to congratulate him on a fantastic match.”  Nadal, 24, avoided becoming the first defending champion to
lose in the opening round at  Roland Garros . He now has a 39-1
record at the French Open, his only loss coming in 2009 to  Robin Soderling  in the round of 16. He’s never lost in the opening
round of a major.  Nadal had entered the French Open with two clay court
titles in  Monte Carlo  and Barcelona, which was his worst
performance on the slow surface coming into the year’s second
Grand Slam event.  “If I just put forth a good effort and give it my all out
there, I had a feeling I could give him a good shot and maybe
even win the match,” Isner said at a news conference. “I don’t
need to take the court if I don’t believe that.”  Isner is best known as the winner of the longest match in
tennis history, an 11-hour, 5-minute defeat of Nicolas Mahut at
Wimbledon last year. The 26-year-old American is ranked 39th on
the ATP World Tour.  Early Lead  Nadal seemed in control of the match, leading 3-1 in the
second set, when Isner broke back for 4-4. The American won the
second set in the tiebreak as Nadal committed unforced errors
from the baseline.  In the third set, Isner kept Nadal under pressure by
rushing to the net. He overcame two set points at 6-5 down with
a pair of service winners. The American raced to a 3-0 lead in
the tiebreak as he sent serves of up to 229 kilometer-per-hour
(142 miles-per-hour) past the defending champion.  With the crowd shouting ‘Rafa, Rafa’, the Spaniard dumped a
forehand into the net to hand Isner four set points. Isner
shouted and pumped his fist after he took a 2-sets-to-1 lead
with a forehand return winner.  “I didn’t play free in the entire match,” Nadal told a
news conference. “It was tough. I am playing with a lot of
pressure, this is very important tournament for me.”  Nadal reduced his error count to zero and broke Isner’s
serve twice in the fourth set, after committing 21 errors in the
first three. The left-hander evened the match 2-2 with a
forehand winner.  Finishing Up  Nadal screamed ‘Si’ after getting a break for 2-1 with a
forehand in the net. With his uncle and long-time coach,  Toni
Nadal , clapping in the courtside stands, the world’s top-ranked
player got his first match point as Isner hit a forehand into
the net on his own serve at 5-3 down. The American stayed in the
match with another net rush, and held serve for 5-4.  Nadal then served out the match, capping the win when Isner
sent a backhand wide after 4 hours, 1 minute.  “He was pushing me around,” Isner said. The American
added he “needed oxygen,” during the final game.
“I almost collapsed. My legs were dead.”  Nadal said his 14-3 record playing five-set matches had
given him confidence.  “It was the first time in Roland Garros, but I have played
five-setters at Wimbledon and other Grand Slams,” said the
nine-time major winner. “I have a good record in five-
setters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  