-- 
House to Take Test Vote on Raising U.S. Debt Limit Next Week

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-24T18:11:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/house-to-take-test-vote-on-raising-u-s-debt-limit-next-week-1-.html
The U.S. House will vote next week on
a measure to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling
without spending cuts, a test vote meant by its backers to fail
and signal that fiscal changes are needed to win Republican
support for raising the borrowing limit.  Democrats earlier asked for approval of a measure that
simply increases the debt limit. Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, said next week’s vote will
show “that the Democrats’ demands are way out of touch with the
views of most Americans and the markets,” who want the
government to “finally begin to live within our means.”  The legislation, introduced today by House Ways and Means
Committee Chairman  Dave Camp  of  Michigan , would increase the
debt ceiling to $2.4 trillion. That would be enough to get
through the end of 2012 under the budget request President
 Barack Obama  presented to Congress in February.  House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer said that bringing up a
bill for it to fail would send wrong message and would be
irresponsible.  “It will be a message to the financial community, it will
be a message to investors and borrowers,” Hoyer told reporters.
“We need to pursue a responsible course, not a partisan
political course on this issue.”  Congressional leaders and Vice President  Joe Biden  are
meeting again today to continue searching for compromise on a
package of spending cuts to accompany a vote later this summer
on a debt-limit boost aimed at getting bipartisan support.  ‘Just Unthinkable’  White House budget director Jacob Lew said yesterday he was
confident congressional Republicans and Democrats will reach a
deal with the Obama administration to raise the debt limit,
averting a default by an early August deadline.  “I can’t argue that it’ll be pretty,” Lew said of the
struggles to achieve a debt accord in a question-and-answer
session last night at a meeting of the Economic Club of
Washington. “I think there’s a shared understanding that it’s
just unthinkable” for the U.S. to default on its debts.  Separately, Senator  Dick Durbin , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said a group of five senators that has been
working most of this year to forge a debt deal will meet today
to discuss a path forward after it lost a sixth member, Oklahoma
Republican  Tom Coburn , last week.  ‘Lot of Support’  “The fact that one senator walked away should not be the
end of it,” said Durbin. “There is still a lot of support from
members of the Senate for us to continue our work.”  Durbin said he doesn’t expect Coburn will be replaced. He
said he plans to make a proposal to the group for continuing the
talks, though he didn’t give details.  “We ought to engage more of our colleagues in this
conversation,” the Illinois senator said.  Amid debate about debt levels in  Washington , bond market
yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government was
running a  budget surplus  a decade ago. Two-year note yields
approached the lowest level this year after the government’s $35
billion auction of the securities today drew the highest level
of demand since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  