-- 
How We Can Solve the Debt Crisis. Really.

-- B y   T o m   C o b u r n
-- 
2011-05-24T16:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/how-we-can-solve-the-debt-crisis-really-.html
Leaders in Washington will soon have
to decide whether to pursue a serious deficit-reduction
agreement before the 2012 elections. Last month,  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the outlook on the U.S.’s long-term credit rating
from stable to negative for the first time since the bombing of
 Pearl Harbor . If we don’t change course soon, the next shot
won’t be across our bow, but at our hull.  Congress’s lack of action is a major reason why I’ve spent
several months meeting in an informal group called the Gang of
Six with the hope of presenting a comprehensive deficit-
reduction plan. We’ve made real progress, but we reached an
impasse recently when it became clear the group wouldn’t agree
to the kind of serious entitlement reform that would lead to a
bipartisan deal.  While our impasse is frustrating, it is important for the
American people to understand that the real hurdles are more
political than philosophical. Neither party wants to compromise
its political advantages or its brand heading into the next
election. Republicans want to be able to say they have resisted
revenue increases while Democrats want to be known as the
champions of entitlement. What the American people want,
however, is bravery, not branding.  Revenue Increases?  In practice, neither party needs to compromise its core
values, just its political agenda. I’ve argued that Republicans
should be willing to consider increases in revenue -- not
through higher tax rates but through eliminating tax earmarks,
such as that for ethanol, and other expenditure that
misallocates capital. To create the conditions for putting
revenue on the table, there must also be a commitment to
spending cuts and entitlement reform. After all, America’s
looming debt is the product of an entitlement crisis more than a
revenue crisis.  Republicans who consider this offer to be a "tax increase"
are mistaken and are unwittingly opening the door to genuine tax
increases. Doing nothing and waiting for a debt crisis will
probably result in accelerating inflation and higher  interest
rates  as well as emergency austerity measures, which may include
direct tax-rate increases. Worst of all, the U.S. would face
financial repression through the debasement of the dollar,
leading to a decrease in the purchasing power of every American.
This would be the worst form of tax increase. Any of these
outcomes would devastate the middle class and wipe out vast
amounts of wealth. Republicans who say they are "holding the
line" aren’t holding the line on anything but a talking point.  Averting Meltdown  Still, many Republicans believe they can secure additional
spending cuts and help avert an economic meltdown without
putting revenue on the table. I’m sympathetic to that argument.
I’ve put holds on hundreds of bills that weren’t paid for,
fought to eliminate countless earmarks sponsored by members of
my own party, and proposed hundreds of amendments to cut
spending.  However, having worked to expose and cut waste, I’m
convinced we will never reform entitlements without putting
revenue on the table. To attempt otherwise would require a
Republican supermajority that will never happen in our
democracy. We’re much more likely to enter a depression first.  Democrats have a similar problem. Many of them prefer to
mislead the American people by claiming that Medicare, Medicaid
and Social Security are fine, when they should be embracing the
reforms that will protect those programs and the people who
depend on them. By 2022, Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security and
interest on the debt will consume the entire federal budget.
Social Security, which Democrats say is secure until 2037, is
already running deficits ($49 billion last year). These programs
are "safe" only while the international financial community
agrees to lend us money -- which may not be for long.  Political Games  What is really happening behind closed doors in  Washington 
would both sicken and inspire the American people. Some in both
parties continue to play political games. Yet, many elected
officials on both sides are willing to make hard choices. More
than 40 senators have come together to discuss the crisis;
dozens have privately expressed their willingness to take
bipartisan action. But, right now, the possibility of a win-win
agreement for America is being turned into a lose-lose stalemate
because too many self-serving politicians, special-interest
groups and political consultants in Washington are invested in
the status quo.  Accept Reality  The solution is obvious. Democrats have to accept the
reality that structural entitlement reform is necessary.
Republicans have to accept the reality that in order to get
Democrats to make those changes we will have to agree to  tax
reform  that will increase revenue but not rates. This solution
isn’t a betrayal of either party’s values, but a defense of
those values on behalf of future generations. Again, doing
nothing would be the real act of betrayal that would lead to
both higher taxes and the demise of entitlement programs for the
poor and elderly.  If our leaders fail to make these choices before the next
election, voters will have no choice but to replace them with
leaders who will.  ( Tom Coburn  is a Republican Senator from  Oklahoma . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For Related News and Information:  To contact the author of this column:
Senator Tom Coburn:   To contact the editor of this column:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net .
-0- May/24/ :31 GMT 