-- 
Teddy Bear Prices Rise for Christmas as China Wages Increase

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-24T23:13:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/toy-prices-rise-as-china-wages-increase.html
A Western buyer at the  Canton trade
fair  protested against higher prices by wearing a T-shirt
emblazoned with “Too Expensive” in Chinese. That generated
little sympathy from toy seller Clara Zhang.  “We all laughed so hard,” said Zhang, 26, sales manager
for Nanjing Happy Toy Co., maker of teddy bears and stuffed
ducks. “Then we said, ‘Sorry, sir, you probably need to pay
even more.’”  Hundreds of toymakers at the  China  Import and Export Fair,
the country’s largest, are charging more as the world’s second-
largest economy battles inflation that soared to an almost
three-year high of 5.4 percent in March.  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , which
makes Barbie dolls, and  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , owner of the Transformers
brand, raised prices earlier this year as Chinese factories pass
on higher costs for raw materials and labor.  “If you take into account everything Chinese toymakers are
dealing with -- labor, material, exchange rate -- a price hike
is only a natural consequence,” said Hua Zhongwei, a
macroeconomic analyst with Huachuang Securities in Beijing.
“There is a big chance for shoppers in the U.S. to face higher
prices for Christmas gifts this year.”  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest supplier of toys to
retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) , will
pass on any factory cost increases to its customers, Chief
Executive Officer Bruce Rockowitz said.  Toys “R” Us  “Definitely, prices are going up on everything,”
Rockowitz said in a May 19 interview in Hong Kong, where Li &
Fung is based. “Every type of product.”  Toys “R” Us Inc., the world’s biggest toy retailer,
anticipates “some price increases,”  Kathleen Waugh , a
spokeswoman for the Wayne, New Jersey-based company, said in an
e-mailed statement.  There are about 8,000 toy companies in China, according to
the government-affiliated  China Toy Association . The country
exported $2.6 billion worth of toys in the first four months of
the year, 17 percent more than a year earlier.  Growth slowed from the first four months of 2010, when toy
exports surged 22 percent to $2.2 billion, according to data
from China’s  General Administration of Customs . The world’s
biggest toymaker exported $10.1 billion worth of toys last year.  `Sesame Street'  Global toy sales are an estimated $75 billion, according to
the New York-based  Toy Industry Association Inc. , a trade group
for North American producers and importers of toys, games and
entertainment products. U.S. retail sales last year reached
$21.9 billion, a 1.8 percent increase from $21.5 billion a year
earlier,  according  to the group’s website.  Hasbro raised prices in February by 6 percent to 7 percent,
Chief Operating Officer David Hargreaves said April 21. The
Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based company makes toys under brands
including Transformers, Spider-Man, “Sesame Street” and “High
School Musical.”  “We haven’t had pushback from the retailers,” Hargreaves
said. “They understand that commodity costs are going up. They
accept that the prices need to go up a bit to cover these
costs.”  El Segundo, California-based Mattel, the world’s biggest
toymaker, said April 15 it imposed a single-digit price increase
and retailers understood. The toy business is growing, said
Chief Executive Officer Robert Eckert, whose company posted
earnings that beat forecasts.  Orders Increase  Mattel buys from China suppliers, including Early Light
International (Holdings) Ltd., a closely held toymaker that
didn’t attend the Canton fair. Li & Fung’s Rockowitz said about
half of the products it supplies to retailers are made in China.  The Canton fair reported a 5.8 percent increase in export
orders from the previous one held in September, the weakest
growth since the second half of 2009, Dong Tao, chief analyst
for  Asia  excluding  Japan  at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Hong Kong ,
wrote in a May 17 report. Orders from  Europe  were up 14 percent
and the U.S. 12 percent, while orders from Japan and Hong Kong
were down.  “Surging labor costs and  labor shortage  were the biggest
concerns, along with a sharp rise in material costs,” Tao
wrote. “Exchange rate uncertainty is also rising.”  Worker salaries have almost doubled in the past year to
2,000 yuan ($308) per month in factories in  Guangdong province ,
the nation’s manufacturing hub, according to toymakers attending
the fair.  Oil and Cotton  Wages for the millions of migrant workers running China’s
factories soared 40 percent in 2010, Tao said earlier this year.
Guangdong province raised minimum wages this year, with workers
in Guangzhou city earning at least 1,300 yuan ($200) a month as
of March 1, the state-run Guangzhou Daily newspaper said.  Higher commodity costs also are hurting manufacturers’
profits. Crude oil, the source for chemicals used in toymaking,
has risen 42 percent in the year through yesterday on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Cotton prices surged 90 percent in the
same period.  About 7 percent to 8 percent of the average 10-percent
price increase is because of higher material and labor costs,
with the rest attributed to yuan appreciation, said Wang
Jianhui, an analyst at Southwest Securities Co. in Beijing.  China’s currency advanced 0.12 percent to 6.4975 per dollar
as of the 4:30 p.m. close in Shanghai on May 24, near a 17-year
high of 6.4892 reached on April 29, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The yuan will probably appreciate
to 6.30 per dollar by the end of the year, according to the
median estimate of 29 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Day by Day  Early Light is considering raising prices at least 8
percent this year, executive director Karson Choi said in an e-
mail.  “To offset the cost increase in labor, materials and other
areas, every year we need to adjust our quoting parameters when
quoting new items to customers,” Choi said.  Sales for Early Light may fall 5-10 percent this year
because of weak demand in the U.S., Choi said. Its best-selling
items are miniature cars being offered by Mattel as a tie-in to
the Disney Pixar movie, “Cars 2.”  “Wages are increasing day by day,” Jimmy Tang, general
manager for Chenghai Junfa Toys Co. in Shantou, said while
sitting on a pile of plastic water guns and telescopes at the
toy fair. “If you don’t do it, people go somewhere else.”  -- Michael Wei . With assistance from Marco Lui in Hong Kong. 
Editors: Michael Tighe, Frank Longid  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  