-- 
Palestinian Prime Minister Hospitalized After Heart Attack

-- B y   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 
2011-05-24T06:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/palestinian-prime-minister-hospitalized-after-heart-attack-2-.html
Palestinian Authority  Prime Minister
Salam Fayyad underwent an operation in  Texas  today after
suffering a heart attack, his spokesman Jamal Zakout said.  A stent was inserted after tests showed blockage in
Fayyad’s left coronary artery, his office said in a statement
posted by the Wafa news agency.  A spokeswoman for the Seton Hospital in Austin, Texas,
where Fayyad was taken, said the prime minister was doing well.
“Mr. Fayyad is in good condition,” said Adrienne Lallo in a
telephone call.  Fayyad, 59, was in Texas for his son’s graduation from the
University of Texas at Austin. The prime minister is expected to
be released from the hospital within a few days, according to
his office’s statement. Palestinian Authority spokesman  Ghassan Khatib  said that Fayyad’s condition was stable and there had
been no news overnight.  A former World Bank and  International Monetary Fund 
official, Fayyad was brought in as finance minister in 2002,
when Yasser Arafat ruled the Palestinian Authority, to fight
corruption and waste. He isn’t a member of the Fatah party and
ran as an independent in the 2006 legislative elections.  “There’s a reason that Salam Fayyad was considered a
breath of fresh air: He made it unambiguously clear that he was
more interested in building up Palestine than tearing down
Israel,” said  David Makovsky , director of the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy’s Project on the Middle East.  Future Role  Fayyad has led the statehood building process in the
countdown to September, when Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  has said he will ask the  United Nations  to
recognize a Palestinian state.  It isn’t clear if Fayyad will continue as prime minister in
a new government expected to be formed following the
reconciliation agreement signed this month between Abbas’s Fatah
party and the Islamic Hamas movement that rules the Gaza Strip.
The U.S., European Union and Israel regard the militant group
Hamas as a terrorist organization.  Fayyad earned his doctorate in economics from the
University of Texas at Austin and worked at the International
Monetary Fund from 1987 to 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 in Cairo at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  