-- 
PDVSA Bonds Slide After U.S. Imposes Sanctions on Company for Iran Links

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-05-24T18:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/pdvsa-bonds-sink-after-u-s-imposes-sanctions-on-company-for-links-to-iran.html
Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA bonds
plunged, pushing yields up the most in three months, after the
U.S. announced sanctions on the state-owned oil company for
supporting  Iran ’s energy industry in ways that might aid the
country’s alleged “illicit” nuclear activities.  The yield on 8.5 percent dollar-denominated bonds due 2017
jumped 39 basis points, or 0.39 percentage point, to 15.65
percent at 2:29 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The price fell 1.31 cents on the dollar to 71.58
cents. The price sank as much as 1.72 cents earlier in the day.  PDVSA, as the company is known, delivered at least two
cargos of a gasoline additive to Iran between December and
March, worth about $50 million, the U.S. State Department said
today in an  e-mailed statement . The sanctions prohibit the
company from competing for U.S. government procurement
contracts, from getting financing from the U.S. Export-Import
Bank and from obtaining U.S. export licenses. The sanctions
don’t prohibit the export of crude oil to the U.S.  “These sanctions constitute a warning shot from the U.S.
government to Venezuela in its dealings with the Iranian
regime,”  Boris Segura , Latin America economist at Nomura
Securities International, wrote in a note to clients. “The
authorities’ reaction at this juncture is key. If they interpret
these sanctions as an attack of the ‘empire’ on the revolution,
we could expect further measures to try to armour plate the
country from potentially more severe sanctions.”  Local Law  Venezuela could decide to cease issuing bonds under
international legislation and rely instead on local law which
would have a negative effect on Venezuela and PDVSA’s borrowing
costs, Segura said.  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  and Iran’s Mahmoud Ahmadinejad have forged diplomatic and commercial ties as Iran
faces international sanctions over suspicions it is trying to
develop nuclear power. Chavez has said he wants to break up what
he calls U.S. “hegemony” in world affairs.  Chavez has backed Iran’s plans to develop nuclear energy,
saying he will stand by the country “under any circumstances.”  While the sanctions specifically target refined petroleum-
related activities, the State Department said the measures
“target Iran’s ability to acquire and utilize resources in
support of its illicit nuclear activities.”  Venezuelan Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  has repeatedly
denied sending gasoline to Iran since sanctions on the Middle
Eastern country were approved. Chavez had been selling as many
as 20,000 barrels a day of gasoline to Iran, Asdrubal Chavez,
vice president of state  oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA,
told reporters Feb. 10, 2010.  Investors’ Reaction  Press officials at Chavez’s office and the  Finance Ministry 
declined to comment. Both asked not to be identified because of
internal policy. A press official at PDVSA, who also asked not
to be named, had no immediate comment. Ramirez is scheduled to
speak to reporters later today.  Paul Biszko , an emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Toronto, said the steeper selloff in the bonds earlier
today was due to investors’ initial confusion about the extent
of sanctions.  “Things have settled as people get a better sense of what
it means, and that’s not much really,” Biszko said in a phone
interview. “Chavez has dissuaded government entities from doing
business with U.S. financial institutions, and I don’t think
Venezuelan companies have been in the running for any big
contracts lately.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in  New York  at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  