-- 
Pernod Seeks to Grow Faster Than Rivals in U.S., Pringuet Says

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-05-24T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/pernod-seeks-to-grow-faster-than-rivals-in-u-s-pringuet-says.html
Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) , the world’s second-
biggest distiller, aims to increase U.S. sales faster than its
competitors as the country’s spirits market resumes growth,
Chief Executive Officer Pierre Pringuet said.  Pernod, the Paris-based maker of Jameson whiskey, wants to
“to grab additional market share; we want to grow faster than
the market,” Pringuet said today at a conference in  New York .  The company is targeting female shoppers and the Hispanic
community in the U.S. in a bid to add sales in the world’s
biggest spirits market. Innovation, or production of new drinks
and packaging, is also important in driving growth and
attracting new drinkers to its spirits, especially in “white
spirits” such as vodka, Pernod executives said at the
conference.  The company has “a sense of leadership in how we think,”
Paul Duffy, head of the U.S. unit, said today, “but we are a
challenger in terms of our position.” Pernod-Ricard is the
third-biggest company by value in the U.S. market, behind
competitor  Diageo Plc (DGE)  and Bacardi Ltd., according to data from
market researcher International Wine & Spirit Record,  Pernod, which spent $9 billion acquiring Vin & Sprit AB in
2008, adding brands including Absolut vodka, is “on the move”
since the purchase, Philippe Dreano, chairman and CEO of the
company’s Americas unit, said today. He’s headed the region
since 2009.  Consumer goods companies including Pernod have sought
growth in alternative markets as high unemployment, sluggish
economic growth and competitive environments in traditional
markets including  Europe  and the U.S. hold back sales. Pernod
believes that the U.S. is still important, the executives said,
adding that they see a rebound in sales in clubs, bars and
restaurants, the so-called “on trade” business.  “The U.S. is a mature market place, but very attractive.
It’s the biggest contributor to profit pool in the world,”
Duffy said. “There’s lots of competitive ground for us to make
up.” The Americas unit represented 30 percent of its operating
income last year.  Pernod is focused on its top six brands in the country, the
executives said. They include Absolut, Malibu, Chivas Regal, The
Glenlivet, Kahlua and Jameson, which represent 60 percent of its
volumes and 85 percent of its marketing spending in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  