-- 
TPG Said to Hire Goldman’s Steve Sun to Boost China Deals

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-05-24T10:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/tpg-said-to-hire-goldman-sachs-steve-sun-to-boost-china-deals.html
TPG Capital, the U.S. buyout firm
that manages $48 billion, plans to hire Steve Sun from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. as a  China  partner, two people familiar with
the matter said.  Sun, a managing director at Goldman Sachs’s private-equity
unit, has resigned from the New York-based bank, the people said,
asking not to be identified before an announcement. Sun hasn’t
returned calls seeking comment.  TPG has been seeking native Chinese to help it compete for
investments in China after senior managers Shan Weijian and Mary
Ma left in the past year to join other asset managers. China is
 Asia ’s biggest private-equity market over the past three years
and investments jumped 40 percent to $19.7 billion in 2010,
according to the Asian Venture Capital Journal.  Connie Ling, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment as did Tim Payne, a spokesman in  Hong
Kong  for  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG.  Foreign buyout firms are facing stiffer competition from
local rivals as former executives at Goldman Sachs and Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co. set up their own funds. TPG yesterday
agreed to sell a stake to China Development Bank Corp.’s
investment unit to raise capital for expanding beyond buyouts as
private-equity fundraising remains at an eight-year low,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  TPG Investments  Sun joined Goldman Sachs from Morgan Stanley in 2006 as
executive director. He was named a managing director in October
2007. Sun helped Goldman buy 12.02 percent of Taikang Life
Insurance Co., China’s fifth-biggest life insurer, in April, and
a stake in Shenzhen Hepalink Pharmaceutical Co., a Chinese
drugmaker, in 2007.  TPG sold its stake in  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001)  in 2009
to Ping An, China’s second-biggest insurer. The fund has since
raised $2.44 billion by selling Ping An shares it received in
the deal. TPG’s Newbridge Capital LLC paid about $145 million
for the Shenzhen Bank stake in 2004.  In the past seven months, TPG bought stakes in  China
International Capital Corp. , the first Sino-foreign investment
bank, Comtec Solar Systems Group Ltd. and Hong Kong Energy
Holdings Ltd., a developer of renewable-energy projects focusing
on China.  TPG has invested $8.1 billion in Asia since the start of
2008, more than  Carlyle Group  and KKR & Co. China accounted for
37 percent of Asian deals last year, an increase from 29 percent
in 2009, according to AVCJ estimates.  Ma, the former  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  chief financial officer
who joined TPG in 2007, quit this year to help ex-Ping An
President Louis Cheung start private-equity firm Boyu Capital
Ltd. Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s charity foundation said
last month it agreed to invest in a Boyu Capital fund.  Shan, a former partner in TPG’s Hong Kong office, left last
year to join Pacific Alliance Group, an Asia-based alternative
investment manager, as chairman and chief executive officer.
Shan helped TPG buy the Shenzhen Development Bank stake, one of
the company’s most profitable investments in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  