-- 
POM Wonderful Health Claims for Juice Lack Scientific Support, U.S. Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-05-24T20:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/pom-health-claims-lack-science-support-u-s-.html
POM Wonderful LLC doesn’t have the
scientific backing to make advertising claims that its
pomegranate juice and supplements prevent or treat prostate
cancer, erectile dysfunction and  heart disease , a U.S.  Federal
Trade Commission  lawyer said.  Studies the company cites often lack comparisons to control
groups, don’t show statistically significant changes in medical
conditions and are measuring the wrong indicators of
improvement, FTC attorney  Heather Hippsley  said today.  Company documents show that executives of Los Angeles-based
POM were aware of the studies’ shortcomings, she said during the
first day of an FTC hearing on the claims. “They repeatedly
ignored warning signs that the marketing didn’t match the
science,” Hippsley said.  The case is a test of the FTC’s campaign to force food
companies to support their advertising with more scientific
findings. Last year, the FTC pressured Nestle NA and the Dannon
Co. Inc., a U.S. unit of Danone SA, to change ads for their
probiotic products. Probiotics are bacteria found in the gut
that may aid digestion.  The FTC is “aggressively seeking to obtain new legal
ground against advertisers” and “apply a pharmaceutical ‘drug’
standard to food products,” according to a brief filed by POM
Wonderful and Roll Global, an associated company that is also a
defendant.  In its complaint, the FTC highlighted one ad that shows a
POM juice bottle blasting off like a rocket and proclaiming,
“I’m off to save prostates!”  Prostate Health  The FTC said Lynda  Resnick , vice chairman of Roll Global,
advised an interviewer for a publication who says his father had
prostate cancer, “You have to be on pomegranate juice.” She
compared the juice to a popular drug for impotence.  “It’s also 40 percent as effective as Viagra,” she said.
“Not that you need it, but couldn’t hurt.”  At the hearing today, Resnick referred to the “8,000-year
history” of the pomegranate.  In addition to scientific studies, the fruit has been
consumed “by millions of people over thousands of years,” she
said.  In its legal brief, POM Wonderful said its ads are backed
up by $35 million in research. The company has “sponsored or
participated in more than 90 scientific investigations with over
65 studies on POM products, including 17 clinical trials,”
according to the brief.  Scientific Evidence  Until recently, the FTC just wanted companies to base their
ads on “competent and reliable scientific evidence,” the brief
said.  Now the agency requires two well-controlled clinical trials
in support of claims, according to the brief.  The requirement is a “radical change” in the FTC’s
approach, raising its standard to one the  Food and Drug
Administration  would use, said Jonathan Emord, an attorney who
specializes in food and drug cases.  “It’s a bureaucratic power grab,” he said in an
interview. “The FTC is doing the FDA’s bidding in a very
unfortunate way.”  The FTC case also violates First Amendment rights, POM
Wonderful said.  Scientists say companies’ claims for food’s health benefits
should be held to the same standards as pharmaceuticals.  Product Labels  The  Food and Drug Administration , which oversees
information on product labels, doesn’t police food makers’
claims as rigorously as those for drug companies, according to a
report last year by the  Institute of Medicine , an arm of the
National Academies in Washington.  “It’s so unregulated,” said Marion Nestle, a professor of
nutrition, food studies and public health at  New York
University , in an interview. “The standards have gotten lower
and lower and lower. You can’t sell food without a health claim
nowadays. Nobody will buy it.”  More food makers are making claims that go beyond
scientific studies, said Mary Engle, the FTC’s associate
director for advertising practices.  “Companies should be on notice,” she told Bloomberg
Television. “The FTC is taking a closer look at the claims that
have been made for foods, and we’re scrutinizing them more to
make sure they can really back up those claims.”  An FTC defeat in the  POM Wonderful  case would be felt
throughout the  food industry , Nestle said. It would be “open
season on health claims, and companies can say anything they
want,” she said.  Engle said the FTC was unsuccessful in its attempts to
reach a settlement before the trial.  The trial is expected to continue over at least the next
four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 