-- 
Portman’s Feathery ‘Swan,’ Spurned Lover Overrated by Oscars: Peter Rainer

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-05-24T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/portman-s-feathery-swan-spurned-lover-overrated-by-oscars-peter-rainer.html
Natalie Portman  won an Oscar for her
histrionic performance as the feather-sprouting ballerina in
“Black Swan.” It wasn’t the first time she’s been overrated.  Looking alternately freeze-dried and pop-eyed, Portman
tries very hard to mimic high emotion in “Black Swan.” She can
also be so still in her movies that she comes across as an oil
painting. In fact, Portman was picked for her part in Milos Forman’s “Goya’s Ghosts” (2007) because she reminded the
director of a Goya model.  Some of her most celebrated performances are her most
inexpressive. Her beautiful blankness, which many find
enigmatic, I often find blah.  It’s probably not fair to judge her for her role as Padme
in three “Star Wars” prequels since her conical hairpiece made
her resemble a snail awaiting liftoff. But couldn’t she at least
have cracked a smile?  In the faux-Orwellian “V for Vendetta” (2006), Portman
played an anti-government agitator with robotic doggedness. As a
spurned lover in Mike Nichols’s “Closer” (2004), which
inexplicably earned her a best-supporting actress nomination,
she was done in by the talkiness.  One reason Portman often seems miscast is because her range
is limited.  Pregnant Teen  In “Anywhere But Here” (1999), she played a small-town
Wisconsin girl tethered to her flighty mother, played by Susan Sarandon. This film should have been called “The Underactor and
the Overactor.” In “Where the Heart Is” (2000), Harvard grad
Portman portrayed a low-rent, ill-educated pregnant teen. I
didn’t buy it for a minute.  Portman’s best performances have come in her least
recognized films.  As a gambler in Wong Kar Wai’s otherwise dismal “My
Blueberry Nights” (2006), she was edgy and altogether
believable. As a romantic partner in the short, “Hotel
Chevalier,” she has a startling sensuality and her voice --
which can drone -- had a velvety purr.  While she doesn’t do much out of the ordinary in “Thor”
(2011), I liked her in that film more than in “ Black Swan .”
Normality suits her. It shatters her glaceed facade.  Tina Fey   While we’re on the subject of overrated movie performers,
why is Tina Fey so uninspired on the big screen?  After all, this is the same woman who cracked us up on
“Saturday Night Live,” continues to spark “30 Rock,” and
just wrote a hilarious best-selling memoir, “ Bossypants .”  But in her first two starring roles on film -- “Baby
Mama” (2008) and “Date Night” (2010) -- Fey (the actress, not
the character) looked downright tense and uncomfortable.  TV stars used to save their best for the movies. Now it’s
often the other way around.  Fey’s best movie work has come in voiceovers for the
animated “Ponyo” (2008) and “Megamind” (2010). When it comes
to film, so far at least, she’s better heard than seen.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  FiL2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  