-- 
Pound Depreciates Against Euro After Moody’s Puts 14 U.K. Banks on Review

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-24T15:59:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/pound-declines-against-major-peers-moody-s-puts-14-u-k-banks-on-review.html
The pound snapped a three-day gain
against the euro after Moody’s Investors Service said it may
lower the credit ratings of 14 British lenders and a report
showed the U.K. budget deficit widened in April.  Sterling strengthened against most of its 16 major peers.
Net borrowing was 10 billion pounds ($16.2 billion), compared
with 7.2 billion pounds a year earlier, data showed today. The
median of 12 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
shortfall of 6.5 billion pounds. Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and Lloyds Banking Group Plc are among the institutions put
on review for a downgrade, Moody’s said today.  “The Moody’s announcement is a fresh source of
vulnerability for the pound,” said Michael Derks, chief
strategist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in  London . “That
the deficit is slightly worse than expected is yet another
reminder that there’s a very long way to go in order to rectify
the dreadful state of the U.K.’s public finances.”  The pound depreciated as much as 0.4 percent to 87.52 pence
per euro, before trading less that 0.1 percent weaker at 87.16
pence as of 4:54 p.m. in London. Sterling climbed 0.4 percent to
$1.6190, after depreciating as much as 0.4 percent to $1.6058.  The U.K. government plans to eliminate the bulk of the
nation’s deficit by April 2015 as it implements the toughest
budget squeeze since World War II.  Policy Change  The shortfall, which reached a record 11 percent of gross
domestic product in the aftermath of the recession, is forecast
to narrow to 122 billion pounds in the fiscal year that began in
April, or 7.9 percent of GDP, according to the Treasury’s fiscal
watchdog.  Moody’s said guidance from the U.K. authorities “that
banks that fail in the future should not expect capital
injections from the public purse,” had prompted it to reassess
its ratings.  The Moody’s announcement is “a concern and the market will
be sensitive to that,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “Given the
stresses on the economy, it’s just another difficulty for the
U.K. to tackle and sterling will remain under pressure.”  Bank of England  policy makers voted 6-3 this month to hold
 interest rates  at a record low of 0.5 percent as some members
said an increase could hurt  consumer confidence , minutes of the
meeting showed last week.  Interest-Rate Expectations  Money markets price in a 25 basis-point increase in the key
rate in February, according to sterling overnight interbank
average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show. As recently as
February investors bet the rate would be lifted this month.  German business confidence remained unchanged in May as
booming exports and rising company spending boosted economic
growth. The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, held at 114.2 from
April. That beat the 113.7 median estimate of 24 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.K. government bonds fell, pushing the yield on the 10-
year gilt up four basis points to 3.34 percent. Two-year note
yields were one basis point higher at 0.94 percent.  Gilts have handed investors a gain of 2.1 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. That compares
with a loss of 0.2 percent for German bonds and a 2.2 percent
return for U.S. Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  