-- 
Prada IPO Banks Estimate Luxury Maker May Be Worth as Much as $16 Billion

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-24T13:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/prada-ipo-banks-estimate-company-may-be-valued-at-eu11-billion.html
Prada SpA, the Italian luxury goods
company planning an initial public offering, may be worth as
much as 11 billion euros ($15.5 billion), according to Mizuho
Financial Group Inc., which is helping to manage the sale.  The maker of Miu Miu bags should command a minimum
valuation of 8.3 billion euros, according to a note obtained by
Bloomberg News. Separately,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , one of four
banks leading the IPO, estimated that Prada may be valued at as
much as 10.7 billion euros, according to a note sent to clients.  Prada, which plans to hold a Hong Kong IPO next month, is
seeking to tap local funds as individual investors bet on the
luxury-goods industry’s growth in  Asia . A valuation exceeding 10
billion euros “may be too expensive,” according to Lorenzo Crispoltoni, a senior  fund manager  at Banca Fideuram SpA. Prada
merits a higher stock rating than peers because of its larger
scale and stronger global standing, Mizuho analysts said.  Intesa Sanpaolo, Credit Agricole SA’s CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are managing
the IPO. Mizuho and Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.
are providing assistance as so-called joint leads, according to
three people familiar with the sale.  Calls to ICBC’s Hong Kong office and Mizuho’s Tokyo office
weren’t answered outside business hours.  The Mizuho estimates are based on multiples of 23 times
2012 earnings for the higher valuation and 22 times 2011
earnings for the lower amount, according to the note, both
exceeding the median for European and U.S. luxury peers.  Net Debt  Intesa’s valuation is based on 2012 earnings estimates, and
about 21 times profit. That would be in line with the average of
a peer group including  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  as calculated by Intesa based on May 13 prices.  Crispoltoni said it’s unclear how the banks accounted for
the potential effect of currency shifts in the estimates.  A Prada spokesman declined to comment on the valuation.  Milan-based Prada plans to sell a stake representing about
16.5 percent of the company. In an IPO, shares are typically
sold at a discount to so-called fair value to ensure the stock
rises in its debut. Based on Mizuho’s estimates, the sale may
fetch as much as 1.8 billion euros if a discount isn’t applied.  The maker of clothing and accessories, whose brands include
Prada, Church’s and Car Shoe, still has significant scope to
expand its retail store network and improve its operating margin
compared with peers, the Mizuho analysts said.  Prada , which said in March it had net borrowings of 408.6
million euros, will be debt free by 2014, Goldman Sachs
estimated in a separate report obtained by Bloomberg News.  Net income may rise to as much as 503 million euros in 2012
from 381 million euros this year, Intesa Sanpaolo estimates.  Profit more than doubled to 250.8 million euros last year
on growth in the Asia-Pacific region, where sales jumped 63
percent, Prada said March 28. Total revenue rose 31 percent to
2.05 billion euros. Prada has 326 directly operated stores.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 