-- 
Purchases of New Homes in U.S. Probably Stagnated in April Near Record Low

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/purchases-of-new-homes-in-u-s-probably-stagnated-in-april-near-record-low.html
Purchases of new houses probably held
close to a record low in April, showing the real-estate market
remains a weak link in the U.S. expansion, economists said
before a report today.  New homes sold at a 300,000 annual pace last month, the
same as in March, according to the median forecast of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Purchases sank to a
270,000 pace in February, the weakest in 48 years of data.  The prospect that foreclosures will keep driving down
property values means that buyers may continue to shun new
houses in favor of previously owned dwellings, hurting builders
like D.R. Horton Inc. Unemployment at 9 percent, stagnant wages
and credit restrictions add to the headwinds, signaling a
housing recovery will take years to unfold.  “Until that overhang of existing homes works its way down,
new-home sales will remain depressed and construction as well,”
said Steve Blitz, a senior economist at ITG Investment Research
Inc. in  New York .  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 10 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
280,000 to 320,000.  Stocks of homebuilders have underperformed the broader
market. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilders Index
has fallen 1.4 percent so far this year, compared with a 4.7
percent gain for the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   ‘Struggle’ Through 2012  Demand for new houses will remain weak into next year, said
Bill Wheat, chief financial officer of  Fort Worth , Texas-based
D.R. Horton, the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue.
“We feel it could still be a struggle in 2012.”  Builders are cutting back as a result. Housing starts fell
11 percent in April to a 523,000 annual pace, the second-weakest
reading since April 2009’s record low, figures from the Commerce
Department showed last week.  One reason for the slump is growing interest from investors
in buying distressed properties. Previously owned homes sold at
a 5.05 million annual rate in April, down 0.8 percent from the
prior month, data from the National Association of Realtors
showed May 19. All-cash deals accounted for 31 percent of
transactions, and distressed properties, including foreclosures
and short sales, made up 37 percent, the group said.  The supply of existing houses will probably remain an issue
for builders. CoreLogic Inc. in March estimated about 1.8
million homes were more than 90 days delinquent, in foreclosure
or bank-owned, a so-called “shadow inventory” set to add to
the unsold supply of 3.87 million previously owned homes already
on the market.  Sinking Share  As distressed transactions have played a bigger role, new-
home sales have shrunk as a share of total sales. They accounted
for 5.6 percent of the market in March, down from 16 percent at
their peak in July 2005.  Foreclosures have weighed on  home prices . The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 3.3 percent
in February from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month decrease
since November 2009, the group said last month. The gauge is
down 33 percent from its July 2006 peak.  In addition to the drop in values, persistent joblessness
may be keeping potential buyers away. The 9 percent unemployment
rate last month, almost two years into an economic recovery,
compares with an average of 4.8 percent in the three years
before the recession began.  That’s helping damp wages. Average hourly earnings for all
workers rose 1.9 percent in April from a year earlier compared
with a 3.4 percent gain in the 12 months through December 2007,
when the recession began, according to Labor Department data.  Douglas Yearley Jr., chief executive officer at  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, last week
said the spring home-selling season has been “disappointing”
and that “people are still scared.”  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 sbwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  