-- 
Rakuten to Start U.K., Germany Sites Year-End in Europe Push

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-24T18:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/rakuten-to-start-u-k-germany-sites-year-end-in-europe-push.html
Rakuten Inc. (4755) ,  Japan ’s biggest online
retailer, is aiming to start full-service sites in the U.K. and
Germany by the end of this year, part of its effort to challenge
Amazon Inc. and  eBay Inc. (EBAY)  in  Europe .  The sites will be built alongside a parallel search for
acquisition targets on the continent that could build Rakuten’s
European footprint, Chief Executive Officer Hiroshi Mikitani
said in an interview in Paris. Tokyo-based Rakuten last year
bought France’s PriceMinister.com for 200 million euros ($282
million), and paid $250 million for American site Buy.com.  Online retailers are hunting for new territory and
expanding into new technologies as growth slows and competition
intensifies in their home markets. EBay, the operator of the
world’s largest online marketplace, may open new local-language
sites in eastern Europe,  Latin America , and  Asia , CEO John Donahoe said in an interview yesterday.  “There is a simultaneous process, which is looking for
possible acquisitions or joint ventures,” Mikitani said. “If
we can add, we will, but for now we will build our own
operations.”  Rakuten’s flagship shopping portal,  Rakuten Ichiba ,
connects some 22,000 merchants to customers looking for a one-
stop shop for products from electronics to pajamas. The company
has used its customer base to sell extra services such as credit
cards, which generated about $771 million in revenue last year,
or 18 percent of total sales.  Bringing those services to Europe will be a second stage in
Rakuten’s expansion in the region, perhaps beginning next year,
Mikitani said. The company is also looking to move its payment
services to mobile devices using so-called near-field
communication technology, which allows wireless payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  