-- 
Rand Advances Against Dollar for First Day in Three as Commodities Rebound

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-24T14:14:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/rand-advances-against-dollar-for-first-day-in-three-as-commodities-rebound.html
The rand snapped two days of losses
against the dollar after commodities rebounded from the biggest
drop in almost two weeks and  Greece  endorsed budget cuts and
accelerated asset sales to avoid a debt default.  The rand advanced as much as 0.4 percent to 6.9874 per
dollar, and traded 0.3 percent stronger at 6.9970 at 3:54 p.m.
in Johannesburg, paring its decline since May 19 to 1.7 percent.
It slipped 0.1 percent to 9.8595 per euro.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials climbed
1.4 percent after yesterday plunging 1.7 percent. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.8 percent, paring its biggest
tumble since June yesterday, and  South Africa ’s benchmark stock
index rallied 1.2 percent after two days of losses. Gold and
platinum, which account for a fifth of South Africa’s export
earnings, also gained.  “The rand remains a candidate to rally when the market
settles down,” BNP Paribas analysts led by London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee wrote in an e-mailed research note. “We still like
to express our bullishness in the rand.”  The euro advanced against the dollar for the first day in
three as German business confidence unexpectedly stayed near a
record in May, fueling bets that the  European Central Bank  will
resume boosting borrowing costs even as the debt crisis
intensified. The Greek government’s endorsement of budget cuts
and accelerated asset sales to win extra aid helped boost
appetite for riskier emerging-market assets.  “Both the euro and rand look set to stabilize today,”
 John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a research note. “The
risk bias is now as follows: no news is good news, allowing slow
rand gains; any further news on eurozone debt problems may
generate further sharp rand losses.”  Ten-year  government bonds  advanced for seventh day, adding
17 cents to 89.43 rand. The yield fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 8.34 percent, the lowest on a closing
basis since Jan. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  