-- 
RBA Pay Power Should Shift to Outside Panel, Gillard Ally Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-24T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/rba-pay-power-should-shift-to-outside-panel-gillard-ally-says.html
Australia ’s central bank should cede
control of senior officials’ pay, a member of Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s ruling coalition said, intensifying a debate
over Governor Glenn Stevens’s A$1.05 million ($1.1 million)
package.  Bob Brown , whose Greens party allows Gillard to stay in
office and will hold the balance of power in the Senate starting
in July, said the pay of top Reserve Bank executives needs to be
set by the same panel that decides compensation for judges and
other officials.  “That would ensure the proper checks and balances are in
place and would not reduce the central bank’s independence,”
Brown said in a statement issued to Bloomberg News in the
capital, Canberra.  The dispute pits some lawmakers against a central bank
that’s trying to retain public servants in a nation with the
world’s sixth-highest gross domestic product per capita. The
average compensation of chief executive officers of Australia’s
four biggest banks in the most recent fiscal year was A$11
million. The average full-time worker makes about A$67,000 a
year.  Roger Corbett, chairman of  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  who heads the
RBA’s compensation committee, was traveling and couldn’t be
reached for comment, according to his office. A spokesman for
the central bank declined to comment.  Swan’s Rebuke  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  in September urged the RBA
compensation committee to “discharge its powers with an
emphasis on ensuring that salaries are adjusted to be in line
with community expectations of senior officials’ remuneration,”
according to correspondence between the central bank and the
Treasurer’s office obtained under a Freedom of Information Act
request.  Swan’s rebuke was a response to a A$234,000 pay raise
granted to Stevens in October 2008, a month after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., making his base pay in 2010
more than what the heads of the  European Central Bank  and U.S.
Federal Reserve made combined.  Barnaby Joyce, Senate leader for the junior opposition
coalition partner The Nationals that mainly represents rural
areas, defended Stevens’s salary. While such income “would seem
incredible to many Australians, the reality is that it’s
probably not compared to what he could get somewhere else -- at
commercial banks.”  ‘Outrageous’  Independent lawmaker  Bob Katter , whose district in northern
Queensland is almost the size of  Texas , said the 2008 salary
increase was “nothing short of outrageous” and Stevens’s pay
should be decided by the country’s Remuneration Tribunal.  “It is a public-service position,” Katter said in an
interview in Canberra. “The RBA governor is not worth 20 times
the average wage.”  Former RBA officials have sought to counter the move to
strip the institution of its pay-setting authority, saying it
might shrink the talent pool for recruiting.  Donald McGauchie, who headed the RBA compensation committee
until March, said in an interview last month that the disparity
between Stevens and his global peers was explained by the belief
that an RBA governor wouldn’t be able to command the same income
as his global central bank peers after leaving the post.  Former RBA Governor Bernie Fraser said last week the burden
carried by the head of the central bank justifies Stevens’s
salary.  Job Responsibility  “You are making a decision that affects everyone in the
country,” Fraser said in a May 19 interview. “It’s the level
of responsibility that weighs on you.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  was paid 367,863 euros
($518,245) last year, 2 percent more than his 2009 salary,
according to an ECB report in March. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  made $199,700.  Australia’s pay tribunal is an independent authority with
three members and determines, reports on or provides advice
about remuneration, including allowances and entitlements that
are within its jurisdiction for federal lawmakers, judicial and
non-judicial offices of federal courts and tribunals and others.  South Australian Senator Nick Xenophon, one of seven upper
house lawmakers needed to pass laws until July, said he backed
the tribunal to set Stevens’s compensation. “You are talking
about a hybrid of a senior public servant and a corporate high-
flier and the tribunal needs to have extra resources to deal
with his and senior salaries in the bank,” Xenophon said in an
interview.  Recession Avoided  Stevens was one of seven central bank chiefs to receive an
‘A’ grade in a September 2009 Global Finance Magazine  survey  for
navigating their economies through the world economy’s worst
postwar recession.  Australia was one among the few developed countries to
skirt the global recession as Stevens slashed the overnight
cash-rate target to a 50-year low of 3 percent and the country
benefited from sustained Chinese demand for its exports. As the
economy rebounded, he raised  interest rates  in seven quarter-
point steps from October 2009 to November last year.  The RBA governorship isn’t “the same as other positions,”
Joyce said. “It’s one of the top positions and hand in glove
with that if he gets his job wrong he deserves all the
pillorying that comes with the fact that he’s a highly paid
executive. If he gets his job right, we’re all better off.”  Power Shift  Gillard’s minority Labor government needs the support of
four non-party lawmakers to pass laws after the August 2010
election delivered the closest result in 70 years. Greens
lawmaker  Adam Bandt  along with independents  Tony Windsor ,  Rob Oakeshott  and  Andrew Wilkie  pledged their support to enable
Labor to govern.  Beginning July 1, when the new Senate term starts, the
Greens will have the balance of power in the nation’s upper
house, with enough of its own senators to side with Labor to
pass laws or team with the opposition to defeat them.  Oakeshott said that ensuring “the best talent outcome for
the most important financial institution” in the country was
the key issue.  “I am completely unconvinced as to why we need to change
anything,” he said. “The  Reserve Bank  has been doing a good,
independent job in protecting our economy. Why mess with it?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  