-- 
Regional Fed Directors Saw Risks to Economic Growth, Inflation

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-24T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/regional-fed-directors-saw-risks-to-economic-growth-inflation.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s 12
regional banks saw the U.S. economic recovery “progressing”
while noting risks from inflation and slower growth, according
to minutes of Board of Governors’ meetings in April.  “Labor market conditions had continued to improve
modestly,” they said, noting that business and consumer
spending, manufacturing and agriculture were all increasing.
“Although the economic recovery was progressing, they were
cautious about the economic outlook,” according to minutes of
the board’s April 25 meeting in  Washington . “A number of
directors saw upside risks to the inflation outlook.”  The minutes released today show that most regional bank
directors affirmed the view of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
the rate-setting Open Market Committee that record monetary
stimulus remains appropriate to accelerate  job creation  and fuel
economic growth.  “Most directors recommended that the current accommodative
stance of monetary policy be maintained,” said the minutes of
the meeting to discuss the Fed’s discount rate, which it charges
on emergency loans to banks. Recommendations about changing the
rate, which has been at 0.75 percent since Feb. 2010, were the
same as in previous meetings, with 10 banks preferring no
change.  Some directors expressed caution due to “considerable
slack remaining in the economy and ongoing downside risks,”
including rising commodity prices and reductions in  government
spending , the minutes said.  Rate Structure  Fed banks in  Dallas  and  Kansas City  last month repeated
calls for an increase in the discount rate by a quarter-point to
1 percent, a move that would be a step toward “a pre-crisis
discount rate structure.”  None of the Fed’s 12 banks has changed its recommendation
on the discount rate since June. The Fed’s Washington-based
Board of Governors expressed “no sentiment” for changing the
rate and kept it at 0.75 percent last month.  As of May 18, banks were borrowing $5 million in primary
credit from the Fed discount window. The discount rate is
currently 50 basis points above the Fed funds rate, which has
been kept at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The central bank raised the discount rate in February
2010, a move it described at the time as a “normalization” of
lending terms and not a tightening of monetary policy. Prior to
August 2007, the Fed kept the rate, also known as the primary
credit rate, 1 percentage point above the target for the
benchmark federal funds rate.  Separate Minutes  A separate set of minutes for the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s discussion about monetary policy were released last
week. The FOMC next meets in Washington on June 21-22.  The directors endorsed the FOMC’s view that rising
commodity prices are likely to have a “transitory” effect on
inflation, saying that such an increase was “generally not
expected to be sustained.”  Discount-rate changes are requested by boards of directors
at the 12 regional Fed banks. The requests are subject to final
review and determination by the  Fed Board , which consists of the
bank’s five Washington-based governors. Central bank governors
review requests about every two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  