-- 
Reid Backs Emergency Funding for Tornado and Flood Relief

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-05-24T23:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/reid-backs-emergency-funding-for-tornado-and-flood-relief-1-.html
Congress ought to approve an
emergency spending bill to aid victims of flooding and
tornadoes, U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today.  “We’ve had, just in the last couple of weeks, some very,
very difficult things over which people had no control,” the
Nevada Democrat told reporters.  “Every time we have a natural disaster, we take care of
people,” he said. “We do that because it’s an emergency, and
that’s exclusive of all the other budget things we do, and I
think we should do it with the floods and certainly those
terrible tornadoes that we had.”  The White House has not yet requested emergency aid. “We
are monitoring the situation closely and will consider a
supplemental request if the need arises,” said Meg Reilly, a
spokeswoman for the Office of Management and Budget.  In the  House of Representatives  today, the Appropriations
Committee voted to move $1.1 billion into the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency ’s disaster relief fund. The money would be
deducted from funds that had been provided for the development
of fuel-efficient vehicles.  “FEMA is projecting that under the best-case scenario, the
disaster relief fund will essentially run dry before the end of
the fiscal year. This amendment ensures FEMA’s recovery efforts
are not interrupted and that those affected by recent horrific
disasters can continue to get assistance,” Representative
Robert Aderholt, an  Alabama  Republican, said in a news release.  Last month, 327 people were killed in tornadoes across the
U.S. South, mostly in Alabama. Early this week tornadoes killed
at least 116 people in Joplin, Missouri, with more violent
thunderstorms predicted for the central U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  