-- 
Republicans, Democrats Clash Over Higher Gas Prices Cause

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-05-24T19:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/republicans-clash-with-democrats-over-cause-of-higher-gas-prices.html
U.S. House Republicans said
regulatory uncertainty and bureaucratic delays pushed gasoline
prices higher before the Memorial Day holiday, clashing with
Democrats who said commodity speculation caused costs to rise.  House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman
 Darrell Issa  of California led Republicans in blaming the Obama
administration for limiting exploration in the Gulf of Mexico,
the largest source of U.S. domestic crude, echoing  arguments  by
the American Petroleum Institute, an energy trade group.  “The United States has the largest reserves in the world -
- resources that can provide good-paying American jobs and fuel
our economic expansion,” Issa said in a statement before
today’s hearing in Washington. “Standing between that energy
and U.S. consumers is an obstacle course of government red tape,
regulation, delays and obfuscations.”  Gasoline at the pump climbed 37 percent in the past 12
months, to an average $3.83 yesterday, according to the AAA’s
website. The Interior Department, which halted exploration after
the  BP Plc (BP)  oil spill last year, issued permits for 14 deep-water
wells for companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  after the industry demonstrated ability to contain spills.  Issa cited a Congressional Research Service  report , showing
reserves and estimated undiscovered oil and gas equal to 1.324
trillion barrels. U.S. proven reserves, at 28.4 billion barrels,
account for 2.1 percent of the world’s resources, ranking 12th
globally, according to BP Plc’s  Statistical Review of World
Energy 2010 .  Crude Speculation  Proven reserves can be recovered from known reservoirs
under current economic and operating conditions, BP said in the
report.  An increase in domestic drilling wouldn’t change oil prices
by more than 1 percent, while “excessive oil speculation” may
be driving up prices as much as 30 percent, said Representative
Elijah E. Cummings of  Maryland , the panel’s top Democrat.  President Barack Obama formed a  task force  led by Attorney
General Eric Holder to investigate potential manipulation in the
 commodities markets . He also allowed leases in the Gulf of
Mexico and Alaska extension to encourage oil exploration, the
Deputy Interior Secretary David Hayes told the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee today.  The Republican-led House this month passed legislation to
open drilling areas along the Atlantic, Southern California and
Alaska coasts. A similar bill fell 18 votes short in the Senate.
Democrats blocked action, saying the measure ignored lessons
from the 2010 BP offshore oil spill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  