-- 
Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for May (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-05-24T14:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-may-text-.html
The following is the text of the Richmond Federal Reserve
Bank’s manufacturing sector activity survey for May.  Manufacturing Activity Stalled in May;
But Expectations Remain Upbeat  Overview  Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region paused in May, after
expanding during the previous seven months, according to the Richmond Fed’s latest
survey. The index of overall activity was pushed into negative territory by weak
readings for shipments and new orders, while employment growth held steady. Other
indicators suggested additional softness. District contacts reported that capacity
utilization turned negative and backlogs fell further, while delivery times grew
more slowly. In addition, manufacturers reported an uptick in finished goods
inventory growth.  Despite the recent decline in activity, manufacturers were generally optimistic
about their future prospects in May. Survey contacts at an increasing number of
firms looked for solid growth in shipments, new orders, capacity utilization and
 capital expenditures  over the next six months.  Survey measures of current prices revealed that prices of raw materials grew at
a rapid pace, and finished goods grew at a slightly quickening pace in May.
Respondents indicated that during the next six months they expected growth in both
raw materials and finished goods prices to slow somewhat from what they had
anticipated last month.  Current Activity  In May, the seasonally adjusted composite index of manufacturing activity--our
broadest measure of manufacturing--fell sixteen points to -6 from April’s reading of
10. Among the index’s components, shipments decreased nineteen points to -13, new
orders dropped twenty-five points to finish at -15, while the jobs index held steady
at 14.  Other indicators were mostly weak. The index for capacity utilization moved
down fourteen points to -12, and the backlog of orders index lost eighteen points to
-19. The delivery times index declined thirteen points to end at 5, while our gauges
for inventories were mixed in May. The finished goods inventory index edged up two
points in May to end at 12, while the raw materials inventories index eased two
points to 16.  Employment  The pace of hiring held steady at District plants in May. The manufacturing
employment index was unchanged at 14 and the average workweek measure flattened,
losing seven points to 0. However, wage growth slowed sharply, falling sixteen
points to 6.  Expectations  Respondents in the current survey were generally upbeat about their business
prospects over the next six months. The index of expected shipments added six points
to end at 37 while the volume of new orders index increased two points to 40.
Backlogs inched down five points to end at 22, while the capacity utilization was
virtually unchanged at 27. The vendor lead-time index lost four points to finish at
8, and the planned capital expenditures index fell three points to 26.  District manufacturers’ intentions to expand hiring firmed in May. The expected
manufacturing employment index was unchanged at 17, and the average workweek
indicator picked up two points to 14. In contrast, the expected wages index posted a
two-point loss to 28.  Prices  District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices increased at an
average annual rate of 6.12 percent in May -- the highest reading since the
inception of our survey in December 1993 -- compared to April’s reading of 4.81
percent. Finished goods prices rose at a 3.36 percent pace -- up slightly from
April’s reading of 2.60 percent last month.  Looking forward, respondents expected that the prices they pay will advance at
a 3.63 percent pace, down somewhat from April’s reading of 3.88 percent.
Additionally, contacts looked for finished goods prices to increase at a 2.41
percent annual rate, down slightly from last month’s expectation of 3.02 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  