-- 
Ringgit Gains on Speculation Losses Overdone on Rate Outlook

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-05-24T08:49:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/ringgit-gains-on-speculation-losses-overdone-on-rate-outlook.html
Malaysia’s ringgit gained on
speculation yesterday’s biggest loss in a week was excessive as
the central bank may still raise  interest rates  to damp
inflation, boosting the yield premium over developed markets.  The currency climbed off a one-week low on optimism
exporters will repatriate overseas earnings as the month-end
approaches. Malaysia will decide this week whether to cut more
fuel subsidies, state news agency Bernama reported yesterday,
citing Domestic Trade, Cooperatives and Consumerism Minister
Ismail Sabri Yaakob.  “The selling was overdone yesterday because of  risk
aversion ,” said Yeo Chin Tiong, head of financial markets at
Alliance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The ringgit’s rise is
limited as developments in Europe will continue to weigh down
sentiment.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.3 percent to 3.0515 per dollar
as of 4:33 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The currency slumped 1.3 percent yesterday as signs
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening reduced demand for emerging-
market assets.  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece’s creditworthiness on
May 20 by three levels to B+, or four levels below investment
grade, citing the challenge of fiscal and structural reform
needed to secure the state’s solvency.  Malaysia’s inflation may be higher if subsidy cuts are
larger, central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz told reporters in
Kuala Lumpur yesterday.  Bank Negara  raised its overnight policy rate to 3 percent
from 2.75 percent on May 5, saying the economy is on a steady
growth path. The policy rate may rise to 3.25 percent in the
third quarter, according to the median estimate of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. The bank next meets to decide on
interest rates on July 7.  Government bonds  fell. The yield on the 4.262 percent note
due September 2016 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 3.58 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  Malaysia will sell 4 billion ringgit ($1.3 billion) of
five-year Islamic bonds on May 30, according to data published
by the central bank on its website today. The government will
auction more of the existing Shariah-compliant notes maturing in
November 2016, which were first sold in 2006.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 