-- 
Trinidadian Man Was Member of Plot to Blow Up JFK Airport, Jury Is Told

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-24T22:38:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/trinidadian-man-was-member-of-plot-to-blow-up-jfk-airport-jury-is-told.html
Kareem Ibrahim , a citizen of
Trinidad, participated in a foiled plot to blow up New York’s
John F. Kennedy International Airport, federal prosecutors told
jurors at the close of the second trial in the case.  Ibrahim, 65, in May 2007 offered to find people who might
fund the scheme, Assistant U.S. Attorney Zainab Ahmad told
jurors today in federal court in Brooklyn, New York.  “Mr. Ibrahim embraced that plan,” Ahmad said in her
summation today. “He embraced it with open arms.”  The attacks, hatched by a former cargo worker at the
airport,  Russell Defreitas , were designed to blow up fuel lines
and tanks and, ultimately, “the whole of Kennedy,” Defreitas
said in a recorded conversation. The plot surrounding the
Queens,  New York , airport was foiled in its planning stages with
the aid of informant Steven Francis, who infiltrated the group,
according to the government.  Three men have already been sentenced in the case.
Defreitas, 67, a U.S. citizen and native of  Guyana , and  Abdul Kadir , 59, a former member of Guyana’s parliament, were
sentenced to life in prison after a jury convicted them in
August. Abdel Nur, 61, a Guyanese citizen who pleaded guilty on
the eve of last year’s trial, was sentenced to 15 years.
Francis testified at both trials.  In his closing argument, Ibrahim’s lawyer Michael Hueston
told the jurors that his client never intended to join the plot
and lied to Defreitas and Francis when he said he would.  “Lying is a tactic,” Hueston said. “Mr. Ibrahim was
trying to escape from these individuals.”  Medical Condition  Ibrahim, who was slated to be tried last year with the
others, was granted a separate proceeding due to a medical
condition. The trial, presided over by U.S. District Judge Dora Irizarry, began with opening statements May 10. The jury is
scheduled to begin its deliberations tomorrow.  Ibrahim advised the plotters not to seek help from an
extremist group in Trinidad and instead offered to find other
backers in  Iran , according to the June 2007 criminal complaint
under which he was arrested.  “It was his idea to present the plan to Iran, and he had
the connections to get it done,” Ahmad said of Ibrahim in her
closing statement today.  The plot members had sought support from Abu Bakr, leader
of the group Jamaat Al Muslimeen, or JAM, which had staged a
1990 coup attempt in Trinidad that resulted in two dozen deaths,
Ahmad told jurors.  Terrorist Threats  The JFK plotters hoped to get help either from JAM directly
or by JAM introducing them to Adnan G. El Shukrijumah, according
to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch.
Shukrijumah is wanted in connection with possible terrorist
threats against the U.S. and is a member of al-Qaeda, the Muslim
terrorist group formerly led by  Osama bin Laden , according to
court papers.  Ibrahim, Defreitas and Francis met with Nur at a JAM
compound in Trinidad in May 2007, according to the complaint.
Nur told them he had met with a JAM leader and presented the
plot to attack New York’s biggest airport.  The next day, Ibrahim advised against approaching JAM and
instead said he would “present the plan to contacts overseas
who may be interested in purchasing or funding it,” according
to the complaint.  Present the Plan  During that conversation Defreitas compared the scheme to
the Sept. 11 attacks, and said, “Even the Twin Towers can’t
touch it,” according to the complaint. “This can destroy the
economy of America for some time if it falls into the right
hands.”  Four days later, Ibrahim told Defreitas he was sending “an
associate” to travel “overseas” to present the plan,
according to the complaint. The men were arrested shortly after
that.  Hueston, the defense attorney, said today that no evidence,
including recorded conversations, showed that Ibrahim tapped
Kadir to fly to Iran to gain support for the plan, as the
government contends. Kadir was arrested on a plane en route to
Iran.  “Why doesn’t he mention it?” Hueston said of Ibrahim.
“Because it never happened.”  “The defendant in this case was caught red-handed,
captured on tape committing the very crimes with which he is
charged,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Marshall Miller told jurors
in his closing argument.  The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 