-- 
Rosengren Says Bank Capital in U.S. Has Substantially Improved

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-24T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/rosengren-says-bank-capital-in-u-s-has-substantially-improved.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said that the  central bank ’s regulation
and supervision have helped improve the strength of U.S. banks.  “Through retention of earnings, asset sales, and new
equity issuances, U.S. banks have substantially improved their
 capital ratios  since the crisis period,” Rosengren said today
according to prepared remarks for a speech in St. Petersburg,
 Russia .  The Boston regional bank chief, speaking at a forum on
financial stability, recounted the Fed’s experience with two
major “stress tests” of the largest banks and said regulators
need to focus mostly on “narrow” definitions of capital.  The Fed in March cleared some of the 19 largest U.S. banks
to increase dividends, buy back shares or repay  government aid 
after “significant improvement” in their capital and the
economy. The first stress test in 2009 evaluated how the banks
would fare in an adverse economic scenario.  “The broader measures of capital were largely ignored
during the crisis by many investors as they worried about the
‘core’ capital immediately available to absorb losses,”
Rosengren said. “Clearly we need to focus on the narrow
definitions of capital -- that which can readily absorb
losses.”  Rosengren noted that the narrowest capital definition, the
ratio of tangible common equity to tangible assets, has risen to
about 6 percent at the end of 2010 from about 2 percent in 2008.  “The improvement in the quality and quantity of capital is
quite striking,” Rosengren said in a speech at the  St.
Petersburg  branch of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation.  The stronger capital “reflects both significant raising of
external capital as well as dramatic declines in dividends and
stock buybacks during the crisis and the early period of
recovery,” he said. “Both of these dynamics have had a
significant positive impact on the institutions’ ability to
withstand potential future stresses.”  Rosengren, 53, joined the Boston Fed as an economist in
1985, and became the bank’s president in 2007. Prior to becoming
president, he was the head of the bank’s department of
supervision, regulation and credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  