-- 
Rosneft Said to Seek Siberia Oil Exploration Deal With Japan

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-05-25T09:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/rosneft-said-to-seek-siberia-oil-exploration-deal-with-japan.html
OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest oil
producer, will seek Japanese cash and technology to fund
Siberian oil exploration at a meeting later this week, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Rosneft plans to discuss 11 oil and gas licenses in eastern
Siberia and three blocks in the Magadan region in Russia’s  Far
East  with  Japan ’s  Agency for Natural Resources and Energy , part
of the trade ministry, one of the people said, declining to be
named because the agenda of the May 26 meeting is private.
Japanese companies could hold 49 percent of any venture, while
financing exploration in full, the person said.  Japan, which imports about 90 percent of its oil from the
Middle East, is diversifying it sources of  energy supply  after
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant was damaged by the
country’s worst earthquake and a tsunami, forcing it to buy more
oil and gas. Eastern Siberia holds 10 percent of Rosneft’s
reserves, according to the state-run company’s website.  A protocol of intent may be signed following the talks in
Moscow, one person said.  Japan may consider participating in the construction of an
oil-product pipeline from Rosneft’s Komsomolsk refinery to the
De Kastri port on the Pacific coast in exchange for stakes in
oil production projects, one of the people said. A planned
petrochemical plant in the Russian Far East will also be
discussed, the person said.  ‘On All Continents’  Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Eduard Khudainatov aims to
build partnerships with international companies and give the
state-controlled producer a presence “on all continents.”
Rosneft is looking to expand in  Asia  after agreements with  China 
to supply crude in exchange for $15 billion of long-term loans
and build a refinery, as well as explore and develop fields.  China National Offshore Corp. and China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, had expressed interest in the
Magadan 1 and 2 areas, Khudainatov said in March.  A $7.8 billion share swap with BP Plc and an agreement to
explore the Kara Sea in Russia’s Arctic fell apart last week
after a successful legal challenge from the U.K. company’s
existing Russian partners.  Rosneft and Japan in March 2008 signed an initial agreement
to cooperate on crude oil exploration and production.  Rosneft and Japan are discussing possible partnerships,
Moscow-based Rosneft’s press service said, declining to comment
further. Officials at the Agency for Natural Resources and
Energy in  Tokyo  couldn’t be reached for comment when called by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  