-- 
Royal Bank, National May Raise Dividends as Profits Jump

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-05-24T20:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/royal-bank-of-canada-national-bank-may-raise-dividends-as-profits-jump.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and  National
Bank of Canada (NA)  may be among lenders that boost dividends when
they begin reporting higher second-quarter earnings tomorrow,
analysts said.  Royal Bank,  Canada ’s largest lender, may lift its quarterly
payout 8 percent to 54 cents a share, the first increase in
almost four years, according to Bloomberg Dividend Forecasts.
National Bank may raise its dividend 7.6 percent to 71 cents,
according to the forecasts, which were accurate 84 percent of
the time in 2010.  Led by higher wealth-management and capital-markets fees
and lower credit costs, Canada’s eight publicly traded banks may
post an average 12 percent jump in profit for the period that
ended April 30, said Sumit Malhotra, an analyst at Macquarie
Capital Markets in Toronto. Some of the lenders began increasing
dividends in December.  “Dividend growth tells you something about where the banks
are today and where they’re going,” said David Atkins, vice-
president of investments at Cardinal Capital Management Inc. in
Winnipeg, Manitoba, which manages about C$1.6 billion ($1.65
billion) in assets, including bank shares. “Now we can start
talking about traditional banking and less about ‘do they have
enough capital?’.”  Spokespeople from Toronto-based Royal Bank and Montreal-
based National Bank didn’t immediately have comment on potential
dividend increases.  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB)  and  Canadian
Western Bank (CWB) , the country’s seventh- and eighth-largest banks,
may also boost their payouts, according to the Bloomberg
forecasts.  Loan Losses  Provisions for loan losses at the banks have decreased for
four straight quarters, while asset-management fees will climb,
bolstered by acquisitions. Royal Bank will report the first full
quarter from its acquisition of U.K. money manager BlueBay Asset
Management, while Bank of Nova Scotia, the third-biggest lender,
will add results from its March purchase of DundeeWealth Inc.  With fewer writedowns than international competitors,
Canada’s banking system has been ranked the world’s soundest for
three straight years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum .
Five of its lenders were listed among the world’s 20 strongest
banks by Bloomberg Markets magazine.  “Based on our review of the key datapoints we still expect
that the banks will benefit from a strong quarter of market-
sensitive revenue” in the second quarter, Malhotra said in a
note to clients.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)   Bank of Montreal, the country’s fourth-largest bank, is
scheduled to be the first bank to release results tomorrow. The
lender will probably post the slowest growth, with profit before
one-time items of C$1.28 a share, unchanged from a year earlier,
according to Robert Sedran, an analyst at CIBC World markets in
Toronto.  Toronto-Dominion, the second-biggest bank, will report
profit of C$1.60 a share, an 18 percent increase, when it
releases results on May 26, Sedran said.  CIBC will report the same day, with profit of C$1.77 a
share, a 21 percent jump, while National Bank may say profit
climbed 9.3 percent to C$1.64, according to CIBC estimates.  Royal Bank will report profit of C$1.13 a share, up 18
percent from the year-earlier period, and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) 
may say profit increased 4.9 percent to C$1.07 a share, Sedran
said.  The 10-member  Standard & Poor’s /TSX Banks Index fell 17.4
points to 2,158.40 at 4:15 p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock
Exchange, led lower by National Bank and Bank of Montreal. The
index has gained 9.3 percent this year, compared with a 1.1
percent gain for the S&P/TSX Composite Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 