-- 
RTS-Index Futures Decline as Europe Debt Crisis Reduces Demand

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-05-24T22:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/rts-index-futures-decline-as-europe-debt-crisis-reduces-demand.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
fell, signaling stocks may retreat in Moscow, amid concerns
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis may reduce demand for Russia’s
key exports, including oil and metals.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
fell 0.3 percent. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, the country’s
biggest oil producer, and OAO Lukoil, the second-largest, each
fell 0.3 percent. Futures on OAO Gazprom, the world’s top gas
producer, also declined 0.3 percent.  “Uncertainty is killing the appetite,” Elena Matrosova, a
Moscow-based economist at BDO International, said in a phone
interview. “Europe’s debt problem translates into liquidity
questions for investors. Oil, metals prices will depend on how
much liquidity is available.”  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said he is strongly against a full
restructuring of  Greece ’s debt. Euro-region countries may take
further steps to help Greece with its debt crisis, he told
reporters yesterday in The Hague, where he and Belgian Prime
Minister Yves Leterme met their Dutch counterpart  Mark Rutte .  Russia is the world’s largest energy exporter and produces
metals including gold, silver, copper, nickel, palladium and
aluminum. Oil and natural gas account for a quarter of the
economic output.  Lukoil, Gazprom  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 1.3 percent yesterday, ending a two-
session drop. Lukoil’s American depositary receipts rose 1.2
percent. Gazprom’s ADRs climbed 2.3 percent. OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel’s ADRs increased 1.8 percent.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
rose 0.7 percent. Commodities rebounded after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said it’s turning “more bullish” on raw materials.  Crude oil for July delivery rose 1.9 percent to settle at
$99.59 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have
risen 42 percent in the past year.  Brent crude  for July settlement gained $2.43, or 2.2
percent, to $112.53 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Goldman, which correctly advised investors to
sell crude oil and copper last month before a price slump,
raised its 12-month prediction for Brent crude to $130 a barrel
from $107.  Oil rose in  New York  as the dollar declined, boosting
commodities’ appeal as an alternative investment. Silver, zinc
and nickel climbed at least 2 percent to lead an advance in
commodities.  Balanced Budget  Russia’s budget deficit will probably reach 1 percent to
1.4 percent of gross domestic product this year and may drop
below that range if oil prices average above $105 a barrel,
Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin told President  Dmitry Medvedev 
outside Moscow on May 23.  “Chances for the balanced budget in 2011 remain as we
anticipate higher oil price,” ING Bank analysts led by Dmitry Polevoy in Moscow said in a report on May 24. That would help
avoid an acceleration of the inflation rate this year, ING
analysts said in the report.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks gained 1.6 percent to 1,598.82
yesterday in Moscow. The dollar-denominated RTS Index added 2
percent to 1,800.04.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1 percent,
rebounding from its biggest slide in 11 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  