-- 
Russian Stocks Posting World’s Biggest Decline on Presidential Vote, Oil

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-05-25T12:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/russian-stocks-posting-slump-on-elections-oil.html
Russia ’s  RTS  Index, the world’s best-
performing stock gauge in the first three months, is sliding the
most this quarter as oil falls, economic growth slows and
concern builds over who will vie for president in 2012
elections.  The RTS has lost 12 percent since March 31, the most among
equity measures in the world’s 40 biggest markets. Investors
pulled $353 million from Russian stock funds last week, the
biggest outflow since 2006, EPFR Global data show. The RTS may
extend declines to a level 20 percent below its 2011 peak,
UralSib Financial Corp.’s Christopher Weafer said May 22.  Russian shares are falling from the highest valuations
since 2008 as oil trades within 3 percent of a two-month low and
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and President  Dmitry Medvedev 
delay a decision on who will run in the presidential elections,
according to Prosperity Capital Management. Lower-than-estimated
economic growth and industrial production in Russia have also
fueled losses for emerging-market fund managers who have their
top “overweight” holdings in the biggest energy exporter.  “The confusion over who will be in charge always comes up
when we talk to investors,” said Mattias Westman, founding
partner of Prosperity Capital Management, which oversees more
than $5 billion in Russia and the CIS. They “would like to know
the outcome before they commit” to Russia, he said.  Medvedev, Putin  Medvedev, 45, said “one can hope” he’ll run for re-
election next year, declining to be more specific about his
plans, the Kremlin’s press service said on May 19. Putin, the
58-year-old former KGB officer who picked Medvedev as his
successor in 2008 because of a ban on serving three consecutive
terms, said on May 6 he’s creating a coalition of supporters
under his personal leadership ahead of the March 2012
presidential ballot.  “Political uncertainty is weighing on the market as is the
volatility of commodities,” said Michael Kart, a managing
partner at Spectrum Partners Ltd. in Moscow. “Medvedev is the
first choice of foreign investors looking at Russia.”  Urals crude, Russia’s main export blend, has declined 3.4
percent this quarter to $109.30 a barrel amid a rally in the
dollar and increased concern that global economic growth is
slowing. The government needs crude at about $115 a barrel to
balance its budget, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said in
March, the highest-ever breakeven level.  ‘ Bear Market ’  Russia’s 4.1 percent expansion in the first quarter trailed
the 4.2 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey as
capital flight restrained growth. The government reported a 4.5
percent gain in April industrial production last week, missing
the 5.4 percent median economist estimate.  The RTS index’s decline this quarter has trimmed its 2011
advance to 1.7 percent and left it trading 15 percent below this
year’s high on April 8 as of yesterday. That compares with a 2.4
percent retreat in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index this year and
a 3 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of developed-nation
stocks. The RTS lost as much as 1.7 percent today, before
trading 0.1 percent lower at 3:55 p.m. in Moscow.  “We could easily see the market decline stretch to a
technical bear market fall of 20 percent in coming weeks,”
Weafer, chief strategist at Moscow-based UralSib, wrote in a May
22 report. He said investors should consider buying shares after
a retreat to those levels.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index has dropped 7.7 percent this
quarter, while China’s Shanghai Composite Index is down 5.5
percent and  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index has
lost 7.4 percent.  Spreads Widen  Net capital outflows from Russia grew to $7.8 billion last
month from $6.2 billion in March, RIA Novosti reported on May
20, citing Gennady Melikyan, the first deputy chairman of the
central bank.  Lack of investor demand spurred five Russian companies
including state-owned OAO Russian Helicopters and Nord Gold NV,
the gold-mining unit of steelmaker OAO Severstal, to pull out of
initial public offerings this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Credit investors have pared their bets on Russia. The extra
yield money managers demand to own the nation’s dollar debt over
U.S. Treasuries has increased 39 basis points, or 0.39
percentage point, from its April 6 low to 214 on March 23,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Russian credit-default swaps have climbed to 142 basis
points from a low of 122, signaling deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The ruble has weakened to 28.4 per
dollar from 27.2 on May 4, the strongest level since November
2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Putin Hints  “Putin hinting he will run for the presidency has caused
some minor nervousness among investors as it introduces a wild
card,” Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage the equivalent of
$9.6 billion of emerging-market debt, including Russian bonds,
at Union Investment in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail. “This risk
factor is not fully integrated yet into spreads.”  The retreat in Russian shares this quarter is a buying
opportunity as long as  oil prices  don’t tumble further,
according to Andrew Howell, Citigroup Inc.’s emerging-market
strategist in  London , who has an “overweight” rating on the
country’s shares. He wrote in a May 6 report that Russian stocks
are “the most-attractively valued” among emerging markets.  Relative Value  The RTS trades for 1.2 times book value, or net assets,
down from a high of 1.4 times last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Russian gauge is valued at a 39
percent discount to the MSCI emerging markets index, compared
with an average 42 percent gap since 2002, the data show.  Russia’s economy will accelerate in the second half as
inflation slows and the ruble strengthens, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. strategists led by Sergei Arsenyev in Moscow wrote in a May
17 research note. Arsenyev recommended buying Russian shares and
reducing positions in  Turkey .  Yandex NV, owner of Russia’s most-popular Internet search
engine, raised $1.3 billion in a U.S. initial public offering
this week. The Moscow-based company sold 52.2 million shares, or
a 16.2 percent stake, at $25 each, valuing the company at about
$8 billion, Yandex said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
That’s above the original $20 to $22 range. The shares surged 55
percent on its first day of trading on the Nasdaq yesterday.  Managers of global emerging market funds already had a
bigger consensus overweight position in Russia than any other
country in March, meaning they held more Russian shares than
were represented in benchmark indexes, EPFR Global data compiled
by JPMorgan show.  Fund Outflows  Money has flowed out of Russian equity funds during the
past two weeks, with investors pulling more than $420 million
from May 4 through May 18, according to data compiled by EPFR
Global, a research firm based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . That
compares with $390 million of outflows from  China  funds and $144
million of redemptions from India funds. Brazil funds had $65
million of inflows, the EPFR data show.  Medvedev told reporters last week he wants a faster pace of
“modernization” for the country than Putin and said freeing
jailed former Yukos Oil Co. billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky 
wouldn’t be “dangerous” for Russia. Khodorkovsky was sentenced
to six years in prison in December, on top of an initial eight,
on fraud charges he says were filed because of his opposition to
Putin. Yukos went bankrupt in 2006 after Putin’s government
claimed more than $30 billion in back taxes. The Moscow City
Court yesterday rejected Khodorkovsky’s appeal to overturn his
conviction.  Putin said last month that Russia must avoid liberal
“experiments” to ensure sustainable economic growth.  “The chance that the next president of Russia will be
either Medvedev or Putin is astonishingly high,” said Peter Jarvis, senior investment manager at Pictet Asset Management,
which has about $1.5 billion invested in Russia. “In terms of
backing one horse or the other, only two people have the answer
to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 