-- 
Moscow City Court Rejects Khodorkovsky Appeal, Cuts Sentence

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-05-24T16:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/russian-court-rejects-khodorkovsky-appeal-cuts-sentence-by-year.html
The Moscow City Court rejected an
appeal by  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  to overturn his conviction in a
case that added six years to the eight years he received in
2005, while reducing the sentence by one year.  The jailed former billionaire head of Yukos Oil Co. will
spend a total of 13 years in prison, including the eight years
he is serving on previous charges, Judge Vladimir Usov said
today. Khodorkovsky will now remain in prison until after 2016.
The defense team will appeal the ruling to the  European Court  of
Human Rights in Strasbourg, spokesman Maxim Dbar said.  Khodorkovsky, 47, once  Russia ’s richest man, in December
was sentenced to an additional six years in prison on fraud
charges he says were filed because of his opposition to Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin . The U.S. and European governments said
the verdict was a step backward for judicial independence and
would harm the investment climate.  “The questionable circumstances of the case once again
throw a negative light on the efforts to improve rule of law in
Russia,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said in an
e-mailed statement. “Legal certainty is a valuable asset and a
prerequisite for investments as important as well as the
citizens’ sense of safety and justice.”  Originally due for release in 2011, the 47-year-old has
called the cases against him, which also include charges of oil
theft and money laundering, retribution for his opposition to
Putin. Khodorkovsky said today that a “poisonous Stalinist
spider” wrote the verdict in his second trial for fraud and  tax
evasion .  President Dmitry Medvedev said May 18 that freeing
Khodorkovsky wouldn’t be “dangerous” for Russia as he called
for faster action to modernize the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  