-- 
SAP Investors Want Proof $28 Billion Sales Target Can Be Met

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-05-25T14:32:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/sap-investors-want-proof-ceos-can-meet-28-billion-sales-target.html
A week after wooing software
customers with mobile and data-analysis programs at a U.S.
conference,  SAP AG (SAP) ’s co-chief executive officers need to win
over investors by explaining how they will reach sales targets.  Shareholders gathering today in Mannheim,  Germany , want
Bill McDermott and Jim Hagemann Snabe to give details on how the
largest business-management software maker can achieve its goal
of making a quarter of 2015 sales -- projected at 20 billion
euros ($28 billion) -- from mobile products, services and data
analysis software such as the Hana technology.  The co-CEOs, ushered in by Chairman and co-founder Hasso Plattner 15 months ago, have gone on an offensive with new
software. At the Sapphire conference in Orlando,  Florida , SAP
announced the release of mobile applications; it struck deals to
store, deliver and develop software over the Internet with
 Amazon.com Inc (AMZN)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Customers such as Colgate-
Palmolive Co. and Lenovo Group Ltd. talked about their
experiences with the Hana analytics technology.  “Many investors believe SAP’s product portfolio has
potential, but we want to see proof and we probably won’t see
that for another two years, three years,” said Thilo Mueller, a
portfolio manager at MB Fund Advisory GmbH in Limburg, Germany,
who helps manage 120 million euros including SAP shares. “I
haven’t yet had the big ‘Aha!’ moment with the new management.”  Sybase Purchase  McDermott, 49, and Snabe, 45, replaced now- Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  CEO  Leo Apotheker  in February 2010 amid employee and
customer discontent, as well as delays in its Web-based
software. “We didn’t have a real story,” Plattner said about
SAP before the management change, in an interview last month at
SAP’s California campus overlooking the Palo Alto hills. “What
does SAP do next?”  Weeks before last year’s annual meeting SAP agreed to
purchase mobile-computing software maker Sybase Inc. for $5.8
billion in the company’s second-largest takeover.  SAP needs to be “more precise about what the different
innovations will contribute in terms of sales and profit,” Hans- Martin Buhlmann, president of Vereinigung Institutionelle
Privatanleger, a Cologne, Germany-based shareholder proxy group,
said at today’s meeting, which is attended by 3,300
shareholders. “We want to know how much money we’ll make when,
from these innovations.”  ‘Back Foot’  SAP fell 0.2 percent to 42.87 euros at 4:29 p.m. in
Frankfurt. Before today, the stock had risen 29 percent since
the co-CEOs took over. Rival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  increased 40 percent
in the same period, and the Bloomberg World Software Index was
up 19 percent.  Under Apotheker’s two-year leadership, SAP’s stock
generated annualized returns of 5.7 percent, according to
Bloomberg data.  “Last year they were still on the back foot” after giving
in to customer pressure and delaying a price increase on
enterprise support, said Rajeev Bahl, co-head of software and IT
services research at London-based Matrix Corporate Capital LLP,
who has a “buy” rating and a 50 euro price estimate for SAP.
 “This year they are much more confident in their ability to
grow beyond the core.”  In 2010, SAP’s software for enterprise resource planning,
or ERP, used for tasks including financial planning, human
resources and product development, accounted for 72 percent of
sales. ERP customers include American Express Co., Canon Inc.
and The Body Shop. SAP sales were 12.5 billion euros last year.  ‘True North’  “In three years, ERP will have lots of mobile screens and
will have a lot of in-memory-based” capabilities, Snabe said in
an interview in  Orlando . This is how mobile and in-memory will
have a “huge influence on” the last 5 billion euros in SAP’s
20 billion-euro sales target. Such  in-memory capabilities  allow
complex calculations to be performed instantly, and may help
users to forecast how changes affect business.  In 2009, toward the end of Apotheker’s reign, the company
had quarreled with some customers about maintenance prices. In
January 2010, SAP caved in to customer pressure and froze
planned fee hikes. The company also started offering clients a
choice between a full range of tailor-made services and a lower-
priced standard package with basic software backup.  “We’ve brought a certain humbleness, a certain
intellectual curiosity, and patience for listening,” McDermott
said about the relationship to customers after Apotheker’s
departure. “You keep your promises, you do this one quarter,
one year, at a time and you stay true north to your vision. And
we’ll be there at 20 billion euros by 2015.”  Right Strategy?  During Apotheker’s departure, Plattner, who created SAP in
1972 with former colleagues from  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , vowed to make SAP a “happy company again.” Plattner
sought to remove management hierarchies and worked with Vishal Sikka, the executive board member in charge of technology, to
speed up software development.  “Innovating doesn’t go through PowerPoint,” Plattner said
in the interview. “I should have done this 20 years ago; it
would have been a different company.”  Some investors are prepared to wait.  “In all likelihood it will be a couple of years at least
before we can tell if it was the right strategy or not,” said
Jella Benner-Heinacher, a representative of the DSW German
shareholders association. “If you consider the Googles and
Microsofts of this world, every day another company is being
acquired in this industry that changes the make-up of the market
and it will be interesting to see how SAP positions itself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 