-- 
Saudi Telecom Sees Purchase, License Options in Middle East

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-05-24T13:59:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/saudi-telecom-sees-purchase-license-options-in-middle-east.html
Saudi Telecom Co. (STC) , Saudi Arabia’s
largest phone company by market value, sees a growing number of
opportunities for acquisitions and new licenses in the Middle
East and wants to buy controlling stakes in companies.  STC, which operates across the Middle East,  Africa  and
 Asia , is seeking to grow in Southeast Asia and the Middle East,
with the latter taking “more emphasis right now given the
opportunities that are re-emerging in the region”,
International Operations Chief Executive Officer Ghassan Hasbani
told reporters at a conference in Dubai today.  While STC isn’t currently in direct talks about
acquisitions, “the possibilities are emerging” and it is
monitoring the situation, he said.  “We also see potential for consolidation in the market,”
said Hasbani. “Some companies are looking for exits, others for
the right opportunity to partner.”  Saudi Telecom recently raised its stake in  Indonesia ’s NTS,
also known as Axis, to 80.1 percent from 51 percent. Axis said
today it signed a $1.2 billion financing deal to help fund its
expansion in the Indonesian market over the next five years,
focusing on broadband and improving its coverage in the country.  Saudi Telecom competes with  Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC)  and Zain
Saudi Arabia for mobile-phone and Internet customers in the
kingdom, the Arab world’s largest economy.  The company is looking to increase the proportion of its
revenue from international operations to 50 percent in three to
four years, from 33 percent currently, Hasbani said this month.
STC aims to expand in  India  and is still pursuing a license in
Syria, Chief Executive Officer Saud al-Daweesh said May 9.  ‘Right Opportunities’  “Private equity groups in many cases are looking to exit
the industry,” Hasbani said today. “Telecoms companies like
STC are ready to look at the right opportunities whenever they
emerge.”  The Riyadh-based company is interested in investments that
complement its geographical presence and is not interested in
buying minority stakes, he said.  “Any acquisitions, transactions we do next would aim to
increase control and bring majority control to STC,” he said.  On new licenses,  Iraq  is a potential “green field”
opportunity, while the company is still interested in Syria, he
said. Syria last month postponed an auction for the country’s
third mobile license without setting a new date, after protests
to demand greater freedoms in the Arab country erupted. Only
Saudi Telecom and Qatar Telecom QSC reached the final phase of
the auction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 