-- 
Saudi Arabia Builds Railway Line Linking Mines to Persian Gulf

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-05-24T13:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/saudi-arabia-builds-railway-line-linking-mines-to-persian-gulf.html
Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s
biggest economy, completed building a 1,392 kilometer (870 mile)
railway line linking mines in the kingdom’s north to the  Persian
Gulf , the official Saudi Press Agency said.  The  Saudi Railway Organization  tested the line by shipping
a phosphate cargo from a mine operated by Saudi Arabian Mining
Co., the news service said, citing Finance Minister Ibrahim al- Assaf. The railway organization is owned by the  Finance
Ministry ’s Public Investment Fund, the news service said.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, wants to
expand its transportation infrastructure as the kingdom tries to
diversify its economy away from oil. The government announced in
August a $384 billion development plan focusing on education,
housing and transportation.  Saudi Arabian Mining, known as Ma’aden, completed the
“successful trial loading and unloading” of phosphate
concentrate from al-Jalamid to Ras al-Zour, according to a
 company statement  on the Saudi bourse website.  Saudi Arabia  seeks $100 billion in transportation
investment during the next ten years, according to information
on the website of the  Saudi Arabian General Investment
Authority . The Saudi Railway Organization operates 1,380
kilometers of existing lines, according to its website.  North-South Line  The  North-South line  was build to transport phosphate and
bauxite from mines operated by Ma’aden to Ras al-Zour on the
Persian Gulf, according to the railway organization’s website.
The kingdom is also building a 950 kilometer cross-country
passenger and cargo line from Jeddah to Jubail.  Ma’aden signed in December 2009 a contract with Alcoa Inc.
to build a $10.8 billion aluminum industrial complex to supply
Saudi Arabia and global markets. In April 2010, Ma’aden
increased its stake in the project to 74.9 percent from 60
percent, while New York-based Alcoa’s stake fell to 25.1
percent.  The project includes a bauxite mine in Qassim, in northeast
Saudi Arabia, with a production capacity of 4 million metric
tons. The line will ship the material to a 1.8 million-metric-
ton-a-year alumina refinery and a 740,000 metric-ton-a-year
aluminum smelter in Ras al-Zour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 