-- 
Scene Last Night: Schwarzman, Peterson, Icahn, Morrison, Roth

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-24T15:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/scene-last-night-schwarzman-peterson-icahn-morrison-roth.html
Stephen A. Schwarzman, in a royal-
blue tie that matched his wife’s dress, dined on lobster salad
last night at the New York Public Library’s Centennial Gala.  The chairman and co-founder of the  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , who
gave $100 million to the library in 2008, was seated at the head
of a long table in the building named for him at Fifth Avenue
and 42nd Street.  Schwarzman’s company included architect  Norman Foster , who
is working on a major renovation of the 100-year-old building
that will remove the stacks to make room for people; Blackstone
co-founder  Peter G. Peterson ; and the incoming president of the
library, Anthony W. Marx, who will begin serving July 1.  Dessert was a round of petit fours and long-stemmed
strawberries, after which Schwarzman and his wife, Christine,
walked down candle-lit steps to Astor Hall to dance.  Schwarzman, who has been living in  France  recently, said,
“It’s wonderful to learn about new cultures and to be able to
travel easily to so many countries.”  The couple lingered on the steps of the library, near the
column where his name is carved in stone. William Close played
ambient trance music on the earth harp, an instrument with
strings stretching 250 feet across the façade of the library.
There were also lions made out of LEGO blocks.  The evening had begun with a reception in the Trustees
Room, where the Bank of America was honored for its support.  “I’m happy to say that all of my accounts are at Bank of
America,” said Paul LeClerc, the outgoing president of the
library. “Before the night is over, Toni Morrison will be a
client too.” Nobel Prize winner Morrison chuckled from her seat
next to former  New York  Mayor David Dinkins.  Bank of America  Brian Moynihan, the president and chief executive of Bank
of America, was the event’s corporate chairman. His tablemates
included  Carl Icahn  and his wife, Gail.  The celebration of the building’s centennial, which raised
$2.4 million, was not only for financiers. Vampire Weekend’s
drummer, Chris Tomson; singer/songwriter Josh Ritter; and a host
of authors, from Colum McCann to Jonathan Franzen to  Philip Roth , were present.  Jay Walder, the chairman and CEO of the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , introduced himself to author Robert Caro. “I’ve inherited the legacy of Robert Moses. Your book has
been such an inspiration over the years,” Walder said,
referring to Caro’s “The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the
Fall of New York.”  To ring in the centennial formally, the library held a
program in the Rose Reading Room for 850 guests.  Staten Island ’s
P.S. 22 Chorus sang  John Lennon ’s “Imagine.” The
Abyssinian Baptist Gospel Choir and New York City Gay Men’s
Chorus also performed. There was a procession of trustees and
then remarks.  ‘The Best of Everything’  “What distinguishes the library,” said Morrison, “is
that it has only the finest, the best, the best of everything.”  Novelist Uzodinma Iweala had a slightly more irreverent
take on things. “As a result of spending so much time here,
I’ve been on four dates with people I’ve met here,” he said.  Later, on the steps of the library, where guests had
gathered to enjoy the new illumination of the building unveiled
last night, Iweala elaborated.  “I was on my way out of the reading room, and she was
walking in and our eyes caught.  “You can’t talk in the reading room, so I wrote her a
little note and slipped it to her. I realized she was reading
Norwegian but she understood,” he said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 