-- 
LSE Takeover Equity Evaporates as TMX Deal Belies Profitability: Real M&A

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-24T20:38:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/lse-takeover-equity-evaporates-as-tmx-deal-belies-profitability-real-m-a.html
No company’s stock is worth less as
currency for takeovers than  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ,
according to traders who profit from mergers and acquisitions.  The value of the bourse’s offer to buy  TMX Group Inc. (X)  with
equity fell 4.9 percent below the price of the Toronto stock
exchange operator’s shares yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The gap is the widest of any all-stock deal over
$1 billion, indicating to arbitragers that LSE’s equity alone
won’t be enough to fend off a higher bid from a group of
Canadian banks and funds trying to keep TMX in local hands.  While TMX’s directors last week rejected the unsolicited
cash-and-stock offer by Maple Group Acquisition Corp. in favor
of LSE’s $3.1 billion all-share proposal, owners of the Toronto
bourse stand to get equity in a company that’s 39 percent less
profitable than the average market venue by selling to LSE, the
data show. Without the deal,  Europe ’s oldest independent bourse
risks being left out of the industry’s biggest round of
consolidation. In the past decade, exchanges from  Hong Kong  to
 Singapore  and  Sao Paulo  have eclipsed LSE by market value.  “There are two ways to look at this: Is TMX currently
trading at a premium or is LSE trading at a discount?” said
Frederic Ponzo, managing partner at London-based GreySpark
Partners, which advises financial institutions. “The problem
for LSE is the same for the last 10 years now. They are big, but
not big enough. They are still in a difficult position.”  Long-Term Value  Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman for TMX, didn’t immediately
respond to voicemails left at her office or an e-mail requesting
comment yesterday as Canadian financial markets were closed for
a national holiday. A voicemail message left on her mobile phone
seeking comment also went unanswered.  “The LSE-TMX merger is just that -- two strong, successful
businesses with complementary assets and brands combining to
create a leading international exchange group,”  David Lester ,
LSE’s director of information services, said in an e-mailed
response. “Anyone can deliver cash on day one through saddling
a business with debt, but few deals can offer the long-term
value for shareholders that LSE-TMX will create.”  Based on the terms of LSE’s takeover, each TMX shareholder
will get 2.9963 LSE shares for every share they own in  Canada ’s
largest exchange, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That valued the deal at about C$42.06 a share yesterday,
about two Canadian dollars below TMX’s closing price last week.  TMX fell 0.4 percent to C$43.88 today, while the value of
LSE’s bid rose to about C$43.06, the data show.  Maple Bid  LSE faces competition from Maple, a group of four Canadian
banks and five pension funds that’s trying to block the largest
foreign takeover of a financial services company in Canada.  While TMX Chief Executive Officer Thomas Kloet, 53, said in
a telephone interview May 20 that the combination will create a
bourse “whereby our shareholders continue to share in the
growth of the company,” the C$3.6 billion ($3.7 billion)
proposal from Maple this month values the Toronto exchange at a
premium to LSE’s bid and will be paid mainly in cash.  “It’s pretty clear the domestic bid in Canada is real and
it’s likely superior financially,” said Andrew Ross, partner
and global equity trader at First  New York  Securities LLC, a New
York-based proprietary trading firm that bets on stocks,
commodities and derivatives. “I don’t think that shareholders
at LSE would look very favorably upon LSE really aggressively
attempting to outbid this Canadian group.”  LSE’s deal for TMX in February was part of more than $30
billion in takeover offers for exchanges in less than six
months, as bourses try to cut costs and generate more revenue
from trading in stocks, options and futures.  Exchange Acquisitions  The deals began in October, when  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) 
bid A$8.35 billion ($8.3 billion) for  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  of Sydney. LSE
followed with its own offer for TMX on Feb. 9.  Less than a week later, Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
announced its takeover of New York-based NYSE Euronext, which
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  of New York and IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. of Atlanta countered in April.  Singapore Exchange’s acquisition of ASX was rejected by
 Australia ’s government last month, while Nasdaq OMX and ICE
dropped their bid for the New York Stock Exchange this month
after U.S. regulators threatened to block the deal.  “They either need to salvage the TMX deal or find another
deal quickly,” said Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, a London-based
exchange analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “Shareholders in
the end look for money today.”  Xavier Rolet, LSE’s 51-year-old CEO, will cut 35 million
pounds ($56 million) a year in costs as part of the deal and
expand into businesses such as derivatives as competition
increases.  Earnings Growth  LSE earned 23 cents for every dollar of revenue in the past
12 months, versus an average of 37 cents for exchanges
worldwide, data compiled by Bloomberg show. TMX had a profit
margin of 34 percent. Analysts estimate LSE will increase per-
share earnings by just 3 percent next year, while TMX may boost
profit by 5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings at  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Deutsche Boerse , which may
save as much as 550 million euros ($772 million) by combining,
will climb 16 percent and 12 percent, respectively, the
projections show.  A takeover of TMX would create a $7.2 billion exchange,
leapfrogging Nasdaq OMX, ASX and Singapore Exchange among the
world’s biggest trading venues.  Losing out would leave LSE, which traces its roots back to
the  coffee houses  of 17th century London and has a market value
of $3.9 billion, further behind.  Standalone Value  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext are creating the world’s
largest exchange with a market value of $24.2 billion. Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., currently the biggest bourse with a
market value of $23.6 billion, is six times the size of LSE,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sao Paulo-based BM&FBovespa SA, the operator of  Latin
America ’s biggest securities exchange, is three times as big.  “As a standalone company LSE faces pretty aggressive
competitors,” said  Adam Sussman , New York-based director of
research at Tabb Group LLC. “So the stock is more difficult to
use as a takeover currency.”  Sachin Shah, a merger arbitrage strategist at Capstone
Global Markets LLC in New York, says that LSE can boost
 shareholder value  more by putting itself up for sale instead.  Shares of LSE jumped 6.8 percent on May 16, the biggest
advance in 17 months, on speculation that Nasdaq OMX would
pursue LSE after dropping its bid for NYSE Euronext. Nasdaq OMX
has previously tried to acquire the  London  exchange three times.  LSE rose 2.1 percent to 908 pence today.  Nasdaq OMX’s Frank De Maria declined to comment.  ‘Not Over’  “Nobody wants to own LSE as a standalone company,” Shah
said. “The market is anticipating that a deal with TMX may not
occur and a standalone value is not as attractive. The
consolidation with exchanges is not over.”  Instead, “the market is sensing that LSE is not going to
be around” because it will become a target, he said.  Overall, there have been 9,737 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $957.2 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $786.7 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 