-- 
China’s Stocks Fall for 4th Day on Growth, Inflation Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-24T07:41:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/shanghai-composite-index-falls-10-from-this-year-s-high-on-growth-concern.html
China ’s stocks fell for a fourth day
on concern government measures to cool inflation are slowing the
world’s second-biggest economy.  PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil company, lost 1.9
percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut China’s economic
growth estimates. Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd.
led declines for lenders after the  Securities Times  cited
investors as saying the central bank may further boost banks’
reserve requirement ratios. China Gezhouba Group Co., which has
hydroelectric power projects, rose 2.4 percent as Xinhua News
Agency reported China will boost water conservation efforts.  “Investors are concerned about the pace of economic growth
after so many measures to cool the economy and the debt crisis
in Europe,” said Sun Chao, an analyst at Citic Securities Co.,
China’s biggest-listed brokerage, in  Shanghai . “They are simply
selling as they are unwilling to take more risks for now.”  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 7.5 points, or 0.3
percent, to 2,767.06 as of the 3 p.m. close. The measure has
lost 9.5 percent from the close of 3,057.33 on April 18, after
earlier sliding as much as 10 percent, a sign analysts say that
the market has entered a correction.  The measure plunged 2.9 percent yesterday, erasing this
year’s advance of as much as 8.9 percent, after a manufacturing
gauge fell to its lowest level in 10 months. China’s preliminary
manufacturing index, known as the Flash PMI, was at 51.1 in May,
compared with the final reading of 51.8 in April, HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics said yesterday. A number above 50
indicates expansion.  ICBC, the nation’s biggest lender, dropped 0.5 percent to
4.44 yuan today. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. slid 0.7
percent to 2.85 yuan.  Bank Ratios  The central bank may suspend a sale of three-year notes
this week and increase banks’ reserve requirement ratios, the
Securities Times reported, citing one market opinion. A
suspension may also indicate the central bank is expecting a
slowdown in growth, it said, citing another market opinion.  China may continue to raise  interest rates ,  Joseph Yam , the
former head of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said today. The
People’s Bank of China aims to make the one-year deposit rate
higher than the rate of inflation, Yam told reporters.  The central bank has increased  reserve requirements  for
banks 11 times and boosted interest rates four times since the
start of 2010 to cool consumer prices, which exceeded
economists’ estimates in April with a 5.3 percent increase.  Recent rises in pork prices will likely push up China’s
inflation in May, according to the Financial News, a People’s
Bank of China publication. Each 20 percent increase in the price
of pork will likely contribute 0.6 percentage points to the
 consumer price index , the newspaper said, citing Li Mingliang,
an analyst with Haitong Securities Co.  Further Drop  Goldman Sachs said it wouldn’t “rule out” a further
decline of up to 10 percent for Chinese stocks as growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy slows and inflation accelerates.  “We would not rule out a correction of up to 5 percent to
10 percent near term, triggered by earnings per-share cuts, but
would buy on such dips given low earnings risks, valuation,
likely policy inflection,” Goldman Sachs analysts led by Helen Zhu and Timothy Moe said in a report today. It expects inflation
to peak in June and forecasts “normalization of policy sometime
in the third quarter in 2011,” according to the report.  China’s gross domestic product will gain 9.4 percent in
2011, less than a previous call of 10 percent, Goldman Sachs
said. The  U.S. bank  downgraded Chinese steel, aluminum and
industrial stocks to “underweight” from “neutral,” while
keeping property and bank shares as top picks.  Commodity Stocks  PetroChina lost 1.9 percent to 10.66 yuan.  China Petroleum
& Chemical Corp. (600028) ,  Asia ’s largest oil refiner, also known as
Sinopec, fell 0.3 percent to 8.09 yuan. Tongling Nonferrous
Metals Group Co., the second-largest copper producer, declined
3.7 percent to 23.35 yuan.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted its biggest drop in
two months as commodities slumped amid concern that Europe’s
debt crisis is worsening and the global economic recovery is
losing momentum.  The Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago’s gauge of economic
activity unexpectedly dropped below zero in April. In  Europe ,
services and manufacturing growth slowed more than economists
forecast in May. Belgium had the outlook on its AA+ credit
rating lowered to negative from stable at  Fitch Ratings , which
cited concern over the pace of structural reform.  Crude oil for July delivery tumbled 2.4 percent to settle
at $97.70 a barrel in  New York  yesterday, the biggest one-day
drop since May 11. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for
six industrial metals including copper and aluminum lost 2.7
percent yesterday, the most since May 5.  Water Stocks  Chongqing Three Gorges Water Conservancy and Electric Power
Co. surged 10 percent to 19.70 yuan. China Gezhouba added 2.4
percent to 11.46 yuan, the highest close since May 10.  China will increase investment in water conservation
projects this decade to 4 trillion yuan, up from 1.06 trillion
yuan in the previous 10 years, Xinhua reported, citing Minister
of Water Resources Chen Lei. The plan will allow the nation to
fight droughts and floods, which have increasingly affected many
regions across the nation, Xinhua said, citing Chen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  