-- 
Shell May Join Inpex to Develop Floating LNG Project, Citigroup Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-05-24T02:19:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/shell-may-join-inpex-to-develop-floating-lng-project-citigroup-says.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, may partner with companies such as  Inpex
Corp. (1605)  to develop floating liquefied natural gas projects after
building Prelude off Australia, Citigroup Inc. said.  Shell may provide its floating LNG technology to other
project developers to tap resources too small or too far from
the coast to be profitably developed through onshore plants,
Mark Greenwood and Dale Koenders, Sydney-based analysts at
Citigroup, wrote in a report dated yesterday.  “One candidate would be Inpex’s Abadi project” in
Indonesia, Greenwood said. “Inpex is looking for a partner and
has considered FLNG as the most appropriate technology.”
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and partner  Karoon Gas Australia Ltd. (KAR)  also may
eventually rely on Shell expertise to develop resources in
 Australia ’s Browse Basin, according to the report.  Shell, among companies in Australia building LNG projects
to meet rising Asian demand for the fuel, approved development
last week of its “flagship” floating LNG venture off northwest
Australia. Prelude is set to be the world’s largest ship and the
“first of many” floating LNG projects, said Malcolm Brinded,
executive director of Shell’s upstream business.  Prelude may cost between $10.8 billion and $12.6 billion,
based on Shell estimates. The cost may be similar to other LNG
ventures at about $3 billion to $3.5 billion per million metric
ton of LNG a year, The Hague-based company said May 20. Prelude
is expected to produce 3.6 million tons of LNG annually.  “Shell has a technology advantage in FLNG, and we believe
its technology is further advanced than its competitors,”
according to the Citigroup report.  Inpex,  Japan ’s largest energy explorer, is the operator of
the proposed Ichthys LNG project in Australia. Inpex and its
partner, Paris-based Total SA, aim to make a decision to proceed
with the venture in the fourth quarter of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  