-- 
Oil Tankers Facing 5 Years of Pain Before Rebound, Frontline’s Troeim Says

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-05-24T16:30:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/shipping-in-brutal-five-year-slump-frontline-s-troeim-says.html
Oil tankers  may be unprofitable for
five more years before a glut that caused a 95 percent slump in
returns since 2008 is eroded, according to Tor Olav Troeim, a
director at Frontline Ltd., the biggest supertanker operator.  Returns on supertankers that reached $177,036 a day in July
2008 were last at $8,900, according to the London-based  Baltic
Exchange , which publishes daily rates for more than 50 maritime
routes. Frontline, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , needs $30,100 a
day to break even on its supertankers, according to a
presentation to investors in February.  “We have to go through a lot of pain before we’re back
into profitable territory,” Troeim, who is as an alternate
director at Frontline and is on the board of several other
shipping companies, told a conference in Oslo today. “We have
just started on a down-cycle that will be brutal.”  The surge in rates in 2007 and 2008 spurred owners to order
more ships, on the eve of the worst global recession since World
War II. Those vessels are now leaving shipyards, meaning the
tanker fleet will expand 7.4 percent this year, compared with a
3.1 percent gain in demand, according to the research unit of
Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Oil-tanker owners have responded to the slump in rates by
cutting their speeds from an average of 10.8 knots in July 2008
to 8.8 knots now, according to ship-tracking data compiled by
Bloomberg. There are more than 600 tankers anchored globally, up
from about 350 three years ago, the data show.  Shipping Glut  The glut will take time to erode because only 10 percent of
the fleet is above 15 years old, reducing the speed of
demolitions, Troeim said in an interview after his speech. By
contrast, a quarter of the dry bulk fleet hauling coal and iron
ore is above 20 years old, he said. The slump in dry bulk
shipping may be over in three years, Troeim said.  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping
costs, slumped 65 percent in the last 12 months, according to
the Baltic Exchange.  Troeim’s outlook for oil tankers contrasts with that of
Peter Evensen, chief executive officer of Hamilton, Bermuda-
 Teekay Corp. (TK) , which operates vessels hauling oil and liquefied
natural gas. He’s forecasting a rebound in rates for aframaxes,
capable of carrying about 600,000 barrels of oil, next year.  “I’m optimistic,” Evensen told the conference. “We’ve
gone through the low and we’re coming out of it.”  Shares of Frontline fell 6.3 percent to 105.4 kroner in
Oslo trading, extending this year’s decline to 30 percent and
valuing the company at 8.2 billion kroner ($1.5 billion).  The market can get “a lot more consolidated than it is
now,” Troeim said. “Normally consolidation works when people
have problems and that’s what we’re having these days.”  LNG shipping should fare better because demand is expanding
faster than ship supply, he said.  “There is 9 percent coming in the next three years and we
have a growth rate of 12-15 percent, so effectively the whole
market is eaten up by one year of demand,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 