-- 
South Africa’s Manuel Calls for Open Selection Process for New IMF Chief

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-24T07:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/south-africa-s-manuel-calls-for-open-selection-process-for-new-imf-chief.html
South Africa ’s former finance
minister,  Trevor Manuel , named as a possible candidate to lead
the  International Monetary Fund , called for an open process to
select a new managing director of the institution.  “Africa will also have to have a voice,” Dumisa Jele, the
spokesman for the head of South Africa’s National Planning
Commission, said by phone from  Pretoria , confirming Manuel’s
comments reported by state-owned South African Broadcasting
Corp. The post shouldn’t be reserved for a European, Jele cited
Manuel as saying.  Europeans have picked IMF heads since its founding at the
end of World War II under an agreement that gives the U.S.
control over the top World Bank post. The No. 2 person at the
IMF has traditionally been chosen by the U.S. Officials in
 Thailand ,  Russia  and South Africa want the next managing
director to come from a developing nation even as they failed to
unite behind one candidate.  “It has to be wrong for multi lateral bodies to have
recruitment processes where birth right is more important than
ability,” Manuel said, according to the SABC on its website.
“The old order has to pass.”  Manuel can’t personally apply for the job as the selection
process doesn’t allow for individual applications, Jele said.
Candidates for the position may be nominated by any of the
institution’s 187 member nations, after which the board selects
a shortlist of three.  Europe Bailouts  European Union nations have given overwhelming support to
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  to head the
Washington-based IMF, the institution that approved a record
$91.7 billion in emergency loans last year and provides a third
of the euro-area’s bailouts.  The IMF aims to complete the selection of a successor to
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  by June 30. Countries will be able to
nominate candidates until June 10, the IMF said in a statement
on May 20.  The IMF said the board’s objective is to select the
managing director by consensus from the shortlist. Nations have
weighted votes, with the U.S. holding almost 17 percent of the
total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  