-- 
South African Yields Fall to Six-Month Lows at Debt Sale on Slow Recovery

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-24T11:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/south-african-yields-fall-to-six-month-lows-at-debt-sale-on-slow-recovery.html
South African government borrowing
costs fell to the lowest level since November at its weekly
auction, after a  Reserve Bank  report added to signs a recovery
in Africa’s largest economy is slowing.  The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank sold 1 billion rand ($143
million) bonds maturing in 2017 at an average yield of 8.04
percent, it said on its Bloomberg page. The yield was the lowest
since the auction of Nov. 9 and 49 basis points, or 0.49
percentage point, lower than at the previous auction on March 8.
Investors bid for 3.3 times the amount offered.  The Reserve Bank’s leading indicator, which measures a
range of data including job advertisements and manufacturing
orders to gauge the economic outlook, fell in March after six
months of gains, the central bank said on its website, adding to
data suggesting a recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy remains
sluggish. Inflation quickened less than economists expected in
April while retail sales slowed, fueling bets the central bank
will keep its benchmark interest rate on hold.  “Deterioration in the leading indicator would not come as
a major surprise” and “may influence rates expectations,”
Tradition Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-based
Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note. “Inflation and
interest rates may stay lower for longer.”  The extra yield investors expect to buy the South African
seven-year debt over U.S. treasuries of similar maturity has
narrowed 26 basis points since May 17, when the Pretoria-based
statistics agency reported consumer inflation was 4.2 percent in
April, less than the 4.4 percent median estimate by economists.  Inflation Report  The April inflation report came a week after the central
bank said inflation will breach the upper range of the 3 percent
to 6 percent target range in the fourth quarter, sending seven-
year bond yields to 8.33 percent, the highest in six weeks. The
central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee on May 12 held its
benchmark interest rate at 5.5 percent, a 30-year low.  The bank also sold 1.1 billion of notes due in 2020 at an
average yield of 8.30 percent, the lowest since Nov. 9 and 40
basis points lower than at the previous auction on March 22.
Investors bid for 1.8 times the amount on offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  