-- 
South Africa Sees ‘Sustained’ Breach If Inflation Moves Away From Target

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-24T17:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/south-africa-sees-sustained-breach-if-inflation-moves-away-from-target.html
South African  Reserve Bank  Governor
Gill Marcus said a “sustained” breach of the 3 percent to 6
percent inflation target will depend on whether its projections
show price growth continues to move away from that range.  Rising food and oil costs are creating “challenges” for
the domestic economic outlook, Marcus said at a public meeting
at the central bank’s head office today in the capital,
Pretoria.  The central bank’s most recent projections show inflation
will breach the target in the first quarter of 2012, peaking at
6.3 percent, before returning into the band in the second
quarter. That temporary jump above 6 percent didn’t justify an
interest-rate increase at the Monetary Policy Committee’s last
meeting on May 12, Marcus said at the time.  “The MPC will remain vigilant with respect to indications
of second-round effects or generalized inflation, and will not
hesitate to take timeous appropriate action, particularly if
inflation is expected to move out of the target range on a
sustained basis,” the bank said in its Monetary Policy Review
released in  Pretoria  today.  The Reserve Bank agreed unanimously earlier this month to
leave the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 5.5 percent. It
held back from tightening monetary policy as the economy
continued to shed jobs, pushing unemployment to 25 percent.  The bank is attempting a “fine balancing act” by keeping
interest rates unchanged to support the economy’s recovery while
curbing inflation, the bank said in its report. The bank said it
will “remain vigilant” and take action if price pressures from
rising food and oil costs become more widespread in  Africa ’s
biggest economy.  Food, Oil Costs  The central bank forecasts that inflation will remain close
to the upper limit of the target for the rest of 2012. Inflation
was 4.2 percent in April, compared with 4.1 percent a month
earlier.  Rising oil and food prices are driving price growth, the
bank said. Global food costs surged an annual 37 percent in
April, the same pace as in March, according to data from the
 United Nations ’ World Food Price Index. Crude oil climbed 21
percent in the past six months in  New York  and was trading as
high as $98.70 a barrel today.  “The acceleration in food prices is expected to persist
for some time, despite indications that global food-price
inflation may have peaked, and international  oil prices  have
displayed considerable volatility recently,” the central bank
said.  Growth Forecasts  Still, the economy’s recovery is “fragile,” and domestic
demand poses little risk to inflation, the bank said. The
Reserve Bank expects the annualized economic growth rate to
exceed 3.5 percent in all of the four quarters this year,
resulting in growth of 3.6 percent in 2011.  “A flexible inflation-targeting framework requires that
monetary policy actions be mindful of the impact on the real
economy,” the report said. “This is particularly the case when
the domestic economy is relatively fragile and there is
underutilized capacity.”  Statistics  South Africa  is due to publish first-quarter
gross domestic product data on May 31.  The central bank said in its report that the rand is an
“attractive” target for carry-trade investors, with a return
higher than the Australian and New Zealand dollars. In this
transaction, investors borrow cheaply in countries with low
interest rates and invest in markets with higher returns.  With interest rates expected to remain low in advanced
countries such as  Japan  and U.S., the rand will continue to
benefit from foreign capital inflows, the bank said. The
benchmark rate in the U.S. is 0.25 percent and 0.1 percent in
Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 