-- 
Korean Won Rebounds From Seven-Week Low on Exporter Demand

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-24T06:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/south-korea-won-rises-from-seven-week-low-as-exporters-repatriate-earnings.html
South Korea ’s won rebounded as
exporters took advantage of the currency’s decline to a seven-
week low to repatriate earnings.  Overseas shipments climbed 26.6 percent in April from a
year earlier to a record $49.77 billion, the Ministry of
 Knowledge Economy  said on May 1. The won yesterday had its
biggest drop in six months as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen spurred investors to seek safe-haven assets.  “Exporters are selling a lot” of dollars, said Ko Yun Jin,
a currency dealer at Kookmin Bank in Seoul. “We are not really
sure whether this selling will continue through the day. Europe
is the main factor affecting the Asian currencies.”  The won gained 0.4 percent to close at 1,093.41 per dollar
in  Seoul , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency reached 1,099.80 today, the weakest level since March
31.  Bahk Jae Wan, the nominee to replace South Korea’s current
finance minister, said he will work to curb the impact of “herd
behavior” on the won and volatility in  currency markets , Edaily
reported yesterday, citing written answers by Bahk to questions
from parliament.  The cost to insure Greek debt against default rose to a
record and the yield on its 10-year bonds increased to a euro-
era high as Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government met
yesterday in Athens to endorse a new package of spending cuts
and state-asset sales.  South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds were little
changed from yesterday, keeping their yield at the lowest level
since March 15. The rate on the 3 percent note due December 2013
was 3.59 percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  