-- 
South African Reserve Bank Says it is  Vigilant on Rising Food, Oil Costs

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-24T15:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/south-african-reserve-bank-says-it-is-vigilant-on-rising-food-oil-costs.html
South  Africa ’s central bank will
“remain vigilant” and take action if price pressures from
rising food and oil costs become more widespread in Africa’s
biggest economy.  The  Reserve Bank  is attempting a “fine balancing act” by
keeping interest rates unchanged to support the economy’s
recovery while curbing inflation, the bank said in its Monetary
Policy Review, released in the capital,  Pretoria , today.  The Monetary Policy Committee agreed unanimously on May 12
to leave the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 5.5 percent
even as it forecast a “temporary” breach of the 3 percent to 6
percent inflation target range in the first quarter of 2012. It
held back from tightening monetary policy as the economy
continued to shed jobs, pushing unemployment to 25 percent.  “This does not mean that these inflation developments can
be ignored,” the central bank said in its report today. “The
MPC will remain vigilant with respect to indications of second-
round effects or generalized inflation, and will not hesitate to
take timeous appropriate action.”  The bank expects inflation to reach 6 percent in the final
quarter of 2011, peak at 6.3 percent in the first quarter of
2012 and then return into the target range by the second
quarter, the report said. The inflation rate will probably
remain close to the upper limit of the target for the rest of
2012, the bank said. Inflation was 4.2 percent in April.  Oil, Food Costs  Rising oil and food prices are driving inflation, the bank
said. Global food prices surged an annual 37 percent in April,
the same pace as in March, according to data from the  United
Nations ’ World Food Price Index. Crude oil climbed 19 percent in
the past six months in  New York  and was trading as high as
$99.90 a barrel today.  “The acceleration in food prices is expected to persist
for some time, despite indications that global food price
inflation may have peaked, and international  oil prices  have
displayed considerable volatility recently,” the central bank
said.  Still, the economy’s recovery is “fragile,” and domestic
demand poses little risk to inflation, the bank said. The
Reserve Bank expects the annualized economic growth rate to
exceed 3.5 percent in all of the four quarters this year,
resulting in growth of 3.6 percent in 2011.  Flexible Approach  “A flexible inflation-targeting framework requires that
monetary policy actions be mindful of the impact on the real
economy,” the report said. “This is particularly the case when
the domestic economy is relatively fragile and there is
underutilized capacity.”  Statistics  South Africa  is due to publish first-quarter
gross domestic product data on May 31.  Job losses and a slow recovery in the economy overshadowed
inflation concerns at the last MPC meeting. The economy shed
14,000 jobs in the first quarter, making it difficult for
President  Jacob Zuma , whose ruling  African National Congress 
lost support in municipal elections on May 18, to meet a goal of
cutting the jobless rate to 15 percent by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 