-- 
State Bank of India Says Plunge in Profit Paves Way to Top 50 Lender Rank

-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-05-25T11:21:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/state-bank-of-india-says-plunge-in-profit-paves-way-to-top-50-lender-ranks.html
State Bank of India (SBIN)  Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri said its 99 percent drop in earnings represented “a
quarter we’d like to forget” as the lender embarks on an
expansion plan aimed at making it one of the world’s top 50
lenders by assets.  The bank expects a widening in net interest margins to help
turn around its business, supported by the sale of 200 billion
rupees ($4.4 billion) of shares to the government and other
shareholders by Sept. 30, or end-2011 in a “worst-case”
scenario, Chaudhuri, 57, said in an interview at the bank’s
Mumbai headquarters yesterday.  State Bank, with more than 13,000 branches, is trying to
revive earnings and replenish capital that has declined to just
under 12 percent of assets, less than two-thirds the level of
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the second-biggest lender in the South Asian
nation. Chaudhuri, who became chairman on April 7, said a focus
on  credit quality  is critical to expanding the balance sheet of
the bank, which he said isn’t ranked among the top 70 lenders by
assets worldwide.  “Assuming the top 100 banks retain the current rates of
growth, SBI should move into the top 50 banks in about six or
seven years,” said R Srinivasan, an analyst at  India Infoline
Ltd. (IIFL) , a Mumbai-based equities researcher. The milestone may come
within five years if  India ’s economic growth accelerates to 9
percent or more, he said.  Worst Performer  State Bank has total assets of $369.59 billion, compared
with assets of $516.54 billion for Standard Chartered Plc, which
is ranked at No. 50 among the top 500 global banks and financial
services companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares declined 2 percent to 2,177.95 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai today. The 205-year-old lender that
has been falling for eight straight days, the longest losing
streak in more than a decade, is the worst performer on the
Bloomberg Asia Pacific Banks Index this year. Its shares have
retreated 22.6 percent in the current year, compared with a 13
percent drop in India’s benchmark Sensitive Index.  State Bank reported net income of 208.8 million rupees for
the quarter ended March 31, down from 18.7 billion rupees a year
earlier. Profit had been estimated to increase to 30.8 billion
rupees, based on the average of 27 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Lackluster’ Quarter  The quarter was “lackluster,” with profit weighed down by
the need to comply with tougher provisioning requirements from
the central bank and to meet pension obligations, Chaudhuri
said. Going forward, the lender’s net interest margin should
widen to about 3.5 percent after declining to 3.3 percent during
the March quarter, he said.  Nine interest rate increases from the  Reserve Bank  of India
since March 2010 and a slowing economy hurt State Bank’s asset
quality in the three months through March, forcing a 77 percent
increase in provisions. Further defaults are a risk as borrowing
costs continue to rise, so the lender will focus on loans that
are secured with collateral or cash flows, Chaudhuri said.  “We have to be very vigilant,” he said. “If we say all
is well, that will amount to complacency.” India is not yet in
“negative interest rate territory,” and borrowing costs for
companies and individuals will be “slightly higher,” he said.  The government, which owns 59.4 percent of State Bank and
wants to maintain its stake, needs to agree on the timing of a
rights offer. The bank has more than 200,000 employees and plans
to hire about 9,000 in the year ending March 2011, and expanded
lending by 20 percent in 2010.  Raise Funds  Chaudhuri said he wants to continue to grow while
maintaining capital equivalent to 12 percent to 13 percent of
assets. The  Reserve Bank of India  said bank credit growth will
slow to 19 percent this year.  “Capital is getting low even by international standards
and it will be a constraint on the credit growth,” said  Brian Hunsaker , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in  Hong Kong .
“If the government earmarks the funds for subscribing to the
bank’s rights issue, it will allay a lot of concerns.”  The bank will continue to raise funds from overseas markets
to fund its business outside India, though it has no immediate
sale plans, Chaudhuri said. “Our international book is
presently at about $34 billion” and is likely to see a 20
percent growth rate annually, he said. That translates into need
for additional funds of $7 billion a year, and the lender may
fund up to $5 billion of that through bond sales, Chaudhuri
estimated.  About 70 percent of  State Bank ’s overseas lending is to
Indian companies and the dollar continues to be their favored
currency for borrowing because of its depreciation, he said.  “Our ambition is to become one of the world’s top 50
banks,” Chaudhuri said. “We should have a diversified asset
base, diversified liability or funding base and should be
present in all segments of banking.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  