-- 
Storms May Sweep Across U.S. Plains After Tornado That Killed at Least 116

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-24T18:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/storms-may-sweep-across-u-s-plains-after-tornado-that-killed-at-least-116.html
Violent thunderstorms with hail and
tornadoes may sweep across the southern Great Plains, two days
after one of the deadliest U.S. twisters on record killed at
least 116 people in Joplin,  Missouri .  Governor Jay Nixon’s office said today that 118 people were
killed in the May 22 twister, while Joplin Fire Chief Mitch
Randles said at a press conference that the death toll stands at
116.  If the governor’s report is confirmed, the tornado would
surpass the record set June 8, 1953, when a twister in Flint,
 Michigan , killed 116 people.  As Joplin struggles with the devastation, the central U.S.
is under threat of more violent thunderstorms, damaging hail and
tornadoes today, according to the  National Weather Service ’s
 Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma .  “Several large, strong tornadoes are expected this
afternoon and evening,” according to the center’s forecast.
“Very large hail, damaging winds and several potentially
significant tornadoes appear likely as the storms increase and
spread across  Kansas  and Oklahoma into western  Arkansas  and then
later in western Missouri.”  Today’s Storm Threat  An area from Kansas to  Texas , including  Oklahoma City ,
Tulsa and  Dallas , may face intense storms today, said Russ
Schneider, director of the National Weather Service’s  Storm
Prediction Center  in Norman, Oklahoma. The agency’s Tulsa office
warned residents to have storm shelters selected.  “There are some very dense population areas,” Schneider
said. “This is a very serious situation that is brewing.”  At least 481 people have died in tornadoes so far this
year, the earliest that such a high toll has been reached,
Schneider said. The U.S. began tracking fatalities from
individual tornadoes in 1950.  “We are now on pace for a record year for tornado
fatalities,” Schneider said on a conference call with reporters
yesterday. “We have to be aware that we are just now entering
the peak of the season.”  The deadliest year for tornadoes in the U.S. was 1925, when
794 people were killed, according to the  National Oceanographic
and Atmospheric Administration .  Joplin Hit Hard  A three-quarter-mile wide tornado tore through Joplin at
about 6 p.m. May 22, destroying and damaging homes and buildings
including St. John’s Regional Medical Center, according to state
and local statements. The tornado’s winds may have reached 198
miles per hour (319 kilometers per hour), said Jack Hayes,
director of the  National Weather Service .  Lucky Foddrill, 82, had just stepped out of the shower when
he heard the tornado was coming. He lay flat on the floor and
waited as shards of glass and debris flew. When it passed, he
was under a pile.  “I was pinned underneath it,” said Foddrill, now at a Red
Cross shelter. “It took me about 20 minutes to get out from
beneath it.”  Joplin Mayor Mike Woolston declared a local disaster,
according to the city’s website, while Nixon declared a state of
emergency and sent National Guard troops to help.  Volunteers and other crews are searching the wreckage for
survivors and victims. There were reports of scattered looting
in the city of 50,000 about 290 miles southwest of  St. Louis .  Damaged or Destroyed  Emergency crews worked late into the night in a commercial
area in the southern part of the city where a Home Depot, Wal-
Mart and other stores were damaged or destroyed. Nearby
residential neighborhoods were dark, with debris scattered
around houses and in the streets.  Enbridge Energy Partners LP (EEP) ’s Ozark pipeline that
transports crude from Cushing, Oklahoma, to Wood River,
 Illinois , is operating at reduced rates after a pump station
lost power following the tornado, Larry Springer, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Temporary clinics were set up at the Joplin Memorial Hall
and McAuley Catholic High School to treat wounded residents and
transport serious cases when hospital beds become available in
the region, said Darlene Thompson, a registered nurse working at
the high school.  The tornado partially tore the roof off and caused
extensive damage at  St. John’s Regional Medical Center , where
183 patients were being treated when the storm hit. Five
patients and a visitor were killed, and the surviving patients
were evacuated to other hospitals in the area, said Cora Scott,
a spokeswoman for Sisters of Mercy Health System.  There was only five minutes’ warning and time to start
moving patients to interior hallways, Scott said.  “If you could see the building, you’d be amazed that most
of those patients made it out,” Scott said in a telephone
interview from Springfield, Missouri.  Alabama  Tornadoes  The outbreak came a month after at least 305 tornadoes tore
through the U.S. South, killing 327 people, mostly in Alabama,
the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  said. The
damage from the storms April 25 to April 27 was estimated to be
as much as $5 billion, according to catastrophic risk modeler
 Eqecat Inc.  in Oakland,  California .  This year’s stormy season may be caused by a waning La
Nina, a cooling in the  Pacific Ocean , that is creating a zone
suitable for tornado conditions as warm moist air from the  Gulf
of Mexico  collides with colder air in the north.  Sea surface temperatures in the Gulf are now 3 degrees
Fahrenheit warmer than the pre-1970 average, said Kevin
Trenberth, distinguished senior scientist at the  National Center
for Atmospheric Research  in Boulder,  Colorado .  “Two degrees of that can be attributed to natural
variability while one degree Fahrenheit is associated with
 climate change ,” Trenberth said in an interview today.  Hayes, Schneider and Thomas Schwein, deputy director of the
weather service’s central region, who was also on yesterday’s
conference call, weren’t ready to attribute the outbreaks to
climate change.  Schneider said there’s “emerging research” to suggest
that years like 2011 in which a La Nina fades tend to produce
more tornadoes. He said more research is needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Joplin at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 