-- 
Sudan’s Government Urges Peaceful Resolution to Dispute Over Abyei Region

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-05-24T15:16:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/sudan-s-government-urges-peaceful-resolution-to-dispute-over-abyei-region.html
Sudan ’s government said a new impasse
over the disputed Abyei region should be resolved through
peaceful means and called for talks with officials from Southern
Sudan and the  United Nations .  “There’s no way of going back to war,” Kamal Ismail Saeed,
Sudan’s ambassador to  Kenya , told reporters today in Nairobi,
the capital. “We are committed to the Comprehensive Peace
Agreement in both letter and spirit.”  Sudan’s army seized Abyei on May 21 after accusing Southern
Sudan’s security forces of attacking its troops while they were
withdrawing from the region with a UN convoy. The capture
sparked concern that violence may escalate between northern and
Southern Sudan, which fought a two-decade civil war that ended
with the U.S.-brokered peace accord, known as the CPA, in 2005.  Yesterday, Sudanese Defense Minister Abdelrahim Mohamed Hussein rejected a call by the UN to withdraw and said Sudan’s
forces would remain there until a new accord is signed with
 Southern Sudan  that guarantees the safety and freedom of
movement for all of Abyei’s citizens. About 70 soldiers were
killed and 120 more are missing in the May 19 attack, according
to a statement distributed by Sudan’s embassy in Nairobi today.  “We are open for negotiations,” Saeed said today. “We are
not there to force anything.” Options for discussion may include
the north withdrawing its troops, or a return to an arrangement
to operate “joint forces,” he said.  Referendum  In a Jan. 9 referendum, voters backed independence for oil-
rich Southern Sudan. Both the north and the south claim Abyei,
which lies on the border between the two regions. In the lead-up
to Southern Sudan’s scheduled independence on July 9, northern
and Southern Sudan agreed to withdraw “all unauthorized forces”
from Abyei by May 17.  Former South African President  Thabo Mbeki , head of the
 African Union  High-Level Implementation Panel, held “promising
discussions” with Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir and his
Southern Sudanese counterpart  Salva Kiir  about Abyei over the
past two days, the African Union said today.  Bashir and Kiir “reaffirmed their willingness to work out
modalities for the withdrawal of all unauthorized forces from
the Abyei area,” the AU said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Abyei region is contested between the region’s Ngok
Dinka people, who are settled in the area and consider
themselves southerners, and Misseriya nomads who herd their
cattle south in the dry season and are supported by the Khartoum
government.  UN Demand  The UN Security Council has demanded an immediate
withdrawal of Sudan’s forces from Abyei. UN diplomats travelled
to Khartoum on May 21 and were in Juba, the capital of Southern
Sudan, today.  The  Security Council  will reassess other options when it
returns to  New York  should a reversal of the status quo not
happen quickly,  Vitaly Churkin , the Russian ambassador to the UN
and  Susan Rice , his U.S. counterpart, told reporters today in
Juba. They didn’t specify what options might be considered.  “We will see if our message will be translated into
actions,” Churkin said. “The background is rather dramatic and
we are all very concerned about the dramatic developments in
Abyei.”  The Security Council must ensure that protecting civilians
will be a top priority for a planned peacekeeping mission for
Southern Sudan after its independence, by deploying more troops
in “hotspot areas”,  Oxfam GB , the English charity, said today in
an e-mailed statement.  1,400 Killed  “Over 1,400 people have been killed in Southern Sudan so
far this year already more than in the whole of 2010 and at
least 117,000 have fled their homes,” the group said, as ethnic
violence and clashes between Southern Sudan’s army and rebels
escalate in the region. Nearly 1,000 people were killed in
Southern Sudan last year, the group said.  Abyei was scheduled to vote in January on whether to join
the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north. The referendum was postponed indefinitely in Abyei
because of disagreements over who was eligible to vote. The
region produces less than 2,500 barrels of oil a day, according
to Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  The Permanent Court of Arbitration in  The Hague , in a 2009
ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area around Ngok Dinka
settlements, largely excluding the pro-northern Misseriya ethnic
group. The Misseriya say that as seasonal inhabitants of Abyei,
they should also have the right to vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 