-- 
Suez Environnement Fined 8 Million Euros by EU Over Seal

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-05-24T10:16:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/suez-environnement-fined-8-million-euros-by-eu-over-door-seal.html
Suez Environnement SA,  Europe ’s
second-largest water company, was fined 8 million euros ($11.3
million) by the European Union for breaking a seal regulators
attached to an office door during an antitrust raid last year.  The utility, based in Paris, admitted that an employee
unintentionally broke the seal during an inspection at the
company’s Lyonnaise des Eaux unit last year, the European
Commission said today.  “The breach of a seal is a serious infringement of EU
competition law, because this undermines the effectiveness of
inspections,” regulators said in an e-mailed statement.  The fine is smaller than a 38 million-euro penalty imposed
on E.On AG in 2008 for breaking a door seal following a surprise
visit by regulators to its offices. The EU’s probe of collusion
in public tenders for water-treatment services is “still on-
going,” it said in the statement.  Suez Environnement’s “immediate and constructive
cooperation” and offer of “information above and beyond
requirements” was recognized by regulators, said Helene
Enginger, a spokeswoman for the company in Paris.  Suez Environnement,  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  and Saur SA
said last year they were raided by EU officials in April 2010
over concerns they colluded in public tenders for water-
treatment services.  Jean-Louis Chaussade, Suez Environnement’s chief executive
officer, said in August that he rejected “all accusations of
collusion.” The company has said that it was cooperating with
regulators.  The three utilities have a combined market-share of 69
percent for water distribution and 55 percent for water
treatment in  France , according to a study published by trade
organization Federation Professionnelle des Entreprises de l’Eau
 on its website . Both markets are worth about 12 billion euros a
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 