-- 
Swaps Users Urge CFTC to Drop Quote System to Get Better Prices

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-05-24T15:15:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/swaps-users-dow-corning-kodak-urge-cftc-to-abandon-proposed-price-system.html
Swaps users including Dow Corning
Corp., Eastman Kodak Corp. and U.S. Steel Corp. want regulators
to require prices be made public prior to trading, overturning a
proposed rule that would limit distribution of the data.  A planned request-for-quote system that can limit the
number of investors who see swaps prices should be abandoned due
to the Dodd-Frank Act financial reform’s goal of making over-
the-counter derivatives more transparent, the Industrial Energy
Consumers of America said in a  letter  today to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. The CFTC is writing rules to define
how swap-execution facilities will be used for trading.  “Request for quote systems, which allow a dealer to
solicit prices in a closed, non-transparent proprietary market,
do not appear to meet either the literal terms of the SEF
definition or the larger goals of Dodd Frank,” the letter said.
“We urge the commission to require that SEFs operate in a
manner that publicly reveals market prices. Doing otherwise,
such as preserving the ‘one-to-one’ pricing model of existing
dealer systems, would merely ratify the status quo.”  The Industrial Energy Consumers of America is an industry
and lobbying group that in 2009 represented companies with more
than 850,000 U.S. employees and $900 billion in sales, according
to the group’s president, Paul Cicio. Its members include users
of plastics, cement, paper, fertilizer, steel and industrial
gases. Other members are Koch Industries Inc., BASF Corp. and
Nucor Corp., according to its  website .  Congress Mandated  In February, the Securities and Exchange Commission
proposed allowing RFQs to solicit prices from as few as one
market participant. The CFTC approved a proposed rule in
December to allow RFQ systems in which buyers and sellers of
swaps ask at least five other participants for a price. There
wouldn’t be a requirement to seek out a price from every dealer
on the platform.  Congress mandated that most swaps be processed by
clearinghouses once they’ve been traded on regulated exchanges
or swaps-execution facilities after over-the-counter derivatives
contributed to and complicated efforts to resolve market
infrastructure problems in the wake of the 2008 bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., one of the largest swaps dealers.
Regulators are writing the rules to lessen risk and increase
price transparency.  The CFTC rewrote a prior attempt at the SEF rule after
Chairman  Gary Gensler  pulled the proposal from consideration at
a Dec. 9 meeting. The original rule would have required dealers
to provide executable prices to all market users of credit-
default, interest-rate and other swaps prior to any trade being
done on an electronic system that mimics how futures exchanges
operate.  The current  rule  proposal will save the dealers that
dominate the market billions of dollars in revenue because it
will limit competition among swap-execution facilities and allow
volumes to grow, Moody’s Investors Service analyst Alexander Yavorsky said at the time.  “The RFQ model will reduce pressure on market-making
revenues - billions of dollars per dealer,” Yavorsky said.
“This is why the SEF rules are absolutely critical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 