-- 
Syria Probably Tried to Build Nuclear Plant, UN Agency Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-05-24T16:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/syrian-reactor-violated-agreements-un-atomic-watchdog-says.html
Syria probably tried to build a
secret nuclear reactor in violation of international agreements,
the United Nations nuclear watchdog reported today. The
suspected reactor was destroyed in a 2007 Israeli raid.  “Considering all information available to the agency, the
agency concludes that the destroyed building was very likely a
nuclear reactor and should have been declared by Syria,” the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  said today in a 9-page
restricted report obtained by Bloomberg News.  The IAEA’s conclusion that Syria built a secret reactor may
raise pressure on the government of President Bashar Al-Assad
even as his forces violently quell protests that have erupted
around the country. The UN report is a victory for U.S., which
asked the IAEA to deliver a final verdict on Syria in a March 8
statement.  “Features of the destroyed building are comparable to
those of gas cooled graphite moderated reactors of the type and
size alleged,” the IAEA reported. “Prior to the bombing, the
configuration of the infrastructure at the site, including its
connections for cooling and treated water, was able to support
the operation of such a reactor and was not consistent with
 Syria ’s claims.”  Covert Nuclear Program  U.S. intelligence, which suspected Syria of having a covert
nuclear program in the 1990s, was certain the country was
building a secret facility in Dair Alzour with North Korean help
during the first quarter of 2007, according to congressional
testimony in April 2008. While the IAEA found at least four man-
made uranium particles at the site, it had abstained from
offering a definitive conclusion.  Syria has alleged that a handful of uranium particles found
at the site came from Israeli munitions used to destroy the
complex. The facility was a conventional military base, the
country told IAEA inspectors.  Hiding a reactor would violate Syria’s obligation under
international proliferation rules. Iran was referred to the UN
Security Council to face sanctions after the IAEA’s 35-member
board of governors determined it had violated rules by not
declaring uranium enrichment work.  To contact the reporter on this story: Jonathan Tirone at   jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  