-- 
U.A.E.’s Shares Retreat on Speculation Markets May Miss MSCI June Upgrade

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-24T13:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-a-e-s-shares-retreat-on-speculation-markets-may-miss-msci-june-upgrade.html
United Arab Emirates shares dropped,
with  Abu Dhabi ’s measure dropping to the lowest level in more
than six weeks, on speculation the nation won’t be upgraded by
index provider  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  to emerging market status next month.  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the U.A.E.’s third-biggest
lender by assets, declined 2.5 percent. In Dubai,  Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC (DIB)  retreated to the lowest level since March. Abu Dhabi’s
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  dropped 0.6 percent to 2,616.29, the lowest
since April 10. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.2 percent to
the lowest since April 5. The gauge gained 5 percent in April
and Abu Dhabi’s advanced 3.4 percent in the same period on bets
the U.A.E. will be raised from frontier market status at MSCI.  “The lack of strong international investor activity could
indicate there are doubts the U.A.E. will be promoted at MSCI,”
said Ziad Dabbas, a financial analyst at  National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , the country’s second-largest lender by assets.  U.A.E. stocks rallied after the Emirates Securities and
Commodities Authority, the nation’s regulator, said April 11 the
so-called delivery-versus-payment system would be introduced at
bourses on April 28, one of MSCI’s criteria for an upgrade from
frontier markets. The U.A.E. and Qatar’s markets may be
reclassified at MSCI on June 21, potentially becoming the first
nations from the  Persian Gulf  to be listed as emerging markets.  The U.A.E. stock exchanges said April 27 they would give
brokerages until May 29 to switch to the system, damping
optimism the U.A.E. will secure the upgrade. Dubai’s measure
tumbled 7.3 percent since then and Abu Dhabi’s dropped 3.3
percent.  Luring $1.5 Billion  Foreign-ownership limits on stocks and “efficiency” are
some issues that face Qatar and the U.A.E., Manuel Rensink, head
of Middle East and North Africa at MSCI, said May 3. Size and
liquidity are “not a major hurdle for the U.A.E. and Qatar,”
he said. Qatar’s index fell 0.7 percent today.  MSCI classifies six of the Gulf’s seven bourses as frontier
markets, a designation that typically applies to economies and
financial markets that are less developed.  Saudi Arabia ’s market
isn’t categorized. U.A.E. stocks may attract $1.5 billion if the
nation secures the upgrade, Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee
$110 million at The National Investor in Abu Dhabi, said last
month.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the tallest skyscraper in
the world and the company with the heaviest weighting on Dubai’s
index, has a market capitalization of 18.7 billion dirhams ($5.1
billion). That compares with Samsung Electronics Co., which has
a market value of 127.4 trillion won ($116 billion) and the
heaviest weighting on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Quarterly Earnings  Declining earnings at companies in Abu Dhabi have also
dented investor confidence. “First-quarter earnings at most
heavy-weighted Abu Dhabi companies disappointed, with few
positive surprises,” National Bank of Abu Dhabi’s Dabbas said.  Sorouh Real Estate PJSC, Abu Dhabi’s second-biggest
property developer by market value, said April 28 first-quarter
profit fell 50 percent to 64.3 million dirhams, missing
analysts’ estimates, on rising development costs. The shares
lost as much as 1.6 percent to 1.27 dirhams today, before
closing at 1.28 dirhams.  Abu Dhabi Commercial decreased the most since March 2 to
2.73 dirhams. Dubai Islamic, the U.A.E.’s biggest bank complying
with Shariah rules, declined 1 percent to 2.08 dirhams, the
lowest level since March 7.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  lost 0.3 percent. Oman’s
benchmark stock index and  Kuwait ’s gauge retreated 0.5 percent.
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All
Share Index (SASEIDX)  each rose 0.1 percent.  Delivery-versus-payment is a securities industry procedure
in which payment for a security must be made when the security
is delivered. Usually, the payment is made to a bank, which in
turn pays for the security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  