-- 
U.K. Retail-Sales Gauge Falls for First Time in Three Months

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-24T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-k-retail-sales-gauge-falls-for-first-month-in-three-as-expansion-ebbs.html
A U.K. retail-sales index fell for
the first time in three months in May and stores expect growth
to slow in June, the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  Retailers saying sales volumes increased from a year ago
outnumbered those reporting declines by 18 percentage points,
compared with 21 points in April, the London-based business
lobby said in a report today. A separate quarterly index showed
the pace of selling-price inflation dropped from a 20-year high.  U.K. consumer confidence fell in April and unemployment
claims rose at their fastest rate in 15 months, underlining the
fragility of the recovery as government spending cuts and
quickening inflation sap household finances. The economy
stagnated in the half-year through March and Bank of England
officials said this month that an interest-rate increase now
could damp  consumer spending .  “High Street sales growth is subdued and is likely to
remain sluggish for some time,”  John Cridland , director general
of the CBI, said in a statement. “Household budgets are being
persistently squeezed by the gap between price inflation and
weak wage growth.”  The slowdown in growth in May was led by big-ticket
retailers such as household-goods stores, where a “sharp fall
in sales gained pace,” the CBI said. An overall expectations
gauge for June indicated stores expect sales growth to slow.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer, said today that the short-term outlook for the economy
remains challenging. A squeeze on consumers’ incomes and rising
commodity prices mean the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer is
“cautious” about prospects.  Inflation  While an index of selling prices for the quarter through
May fell to 63 from a two-decade high of 73 in the three months
through February, annual growth is still at a rate “not seen
since the early 1990s,” the CBI said. Retailers anticipate
little change in price inflation in June, the lobby group said.  Demand on suppliers climbed this month, with an index of
orders rising to 6 from zero in April, while a gauge of the
volume of stocks in relation to expected demand surged to its
highest since 1984.  A quarterly measure of retailers’ business situation rose 4
points to minus 2. Today’s CBI report is based on a survey of 72
retailers between May 3 and May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  