-- 
U.K. Same-Day Natural Gas Rises as Heavy Winds Delay LNG Tanker

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-05-24T09:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-k-same-day-natural-gas-rises-as-heavy-winds-delay-lng-tanker.html
U.K. natural gas for immediate
delivery rose as heavy winds delayed the arrival of a liquefied
natural gas carrier at south  Wales .  The Lijmiliya, a so-called Q-Max tanker able to carry
258,019 cubic meters of LNG, was expected to dock at the South
Hook terminal yesterday. It’s one of the largest LNG tankers
ever built and was sailing from the Gulf state of Qatar.  “She should be in this afternoon,” Captain Bill Hurst,
deputy harbor master at  Milford Haven , said in a phone interview
today. “There are wind limits moving ships in port.”  Gas for today rose 0.35 pence, or 0.6 percent, to 58.25
pence a therm as of 9:30 a.m. in London, according to broker
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s equal to $9.40 a million
British thermal units. A therm is 100,000 Btu.  Flows from the South Hook terminal have dropped in the last
two days, National Grid Plc data show. The network operator
forecast gas demand in the 24 hours through 6 a.m. tomorrow at
225 million cubic meters, less than normal for the time of year.
Pipelines in the country will contain 350 million cubic meters
of gas at that time, 13 million more than at the start of today.  Statoil ASA,  Norway ’s biggest gas producer, said helicopter
flights from the Sola and Hammerfest to oil installations were
grounded by ash from a volcanic eruption in Iceland, halting
staff movements, Ola Anders Skauby, a company spokesman, said by
telephone.  There’s no immediate impact on production and it’s too
early to assess any future impact of flight restrictions, he
said. Flights from Flesland in Bergen to the Heimdal and Grane
platforms have also been stopped, he said.  Gas for June gained 1 percent to 57.5 pence a therm. U.K.
baseload power for next month was unchanged at 50.30 pounds a
megawatt-hour, broker data on Bloomberg show. Baseload is
delivered around the clock. Winter gas, to be delivered in the
six months from October, gained 0.6 percent to 69.1 pence a
therm. Electricity for winter rose 15 pence to 57.40 pounds a
megawatt-hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in  London  at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  