-- 
U.K. May Use Green Investment Bank to Fund Expanions of Nuclear Program

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-05-24T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-k-green-investment-bank-may-employ-100-people-minister-says.html
Britain may use the Green Investment
Bank it plans to open in April 2012 to help fund nuclear power
plants as it encourages consumption of more low-carbon fuels.  The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills said
nuclear power investments are under a “high level appraisal”
along with offshore wind, carbon capture plants, marine energy
and electric vehicle charging stations. The department disclosed
arrangements for the bank that ministers are considering in a
document released yesterday.  Business Secretary Vince Cable told reporters in London
that while nuclear technology didn’t meet the criteria for the
first round of investments, “we also make it very clear we
don’t rule sectors out.”  The U.K. government estimates it needs 200 billion pounds
($320 billion) to replace its aging power stations. It gets
about a fifth of its electricity from nuclear plants and must
replace all but one of them within the two decades.  Nuclear power, which Cable’s Liberal Democrat Party opposed
before it joined Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led
coalition government last year, would need a large amount of
financial support, according to the report.  The timing of that investment was “far away,” and the
relevance of financial solutions the bank could deploy was
“low,” the government said in its report. The government plans
reactors with capacity totaling 18 gigawatts by 2025.  Due to their long lead times, only about 6 gigawatts of new
projects could be installed by 2020, requiring a minimum
investment of about 17 billion pounds ($27.5 billion), according
to the report.  Aging Reactors  Cameron is depending on replacing a generation of aging
nuclear power plants with new reactors and expanding renewable
energy sources to meet goals on curbing greenhouse gas
emissions. This month, the government’s climate advisory panel
said investment in offshore  wind turbines  should be slowed while
more nuclear stations are built.  The initial focus of the bank’s investments would be on
industrial  energy efficiency , waste and offshore wind and “high
risk” projects that wouldn’t get funding from traditional
sources, Cable said.  “A wider range of energy and other activities could become
relevant over time,” he said.  Green Administration  The government is trying to deliver on a pledge to make the
administration the “greenest” in U.K. history while
eliminating the  budget deficit  by 2015, the deadline for the
next election. It’s funding the bank with 3 billion pounds from
asset sales underwritten by the Treasury that could catalyze a
further 15 billion pounds from investors by 2015.  Cable said he was setting up an advisory group for the bank
to help establish the institution and its strategic direction.
Adrian Montague, the chairman of  3I Group Plc (III) , who held the same
post at nuclear operator British Energy Group Plc until 2009,
was appointed as chairman for the group.  The Business Department will start to make investments in
clean energy projects by April and will transfer them to the
Green Investment Bank once the institution is functioning and
the European Union has verified that the program complies with
state aid rules, Cable said.  Those investments could come in the form of equity,
subordinated debt or senior debt. From April 2015, the bank will
be able to borrow on its own against the credit of the
government if the national debt is declining as a percentage of
the economy. The bank may issue “green bonds,” he said.  The bank will employ 50 to 100 people and be based in
Bristol,  London  or Edinburgh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  