-- 
U.S. Hurricanes May Curb European Insurers’ Dividend Ambitions

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-05-24T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-s-hurricanes-may-curb-european-insurers-dividend-ambitions.html
European insurers, which have raised
dividend payouts by a third since 2005 to court investors, may
have to backtrack as record first-quarter disaster claims and
the looming U.S. hurricane season threaten to squeeze reserves.  Companies in the Stoxx Europe 600 Insurance Index paid out
51 percent of profits as dividends to shareholders last year,
compared with 38 percent in 2005, when hurricanes including
Katrina  cost  the global industry $100 billion. Total insured
losses from natural catastrophes in the first three months of
2011, such as the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , may reach
more than $50 billion, insurance broker Aon Corp. estimated.  “The upcoming U.S. hurricane season will be a critical
test for insurers’ ambition to transform themselves into
dividend stocks, should it add a few more billions to this
year’s already high disaster bill,” said Moritz Rehmann, who
helps manage about $14 billion at DJE Kapital AG in Munich.  Researchers at  Colorado State University  forecast 16 named
storms for this year’s Atlantic June-through-November hurricane
season, compared with an average of 11 storms. Hurricanes
hitting big cities, as well as earthquakes, often lead to
reinsurers’ most expensive claims. Katrina, which devastated  New
Orleans  in 2005,  cost  the industry $62.2 billion, according to
estimates by  Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer.  The U.S. has already been struck by storms this year that
killed at least 481 people. A three-quarter-mile wide tornado
tore through Joplin,  Missouri  on May 22, a month after at least
305 tornadoes hit the U.S. South. The damage from the storms
that struck from April 25 to April 27 may be as much as $5
billion, according to Oakland, California-based Eqecat Inc.,
which uses computer models to estimate storm damages.  Dividend Yields  The Stoxx 600 Insurance Index has risen 4.1 percent in
2011, the fourth-best performance among 19 industry groups, even
as natural catastrophes in the Asia-Pacific region, which also
included flooding in  Australia  and a quake in  New Zealand ,
pushed up claims. Companies in the index trade at an average 12-
month dividend yield of 3.5 percent, while shares of Allianz,
Europe’s biggest insurer, offer 4.8 percent.  Higher dividend yields may attract investors to buy stocks
as bond-market returns remain subdued. The yield on 10-year
benchmark German  government bonds  was 3.05 percent as of May 24.  “European insurers have the largest potential among the
various industry sectors to become classic dividend stocks along
with utilities and telecoms,” said Luca Della Santa, who helps
manage about 378 billion euros at ING Investment Management in
 The Hague ,  Netherlands . “They operate in mature markets and
have no large growth pockets anymore, so it’s just natural for
them to focus more on payouts.”  Insurance Premiums  Insurers in  Europe  distributed a smaller proportion of
their profits to investors last year than utilities and
telecommunication companies, which had average payout ratios of
88 percent and 99 percent, respectively. Shares in the Stoxx 600
Utilities Index trade with a dividend yield of 6.2 percent and
the telecommunication gauge offers 6.9 percent.  Insurance premiums in developed nations fell 1.8 percent in
2009, while they grew 3.5 percent in emerging markets, according
to a  study  by Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-biggest
reinsurer. Dividends have risen even as the industry faced
pressure from low  interest rates  that hurt investment returns
and demand for  life insurance , and from reduced prices in
property and casualty coverage such as motor insurance.  Price Developments  Allianz, which posted a 45 percent drop in first-quarter
profit on natural-disaster claims and lower investment gains,
raised its 2010 dividend to 4.50 euros a share from 4.10 euros
for 2009. The Munich-based insurer aims to distribute 40 percent
of its profit to shareholders. That compares with a 10-year
average of 31 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said this month that it has seen “positive
price effects” following this year’s catastrophes. Reinsurance
rates for loss-affected earthquake coverage rose as much as 50
percent in the April round of renewals of contracts in Japan,
Munich Re also said in May, after posting a first-quarter loss
on disaster claims.  At  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
insurer, quarterly profit declined 32 percent on catastrophe
claims. The company raised its dividend for 2010 to the highest
in 11 years.  “Insurers are actually interesting dividend stocks because
of their low valuation and as they have room to further increase
payout ratios,” said Tim Friebertshaeuser, who helps manage
about 274 billion euros at DWS Investment in  Frankfurt .  Price to Book  The Stoxx 600 Insurance Index is valued at 0.95 times its
companies’ book value, or companies’ assets minus liabilities.
That compares with 1.35 for utilities and 1.48 for telecoms.
Insurers are also cheaper based on their earnings outlook. The
insurance gauge trades at 8.8 times estimated profit, compared
with 11.7 for utilities and 10.3 for telecoms.  The  insurance industry  may face claims of $21 billion to
$34 billion from the magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami
that hit Japan on March 11, according to an April 12 estimate by
catastrophe modeler Risk Management Solutions.  Reinsurers, which help insurers shoulder the cost of
claims, have also increased payouts to investors. Munich Re,
whose shareholders include BlackRock Inc. and  Warren Buffett ,
raised its 2010 dividend by 8.7 percent to 6.25 euros. Swiss Re
almost tripled its payout to 2.75 Swiss francs.  Munich Re Chief Financial Officer Joerg Schneider said on
May 9 that the company “would very much like to keep the
dividend on the existing level” even as it scrapped its 2.4
billion-euro full-year profit target in March.  “Should we get an intensive U.S. hurricane season on top
of the first quarter’s record disaster bill, that would threaten
the industry’s ambitions to attract investors with stable
dividend payouts,” said Philipp Haessler, a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Equinet AG. “Reinsurers are even more at risk due to
their larger exposure to such natural disasters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  