-- 
U.S. Needs to Develop New Bomber Aircraft, Carter Says

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-05-24T20:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-s-military-needs-to-develop-new-bomber-aircraft-carter-says.html
The U.S. military needs to begin
developing a new  Air Force  bomber and it must be affordable,
said  Ashton Carter , the Defense Department’s acquisitions chief.  “We need to start it in such a way that we are going to be
sure to be able to finish it,” Carter said today at a defense
industry meeting in  Washington  organized by the Aerospace
Industries Association. Potential bidders on such a program
include  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)   A new bomber program is “something we want and need,”
Carter said. Such a plane, he said, would include capabilities
such as electronic attack, surveillance, and communications.  The U.S. Air Force is requesting $3.7 billion in its five-
year budget for research and development of a new class of long-
range strike systems that may include a bomber, missiles and
drones. The Air Force budget request for fiscal 2012 includes
$197 million to begin developing a bomber.  The new bomber design would be the first in almost three
decades, since Northrop Grumman’s  B-2  was designed. Lockheed
Martin, of Bethesda, Maryland, and Boeing, based in  Chicago ,
said in 2008 that they would form a partnership to compete
against Los Angeles-based Northrop.  In a separate letter to the leaders of the U.S. House Armed
Services Committee, Carter said he opposed lawmakers’ efforts to
mandate in law that the Pentagon hold a competition for the new
bomber’s propulsion system, instead of having the airplane’s
maker choose the subcontractor.  Carter’s May 9 letter, previously unreleased, responds to
the  House Armed Services Committee ’s fiscal 2012  defense
authorization bill , which includes a provision requiring the
competition.  Engine Competition  “It is inappropriate and premature to mandate what the
acquisition strategy should be for a subsystem of one element of
this program,” Carter wrote to Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the California Republican who is chairman of
the committee, and Representative  Adam Smith  of Washington, the
panel’s top Democrat. “Very realistic opportunities exist which
do not require the development of a new engine.”  In a statement of administration policy on the defense
authorization bill issued today, the White House also
underscored Carter’s comments.  “The prime contractor’s design concepts may differ so
widely that it would be impractical to have a separate engine
competition and then insert the winning engine into the winning
airframe,” it said. “Mandating such development would likely
result in increased cost and risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  