-- 
U.S. Targets Iran’s Energy Partners With Economic Sanctions

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-24T18:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-s-targets-iran-s-energy-partners-with-economic-sanctions.html
The U.S. has imposed sanctions on
seven foreign companies for doing business with  Iran ’s energy
industry in ways that might bolster the country’s “illicit”
nuclear activities, the State Department announced today.  Separately, the U.S. imposed sanctions on 16 non-U.S.
companies and individuals for aiding weapons and missile
programs in Iran, North Korea or  Syria .  “Today’s actions add further pressure on Iran to comply
with its international obligations,” said  James Steinberg ,
deputy secretary of state, who announced the sanctions in
Washington. Iran already operates under sanctions, including an
arms embargo imposed by the  United Nations .  The new U.S. sanctions imposed on energy companies include
provisions that prohibit them from U.S. foreign exchange
transactions, U.S. banking transactions and U.S. property
transactions.  Some of the companies face lesser sanctions, barring them
from securing financing from the Export-Import Bank of the U.S.
and from obtaining loans of more than $10 million from U.S.
financial institutions.  The seven companies targeted under the Iran Sanctions Act
for their energy work are Petrochemical Commercial Company
International (PCCI) of Jersey and Iran; Royal Oyster Group of
the  United Arab Emirates , Speedy Ship of United Arab Emirates
and Iran; Tanker Pacific of  Singapore ; Ofer Brothers Group of
 Israel ; Associated Shipbroking of Monaco; and Petroleos de
 Venezuela  of Venezuela, according to the State Department.  Company Denial  Tanker Pacific, Ofer Brothers, and Associated Shipbroking
were sanctioned “for their respective roles in a September 2010
transaction that provided a tanker valued at $8.65 million to
the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines (IRISL), an entity
that has been designated by the  United States  and the European
Union for its role in supporting Iran’s proliferation
activities,” according to a State Department fact sheet. Tanker
Pacific and Ofer Brothers Group “failed to exercise due
diligence and did not heed publicly available and easily
obtainable information that would have indicated that they were
dealing with IRISL.”  An e-mailed statement from the Ofer Brothers Group
spokesman’s office said, “We have never sold ships to Iran.”
The statement added that authorized Israeli officials would be
able to confirm the denial. It didn’t elaborate.  Petroleum Targeted  While the sanctions specifically target refined petroleum-
related activities, the State Department said the measures
“target Iran’s ability to acquire and utilize resources in
support of its illicit nuclear activities.”  The harshest sanctions were reserved for PCCI, Royal Oyster
Group and Speedy Ship. The State Department said the three firms
“regularly engaged in deceptive practices” to ship refined-
petroleum products to Iran and evade U.S. sanctions.  In a separate action, the State Department imposed
sanctions on 16 individuals and firms under the Iran,  North
Korea  and Syria Nonproliferation Act.  The department said the 16 entities transferred or acquired
equipment and technology that can be used for weapons of mass
destruction or missile systems in Iran, North Korea and Syria.  The sanctions, which will be in effect for two years, bar
the U.S. government from doing any business or assisting the 16
individuals and firms, which are from Belarus,  China , Iran,
North Korea, Syria and Venezuela.  Named Companies  Those targeted are Belarusian Optical Mechanical
Association and BelTechExport of Belarus; Karl Lee, Dalian Sunny
Industries, Dalian Zhongbang Chemical Industries Company and
Xian Junyun Electronic of China; Milad Jafari, Defense
Industries Organization, Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping
Lines, Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Qods Force, SAD Import-
Export Company and Shahid Bakeri Industries Group of Iran;
Tangun Trading of North Korea; Industrial Establishment of
Defense and Scientific Studies and Research Center of Syria; and
Venezuela Military Industries Company of Venezuela.  “The State Department’s message indicates that they will
choose relatively toothless sanctions to avoid any unnecessary
further pressures in an already tight oil market” heading into
next year’s U.S. elections, said Patrick Esteruelas, an analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service in  New York , referring to the
sanctions on the Venezuela state oil company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  