-- 
U.S. House Panel Advances Delay of Dodd-Frank Swaps Rules

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-24T22:55:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-s-house-panel-advances-delay-of-dodd-frank-derivative-rules.html
The Financial Services Committee
today became the second House panel to approve a measure to
delay the implementation of new U.S. rules for the  derivatives
market  dominated by banks like  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Chairman  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who co-
sponsored the bill to delay the rules until Sept. 30 of next
year, said the legislation was “needed to restore order to the
Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rulemaking process.”  Lawmakers approved the  measure  in a 30-24 party-line vote,
with all 24 Democrats present voting against the proposal. The
House floor would be the next stop for the bill, which is
unlikely to progress beyond that because Democrats control the
Senate and White House.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission are writing regulations, mandated by Dodd-
Frank, for the $601 trillion swaps market after largely
unregulated transactions helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  House Republicans, who took power in January, have pushed
changes on several fronts to the Dodd-Frank law enacted last
year. The lawmakers, who almost unanimously opposed it, have
said the law represents regulatory overreach.  Bachus and his colleagues have moved several bills through
the committee designed to roll back or reshape provisions,
including the power of the new Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau.  More Time  The House Agriculture Committee approved a delay for the
derivatives rules earlier this month. Under the version approved
today, most new derivatives rules would not take effect until
September 30, 2012.  Lawmakers on both sides agreed that regulators will need
more time to finalize the rules, most of which are due by July
21. The disagreement, Democrats said, is language in the bill
halting even finalized regulations from implementation.  “This is an effort to postpone substantive regulation over
the swaps market,” Representative  Barney Frank  of
 Massachusetts , the top Democrat on the committee, said today.
The measure would “prohibit” regulators from implementing the
bulk of the rules before the new deadline, Frank said.  Lawmakers approved, by voice vote, an amendment that would
reduce the delay to the end of September from Dec. 31, 2012, as
well as the requirement that the SEC complete its clearing rules
within the original timeline. Lawmakers also approved an
amendment that would maintain the deadline for any CFTC and SEC
rules that would “address speculative trading.” Representative
Stephen Lynch, a Massachusetts Democrat, offered the amendment,
which was adopted by voice vote.  “This bill shouldn’t be partisan,” said Representative
 Frank Lucas  of  Oklahoma , a Republican who also serves as the
chairman of the Agriculture Committee, which approved the bill
earlier this month. “It doesn’t repeal anything or make
substantive changes.”  On the same day lawmakers voted to give the CFTC more time
to complete the rules, members of the House Appropriations
agriculture subcommittee voted to cut the agency’s funding by 15
percent. The subcommittee, by voice vote, approved a $30 million
reduction in the CFTC’s annual budget -- to $172 million from
its current level of $202 million.  The budget cut is likely to be opposed by Democrats who
control the Senate and who have blocked previous efforts to
restrict funding for agencies implementing Dodd-Frank rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  