-- 
Dollar Unloved by Bond Managers Enticed by Emerging Markets

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-05-25T08:08:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-s-dollar-unloved-by-global-bond-managers-with-eyes-for-emerging-markets.html
Top-performing global bond fund
managers are sticking with long-term bets against the U.S.
dollar even as the currency has rallied more than 4 percent
since the end of last month.  From  Bill Gross , who runs the $241 billion  Pimco Total
Return Fund (PTTRX) , to Anthony Norris, whose Wells Fargo Advantage
International Bond Fund has $1.8 billion, the investors are
convinced that the greenback will lose ground against a range of
currencies in emerging markets and selected developed countries
such as Australia and Norway.  “The long-term fundamentals still look terrible for the
dollar,” said Alessio de Longis, a currency strategist in  New
York  for OppenheimerFunds’ global debt team, including its $13
billion Oppenheimer International Bond Fund.  The dollar may rally from time to time, according to the
bearish managers, whose ranks include Daniel Fuss of Loomis
Sayles & Co. and Templeton Global Bond Fund’s  Michael Hasenstab .
They expect overseas markets to lure investors over the next
several years with faster economic growth, higher interest rates
and healthier government finances than those in the U.S.  “In the currency world, money goes to where it is treated
the best,” Thomas Goggins, a manager of the $3 billion John
Hancock Strategic Income Fund, said in a telephone interview
from Toronto.  The dollar is down 12 percent in the past year against a
trade-weighted basket of six currencies, even after a 4.5
percent increase since April 29, when it reached its lowest
level in three years. Fund managers at Pacific Investment
Management Co., the Newport Beach, California-based firm where
Gross is co-chief investment officer, are among the most vocal
dollar bears.  ‘Revolt’ Against Yields  Investors should “revolt” against Federal Reserve-
engineered low  interest rates  and seek alternatives to U.S.
bonds, “including developing/emerging-market debt at higher
yields denominated in non-dollar currencies,” Gross said in a
 commentary  this month on the firm’s website.  Pimco Total Return, the world’s largest bond mutual fund,
outperformed 98 percent of rivals in the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco doesn’t provide
details on how the fund’s assets are invested by currency.  While Gross declined to comment, Michael Gomez, a Pimco
portfolio manager in Munich who is co-head of the firm’s
emerging-markets portfolio team, said that Asian currencies are
only part way through a multi-year appreciation against the
dollar.  “We think this is a powerful trend,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Rising Yuan  Developing economies in  Asia  will expand 8.4 percent this
year, compared with 2.8 percent growth in the U.S., the
 International Monetary Fund  forecast last month. The yuan has
gained 4.92 percent against the dollar in the past year. Most
global investors predict the yuan will be convertible into other
currencies by 2016, with 50 percent seeing it joining the
dollar, yen and euro as a reserve currency within a decade, a
May Bloomberg poll indicated.  The Chinese government has become more amenable to letting
its currency appreciate as a tool to fight inflation, said
Norris, the Wells Fargo manager.  Because their economies are closely linked to  China ’s,
countries including  South Korea  and  Malaysia  will be willing to
let their currencies climb along with the yuan, he said in a
telephone interview from  London . His fund topped 90 percent of
rivals over the past decade, according to Morningstar.  Down Under Dollars  Fuss of Loomis Sayles is wagering on further gains for the
Australian and New Zealand dollars, in part because of their
links to growth in Asia.  “They have stuff other people need,” he said in a
telephone interview from  Boston , referring to commodities
exported by the two countries.  Australia  has other advantages, said Fuss, who is co-
manager with Kathleen Gaffney of the $21 billion Loomis Sayles
Bond Fund, which beat 97 of rivals in the past five years,
Bloomberg data show.  The country’s benchmark lending rate is 4.75 percent,
compared with a range of zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S. Its
jobless rate was 4.9 percent in April; the U.S. rate was 9
percent. The ratio of government debt to gross domestic product,
a measure of a country’s fiscal health, is 11 percent in
Australia compared with 92 percent in the U.S., according to IHS
Global Insight, a Lexington, Massachusetts-based research firm.  The Australian dollar climbed 27 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year, according to Bloomberg data. The New
Zealand dollar, a currency Fuss likes even better, gained 18
percent. Now trading at 79.31 cents, the New Zealand dollar will
eventually reach parity with the U.S. dollar, Fuss said, without
specifying how long that may take.  Canadian Dollar  As early as 1999, Gaffney said the Canadian dollar, then
trading at 68 cents, would reach parity with the U.S. dollar.
One Canadian dollar now buys $1.02.  Given its steep rise, Fuss said, the Canadian currency is
fairly valued at the moment, and he has trimmed his holdings.
Loomis Sayles Bond had 9.1 percent of its assets in the Canadian
dollar at the end of March, down from 17 percent at the end of
September, company data show.  The fund had 30 percent of its assets in non-U.S.
currencies, with 4.1 percent in the New Zealand dollar and 3.5
percent in the Norwegian krone.  Hasenstab, the Templeton Global Bond manager at  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN) , told shareholders in a 2007 report that “we
continued to position the portfolio for a weak U.S. dollar
through a basket of Asian currencies.”  Norwegian Krone  The decline of the dollar since then has not changed
Hasenstab’s mind. His $55 billion fund had 36 percent of its
assets in Asia-Pacific currencies as of Feb. 28, with 15 percent
in the won, 11 percent in the Australian dollar and 9.4 percent
in the Malaysian ringgit, data from the fund’s  semiannual report 
show. The next largest holdings were the Norwegian krone, 8.3
percent, and the Swedish krona, 8 percent.  Hasenstab declined to comment, Matthew Walsh, a spokesman
for San Mateo, California-based Franklin, said in an e-mail.  In an April 29 interview with the “Consuelo Mack
WealthTrack” television show, Hasenstab said he envisioned a
“bifurcated” future in which the dollar performed well against
other developed-market currencies and poorly against the
currencies of the emerging markets.  The Templeton Global Bond Fund returned 12 percent a year
for the past 10 years, making it the top performing world bond
fund, Morningstar data show.  John Taylor  Not all managers are willing to bet against the dollar.  “The dollar-hating trade seems to be a bit crowded,” Luz Padilla, manager of the $165 million DoubleLine Emerging Markets
Fixed Income Bond Fund, said in a telephone interview from  Los
Angeles .  John Taylor, founder of the world’s largest currency-hedge
fund, said the rally in higher-yielding assets, including
emerging-market currencies, will end by July. The chairman of
New York-based FX Concepts LLC, which manages $8.5 billion, made
the prediction in a Bloomberg interview this month.  The case for further dollar decline rests on interest rates
and government finances, according to de Longis of Oppenheimer
Funds.  “The U.S. has worse monetary policy and worse fiscal
policy than other countries, and that is a bad combination for
the dollar,” said de Longis, whose fund beat 96 percent of
peers in the past decade, Morningstar data show.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at his first news
conference in April that the economy still requires monetary
support. The central bank has kept its overnight lending rate at
the same level since December 2008, even as others have raised
theirs.  ‘Fiscal Mess’  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said in a May 18 Bloomberg interview that the Fed may keep its
monetary-policy unchanged until late this year, and that
declining inflation expectations have curbed the need to begin
withdrawing record stimulus.  “We have a fiscal mess in  Washington  and both parties seem
intransigent,” said Goggins of Hancock, whose fund outperformed
82 percent of peers in the past five years, Bloomberg data show.
Failure to make progress shrinking the debt burden, he said,
means the U.S. will have to print more dollars, a negative for
the currency.  “We are going to have to borrow a ton of money,” Fuss
said.  Budget Impasse  Chances that a bipartisan group of six U.S. senators will
agree on a long-range deficit-cutting plan diminished when
Republican Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma  on May 17 abandoned
the talks, saying the group was at an impasse over how to cut
entitlement programs such as Medicare.  The U.S. dollar may rally later this year, said Norris of
Wells Fargo, if American growth picks up and the Fed signals it
is ready to start raising interest rates. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg expect the central bank to boost rates in the first
quarter of 2012.  “Our long-term thesis remains that the dollar has to
decline,” said Norris. “We are long-term dollar bears.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  