-- 
U.S. House Panel Approves $30 Million Cut to Commodity Regulator

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-24T21:35:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-s-house-panel-approves-30-million-cut-to-commodity-regulator.html
The agency responsible for regulating
a large swath of the $601 trillion global over-the-counter swaps
market may face a 15 percent budget cut in the wake of a House
subcommittee vote.  Lawmakers on the  House Appropriations  agriculture
subcommittee approved a  bill  today that would cut the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission budget to $172 million from its
current level of $202 million. The panel approved the measure by
voice vote.  “Our members have worked to root out waste and duplication
and, where they have strayed from their core mission, we rein in
agencies so they may better focus on the responsibilities for
which they are intended,” Representative Jack Kingston, a
Georgia Republican and chairman of the subcommittee said today.  The full House Appropriations Committee will be the next
panel to consider the measure. The proposed cut is expected to
be opposed by Democrats who control the Senate and who have
blocked cuts to the agencies implementing Dodd-Frank.  The CFTC and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are
writing regulations, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, after
largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the 2008 credit
crisis.  Democrats on the subcommittee, who lost control of the
House in January, said the cuts would undermine implementation
of the financial regulation law enacted last year. President
 Barack Obama  requested $308 million in his fiscal 2012 budget
proposal.  “If there was ever a place not to cut, it is in the realm
of reforming  Wall Street ,” Representative Sam Farr of
 California , the senior Democrat on the committee, said today.
“This bill would prevent serious reforms and we need to avoid
another Wall Street meltdown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  