-- 
U.S. Stocks Drop as Industrial Slump Offsets Home Sales Report

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-24T20:46:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-alcoa-gt-solar-rise-in-european-trading.html
U.S. stocks retreated, sending
benchmark indexes to one-month lows, as a drop in stocks most-
tied to economic growth offset a government report showing that
sales of new homes rose to the highest level this year.  Shares of industrial, consumer-discretionary and technology
companies led the declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
 Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  retreated 3.1 percent as  China 
appealed a World Trade Organization ruling that backed U.S.
duties on Chinese tire imports, saying the levies are
“protectionist.”  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and
 Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  rose at least 2.9 percent as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. signaled a positive outlook for commodities.  The S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent to 1,316.28 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , reversing a 0.5 percent gain. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  retreated 25.05 points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,356.21.  “Investors are trying not to be too heroic at this
point,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a senior portfolio manager at
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, which manages $14.8
billion. “People are just sliding to the sidelines. We’ve had a
decent gain in stocks this year amid so many uncertainties. The
earnings season is over. We need real catalysts at this point to
push stocks higher.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 3.5 percent since climbing to a
three-year high on April 29 amid a commodity slump and concern
about  Europe ’s debt crisis. Still, the benchmark has rallied 4.7
percent from the end of 2010 amid government stimulus measures
and higher-than-estimated earnings.  Economic Data  The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond’s manufacturing index
slid to negative six in May, compared with a reading of 10 the
April and a forecast of nine in a Bloomberg News survey. A
separate report showed that purchases of new houses rose in
April to the highest level so far this year after plunging to a
record low two months earlier.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-
dependent on economic growth fell 0.5 percent as 20 of its 30
stocks declined. Industrial companies had the biggest drop in
the S&P 500 within 10 industries, while car companies fell the
most among 24 groups.  General Electric Co. (GE)  slumped 1.5 percent, the most in the
Dow, to $19.10. Goodyear lost 3.1 percent to $16.74.  Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley increased their oil price
forecasts by more than 20 percent, signaling a bullish outlook
for commodities. Goldman boosted its 12-month prediction for
 Brent crude  to $130 a barrel from $107, analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie  said in a report today. Morgan Stanley raised its Brent
estimate by 20 percent to average $120 a barrel this year and by
24 percent to $130 in 2012, it said.  ‘Sufficient’  “Economic growth will likely be sufficient to tighten key
supply-constrained markets in the second half, leading to higher
prices from current levels,” the Goldman analysts said. They
also advised buying copper and zinc.  The S&P GSCI spot index of 24 commodities lost about 10
percent through yesterday since New York-based Goldman told
investors on April 11 to sell a basket of commodities including
oil, copper and cotton, and in the same week recommended they
stay “underweight” in raw materials.  Gauges of energy and raw-material producers advanced as oil
and metal prices rallied. Freeport, the world’s largest publicly
traded copper producer, rose 3 percent to $48.82. Occidental
gained 3.6 percent to $102.50.  AK Steel Rallies  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS)  added 2.6 percent to $14.44 as the
third-largest U.S. steelmaker by sales said it will increase
prices for all carbon flat-rolled steel products by at least $50
per ton to recover higher costs.  El Paso Corp. (EP)  jumped 6.5 percent to $20.22. The company
plans a tax-free spinoff, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Douglas Foshee said at an analyst meeting in New York today. The
decision comes after pipeline operator Williams Cos. said on
Feb. 16 it will sell 20 percent of its production unit later
this year. The company said it will sell the stake in an initial
public offering and spin off the rest in 2012, to give
shareholders “greater value.”
      AutoZone Inc. (AZO)  rose 6 percent to $293.30. The U.S. auto-
parts retailer reported third-quarter earnings of $5.29 a share,
topping the $4.97 estimated by analysts on average.  “There’s a battle between good long-term fundamentals and
short-term uncertainties,” said  David Kelly , who helps oversee
about $445 billion as chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds
in New York. “It’s most likely that any slowdown in the global
economy is temporary. There are reasons why economic growth
should pick up around the world on the second half of the year.
If you buy that notion, this is a good time to take advantage of
that. The stock market looks attractive for the long run.”  Bullish on Stocks  Barton Biggs , the hedge fund manager who bought stocks when
the market bottomed in March 2009, said he is bullish on U.S.
equities and likes industrial shares even though the global
economy has slowed. Biggs favors companies such as  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  and  Deere & Co. (DE)  because their earnings growth continues to
exceed expectations and demand for farming and construction
equipment remains strong.  “The U.S. and the global economy have clearly slowed
pretty significantly,” Biggs, who runs New York-based Traxis
Partners LP, said in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Surveillance. “That’s arousing the bears, who believe
we’re going to slip back into a long soft patch at best or maybe
even a double-dip at worst,” he said. “For a number of reasons
I don’t think that’s right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  