-- 
Tullow Oil Focuses on Dutch North Sea After U.K. Tax Increase

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-05-24T08:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/tullow-oil-focuses-on-dutch-north-sea-after-u-k-tax-increase.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  said it’s focusing on
project development in the “stable and attractive tax regime”
in the Dutch sector of the  North Sea  after the recent tax
increase in the U.K.  The company’s 300 million euro ($422 million) acquisition
of Nuon Exploration and Production BV from Vattenfall AB will
boost Tullow output in the North Sea by 70 percent to about
22,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day. The purchase will add 25
licenses and 28 million barrels of oil equivalent resources off
the Netherlands.  “We see a lot of opportunity for development and
exploration spend in the Dutch sector” of the North Sea,
Tullow’s Chief Operating Officer Paul McDade said in a phone
interview. “The instability in the U.K. sector from a tax
perspective doesn’t help to sustain investment. It’s been
extremely punitive, the recent tax increase.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised the tax
on oil production profit to 62 percent from 50 percent in this
year’s budget. BP Plc and BG Group Plc were among producers who
said the increase will curb future investment in U.K. oil and
gas fields.  London-based Tullow now expects to pump as much as 96,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day this year, up from the January
guidance of 92,000 barrels a day. It expects to complete the
Nuon acquisition by July and will be able to book about 4,500
barrels a day of production for the year, McDade said.  The company is focusing on projects in  Africa . It expects
to drill two offshore wells in  Ivory Coast  and two onshore wells
in  Kenya  this year to explore for oil and gas in the African
frontiers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  