-- 
Mumbai Terror Attack Scout Tells U.S. Jury He Was ‘Pleased’ With Results

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/mumbai-terror-attack-plotter-tells-jury-results-of-assaults-pleased-him.html
David Coleman Headley, a key witness
in the U.S. government’s case against alleged planners of the
2008 Mumbai terror attacks, was “pleased” when he learned
they’d been carried out, he told a jury.  He also told the panel of eight women and four men at the
 Chicago  courthouse yesterday about a planned assault upon a
Danish newspaper in which victims were to be shot and
decapitated by attackers who would then heave the heads from
office windows. That plot followed the publication in the
newspaper of cartoons depicting the Islamic prophet Muhammad.  “Shoot them first and then behead them,” were the
instructions Headley testified he was told to relay to the
would-be attackers during a meeting in  Pakistan ’s rugged
Waziristan region with a man the U.S. says has ties to al-Qaeda,
the Muslim terrorist group formerly led by  Osama bin Laden .  Headley’s testimony came on the second day of the U.S.
trial of Tahawwur Rana, a Chicago businessman accused of using
his immigration business to provide cover for Headley as he
scouted the Mumbai sites where more than 160 people, including
six Americans, were killed over three days in November 2008.  Rana, 50, is also accused of providing Headley’s pretext
for a similar mission to Copenhagen where the never-executed
assault on the Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten newspaper would have
been carried out.  Material Support  A Pakistani native and Canadian citizen, Rana is charged
with providing material support for the two plots and for
Lashkar-e-Taiba, the group believed to have been behind the
raids on two Mumbai hotels, a café, a train station and a Jewish
center.  He faces a possible life sentence if convicted. Defense
attorney Charlie Swift in his opening statement yesterday told
jurors his client had been duped by his friend, Headley.  The U.S. government in 2001 labeled Lashkar-e-Taiba, which
agitates for the separation from  India  of the predominantly
Muslim state of  Jammu and Kashmir , a terrorist organization.  Headley was the first witness called by federal prosecutors
in the trial. Last year he pleaded guilty to 12 criminal counts
including conspiracy to commit murder and supporting terrorists,
and is a cooperating government witness.  “I was pleased,” Headley, 50, told Assistant U.S.
Attorney Dan Collins yesterday when asked how he reacted to news
the Mumbai attack had occurred.  On his reconnaissance missions, Headley said, he’d carried
business cards claiming he was an consultant for Rana’s business
and had opened a branch office in Mumbai which he said he used
as part of his cover.  Mumbai Assault  Headley began testifying May 23, telling the court how he’d
met with agents of the Pakistani Lashkar-e-Taiba, as well as a
man he said worked for that nation’s Inter-Services Intelligence
Agency. Headley also said he told Rana about their preparations
for the Mumbai assault.  Yesterday, the American-born Headley described preparations
for the planned strike at Jyllands-Posten. In 2005, the paper
published caricatures of Muhammad, including one depicting him
with a bomb in his turban.  The cartoons touched off protests in Muslim communities
worldwide.  “Discussion on this matter has been long overdue,”
Headley said Rana told him when apprised of the Danish plot. In
e-mails shown to jurors yesterday, Headley referred to the
revenge attack as the “Mickey Mouse” project.  Newspaper Attack  Ilyas Kashmiri, one of eight men charged in connection with
the Headley-Rana case, led the newspaper attack planning and
allegedly told Headley it would be carried out by operatives
living in the U.K.  Kashmiri commands Harakat-ul Jihad Islami, a Pakistan-based
terrorist group with ties to al-Qaeda, according to the U.S.
Another defendant, Abdur Rehman Hashim Syed, is allegedly a
retired Pakistani army officer, while a third -- identified only
as “Major Iqbal” -- also reportedly helped plan the Mumbai
assault. None of the three are in U.S. custody.  Nine of the 10 Mumbai attackers died in firefights with
responding Indian authorities.  Headley and Collins yesterday took turns reading from the
transcript of a telephone conversation between one of Headley’s
Lashkar handlers and two of the attackers of the Chabad House, a
Jewish hostel in Mumbai, on Nov. 27, 2008, regarding the
disposition of two hostages there.  “Get rid of them now,” handler Sajid Mir reportedly told
the attackers. “Place the barrel on the backside of their heads
and fire.”  Mir is charged with 12 counts in the U.S. case, including
the murder of U.S. nationals in India. He isn’t in custody.  The trial may last into mid-June, U.S. District Judge Harry D. Leinenweber has said.  The case is U.S. v. Kashmiri, 09-cr-00830, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  