-- 
Chavez May Curb Oil Sales to U.S. in Response to Iran Sanctions

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/venezuela-to-study-how-sanctions-will-affect-oil-dispatches-1-.html
Venezuela  said it may not be able to
guarantee all future oil shipments to the U.S. after President
 Barack Obama  imposed sanctions on  South America ’s biggest oil
producer for doing business with  Iran .  The U.S. yesterday imposed economic sanctions on state oil
company Petroleos de Venezuela SA’s and six other foreign
companies for working with Iran’s energy industry in ways that
might bolster the country’s “illicit” nuclear program.  PDVSA,
as the company is known, delivered at least two cargos of a
gasoline additive worth $50 million to Iran between December and
March, the U.S. State Department said in a  statement .  Venezuelan Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  told reporters
yesterday that his government would provide an “adequate”
response to the sanctions after analyzing their impact on
PDVSA’s production and exports. President  Hugo Chavez , an anti-
American ally of Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , said his
country won’t back down in the face of U.S. “aggression.”  “The true impact of this new gringo aggression will be to
strengthen the nationalist and patriotic morale of Venezuela,”
Chavez said in a message posted on his Twitter account. The
yield on 8.5 percent dollar-denominated PDVSA bonds due 2017
jumped 51 basis points, or 0.51 percentage point, to 15.74
percent yesterday, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
The price fell 1.66 cents on the dollar to 71.33 cents.  Citgo  The sanctions prohibit PDVSA from competing for U.S.
government procurement contracts, receiving financing from the
U.S. Export-Import Bank and from obtaining U.S. export licenses.
They don’t prohibit the export of crude oil to the U.S. The
sanctions won’t affect the operations of CITGO Petroleum
Corporation, the U.S. unit of PDVSA, said  Paul Biszko , an
emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.  For now, Venezuela won’t cut its oil dispatches to the U.S.
of 1.2 million barrels per day, though it may in the future stop
sending oil to some U.S. companies, Ramirez said.  “They are trying to sanction Venezuela for our profound
co-operation with a founding member of OPEC,” Ramirez told
reporters in Caracas. “It’s a right from which we will not back
down.”  Symbolic Move  The relative leniency of the sanctions and the fact that
PDVSA was targeted alongside other companies signals the U.S.
doesn’t want to pick a fight with Chavez, said Eric Farnsworth,
vice president of the Council of the Americas in  Washington .  “It’s a very clear signal that deeper connections between
Venezuela and Iranian regime will have consequences in
Washington,” Farnsworth said. “It’s symbolic, but it’s not
going to impact PDVSA’s bottom line.”  Chavez has led other nations in Latin America including
Brazil and Bolivia that have expanded ties with Iran in recent
years.  In 2006, he announced the establishment of regular air
service between Caracas and Tehran. In 2009, during a visit by
Ahmadinejad in which he praised the Iranian leader as a fellow
“gladiator of anti-imperialist battles,” he said the U.S.
should eliminate its arsenal of atomic weapons before taking
Iran to task for its nuclear program.  Iran’s nuclear program  has drawn four sets of United
Nations sanctions because of concern by the U.S. and other
countries that it is being used to develop weapons. Iran says
it’s enriching uranium to fuel nuclear reactors.  The U.S. has applied sanctions on Venezuela before. In 2006,
President  George W. Bush  ended all commercial arms sales to the
country because Chavez wasn’t co-operating sufficiently in the
fight against terrorism.  U.S. Congressman Connie Mack, a Republican from  Florida 
and chairman of the House subcommittee overseeing relations with
 Latin America , said the new U.S. sanctions don’t go far enough.  “While the State Department’s actions today are welcome,
the slow and inadequate response has been frustrating,” Mack
said in a statement. “The U.S. needs to move quickly to cut off
Chavez’s source of revenue, and bring an end to both his
influence in Latin America and his dangerous relationship with
the terrorist-supporting Iranian regime before it’s too late.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Charlie Devereux at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  