-- 
Wall Street Top Athlete Search Gets Under Way With Signups for Decathlon

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-24T15:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/wall-street-top-athlete-search-gets-under-way-with-signups-for-decathlon.html
The search for Wall Street’s best
all-around athlete is under way.  The Decathlon, a 10-event charity competition scheduled for
Oct. 22 at Columbia University in New York, opened full
registration this morning on its  website .  Jay McCareins, who played football at  Princeton University 
and had a brief stint with the National Football League’s
Arizona Cardinals, will be among the traders, bankers and
financial advisers vying for the unofficial title of Wall
Street’s top athlete while raising money for New York’s  Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center .  “In past athletic endeavors, I’ve always found myself to
be one of the top-tier athletes, so I have expectations,”
McCareins, in his fourth year as an energy analyst for the
George Weiss Associates Inc. hedge fund, said in a telephone
interview. “But being in a field where I don’t know the
competitors and in some events I don’t feel comfortable with,
it’s going to make it a little more difficult for me to be as
confident as I usually would be.”  McCareins, 28, pre-registered for the Decathlon along with
about a dozen other select competitors including the event’s
past two champions, a former Ivy League shot-put champion, an
All-American wrestler from  Harvard University  and a former
soccer captain at Villanova University.  Organizers said there’s room for 200 participants this year
and awards will be presented to the top executive, top fund-
raiser and winners in various age groups.  Age, Performance  “We have a greater diversity within the field of
competitors,” Decathlon co-founder Dave Maloney, a former
financial adviser at Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone
interview. “We want to be able to recognize an executive who is
putting on a heck of an athletic performance and not compare
that to the young analyst who’s 20 years his junior.”  The  competition  features runs at three distances -- 40
yards, 400 meters and 800 meters. That’s where its similarity to
the Olympic decathlon ends.  Pull-ups, a football throw, an agility drill, rowing,
vertical jump and bench press are also part of the one-day
contest at  Columbia University ’s Wien Stadium.  McCareins, whose older brother Justin spent four of his
 eight NFL seasons  with the  New York Jets  as a wide receiver,
said he’s looking forward to the variety of events. The younger
McCareins was a cornerback at Princeton and led the nation with
nine interceptions as a senior in 2005.  Rowing Novice  “I can still throw a football reasonably well, but I’ve
never really rowed before, so a 500-meter row is going to be a
new challenge,” said McCareins, who lives in  White Plains , New
York, with his wife, Nicole, and 5-month-old daughter, Jayden.
“That’s part of the excitement. You’re doing things for a very
good cause, but it’s another way to find a new motivation to
train while I have to worry about work and a family.”  The competition came down to the final event in 2010, when
Chris Schlack, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co., fought through
a stomach virus to win the title. Schlack said he spent time as
a personal trainer and kick-boxing teacher at a gym in Hoboken,
 New Jersey , outside his job in the alternate investments group
for Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Schlack will defend his title, and 2009 winner Kyle Peterson, 25, an associate at  Sageview Capital LP , is also in
the field. Justin Nunez, 27, of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  played
football at Columbia and returns to his alma mater after
finishing third last year.  Ivy Champion  Gerald Donini, 47, who is head of equities and trading in
the Americas for  Barclays Capital , is participating for the
first time. A member of the company’s six-member executive
board, Donini was an Ivy League shot-put champion at  Brown
University  and still holds the school record in the event.  Other competitors include Brian Williams, 33, of  Jefferies
Group Inc. (JEF) , who was Villanova’s soccer captain in 2000; Connor Hackett, 23, of  Collins Stewart Plc (CLST) , who last year was football
captain at St. Lawrence University; and Max Meltzer, 26, of the
Meltzer Group, who finished eighth at the college wrestling
championships for Harvard in 2007.  Prospective competitors must work in the financial services
industry and raise a minimum of $3,000 in donations. The event
raised $225,000 last year.  Donors can promise a fixed amount per repetition -- $10 per
pull-up, for example -- and the Decathlon also features
performance-based pledging. Organizers said the second option
allows donors to “wager” on a competitor’s performance,
harnessing Wall Street’s trading culture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  