-- 
WaMu Creditors Agree to Give Up New Stock in Settlement With Shareholders

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-24T21:29:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/wamu-creditors-to-give-up-new-stock-to-settle-with-shareholders.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  creditors
settled their fight with shareholders by agreeing to accept
$160 million in debt and preferred equity instead of new common
shares, the bankrupt company said today.  A group of “significant creditors,” who weren’t
identified by WaMu, also agreed to loan the reorganized company
as much as $100 million, according to a company statement.  People familiar with the proposed settlement told Bloomberg
News last week the creditors were senior noteholders, including
 hedge funds  accused of  insider trading  by the shareholders.  The shareholders agreed to drop their investigation of the
hedge funds in exchange for common equity in the new company and
funding for a litigation trust that would try to raise money
through lawsuits, two people said. The trust would be funded
initially with $5 million and later have access to as much as
$25 million more under certain circumstances, WaMu said.  Shareholders are among the last opponents to WaMu’s
reorganization plan, which would pay more than $7 billion to
creditors, who are mostly unsecured noteholders. The settlement,
which isn’t yet final, would give new common equity to WaMu’s
current common and preferred shareholders in a reinsurance
company that will be reorganized.  Without the settlement, shareholders would receive nothing
under a plan scheduled to be considered next month by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington,  Delaware . Should
the two sides be unable to reach final agreement on unresolved
details in the new plan, the company would seek approval of the
original proposal over shareholders’ objections.  2008 Bank Failure  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.
Washington Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in U.S.
history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  Walrath has given shareholders permission to question the
hedge funds’ under oath and collect documents about their WaMu
trades. Depositions of the hedge funds were scheduled to begin
this month.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 