-- 
West Bank Restrictions Hinder Development, UN Official Says

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-24T20:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/west-bank-restrictions-hinder-development-un-official-says.html
Israel’s restrictions on Palestinians
in the  West Bank  leave thousands needing international aid, a
 United Nations  official said as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described “remarkable” economic growth in the
territory in a speech to the  U.S. Congress .  “Freedom of movement is imperative for Palestinians to
develop their economy and reduce their dependence on
humanitarian assistance,” UN emergency relief coordinator
Valerie Amos told reporters today in  New York , following a four-
day visit to the West Bank and Israel.  “There are parts of the West Bank where, as a result of
planning and zoning policies, people are lacking access to basic
services and humanitarian agencies need to step in,” Amos said.
“If a majority of Israelis understood the impact the policies
were having on Palestinians on a day to day basis, this is
something they themselves would not want to live with.”  Amos said the impact of the barrier  Israel  has been
building around the West Bank was “devastating” and described
herself as “deeply disturbed” by the inability of Palestinians
to get access to medical services and specialized education.  The barrier of walls and fences, under construction by
Israel as a security measure, was ruled illegal by the
 International Court of Justice  in 2004.  “Children’s health and well being are being undermined,”
Amos said. “I visited one school room with no windows and very
few facilities, and where no improvements are permitted because
of planning rules.”  Israeli Viewpoint  Netanyahu, in his speech today to a joint meeting of
Congress, said steps taken by Israel’s government spurred
dramatic economic growth in the West Bank.  “We’ve helped the Palestinian economic growth by removing
hundreds of barriers and roadblocks to the free flow of goods
and people, and the results have been nothing short of
remarkable,” Netanyahu said. “The Palestinian economy is
booming; it’s growing by more than 10 percent a year, and
Palestinian cities look very different today than what they
looked just a few years ago. They have shopping malls, movie
theaters, restaurants, banks.”  Amos, who said she visited the southern Israeli town of
Sderot that has been a frequent target of missiles fired from
the  Gaza Strip , said she recognized Israel’s need for security.  “Israeli citizens have a right to live without fear of
attack,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  