-- 
White House Threatens Veto of Defense Bill Over GE Engine

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-05-24T21:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/white-house-threatens-veto-over-ge-f-35-engine.html
The Obama administration is
threatening to veto the House defense authorization bill that
backs an offer by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) 
to self-fund the development of a secondary engine for the F-35
Joint Strike Fighter.  The Defense Department last month terminated the second
engine program, which Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  says is
unneeded and wasteful spending. Pratt & Whitney, a unit of
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  of Hartford,  Connecticut , is the
primary engine supplier for Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 jet.  The U.S. House Armed Services Committee bill would require
the secretary of defense to allow continued development and
testing of the secondary engine if it is self-funded and would
not incur any cost to the federal government.  “If the final bill presented to the president includes
funding or a legislative direction to continue an extra engine
program, the President’s senior advisers would recommend a
veto,” the White House Office of Management and Budget said in
a statement today.  GE, of Fairfield, Connecticut, and U.K.-based Rolls Royce
said that they are willing to self-fund development of the
alternative engine for the rest of this year and next year. That
would cost more than $100 million, GE Aviation spokesman  Rick Kennedy  said. The company’s goal is to compete with Hartford-
based Pratt & Whitney starting in 2016, Kennedy said.  Destruction Ban  The U.S. House is poised to vote this week on the 2012
bill, which sets funding targets and military policy for the
fiscal year that starts Oct. 1.  The bill would prohibit the Defense Department from
destroying or discarding engines made by GE for the F-35. The
2012 defense authorization bill also seeks to limit the
obligation or expenditure of funds for improving the performance
of the primary engine unless there is competition among engine
makers, should improvements be needed.  The Obama administration “strongly objects” to the
provision that would trigger a competition if performance
improvements were required in the  Pratt & Whitney  engine, the
statement said. “This would result in the continued development
of an extra engine that adds significant extra costs to the
program for something the Administration and the Department of
Defense (DoD) have determined is not needed,” the White House
said.  Prior to the House debate, no lawmaker submitted an
amendment to strike the engine provisions, championed by
Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the California
Republican who is the chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee, and senior lawmakers such as Maryland Republican
Roscoe Bartlett and New Jersey Democrat Robert Andrews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  