-- 
Budget Chief Lew Says U.S. Deal to Raise Debt Ceiling Won’t Be ‘Pretty’

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-24T04:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/white-house-budget-chief-lew-says-debt-deal-won-t-be-pretty-.html
White House budget director  Jacob Lew 
said he was confident Congressional Republicans and Democrats
will reach a deal with the Obama administration to raise the
debt limit, averting a default by the early August deadline.  “I can’t argue that it’ll be pretty,” Lew said of the
struggles to achieve a debt accord in a question-and-answer
session last night at a meeting of the Economic Club of
Washington. “I think there’s a shared understanding that it’s
just unthinkable” for the U.S. to default on its debts.  Asked directly if there would be a U.S. default, Lew
replied, “No.”  Congress and the White House are negotiating over
addressing long-term deficits in negotiations as a deadline to
raise the debt limit approaches. President  Barack Obama  is
urging Congress to raise the $14.3 trillion ceiling by Aug. 2 to
avoid a government default on its loans, while Republicans are
seeking spending cuts in return for approving an increase.  Obama has put Vice President  Joe Biden , a former senator
from  Delaware , in charge of finding common ground on a
bipartisan budget deal. Biden is scheduled to meet with
lawmakers on  Capitol Hill  today, after three negotiating
sessions since May 5. The agenda includes addressing Medicare
and health-care program for the military.  Much Work Ahead  “There’s a lot of trust being built up,” so talks can
enter a serious stage, said Lew, although “I think we have a
lot of work ahead of us” that will take “weeks” to resolve.  Republican Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the chamber’s
second-ranking Republican, said he doubts there’ll be an accord
for several weeks.  “We continue to believe that this group will generate an
agreement to raise the debt ceiling by the Aug. 2 deadline,”
Chris Krueger, an analyst at MF Global Inc.’s Washington
Research Group said in a message to clients.  “The Biden talks are really the only game left in town,”
Krueger said in response to an e-mail from Bloomberg News.
“Time is running out and they continue to meet.”  Lew said it’s important that Social Security be
separated from the current debt and deficit debate.  “We owe it to them” to have a system that’s solvent in 75
years, Lew said, referring to beneficiaries. Mixing that with
deficit reduction “confuses the issue” because Social Security
isn’t contributing to the deficit, he said.  Social Security  “It’s not fair to say Social Security caused the problem”
of record-setting deficits. “It will complicate and slow”
talks if Social Security is brought into the debate, Lew said.  Biden and lawmakers have a wide budget menu from which to
pick: Obama’s Feb. 2012 budget that projects $1.1 trillion in
cuts over 10 years; a revised April 13 Obama plan calling a
deficit-reduction package of $4 trillion over 12 years; a plan
by U.S. Representative Paul Ryan proposing $6 trillion in cuts
over 10 years that passed the House April 15 on a 235-193 vote,
and a so-called “Gang of Six” plan that may propose a mix of
spending cuts and tax increases along the lines of a
presidential commission last December.  “Finding common ground between the House, Senate and White
House will not be easy,” Scott Gluck, a lawyer at Venable LLP
in  Washington , told clients in a newsletter yesterday. The firm
tracks legislation and provides lobbying services to
corporations, institutions and individuals.  That’s because “it is not clear” that tax increases would
pass the Republican-controlled House or that cuts in social
programs, such as Medicare, would pass the Democratic-controlled
Senate, Gluck said.  No Compromise  Talks in the Biden group so far have been described as
progressing but no compromise has emerged.  “Nobody wants default to happen, but at the same time we
don’t want to rubber stamp just a debt-limit increase that shows
we’re not getting our situation under control,” Ryan, the
Republican House Budget Committee chairman, said May 22 on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” program. He said a budget deal isn’t likely
until close to the Aug. 2 deadline.  Lew also said the U.S. unemployment rate is declining.  “We show it trending down,” said Lew, when asked for his
prediction on the rate in November 2012, the next  U.S.
presidential election . “We obviously would like to get
unemployment as low as we possibly can,” he said.  The moderator for the program was  David Rubenstein ,
president of the Economic Club and co-founder of the  Carlyle
Group , the world’s second-largest private-equity firm after
Blackstone Group LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  