-- 
Why Palestinians Have Time on Their Side

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-05-24T23:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/why-palestinians-have-time-on-their-side.html
If I were a Palestinian (and, should
there be any confusion on this point, I am not), and if I were
the sort of Palestinian who believed that  Israel  should be wiped
off the map, then I would be quite pleased with Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu’s performance before Congress this morning.  I would applaud Netanyahu for including no bold initiatives
that would have suggested to the world that Israel is alive to
the threat posed by its seemingly eternal occupation of the West
Bank.  In fact, I would make support for Netanyahu the foundation
stone of my patient campaign to dismantle the world’s only
majority-Jewish country. I would support not only Netanyahu, but
the far-right parties of his governing coalition, the parties
that seem uninterested in democracy and obsessed with planting
more Jewish settlements on the West Bank.  The settlements would have my wholehearted backing. I would
encourage my brother Palestinians to help build settlements at a
brisk pace. I would ask the Israelis to build an even more
intricate system of bypass roads on the  West Bank  that would
connect Jewish settlements to one another and to Israel proper.
I would ask my ostensible allies among the Arab nations to
provide interest-free mortgages to Israelis in  Tel Aviv , so they
could move out to the settlements for some fresh air and a
little more yard. And, while I was at it, I would insist that my
leaders abort their campaign for United Nations recognition of
an independent state of  Palestine .  Entanglement  My goal: To hopelessly, ineradicably, entangle the two
peoples wedged between the Jordan River and the  Mediterranean
Sea .  Then I would wait as the Israeli population on the West
Bank grew, and grew some more. I would wait until 2017, 50 years
after the Six Day War, which ended with Israel in control of the
West Bank and the  Gaza Strip . I would go before the UN and say
the following:  "We, the Palestinians, no longer seek a homeland of our
own. We recognize the permanence of Israeli occupation, the
dominion of the Israeli military and the power of the Israeli
economy. So we would like to join them. In the 50 years since
the beginning of the ’temporary’ occupation, we have seen
hundreds of thousands of Israelis build communities near our own
communities. We admire what they have built, and the system of
laws that governs their lives. Unlike them, many of us live
under Israeli military law but have no say in choosing the
Israelis who rule us. So we no longer want statehood. We simply
want the vote."  And this, of course, would bring about the end of Israel.  Apartheid State  Either the Jews of Israel would grant the Palestinians the
vote, at which point their country would lose its Jewish
majority and its identity as a refuge for the Jewish people, or
it would deny them the vote, and become an apartheid state. The
latter option is untenable, of course: Many Jewish Israelis
would be repulsed by this thought; other nations that already
consider Israel a pariah would now have just cause; and Israel
would lose its last remaining friend, the U.S., because no
American -- including and especially young American Jews --
would identify with a country reminiscent of pre-Mandela  South
Africa .  If Netanyahu had been thinking strategically, he might have
realized this when he went before Congress this morning. And he
might have done something bold: Acknowledge that the age of
Jewish settlement is over. He did mention, fleetingly, that
certain settlements would be set adrift in a theoretical peace
deal. But he seemed unaware that he was delivering a speech that
could easily have been given 10 years ago.  It is not 10 years ago. Israel is now 10 years closer to
achieving full pariah status. And -- in part because the
Palestinians lack the patience to pursue a strategy of gradual,
irreversible entanglement -- a moment of truth for Israel is
rapidly approaching.  UN Vote  The Palestinians are seeking a UN vote in September on
independence. They will prevail in the General Assembly, though
not in the  Security Council . President  Barack Obama , with whom
Netanyahu just picked a fight, will have to spend a good amount
of political capital to stymie the Palestinian campaign, even
though he appears to have nothing but contempt for Netanyahu’s
lack of vision.  But American opposition to this unilateral declaration will
be in many ways immaterial. Israel will soon enough be seen by
most of the world as the occupier not of disputed territory but
of a foreign country. The Palestinians will wake up to find that
a General Assembly vote did not, in fact, give them true
independence. And then there will be an explosion.  The Palestinians who are watching Yemenis, Libyans and
Syrians fighting for their freedom will soon be inspired to once
again take up their own fight.  Existential Threats  Netanyahu, who understands the existential threat posed by
 Iran , does not seem to understand the nature of this other
existential threat. His five predecessors as prime minister --
including Ariel Sharon, whose heart did not bleed for
Palestinians -- understood it. President Obama understands it,
too.  "The number of Palestinians living west of the Jordan River
is growing rapidly and fundamentally reshaping the demographic
realities of both Israel and the Palestinian territories," Obama
told members of AIPAC, the pro-Israel lobbying group, on May 22.
"This will make it harder and harder, without a peace deal, to
maintain Israel as both a Jewish state and a democratic state."  An eternal truth of Middle East politics is that the
Palestinians never miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity.
Lately, though, this has become an Israeli specialty. If Israel
misses the chance this year to set the Palestinians on a course
toward independence, it will jeopardize its future as a Jewish
democracy.  A Magnanimous Vision  Yes, it will be dangerous for Israel to return to its 1967
borders, or anything close. The potential merger between Hamas
and the more moderate Fatah is cause for despair, but it should
spur Netanyahu to try to split the moderates from the radicals
by offering a magnanimous vision for peace. He should realize
that it will be fatal for Israel to maintain control over
millions of Palestinians who seek what the people of Yemen and
 Libya  and  Syria  seek: freedom.  Absent any hope of progress, the Palestinians will do what
they can to undermine Israel. But all they have to do is wait.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column: 
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column: 
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  