-- 
Why LinkedIn Bears Say Plunge Is Inevitable

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-24T20:03:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/why-linkedin-bears-like-haverty-say-plunge-is-inevitable.html
LinkedIn Corp., the hottest initial
public offering in the U.S. since at least 2006, may not be
growing fast enough to justify its valuation.  The stock should trade 60 percent below yesterday’s close
of $88.30, based on a forecast for earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of $104 million in 2012,
said Lawrence Haverty of Gamco Investors Inc. The shares, which
traded as high as 31 times annual sales, are benefiting from
scarcity that won’t last, said Haverty, Kevin Shacknofsky of
Alpine  Mutual Funds  and Brian Barish of Cambiar Investors LLC.  Surging demand for social-media stock and a comeback in
venture-capital IPOs propelled LinkedIn to a high of $122.70 in
its first day of trading from an initial price of $45. With a
market value of $8.45 billion, the company must boost revenue by
148 percent a year, twice its growth rate since 2009, to bring
its price-sales ratio in line with the Dow Jones Internet
Services Index by 2013, Bloomberg data show.  “This is not something we even consider investing in,”
said Haverty, who helps oversee $35 billion in Rye, New York.
“This is a sideshow. It’s a magic show,” he said. “The only
question for the investor is how soon they should sell.”  Supply and Demand  More than 30 million shares of  Mountain View , California-
based LinkedIn changed hands on May 19, the first day of
trading, 3.8 times the amount sold to the public. That’s the
biggest difference between supply and demand in at least five
years for an IPO of a U.S.-based company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  LinkedIn sold 7.84 million shares on May 18. About 85.7
million shares owned by insiders and money managers start to
become eligible for trading 180 days after the IPO, regulatory
filings show. Social media companies led by Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. may conduct their own share sales.  Hani Durzy, a spokesman for LinkedIn, didn’t return a call
for comment.  “There’s no way you can justify its valuation,” said
Shacknofsky, who helps manage $7 billion in Purchase,  New York ,
for Alpine, which invested in the IPO and sold the shares on the
first trading day. “It’s very difficult to understand its
valuation. It’s trading on short supply because it wasn’t a big
offering to begin with, and a lot of people who wanted exposure
to a quality social-networking play bought it.”  Wage Increases  The company’s ability to translate revenue to cash will be
hurt by wage increases, Haverty said. LinkedIn is probably able
to convert about 15 percent of its sales into Ebitda, and may
generate $680 million in revenue next year, he said. Based on
that, the stock is worth about $30 to $35, he said. The shares
rose 8.1 percent to $95.45 at 4 p.m. in New York today.  Sales in 2011 will reach $375.7 million should its first-
quarter total be replicated through the end of the year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s up from $120.1 million in
2009 for a compound annual growth rate of 76 percent, the data
show.  To bring its price-sales ratio in line with the Dow Jones
Internet Services Index multiple of 3.7, LinkedIn would have to
produce revenue of $2.3 billion. Reducing its multiple from 22
now to that level by 2013 would require an annual growth rate of
148 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Artificial Price’  “The winds are blowing against this thing being worth $9
or $10 billion,” said Haverty. “ Wall Street  has created an
artificial price because they didn’t release that many shares.
They underestimated the demand. This happened all the time
during what we now affectionately call the bubble period” of
the late 1990s, he said.  Former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  said
technology stock valuations may be approaching a bubble as
investors recover from the collapse of the credit markets.  “Who could have imagined that the concern with respect to
any American financial asset, just two years after the crisis,
would be a bubble?” Summers, now a professor at  Harvard
University , said at a conference last week in  Shanghai . “Yet
that concern is increasingly raised with respect to American
technology, with respect to certain other American assets.”  While LinkedIn trades for a higher price-to-sales ratio
than its peers, it’s also growing faster. LinkedIn’s valuation
of 22 times sales compares with an average of 9.2 times
estimated 2011 revenue at Web business software companies
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ,  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF)  and  NetSuite Inc. (N) 
LinkedIn’s sales more than doubled in the first quarter to $93.9
million. Revenue at the other three increased by an average of
35 percent.  IPO Buzz  “The IPO buzz will likely help their operations in the
near term” and support the stock’s valuation, according to Clay Moran, a  Boca Raton , Florida-based analyst at Benchmark Co., a
research firm. “Companies also typically tend to have strong
earnings in the first quarter after an IPO, which may help
bolster the price.”  LinkedIn’s backers had made more than $100 million in
investments in the company since 2003 at the time of the IPO.
After the first day of trading,  Sequoia Capital ’s stake was
worth $1.59 billion, and  Greylock Partners ’ $1.32 billion.  Reid Hoffman , LinkedIn’s founder and chairman and its biggest
shareholder, held $1.8 billion and Bessemer Venture Partners has
a stake worth $431.5 million.  Venture Capital Backers  About 62 percent of the shares in the offering were sold by
LinkedIn, according to the prospectus. Others included a venture
capital affiliate of Bain Capital LLC, McGraw-Hill Cos.,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Hoffman. Venture capital backers Sequoia
Capital, Greylock Partners and Bessemer Venture Partners aren’t
selling shares, according to the filing.  LinkedIn raised the proposed price range for its initial
offering on May 17, to between $42 and $45 a share, from $32 to
$35. The stock traded at $35 a share in March, compared with
$14.50 in April 2010, according to SecondMarket Inc., the New
York-based exchange that helps owners of stock in closely held
firms look for buyers.  “It happened in the late 1990s quite often, where you have
these stocks that are essentially concept stocks,” said Barish,
who oversees $8 billion as president of Denver-based Cambiar.
His Cambiar Aggressive Value Fund beat 99 percent of peers in
the past year with a 65 percent return. “The problem is there’s
so little operating history. You have absolutely no idea what
these businesses are going to look like in a couple of years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  