-- 
World Bank Will Lend Up to $6 Billion to Egypt, Tunisia Following Revolts

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-24T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/world-bank-will-lend-up-to-6-billion-to-egypt-tunisia-following-revolts.html
The  World Bank  said it plans to
provide as much as $6 billion in financing to  Egypt  and Tunisia
over the next two years to help them modernize their economies
after popular revolts toppled their leaders this year.  Support would include $4.5 billion for Egypt, where the
 International Monetary Fund  is also expected to provide a loan,
World Bank President Robert Zoellick said on a conference call
today. The Washington-based bank may also make $1 billion
available to Tunisia, in addition to $500 million in aid
announced last month and not yet approved by the lender’s board.  “The revolutions in the Middle East and North Africa offer
great opportunities but also pose daunting challenges and
risks,” Zoellick said.  Leaders from the Group of Eight will discuss support for
countries in the region in the wake of pro-democracy movements
at a meeting this week in Deauville,  France . President Barack Obama has proposed $2 billion in U.S. assistance for Egypt, $1
billion in loan guarantees through the Overseas Private
Investment Corp. and cancellation of $1 billion in debt, about a
third of what Egypt owes the U.S.  The Arab world and North Africa have been shaken by anti-
government demonstrations against corruption and economic
hardship. Tunisian President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali left office
on Jan. 14, followed by Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , in
command for three decades, on Feb. 11.  The World Bank today reduced its growth forecast for the
Middle East-North Africa region to 3.6 percent from a previous
estimate of 5 percent, because of a drop in  Tunisia  and Egypt
and weaker growth in developing oil exporters.  The new forecasts “not only underscore the need for
financial support for the region but also emphasize the
centrality of sound policies,” Zoellick said.  The bank in a report today recommended opening the
government to the people, improving social inclusion, boosting
 job creation  amid 10 percent unemployment and accelerating
private sector growth as the main engine for jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  