-- 
Yandex Jumps on First Day in Biggest 2011 Tech IPO

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-05-25T14:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/yandex-jumps-after-raising-1-3-billion-in-biggest-technology-ipo-of-year.html
(Corrects date of Boston Consulting report in 10th
paragraph in story that ran May 24.)  Yandex NV, owner of Russia’s most
popular Internet search engine, jumped 55 percent in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading after raising $1.3 billion in an initial
public offering that sold above the proposed price range.  The shares, trading under the symbol YNDX, rose $13.84 to
$38.84 at 4 p.m. New York time. The Moscow-based company sold
52.2 million shares, or a 16.2 percent stake, at $25 each, above
the proposed range of $20 to $22, valuing the company at about
$8 billion, Yandex said in a statement today.  Today’s debut for Yandex, which has almost triple  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s market share in Russia, is the biggest technology IPO
worldwide in 2011 as companies file for U.S. offerings at the
fastest pace in seven years. The rally adds to evidence of a
boom in demand for Internet stocks after  Mountain View ,
California-based LinkedIn Corp. more than doubled on its first
trading day last week.  “What you saw with LinkedIn really raised the temperature
for these kinds of deals,” said Ryan Jacob, chief investment
officer of Jacob Asset Management in New York. “Even though the
market as a whole has been mixed, there is still an appetite out
there to invest in early-stage companies.”  The company sold 15.4 million shares, and some of its
investors offered 36.8 million shares in the IPO. Yandex has
also given its underwriters an option to purchase an additional
5.2 million shares.  Yandex, Google  Based on the $21 a share midpoint of the initial offer
range, Yandex had planned to sell shares at a price equivalent
to at least 23 times next year’s earnings, two people involved
in the sale said this week before pricing was announced. Google
trades at about 13 times estimated 2012 earnings.  Online advertising in  Russia  climbed 51 percent from 2008
through 2010, when it reached 26.65 billion rubles ($940
million), according to the Moscow-based Association of
Communication Agencies. Spending on print ads plunged 41 percent
in the same period, while the radio and television segments fell
21 percent and 6 percent, respectively.  Yandex, co-founded by Chief Executive Officer Arkady Volozh
and registered in  The Hague , makes most of its revenue from
advertising.  ‘Huge Room’  “We still have huge room to grow,” Volozh said in an
interview with Bloomberg’s “In Business with Margaret Brennan.” “The Russian advertising market is projected to
triple in the next several years, and we also have nearby
markets.”  Russia’s Internet industry, the largest in  Europe  after
 Germany  by users, is experiencing “rapid growth” and may
account for 3.7 percent of gross domestic product by 2015, more
than double the industry’s contribution in 2009, the  Boston
Consulting Group  said in a report released May 19.  “Search is the most easily monetizable part of  Internet
advertising , so the prospects actually look quite good” for
Yandex, said Jacob, the portfolio manager.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , who posts to online
blogs and visited the San Francisco offices of Twitter Inc.
during a trip to  California  last June, has made
“modernization” a priority of his administration.  About 70 percent of the stock in the Yandex IPO comes from
existing investors, including Baring Vostok Capital Partners and
Tiger Global Management LLC, according to the company’s filing.  ‘Google of Russia’  Proceeds from the sale will be invested in technology,
infrastructure and possibly acquisitions, the company said in
the prospectus.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  led the offering.  LinkedIn, the first major U.S. social-media company to go
public, sold 7.84 million shares at $45 apiece in its IPO last
week, raising $352.8 million. The exercised an option to buy
additional shares two days later, boosting the offering size to
$405.7 million.  At least 230 companies have announced plans for U.S. IPOs
so far this year, more than the same period in any other year
since 2004, when 232 companies were on file, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Yandex has picked a great time for an IPO for a tech
company,” said Anthony Moro, managing director and head of
emerging markets at Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., which has
about $1.1 trillion in assets under management. “For the longer
term, they’re in the right spot. They’re the Google of Russia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 