-- 
Yemen Trade Minister Sharaf Says Unrest Has Cost Country $4 Billion

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r
-- 
2011-05-24T15:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/yemen-trade-minister-sharaf-says-unrest-has-cost-country-4-billion.html
Three months of protests against the
government of President Ali Abdullah Saleh have cost  Yemen  $4
billion and a growing budget deficit threatens to destroy the
country, Minister of Industry and Trade Hisham Sharaf said.  The budget gap for 2011 was projected at 4 percent of gross
domestic product, or $1.7 billion, earlier this year, Sharaf
said today in an interview. It’s now expected to reach 6.5
percent of GDP, or $3 billion, he said, because of the effects
of the unrest and increased spending under a welfare package
that was introduced in February to ease economic hardships in
the Arab world’s poorest nation.  “We are talking about a deficit that will break the
country,” Sharaf said at his home in Sana’a, the Yemeni
capital. “This is our worst problem because it will affect
other indicators, inflation, unemployment and the value of the
currency. We are barely surviving, but we have not collapsed and
will not collapse.”  The anti-government movement that began with small
demonstrations in January and swelled into massive protests
beginning on Feb. 11 has rocked the country. The protesters want
Saleh, who has been in power since 1978, to step down.  Output per capita won’t expand this year as growth of 3
percent matches the increase in the population, Sharaf said.
Before the demonstrations began, Yemen’s economy was forecast to
grow 4.5 percent, he said.  Oil Exports  Sharaf said reports indicate that the direct and indirect
losses to Yemen’s economy in the last three months will reach $4
billion, with the oil industry -- the country’s main source of
hard currency -- the hardest hit.  Tribes opposing Saleh destroyed the pipeline that carries
oil from Marib in central Yemen, forcing the government to
import oil products for domestic use at a cost of $1.2 billion
in the past three months, Sharaf said.  The only oil shipments from Yemen now come from the Masila
fields in the east, where exports total 3 million barrels a
month. Before the unrest, Yemen produced 5.8 million barrels of
crude a month, Sharaf said. The country has lost $1 billion in
the last three months as a result, he said.  “The rest is either sitting in our tanks or we’ve stopped
the taps,” he said. “For us it’s a loss, because when we sell
it, we use the revenue for employees’ salaries, provide the
market with hard currency and finance government operations."  Roads from Marib have also been closed by opponents of
Saleh’s regime, preventing the transport of cooking gas, Sharaf
said. The government is paying $150 million to import butane
gas, he said. Tourism, construction and investment have also
taken hits from the unrest, he said.  ‘‘There’s also our reputation,” Sharaf said. “You can’t
calculate that by money.”  The government has reduced spending to a minimum to
maintain inflation between 11 percent and 12 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Sana’a, Yemen, at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  