-- 
Zynga Is Said to Plan IPO by End of June, Has Interviewed Banks to Handle

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-24/zynga-is-said-to-plan-an-initial-share-sale-by-end-of-june.html
Zynga Inc., the biggest maker of
games on Facebook, may file for an initial public offering by
the end of June to capitalize on investors’ demand for shares of
social-media startups, a person familiar with the plans said.  Zynga has met with representatives of Morgan Stanley and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and is close to choosing bankers to
help it prepare regulatory filings, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the deliberations are private.  Internet companies are lining up for IPOs after shares of
LinkedIn Corp., the largest professional-networking site, more
than doubled in their debut last week and Yandex NV, Russia’s
most popular Web-search provider, surged 55 percent yesterday.
Pent-up demand for companies that have pioneered social media
and foreign Internet markets is outweighing some investors’
concern that technology shares may be overvalued.  “I think every private company watched the LinkedIn IPO
and said, ‘What if I could do that tomorrow?’” Bing Gordon, a
partner at venture capital firm  Kleiner Perkins  Caufield &
Byers, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “But
every day is different.”  Gordon, who is a Zynga board member, declined to comment
specifically on the company’s IPO plans.  Music-streaming service Pandora Media Inc. is already on
file to go public, as is HomeAway Inc., an online vacation-
rental site. Cloudary Corp., a Chinese  Internet company ,
announced plans yesterday for its U.S. IPO.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to comment, as did  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for
Goldman Sachs. Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley,
also declined to comment. Both banks are based in  New York .  Bigger Than EA  Zynga is already the second-most valuable U.S. game
company, after Activision Blizzard Inc., based on trading in
markets that match buyers and sellers of privately held
companies. Zynga has an $8.2 billion  valuation  on SharesPost
Inc., an exchange for private companies. That tops  Electronic
Arts Inc. (ERTS) , which is valued at $7.71 billion on that Nasdaq Stock
Market. Zynga hired former Electronic Arts Chief Operating
Officer John Schappert for a senior role last month.  Zynga has 247.8 million monthly active users on Facebook,
more than six times that of the second-leading developer,
according to researcher  AppData.com . The company owns three of
the four most popular apps on the site -- “CityVille,”
“FarmVille” and “Texas HoldEm Poker.”  Virtual Business Model  Games are free to play, and the company makes money by
selling digital -- or virtual -- goods within the apps and
letting players pay to reach higher levels. The worldwide
virtual-goods market is expected to more than double to $20.3
billion in 2014, from $9.28 billion last year, according to
ThinkEquity LLC, a San Francisco-based research firm.  Zynga is  backed  by venture firms Foundry Group, Union
Square Ventures, Kleiner Perkins, Institutional Venture Partners
and Andreessen Horowitz. Russia’s Digital Sky Technologies and
Google Inc. are also stakeholders. In February, Zynga was in
talks to raise funding at a valuation of about $10 billion from
T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and  Fidelity Investments , two people
familiar with the matter said at the time.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  led LinkedIn’s offering, along with Bank of
America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. The bank may also be
chosen -- with Goldman Sachs -- to lead Groupon Inc.’s IPO, a
person familiar with the matter said last month.  The technology blog AllThingsDigital reported yesterday
that Zynga was close to filing for an IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 