-- Abducted South Korean Fisherman Escapes North After 41 Years
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-13T12:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/abducted-south-korean-fisherman-escapes-north-after-41-years.html
A South Korean fisherman escaped
from  North Korea  and made his way home 41 years after being
abducted.  Jeon Wook Pyo, 67, was fishing for skate in the  Yellow Sea 
when North Korea seized his boat in 1972, Choi Sung Yong,
president of the Seoul-based Abductees’ Family Union, said today
by phone. He was the only one of the 25 fisherman captured that
day to be heard from again, Choi said. South Korean Unification
Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk confirmed Jeon’s return at a
briefing in Seoul without providing details.  Jeon underwent questioning by South Korean authorities -- a
required step for most North Korean defectors -- after arriving
in Seoul through a third country, Choi said. Jeon worked as a
truck driver in the North before he escaped last month, Choi
said. Choi didn’t provide any more details on Jeon’s escape.  “Jeon should be home with his family by now,” said Choi,
who has been involved in other escapes by South Koreans for more
than a decade.  Yonhap News reported that Jeon wrote a letter to President
Park Geun Hye while he was in the third country and asked for
help to get him home.  “I took a chance to escape the North because I had a
growing wish to spend the rest of my life with my relatives and
brothers at home,” the letter said, according to Yonhap.  Korean Abductees  South Korea  believes more than 500 of its nationals are
still being held in the North after a spate of abductions in the
years following end of the  Korean War  in 1953. Most are
fishermen.  During the war, more than 11,000 South Koreans were
abducted by retreating North Korean forces, according to a South
Korean Defense Ministry document from 1963. North Korea denies
holding any abductees.  South and North Korea technically remain at war after the
conflict ended in a truce and without a peace treaty. Relations
between the two countries have improved in recent weeks, easing
tensions that flared after the North conducted its third nuclear
test in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  