-- Thai Baht Poised for Biggest Weekly Gain Since April on Inflows
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-09-13T02:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/thai-baht-poised-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-april-on-inflows.html
Thailand ’s baht was poised for its
best week in five months as foreign investors increased their
holdings of the nation’s assets amid optimism that a global
economy recovery is brightening the outlook for Asian exports.  The currency touched its strongest level in more than three
weeks as exchange data show global funds bought $310 million
more Thai equities than they sold in the first four days of this
week, set for their biggest weekly net purchase since November.
U.S. retail sales rose 0.5 percent in August after a 0.2 percent
gain in July, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists
before data due today. The  Federal Reserve  may cut its monthly
bond purchases by $10 billion at its Sept. 17-18 policy meeting,
a separate survey showed.  “We saw quite a sharp appreciation in the baht because of
the inflows,” said Pareena Phuangsiri, a Bangkok-based analyst
at  Kasikornbank Pcl. (KBANK)  “But gains will probably be short-lived
and we have been recommending exporters wait” to buy the baht,
she added.  The baht jumped 1.3 percent this week, the most since the
five-day period ended April 19, to 31.83 per dollar as of 8:50
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency fell 0.1 percent today and earlier reached 31.58, the
strongest level since Aug. 20.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, climbed 18 basis
points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 7.88 percent this week. The
gauge fell 11 basis points today.  Bond Inflows  Overseas investors poured a net $381 million into Thai debt
this week through yesterday, according to the Thai Bond Market
Association.  Downward pressure on the baht will persist over the next
few months given the prospect of the Fed’s tapering, and until
confirmation of an improvement in Thailand’s balance of payments
in the third quarter, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a
research note yesterday. The bank sees the currency at 33 per
dollar in three months, weaker than its previous forecast of
31.3.  The yield on Thailand’s 3.625 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2023 declined three basis points from a week ago to 4.37
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate rose one
basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  