-- Taliban Attack on U.S. Consulate in Afghanistan Kills Translator
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-09-13T06:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/taliban-attack-on-u-s-consulate-in-afghanistan-kills-translator.html
A car bomb and gunfire attack on
the U.S. consulate in western Afghanistan killed at least one
civilian in the first assault on an American diplomatic outpost
in the country in about two years.  Militants carrying rocket-propelled grenades and assault
rifles attacked the consulate in the western city of Herat at
about 5:30 a.m., the  U.S. State Department  said in a statement.
The truck carrying the gunmen then exploded and extensively
damaged the front gate, it said, adding that no Americans died
in the attack.  The Taliban claimed responsibility and said the assault was
in response to the continued occupation of their country.
President  Barack Obama  is considering how many of the roughly
60,000 U.S. troops should stay in Afghanistan after next year,
when NATO combat forces plan to withdraw.  As the attack unfolded, American consulate staff took
shelter in safe locations, the State Department said. U.S. and
Afghan security forces helped repel the militants, some of whom
appeared to be wearing suicide explosive devices.  Two of the attackers died in the truck explosion, and the
other five engaged in a 45-minute gun battle with Afghan police
and contracted U.S. security personnel, Rahmatullah Safai,
Herat’s police chief, said by phone. A translator working with
the private security company was killed, he said, adding that 20
others were injured, including contracted guards and Afghan
police officers, soldiers and civilians.  Benghazi Anniversary  The attack in Herat occurred a little more than a year
after a deadly assault on a U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya,
that killed four Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens.
The Sept. 11, 2012, Benghazi incident emerged as an issue in the
U.S. presidential campaign and sparked congressional inquiries
into the State Department’s security preparations and the Obama
administration’s explanations of the attack.  Two years ago, Taliban fighters detonated bombs and battled
Afghan police near the U.S. Embassy in Kabul. In April, a U.S.
diplomat was among five Americans that died in a Taliban suicide
attack on their road convoy.  Last month, at least nine people, most of them children,
were killed and 21 others wounded in a failed attack by three
suicide bombers on the Indian consulate in Jalalabad, a city in
eastern  Afghanistan . The Indian Embassy in Kabul was also
attacked in suicide bombings in 2008 and 2009.  Civilian casualties from Afghanistan’s conflict with
Taliban guerrillas jumped by almost a quarter in the first half
of this year, according to the United Nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  