-- Mall Owner Stocks Go From First to Last as Spending Slows
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-09-13T20:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/mall-owner-stocks-go-from-first-to-last-as-spending-slows.html
Mall owners, the best-performing
U.S. property stocks for four years, have tumbled to the worst
as sluggish retail sales and limited opportunities to expand
drive investors to look elsewhere for earnings growth.  Real estate investment trusts that own regional malls
reported the smallest increase in tenant sales per square foot
in three years in the second quarter, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Nordstrom Inc. cut its revenue forecast for the
year and Macy’s Inc. and Aeropostale Inc. disclosed declines in
consumer purchases.  Slowing sales among retailers and rising borrowing costs
are sparking concern that mall landlords, including the two
largest,  Simon Property (SPG)  Group Inc. and  General Growth Properties
Inc. (GGP) , could be hurt too. Mall REITs have enjoyed strong tenant-sales growth since the credit crisis and recession, letting them
increase rents. Now they face difficult comparisons to past
results and limited avenues for external expansion.  “REITs have had a tough year across the board, and the
mall REITs have had a tougher year in general,” said Benjamin Yang, an analyst at Evercore Partners in  San Francisco .
“Fundamentals are good but they’re slowing down.”  The Bloomberg mall REIT index has fallen 5.2 percent this
year, the worst performing part of the industry, after posting
the biggest increases from the start of 2009 through 2012. Even
shares of outlet-center operator  Tanger Factory Outlet Centers
Inc. (SKT) , whose sole business is in one of the best-performing
segments of the retail-property market, are down 5.2 percent
this year.  Growth Peaks  Growth in mall-tenant sales, which rose 4.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, peaked in the three months
through June 2012 and has slowed each quarter since, according
to Bloomberg Industries.  Simon Property  and General Growth last quarter beat
analysts’ estimates for funds from operations, a measure of  cash
flow  used by the REIT industry. While results have been positive
for mall REITs overall, they’ve been overshadowed by the
potential impact of higher borrowing costs on property
valuations, said Keith Bokota, an analyst at Principal Global
Investors, part of insurance and financial services company
Principal Financial Group Inc.  “When we look at the fundamentals that these companies are
delivering, they’re strong,” said Bokota, whose Des Moines,
Iowa-based firm owned shares of mall REITs including Simon and
 Taubman Centers Inc. (TCO)  at the end of July. “The rising interest
rates have impacted the way REITs have traded recently.”  Treasury Yield  The 10-year Treasury  yield  has climbed to 2.9 percent from
1.63 percent on May 2, its low for the year, while the Bloomberg
mall REIT index has fallen 18 percent since May 21, its high for
2013. The cost of raising money from the commercial mortgage-backed  securities market  has also increased.  Top-ranked bonds linked to commercial mortgages are
yielding 129 basis points more than Treasuries from 88 basis
points on Jan. 14, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. The spread peaked at 153 basis points, or 1.53 percentage
points, on July 8.  Simon shares have fallen 18 percent since May 21, even as
the company on July 29 reported an increase in second-quarter
funds from operations and raised its FFO forecast for the year
as it redevelops centers domestically and expands overseas.  “Our business is strong and our cash flow is growing,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  David Simon  said.  Borrowing Costs  Aside from higher borrowing costs, REITs have few chances
to buy high-quality malls because those properties rarely come
on the market, with publicly traded landlords owning most of the
best-performing centers, said  Rich Moore , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Solon,  Ohio .  “They’re so lucrative that no one gets rid of them,” he
said.  Regional-mall transactions are down 49 percent to $4.5
billion this year from the same period in 2012, according to
Real Capital Analytics Inc., a commercial-property research firm
in  New York .  “There continues to be robust demand from investors for
these high-quality assets,” Bokota said. “There’s just a
scarcity characteristic.”  Slowing sales in the second quarter were reported by
retailers including traditional mall anchor Macy’s, and apparel
chains Aeropostale and Abercrombie & Fitch Co. said traffic at
stores declined.  Sales Forecasts  Nordstrom, the Seattle-based department-store chain, last
month lowered its total-sales forecast for the year to an
increase of 3 percent to 4 percent, down from a previous
estimate of 4 percent to 6 percent. Cincinnati-based Macy’s cut
its forecast for earnings for the year ending in January as
sales at stores open at least a year fell 0.8 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier.  Aeropostale, a New York-based clothing store that targets
young people, said on Aug. 22 that second-quarter net sales fell
6 percent and comparable sales, including online sales, dropped
15 percent.  Mall owners may be cushioned from the impact of their
tenants’ slowing sales because occupancies are high, said Cedrik Lachance, an analyst at Green Street Advisors Inc. in Newport
Beach, California.  Vacancies Fall  At regional malls, which typically include department
stores, vacancies fell to 8.3 percent in the second quarter from
8.9 percent a year earlier, and rents rose to $39.62 a square
foot from $39.12, according to data from New York-based research
firm  Reis Inc. (REIS)   “The malls currently are better occupied than they’ve ever
been,” Lachance said. “That does provide some pricing power to
the landlords despite some softness emerging in retailer sales
and retailer profitability.”  The struggles of J.C. Penney Co. have led to questions
about the health of malls. While the decline in sales has slowed
under new CEO Mike Ullman, they were down 12 percent in the
second quarter. That compared with a 23 percent decline a year
earlier, when former CEO  Ron Johnson  led the company. The
company owns 429 of the 1,104 department stores it operates in
the U.S. and Puerto Rico, according to the company’s latest
annual report.  Even if J.C. Penney got into more serious trouble, the
impact on mall REITs would be minimal -- and “it’s highly
unlikely” it will disappear, said Rich Moore, an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets in Solon, Ohio.  Big Box  “Most of the landlords would tell you they would love to
get their J.C. Penney box back,” Moore said, adding that the
stores could be rented to another department-store chain or torn
down and replaced with smaller shops, movie theaters or
restaurants. “Most of these guys would say, ‘Great.’”  Outlet centers, where brand-name retailers sell goods at
discounted prices, are performing better than other retail-property types as consumers seek more-affordable apparel and
other goods, according to Craig Guttenplan, a REIT analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London.  “Consumers like the bargains still,” he said. “They’re
still cautious on spending.”  The popularity of outlet centers has led some traditional-mall REITs, including  CBL & Associates Properties Inc. (CBL) , Taubman
and  Macerich Co. (MAC) , to enter the business.  ‘Good Price’  Chudi Aguanunu, who works at Street Talk, a mobile-phone
accessories kiosk in Macerich’s Shops at North Bridge on
Chicago’s Michigan Avenue, goes to outlet malls or online when
he wants something. The Shops at North Bridge, which caters in
part to tourists, has stores including Nordstrom and  Hugo Boss .  “It’s got to be at a good price,” said Aguanunu, 25, a
former walk-on offensive lineman with the  University of Illinois 
football team. “I’m not going to spend $100 for a T-shirt.”  The  shares  of Tanger, which operates only outlet malls, may
be under pressure because of increased competition from other
landlords expanding into the business, said Yang of Evercore.
Greensboro, North Carolina-based Tanger owned and operated 36
outlet centers as of June 30, and held stakes in seven other
properties, including three in Canada, according to a regulatory
filing.  “There’s clearly an abundance of new players in a sector
that for the most part is much healthier than the malls,” Yang
said. “During and following the recession, consumers were
clearly looking for value.”  Top Performers  Hoteliers and self-storage landlords are the top-performing
REIT sectors this year. Since REIT shares peaked on May 21,
lodging and storage companies have fallen less than other
groups, while the performance of single-tenant, health-care and
mall REITs -- which have longer leases, giving them less
flexibility to raise rents -- has been among the worst as other
REIT types become more appealing to investors.  “It’s all about choices,” Yang said. “There appear to be
more-attractive, better-accelerating core growth stories,
perhaps, in some of the other sectors.”  With few high-quality malls for sale, landlords are
focusing on sprucing up their existing properties to boost
traffic and rents at their properties.  “The one other growth avenue that a lot of the companies
are pursuing is active redevelopment,” Bokota said. “That’s
where they’re putting a lot of their cash flow and new dollars
to work.”  Redevelopment Spending  Simon, based in Indianapolis, had $212 million in mall
redevelopment projects in progress in the second quarter, with a
projected rate of return of 8 percent, according to a regulatory
filing. The figure is Simon’s share of construction costs at
properties it owns outright or has an ownership stake. Chicago-based General Growth has invested $356 million on redevelopment
and expansion with an expected return of as much as 11 percent,
according to a regulatory filing.  General Growth said today it spent $567 million
repurchasing shares at an average price of $20, mostly from  Bill Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP. Pershing was the
second-largest investor in General Growth, holding about 68
million shares as of June 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The New York-based hedge-fund firm previously sold
about 7 million shares of the mall landlord in June, the data
show.  “This is a discount to private-market valuation for high-quality U.S. retail properties,” General Growth Chief Executive
Officer Sandeep Mathrani said in the statement.  Shares of Simon -- which has 22 buy ratings from analysts,
five holds and no sells, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, and is the largest U.S. outlet-mall owner -- have
fallen 18 percent since the REIT slide began in May.  That decline led Paul Adornato, an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in New York to upgrade Simon’s shares on Aug. 23 to
outperform, the equivalent of a buy, based on the company’s
valuation.  “We like their business mix,” Adornato said in a
telephone interview. “They have the greatest exposure to the
outlet business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net . 