-- AltaCorp Hires Stifel Trading Team, GMP Adds Webster, Vlaad Says
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-09-13T19:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/altacorp-hires-stifel-trading-team-gmp-adds-webster-vlaad-says.html
Royal Bank of Canada  in New York
added Matthew Wade, formerly of Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, to its North American project finance group as a director,
according to Vlaad & Co., a Toronto-based financial services
recruiting firm.  Other moves noted in the “Bill’s Buzz” weekly  newsletter 
include:  * AltaCorp Capital Inc. hired the Canadian  Stifel Financial
Corp. (SF)  trading team. Tony George will head the team which
includes Dave Tomlin, Andrew Menzies, Peter O’Connell, Albert
Sheynzon, Ara Ghazarian, and Guy Daly. AltaCorp also added
research analyst Chris Murray from PI Financial Corp.  * Sashen Guneratna is now managing director, infrastructure and
project finance at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in  Canada .
Guneratna was previously a vice president of investment banking
at  National Bank of Canada. (NA)   * Canaccord Financial Inc. hired Bradford Bodine as its head of
U.S. debt from Pierpont Securities LLC.  * Robert Cooper left his role as oil and gas research analyst at
Haywood Securities and returned to Acumen Capital as an
institutional salesman.  * Jorge Adib moved to Capstone as a business analyst from his
public equities role at Ontario Municipal Employee Retirement
System.  * At RBC in Toronto, former global mining and metals director
Ryan Latinovich joined the equity capital markets team at the
bank.  * Bryon Friesen started at JC Clark Advisor Ltd. this week as a
senior equity trader from WD Latimer Co.  * Also starting this week is J.P. Buyze at UBS in Calgary as a
managing director in its energy group. Buyze was previously with
Global Hunter Securities LLC.  * Jacqueline Szeto-Meiers is now vice president, investment
programs at Canso Investment Counsel Ltd. She was previously a
vice president director at Toronto-Dominion Bank and a few years
ago was president of Women in Capital Markets.  * Former Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of Montreal credit
salesman Mike Bowen joined Turtle Creek Asset Management as a
business development director.  * Craig Webster moved to GMP from the New York sales desk at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  