-- America Movil Said to Prepare Formal KPN Bid Next Week
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-09-13T20:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/america-movil-said-to-prepare-official-kpn-bid-next-week.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL)  plans to formally
file its 7.2 billion-euro ($9.6 billion) offer for Royal  KPN (KPN)  NV
shares as soon as next week, when it also expects to get
regulatory approval, according to an investor briefed by the
company.  The biggest Latin American mobile-phone company said it’s
unlikely to increase the offer above its current proposal of
2.40 euros a share for the Dutch carrier, said the investor, who
asked not to be identified because the conversation was private.  After acquiring a stake of about 30 percent in KPN last
year,  America Movil  is moving to take full control of the former
Dutch phone monopoly. To do so, it will have to persuade the
independent foundation that protects KPN’s interests not to
block the deal.  America Movil is awaiting approval of its offer document by
the Netherlands’  Authority for the Financial Markets . Once that
happens, the Mexico City-based company can publish the filing,
allowing shareholders to begin accepting the offer.  An America Movil press official declined to comment on its
plans to file an offer document. Stefan Simons, a KPN spokesman,
also declined to comment.  The Mexican company, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ,
is seeking a foothold in  Europe  to expand beyond  Latin America .
To win KPN’s favor, it set aside its rivalry with  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
agreeing to support the Dutch company’s sale of its German unit
to the Madrid-based carrier. America Movil even won KPN a higher
price from Telefonica in direct negotiations, bringing the offer
to 8.55 billion euros from 8.1 billion euros.  Foundation’s Option  Days later, KPN’s foundation surprised America Movil by
moving to impede the Mexican company’s takeover. The group
exercised an option that creates new shares in KPN, giving it
control of just under 50 percent of the company and diluting
America Movil’s stake to 15 percent. The foundation said the
move was necessary because America Movil hadn’t pursued the
transaction in the customary Dutch manner, making its offer
public before arriving at an agreement with KPN privately.  Both companies said yesterday they remain in talks. In a
statement, America Movil said it “continues to be committed”
to its plans for a 2.40 euro-a-share offer. KPN said in a
separate statement that the carriers are in “continuous
constructive discussions” on matters including price.  America Movil gained 0.8 percent to 13.22 pesos at the
close in Mexico City. KPN, based in The Hague, climbed 1.6
percent to 2.32 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in  New York  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  