-- Manila Water Plunges After Ordered to Cut Rates: Manila Mover
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-09-13T09:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/manila-water-plunges-by-record-on-rate-cut-order-manila-mover.html
Manila Water Co. (MWC)  tumbled the most
in more than four years in Philippine share trading after the
nation’s regulator rejected its petition to increase rates and
ordered it to cut tariffs.  The shares sank 15 percent to 26.5 pesos at the close in
 Manila , its steepest loss since Jan. 16, 2009. The stock earlier
plunged by a record 19 percent. It was the biggest drag on the
benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index, which dropped 1
percent, paring this week’s gain to 2.7 percent.  “We see this is as an unfortunate development,” James Thom, a  money manager  at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said by
phone today. “It brings uncertainty to the future tariffs and
prospects of the business.” Aberdeen, which owns  9.9 percent  of
 Manila Water  according to data compiled by Bloomberg, hadn’t
decided yet whether to adjust its holdings, Thom said.  Manila Water and Maynilad Water Services Inc.’s separate
petitions for rate increases were rejected by the Metropolitan
Waterworks & Sewerage System and were both ordered yesterday to
cut their basic charges. The order follows a pledge by some
lawmakers to investigate 15 billion pesos ($342 million) in
income taxes and other expenses that water utilities passed on
to consumers. Manila Water President Gerardo Ablaza couldn’t be
reached at his office for comment.  The two companies, which won government contracts in 1997
to provide water to the Philippine capital, say they need to
increase tariffs to recover investments and help fund about 1.12
trillion pesos in  capital spending  through 2037. The state
regulator reviews tariffs every five years.  Earnings Prospects  The regulator directed Manila Water to cut its basic water
charge by 29 percent, to be implemented in equal tranches in the
next five years, according to the order. Maynilad must implement
a 4.8 percent reduction within the same period, according to its
statement.  The two companies said in separate statements yesterday
they will dispute the ruling at an arbitration panel.  “A rate cut severely limits its earnings prospects,” Rico Gomez, vice president at  Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB) , which
oversees about $2.8 billion, said by phone today. “Investors
will probably be net sellers until this issue is resolved.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its rating on Manila Water
yesterday to neutral from overweight and lowered its 12-month
price target to 35 pesos from 40 pesos.  The stock has three buy ratings and five hold ratings, with
an  average price target  of 34.55 pesos, according to a Bloomberg
survey of analysts. Earnings-per-share is  forecast  to decline
7.3 percent from the previous year in 2013, data show.  Metro Pacific Investments Corp. (MPI) , owner of Maynilad, fell
6.4 percent to 4.4 pesos, the lowest close since Dec. 21.  Ayala
Corp. (AC) , parent of Manila Water, lost 0.9 percent to 558 pesos.
 DMCI Holdings Inc. (DMC) , a partner of Metro Pacific in Maynilad, slid
1.6 percent to 45.50 pesos, extending yesterday’s 4.4 percent
decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  