-- Manning Showdown Foretells More Comebacks After NFL Records Fall
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/manning-showdown-foretells-more-comebacks-after-nfl-records-fall.html
Manning Bowl III may come down to
which brother has the ball last.  After a record number of close games and fourth-quarter
comebacks during Week 1 of the National Football League season,
two of the league’s most successful late-game quarterbacks go
head-to-head this weekend as  Eli Manning  and the  New York Giants 
host older brother Peyton Manning and the  Denver Broncos  at
MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  It will be the first time in NFL history that both starting
quarterbacks are coming off 400-yard passing games. Peyton threw
for 462 yards and a record-tying seven touchdowns in a 49-27 win
over the defending Super Bowl-champion  Baltimore Ravens , while
Eli had 450 passing yards and four scores in the Giants’ 36-31
loss to the  Dallas Cowboys .  “It’s like the NBA, you can turn on the game with two
minutes to go and find out if you’re going to win or lose your
bet,” Jimmy Vaccaro, oddsmaker of the South Point Hotel and
Casino in Las Vegas, said in a telephone interview.  All but four of the 16 opening-week games were decided by
seven points or less, tied for the most in any weekend in NFL
history. The last time that happened was Week 3 in 2011.  There were also eight fourth-quarter comebacks in Week 1, a
record for the first weekend, according to the NFL.  “It makes it a great sport to book because there’s so much
interest in it and nobody knows what the hell is going to happen
in the fourth quarter,” said Vaccaro, who lists the Broncos as
5-point favorites.  Comeback Kids  No player has led more fourth-quarter comebacks than Peyton Manning, who has 38, ahead of Hall of Fame quarterbacks  Dan Marino ,  John Elway  and  Joe Montana . Eli Manning, who has played
six fewer seasons, ranks third among active quarterbacks with 24
fourth-quarter comebacks, including 10 in the past two years.  “If you ask me who is better, I would tell you I don’t
know,” Giants defensive lineman  Jason Pierre-Paul  told
reporters this week. “We’ll see who is better come this game.”  Peyton got the better of his younger brother in their first
two meetings, when he was a member of the  Indianapolis Colts .
The Colts won 26-21 in East Rutherford on Sept. 10, 2006, and
38-14 in Indianapolis on Sept. 19, 2010.  The Colts were favored by oddsmakers in both games,
according to the handicapping information website Pregame.com.  The Broncos had been favored by three points over the
Giants prior to the Week 1 games, when  Peyton Manning  became the
first player in 44 years to throw seven touchdown passes and the
Giants had six turnovers in their loss.  Not Normal  Peyton said this week’s matchup will have a different
atmosphere than a normal game.  “The focus all week is playing a good team, on the road, a
team that is coming off a division loss that you know is going
to respond,” he said. “But the past two times we’ve been
across the field from one another during the national anthem,
you do take a moment there to realize that it’s your brother
over there, who’s a quarterback for the New York Giants and in
the NFL, and it’s the same kid you grew up with. It is unique.
It is special.”  The demand for tickets shows that. It’s the second most-popular regular-season game on the online ticket reseller
StubHub.com behind the Week 1 matchup between the  San Francisco
49ers  and the  Green Bay Packers . The average ticket price is
$448, more than 27 percent higher than the Giants’ average home
price of $352 this season, according to the ticket aggregator
TiqIQ.  Record Target  Peyton Manning needs 51 yards to join Favre and Marino as
the only quarterbacks in NFL history with more than 60,000
career passing yards. Playing in his 226th NFL game, he would
reach the milestone faster than any player.  With three or more touchdowns against the Giants, Peyton,
37, would also break the record of nine scoring passes through
the first two weeks of a season set by Charley Johnson of the
 St. Louis Cardinals  in 1965 and matched by  Drew Brees  of the  New
Orleans Saints  in 2009.  Eli, 32, leads his older brother in one category, 2-1 in
Super Bowl championships. He said he’s focused more on helping
the Giants get their first win of the season than on a family
reunion, while appreciating the significance of the meeting.  “It’s still neat because it doesn’t happen very often and
it is neat seeing your big brother on the sideline or seeing him
before the game,” Eli said. “Those moments are the things you
remember and we’ll remember for a long time. Hopefully when I
think back on these games that we played against my brother, I
can remember at least one win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  