-- Market Disruption Seen Sign of Times After Nasdaq Mishap
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-09-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/market-disruption-seen-sign-of-times-after-nasdaq-mishap.html
Disruptions such as last month’s
three-hour shutdown by the  Nasdaq  Stock Market will never be
completely preventable and U.S. regulators shouldn’t make
perfection their goal, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll.  While U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary
Jo White urged efforts to strengthen markets following the
Nasdaq mishap, 35 percent of those surveyed say regulators
shouldn’t try to enforce zero-fault tolerance in equity markets,
eight percentage points more than those who say they should,
according to the global poll of investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg subscribers.  “Market participants need to understand, as do the
regulators, that nothing is perfect and there will occasionally
be problems, but that’s part of the evolution of the  capital
market ,” respondent Kevin Divney, chief investment officer at
Beaconcrest Capital Management LLC in  Boston , said in a phone
interview. “If the regulators put too high a penalty on the
market structure, they could impede innovations.”  Nasdaq’s shutdown on Aug. 22 underscored how quickly order
in the U.S. stock market can be subverted as requests to buy and
sell shares are matched on more than 50 exchanges and
alternative venues around the country. The outage, the latest in
a series of failures to disrupt increasingly complex markets,
prompted the SEC to push exchanges to improve the reliability of
their technology.  Speed Limits  In the poll, respondents were divided on whether regulators
should slow down the speed of trading, with 43 percent opposing
such rules and 42 percent supporting them.  U.S. stock exchanges now quote the reaction time of their
systems in microseconds to accommodate the computers at high-frequency and algorithmic trading firms, who have replaced
humans in much of the American equity market. Concern over the
pace of trading intensified following the May 2010 plunge, known
as the flash crash, that erased about $862 billion of value in
minutes. Malfunctions at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in August and
Knight Capital Group Inc. 13 months ago heightened concern about
the reliability of markets.  One solution might be introducing a small delay in trading,
said  Donald Selkin  of National Securities Corp., a brokerage and
investment firm.  Pooling Orders  “Incoming orders -- instead of a first-in, first-out
situation where the fastest computers would get priority --
should instead be batched or bunched together and thus dealt
with in random order, thereby insuring greater equality in terms
of execution,” he said. “Trading would take place as usual,
but with some very small delays in order to ensure a more
equitable order of execution.”  The May 2010 crash prompted the SEC to mandate trading
curbs meant to prevent losses in any single stock from sparking
panic. The curbs transitioned this year to a system known as
limit-up/limit-down, which mandates that traders only quote
stock prices in designated bands around the current price.  This week, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
sought comments from the industry on potentially restricting
high-speed and algorithmic derivatives trading.  “I fundamentally disagree with anything that impedes the
price discovery process,” Simon Batten, the founder and chief
executive officer at Ermine Capital Management LP in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , wrote in an e-mail. Ermine invests in equities,
currencies and  fixed income .  Lehman Collapse  Five years after the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., respondents were split on whether U.S. regulators are well
prepared to deal with the collapse of a major financial company.
Half of the respondents considered regulators “mostly
prepared” though some government assistance might be needed.
Thirty-five percent said regulators are “mostly unprepared.”  While the amount of capital at the six largest U.S. lenders
has almost doubled since 2008, some critics say that’s not
enough. They see a system still too leveraged, complicated and
interconnected to withstand a panic, and regulators ill-equipped
to head one off -- the same conditions that led to the last
crisis.  “I don’t know that we’ve ever gotten to a conclusion to
‘too big to fail,’ or any of these key concepts,”  Tim Hartzell ,
who helps manage about $425 million as chief investment officer
at Sequent Asset Management in Houston, said in a phone
interview. “There are so many derivatives contracts that I
don’t think the federal government really has a full grasp of
what’s out there.”  Lehman’s bankruptcy in September 2008 triggered the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression and forced the U.S.
government to bail out the financial industry.  Reg NMS  Nasdaq halted trading in all of its listed stocks on Aug.
22 out of concern a connectivity problem in the price feed,
known as securities information processor, would cause uneven
dissemination of prices in the market. The disruption snowballed
when a software flaw prevented Nasdaq’s backup program from
kicking in.  A six-year-old rule known as Reg NMS requires U.S. equity
exchanges to route trades to the venue with the best price. As
competition intensified, exchanges introduced different order
types to lure business. The ensuing complexity poses the biggest
challenge to ensuring systems run without failing, Nasdaq OMX
Chief Financial Officer Lee Shavel said at a conference on Sept.
10.  “It has created an environment that is inherently
difficult to maintain consistency from a technology
standpoint,” he said.  ‘Impossible Concept’  In the latest attempt to strengthen the fragmented U.S.
equity market, White held private talks with exchange executives
yesterday to discuss improvements in systems for distributing
price data.  “To have all computers operate seamlessly and impeccably
in sometimes a volatile environment, I think it’s an impossible
concept,” said Bryant Saydah, vice president of institutional
equity trading at Juda Group Inc. in  Los Angeles .  The survey of 900 Bloomberg customers was conducted Sept.
10 by Selzer & Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-based pollster. The
results carry a margin of error of plus or minus 3.3 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  