-- Harvard Hoop Champions Prove Ivy Laggard in NCAA Academic Report
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-09-13T14:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/harvard-hoop-champions-prove-ivy-laggard-in-ncaa-academic-report.html
Harvard University  is paying a high
price for its recent run of basketball success: Poor academic
progress by players that could threaten its eligibility to play
in tournaments if it continues, according to the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association .  The university’s basketball team, which won or tied for the
Ivy League championship the past three seasons, received a grade
that was below the average for private colleges in the NCAA’s
academic progress report, which monitors the eligibility of
players seeking to balance class work with athletics.  Harvard basketball’s academic progress rate has fallen
steadily from 995 in the 2007-2008 year when head coach Tommy Amaker arrived. The team’s combined score of 956 for the past
four years through 2011-2012 was the lowest in the  Ivy League 
and below the average of 967 for all private colleges, according
to NCAA reports released in June.  “Amaker is by any stretch an integral part of the big
college basketball world, and it doesn’t surprise me that he’s
doing everything he can to improve the quality of the team,”
said Steven Roy Goodman, a college admissions counselor in
 Washington . “Clearly, someone at Harvard has decided it’s an
institutional priority to allow him to continue to do the
recruiting that he’s doing.”  The NCAA figures are likely to rekindle a debate over the
university’s willingness to take risks on athletes, Goodman
said.  ‘Full Compliance’  “Harvard has maintained our high academic standards for
all students and student athletes,” said  Tim Williamson , a
Harvard spokesman, in an e-mailed statement. “The Ivy League
has the most rigorous academic requirements of any athletic
conference, and we are in full compliance with those
standards.”  Amaker, a Duke University star who earlier coached at  Seton
Hall University  and the  University of Michigan , came under fire
in 2008 after the  New York  Times  reported  that he was recruiting
players with lower academic profiles. The Ivy League cleared
Harvard of any wrongdoing.  With 42 Division I sports teams, more than any other
college in the country, Harvard has a highly competitive
athletic environment, said  John Thelin , an education policy
professor at the  University of Kentucky . While Ivy League
recruits have to meet a conference standard, called the academic
index, coaches constantly push for leeway on winning players, he
said.  ‘Some Slippage’  “Wherever you set the standard, they’re going to come
close to it,” said Thelin, author of “A History of American
Higher Education.” “They’re going to nudge it. There’s going
to be some slippage there.”  While Ivy League colleges don’t give athletic scholarships,
a recent expansion of Harvard’s financial-aid program may have
raised the school’s appeal to top recruits, said  Charles
Clotfelter , a Duke professor of public policy, economics and
law. The enriched policy may let Harvard offer athletes aid
packages that rival those of Division I schools that give full
sports scholarships, he said.  “A lot of schools make trade-offs,” he said. “Now
Harvard is facing the same issues.”  Basketball was one of six Harvard teams that ranked below
the national average for their sports among private schools,
according to the reports. The others that scored below the
average of their peers were men’s skiing, tennis, and wrestling,
and women’s skiing and tennis. The Harvard Crimson student
newspaper previously reported on the rates.  Eligibility Risks  The NCAA’s academic progress rate monitors athletes’
eligibility for sports teams to determine whether schools can
continue participating in sanctioned activities and events. The
progress rating system’s purpose is aimed at ensuring that
student-athletes stay on pace to graduate, and schools get
points for players who maintain their qualifications for sports.  Schools whose ratings drop below certain levels may be
subject to limited practices, reduced schedules, and other
penalties including coaching suspensions.  The Harvard basketball team’s score for 2011-2012 alone was
925, which might put its NCAA eligibility at risk, according to
the athletic association. Currently, teams must keep their four-year average above 900 or their average for the most recent two
years above 930 to remain eligible, according to the athletic
association. However, the eligibility limit for four-year scores
will increase to 930 next year.  Columbia University ’s team had the Ivy League’s second-lowest four-year rate for basketball at 981, and  Cornell
University  in Ithaca, New York, led with a perfect four-year
average of 1,000.  Cheating Scandal  Harvard has calculated that its basketball team will
receive a perfect or near-perfect APR for the current academic
year, Williamson said.  “This strong score will reaffirm the program’s continued
commitment to academic achievement and ensure the team’s
continued postseason eligibility,” he said in the statement.  A cheating scandal at Harvard that began last year may have
played a role in the downturn in progress rates. About 125
undergraduates came under suspicion when teachers reported
finding evidence of inappropriate collaboration on a take-home
exam for a government course.  About half of those involved withdrew from school for as
long as a year, including basketball co-captains Brandyn Curry
and  Kyle Casey , who took the 2012-2013 year off. Players who
take a year off may affect a team’s academic-progress rate, said
Stacey Osburn, an NCAA spokeswoman.  Basketball teams are relatively small, and just a few
dropouts can skew their APR scores, said Nathan Tublitz, vice-chair of the Coalition on Intercollegiate Athletics, a teachers’
group dedicated to reforming college sports.  ‘Individual Explanations’  “If it’s just one or two students dropping out, there may
be individual explanations,” said Tublitz, who is also a
biology professor at the University of Oregon. “But if students
were taking courses that were deemed easy to pad their GPAs or
maintain eligibility, then shame on Harvard.”  Harvard’s graduation success rate, which the NCAA also
tracks for eligibility for participating in tournaments, was 100
percent for the basketball team in 2011-2012, according to the
NCAA.  Harvard’s basketball team gained its third consecutive
championship in the eight-college Ivy League in the 2012-2013
season with 20 wins and 10 losses. In the NCAA national
tournament, the Crimson, seeded 14th in their bracket, beat No.
3  New Mexico  state in their first game, losing in the next round
to the  University of Arizona .  CBSSports.com  ranked Harvard  21st among college basketball
teams in its April preseason predictions for the 2013-2014
season. The university has announced plans to build a new
basketball arena in Allston, across the  Charles River  from the
main campus in Cambridge.  Established in 1636 and with an endowment valued at $30.7
billion, Harvard is the oldest and richest U.S. university.
Alumni of the college include Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Lloyd Blankfein .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at cbkall
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  