-- Las Vegas Sun Publisher Loses Review-Journal Ruling
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-09-13T22:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/las-vegas-sun-publisher-loses-review-journal-ruling.html
The  Las Vegas  Sun’s publisher lost
a bid for a court order to block the Las Vegas Review-Journal
from seeking to end a joint operating agreement, a move the
Sun’s part-owner claims would put the paper out of business.  U.S. District Judge James Mahan in Las Vegas today issued
an order denying Brian Greenspun’s request to bar the Review-Journal’s publisher, Stephens Media LLC, from taking any steps
to end the agreement until Greenspun’s antitrust claims are
resolved.  The judge said Greenspun’s claims were premature because
there’s no definitive contract or agreement between Stephens
Media and the Sun to end the arrangement, in which the Journal-Review prints the Sun and handles all advertising and
circulation functions for both newspapers.  Greenspun, who owns the Sun with his three siblings,
alleged in an Aug. 20 complaint that ending the joint operating
agreement would force the Sun to cease operations as both a
print and online newspaper.  Stephens Media  has called Greenspun’s lawsuit “a poorly
camouflaged attempt to transform a long-simmering family feud”
into an antitrust lawsuit, according to a court filing.  Greenspun’s Siblings  Greenspun’s three siblings responded favorably to Stephens
Media’s proposal to end the agreement in exchange for giving the
family business the right to the lasvegas.com website for which
it now pays Stephens Media a licensing fee, according to court
filings. The siblings would also receive $70,000 each when the
transaction closes, Stephens Media said.  The proposed deal wouldn’t necessarily mean the Sun has to
end publication, Stephens Media said.  Under the 2005 joint operating agreement, the Sun was
reduced to an 8-12 page insert of the Review-Journal. Each
newspaper has its own editorial staff.  Joseph Alioto , a lawyer for Greenspun, said in a phone
interview that he disagreed with the judge’s determination that
there has to be a definitive contract in order to bring an
antitrust lawsuit. The threat of injury, rather than actual
injury, is sufficient for an antitrust claim, Alioto said.  “If we see there’s any effort to put the Las Vegas Sun out
of business, we’ll file another motion,” Alioto said.  The case is Greenspun v. Stephens Media LLC, 13-cv-01494,
U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at +1-   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 