-- Asian Stocks Cap Biggest 2-Week Gain Since January 2012 on China
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-09-13T23:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/asian-stocks-cap-biggest-2-week-gain-since-january-2012-on-china.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week,
sending the benchmark index to its biggest two-week climb since
January 2012, after  Tokyo  was chosen to host the 2020 Olympics
and as data showed  China ’s economy is picking up. The rally
reversed course yesterday ahead of a Federal Reserve meeting
next week.  Taisei Corp. (1801) , a Japanese building contractor expected to
benefit from the Olympics, jumped 24 percent since Sept. 6 in
Tokyo.  BYD (1211)  Co. gained 13 percent in Hong Kong on a report the
automaker is developing an electric vehicle to challenge Tesla
Motors Inc., and as China’s Hebei province said it’s seeking to
increase sales of new energy vehicles.  Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL) , a maker
of insulin and hepatitis vaccines, soared 28 percent in Mumbai
after Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc. settled patent litigation over
a drug.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 2.5 percent to 137.09 this
week, taking its climb since Aug. 30 to 5.3 percent as China
reported better-than-estimated exports and industrial production
data. Shares declined yesterday as investors weighed diplomatic
negotiations seeking to avert a military strike on  Syria  and the
Fed’s Sept. 17-18 meeting. Investors already anticipate a
reduction of the U.S. central bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases and don’t expect a sudden change in markets if it
occurs, according to 57 percent of respondents in a Bloomberg
Global Poll.  “The market’s focus shifted from major concern about the
Fed’s tapering,” said Linus Yip, a strategist at First Shanghai
Securities in Hong Kong. “There’s now a global recovery
concept. There’s some reallocation right now with funds going
out from the bond market, which is benefiting stocks.”  Index Multiples  Asia’s benchmark index was valued at 13.4 times estimated
earnings on Sept. 12, compared with multiples of about 15.2 for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 14.2 for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan ’s  Topix index  climbed 3.3 percent this week after
Tokyo won the rights to host the 2020 Olympics. Taisei jumped 24
percent to 506 yen, while Hitachi Construction Machinery Co.
gained 18 percent to 2,384 yen. General contractor Tokyu
Construction Co. led the Topix index higher this week as the
shares more than doubled. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  climbed
3.9 percent.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 1.3 percent this week,
erasing this year’s losses, while the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, entered a
bull market after rising more than 20 percent from its June low.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index jumped 4.5 percent as data
showed the nation’s inflation remained subdued in August, while
other economic reports beat expectations. Exports rose 7.2
percent from a year earlier in August, exceeding the 5.5 percent
median estimate. Retail sales climbed 13.4 percent and the
broadest measure of new credit almost doubled from July.  BYD Climbs  BYD, the Chinese automaker that counts  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. as an investor, soared 13 percent to
HK$34.90 this week. The company is developing an electric
vehicle that can accelerate to 62 miles per hour in 3.9 seconds,
challenging the performance of Tesla’s vehicles, Sina.com
reported, citing founder  Wang Chuanfu . Tesla’s Model S sedan can
reach 60 miles per hour in 5.4 seconds, according to the
company’s website.  The northern Chinese province of Hebei aims to have more
than 50,000 new energy vehicles by 2017 to curb air pollution
and will offer subsidies to encourage people to buy them,
according to a plan posted on the provincial government’s
website this week.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 2 percent this week as the
central bank held its key interest rate steady. Taiwan’s Taiex
Index rose 0.1 percent, while Singapore’s Straits Times Index
climbed 2.4 percent  Australia’s Consumer Confidence  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 1.5 percent, reaching
its highest level in more than five years after the Liberal-National coalition won last weekend’s election. Prime Minister-elect Tony Abbott will have to contend with rising unemployment,
with the jobless rate climbing to a four-year high in August, a
report from the statistics bureau showed.  Wockhardt surged 28 percent to 657.1 rupees in Mumbai,  the
second-biggest gain  this week on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index,
after Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc. settled patent litigation
involving a generic version of Nuedexta, a drug used to control
abnormal emotional outbursts.  Sino Biopharmaceutical Ltd. (1177)  was the week’s biggest decliner
on the regional gauge, slumping 14 percent to HK$4.92 in Hong
Kong, after media reports claiming bribery at a unit of the
Chinese drugmaker. The company said it’s investigating the
reports and that no senior management or board members of the
group were involved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  