-- Asmussen Says No Time to Lose on Bank Resolution Backstop
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-09-13T13:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/asmussen-says-no-time-to-lose-on-bank-resolution-backstop.html
The European Union needs to move
swiftly to create a common system for managing failing banks and
handling the cost of stabilizing them, ECB Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said.  “There’s no time to lose,” Asmussen told reporters today
in Vilnius,  Lithuania .  The ECB will take over bank supervision next year across
the euro area, after a one-year transition period that will
include an assessment of bank balance sheets in the 17-nation
currency zone. EU finance ministers meeting today and tomorrow
are debating who should manage -- and pay for -- any capital
shortfalls discovered.  The ECB backs EU financial-services chief  Michel Barnier ’s
proposal to create a Single Resolution Mechanism with a 55
billion-euro ($73 billion) common fund, Asmussen said. He said
he hoped a deal could be reached by Jan. 1, 2014, so that
nations won’t be solely responsible for banking sector woes.  “The crisis has shown that coordination among member
states has been inadequate to organize the resolution of cross-border banks and this means we want a single system, a single
authority and a single fund -- and we strongly support the
timeline that’s envisaged,” Asmussen said.  The EU should be able to solve legal concerns raised by
lawyers representing the bloc’s 28 nations, Asmussen said. The
proposed resolution fund needs more safeguards for national
budgets to be in line with EU treaties, the lawyers said in a
Sept. 11 opinion that also supported Barnier’s plan to give the
commission powers to decide when to close a bank.  Bank Levies  In order to address the financing questions, the euro area
could consider empowering the resolution fund to tap the
European Stability Mechanism in a “fiscally neutral” way,
Asmussen said. For example, if the resolution fund were not big
enough to step in when needed, the ESM could lend money to the
fund and be reimbursed later. Barnier’s plan calls for the
resolution fund itself to be financed by bank levies and built
up over time.  “This caveat will need to be addressed by the legislative
branches, but this caveat has not challenged in any significant
way the proposal put forward by the Commission on the SRM for a
single resolution regime, a single fund and a single
authority,” Asmussen said.  Overall, the EU’s move toward a banking union is a giant
step forward, Asmussen said. “This in our view is the biggest
integration step in  Europe  since the introduction of the common
currency,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Vilnius at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Vilnius at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  