-- Australia’s Labor to Hold Leadership Ballot After Defeat
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-13T05:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/australia-s-labor-to-hold-leadership-ballot-after-election-loss.html
Australia ’s  Labor party  will hold a
ballot of its rank and file members and lawmakers to select a
new leader after it was ousted from office in the Sept. 7
election and  Kevin Rudd  stepped down.  Bill Shorten , a former unionist and party power broker, and
Rudd’s deputy, Anthony Albanese, will compete for the
leadership, the party said in a statement. The ballot will take
at least a month, delaying efforts to unify the party in the
wake of the election loss to  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National
coalition.  “Labor has to rebuild and will be looking to take this
chance to show it can reconnect with its members,” said  Andrew
Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “The delay in
choosing a new party leader gives Abbott a head start. He’ll be
able to cement his new team and policy agenda without there
being an effective opposition.”  Labor has been riven by internal feuding that saw it switch
leaders twice in three years, eroding its credibility among
voters. The scope of the party’s loss, winning just 54 seats in
the 150-member lower house to the coalition’s 91 with the  vote
count  continuing, may see it out of office for three straight
three-year terms, said Haydon Manning, a politics professor at
Flinders University in Adelaide.  “The new leader has to build a story that Labor has
learned from its mistakes and that Labor is now united,”
Manning said in a telephone interview.  Switched Allegiances  Shorten, 46, who announced his candidacy yesterday,
supported  Julia Gillard  when she ousted Rudd in a party coup
three years ago. He switched allegiances in June, publicly
backing Rudd minutes before a party vote that restored him to
the leadership.  The son of a Melbourne waterside worker was a solicitor
before joining the Australian Workers’ Union as an organizer in
1994. He was  national secretary  from 2001 to 2007 and was
elected to parliament in November of that year. He has held
ministerial portfolios including industrial relations and
education. Shorten is married to the daughter of Australia’s
Governor-General Quentin Bryce, who as Queen Elizabeth II’s
representative in the nation will swear in Abbott and his new
government next week.  Albanese, 50, is a member of Labor’s New South Wales left
faction and entered parliament in 1996 representing the inner
west Sydney district where he was raised by a single mother.
He’s  served  as infrastructure minister and leader of the  House
of Representatives  and was promoted to deputy prime minister
after backing Rudd against Gillard in June.  New Rules  “In the coming weeks I will run for the Labor leadership
on the same platform on which I would run for Australia’s prime
ministership,” Albanese told reporters in Canberra today. “We
have to change, we have to do better.”  The process, to be held for the first time after Rudd
instigated changes to the party’s leadership rules in July to
give rank and file members more influence, will take at least a
month, interim leader  Chris Bowen  told reporters in Canberra
today. Nominations for the leadership close next week, he said.  “The Labor party is big enough and mature enough to
conduct this process in a way which shows the Australian people
that we’ll be ready for government whenever we’re called upon
next,” Bowen said. “We have two candidates who are putting
forward a good case for the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  