-- MLB’s Yankees Beat Orioles 6-5 After Blowing Four-Run Advantage
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-13T04:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/mlb-s-yankees-beat-orioles-6-5-after-blowing-four-run-advantage.html
Brendan Ryan scored on Jim Johnson’s wild pitch and the  New York Yankees  stayed one game
back in the American League wild-card race with a 6-5 win
against the Baltimore Orioles.  The Yankees blew a four-run seventh-inning lead before
Ryan’s dash for home in the ninth inning of the rain-delayed
Major League Baseball game at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. New
York won the final three games of the four-game series.  The Yankees (79-68) are vying for one of the two wild-card
playoff spots that go to non-division-winning teams in each
league. The Texas Rangers (81-64) and Tampa Bay Rays (79-66) now
hold the spots, with the Yankees, Cleveland Indians (78-68),
Orioles (77-69) and Kansas City Royals (77-69) close behind.  “We need to continue to win and we need to continue to
take series if we want to play in October,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters.  Tampa Bay won 4-3 last night against the American League
East-leading Boston Red Sox.  Mark Reynolds  hit a two-run homer in the second and  Vernon Wells  drove home two runners on his single to left in the third
as the Yankees took a 4-0 lead.  Curtis Granderson ’s solo home
run in the seventh gave New York a 5-1 lead.  Nick Markakis hit a home run in the seventh for the Orioles
and Danny Valencia tied it with a three-run homer in the eighth.  “It’s frustrating, but our guys battled back,” Orioles
manager Buck Showalter said. “I’m proud of them.”  Yankees starter  Phil Hughes , who was pulled in the fourth
inning, has five starts of fewer than four innings pitched to
tie Barry Zito of the San Francisco Giants and the Houston
Astros’ Lucas Harrell for the most in the majors this season.  Mariano Rivera (6-2) pitched a perfect ninth inning and was
credited with the win. Johnson (3-8) took the loss.  Yankees center fielder  Brett Gardner  left the game in the
bottom of the first inning with a left oblique strain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  