-- Banks’ Commodity Trade Exemption Should Be Revoked, Chilton Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-09-13T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/banks-commodity-trade-exemption-should-be-revoked-chilton-says.html
U.S. lawmakers should revoke an
exemption that lets  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley
own commodity warehouses and other assets, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission member Bart Chilton said.  The Wall Street firms, converted to bank holding companies
during the 2008 credit crisis, benefit from “extraordinary
treatment” under the exemption included in a 1999 law, Chilton
said in remarks prepared for a speech tomorrow to the Michigan
Agri-Business Association.  “Congress should not only do away with the statutory
exemption that has been used by Goldman and Morgan, but also do
away with the ability of the Fed to allow any commodity-related
ownership by the banks,” Chilton said. The Federal Reserve
should reverse decisions allowing banks such as  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , Citigroup Inc. to trade physical commodities, he said.  The 1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act has exemptions for certain
commodities units that previously weren’t allowed under the 1956
holding company law. One was for businesses that the Fed could
determine were complementary or incidental to the bank’s
financial activities.  Another exception was for firms that became banks after
1999 and had physical commodities businesses that predated Sept.
30, 1997. That rule is relevant because Goldman Sachs and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  didn’t become bank holding companies until 2008.  Other banks have been permitted to expand into commodities
markets under a 2003 Fed decision and subsequent ones. The
central bank said in July that it’s reviewing the policy amid
Senate scrutiny of whether such involvement allows Wall Street
firms to control prices.  Falling Revenue  Commodities revenue at the 10 largest investment banks fell
25 percent in the first half of this year, putting those units
on pace for the worst annual performance in more than five
years, industry analytics firm Coalition Ltd. said in August.
Revenue fell to about $2.7 billion in the first six months from
$3.6 billion in the same period of 2012, Coalition said Aug. 5
in an e-mail.  The CFTC subpoenaed Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan documents
relating to their warehouses for aluminum and other metals, two
people with knowledge of the probe said in August. The agency
requested documents dating to the start of 2010 about the banks’
commodity warehouses, according to the people.  Glencore Xstrata
Plc (GLEN) , which owns warehousing business Pacorini, also received a
subpoena, another person said.  Brewer MillerCoors LLC, manufacturer  Encore Wire Corp. (WIRE)  and
other metal users have complained about long queues and
artificially high prices at the warehouses, particularly for
copper and aluminum.  “Maybe it’s just me, but I don’t think the American public
wants banks owning grain elevators, electric companies, large
warehouses or shipping and distribution interests,” Chilton
said in the speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  