-- Barry Bonds Conviction Upheld for Hindering Steroid Probe
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-09-13T18:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/barry-bonds-s-obstruction-of-justice-conviction-upheld-by-court.html
Barry Bonds , who holds Major League
Baseball’s career and single-season home-run records, was
properly convicted in 2011 for obstructing a U.S. probe of
steroids in professional sports, a federal appeals court said.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San
Francisco today concluded that a statement Bonds made to a grand
jury was evasive and misleading. Bonds, when asked whether his
trainer,  Greg Anderson , gave him self-injectable substances,
replied by referring to his childhood as the son of a well-known
professional baseball player.  “The problem is that while Bonds was a celebrity child,
that fact was unrelated to the question,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Mary Schroeder wrote in her opinion for the court.  Bonds, 49, was the first  Major League Baseball  player to be
charged in a years-long federal probe of steroid use in sports.
He was found guilty in federal court in San Francisco of making
evasive statements to the grand jury reviewing evidence of
athletes’ drug use and Anderson’s role in distributing steroids.  Lawyers for Bonds, a former outfielder for the  San
Francisco Giants , argued that although he may have used many
words responding to a query about whether Anderson ever gave him
anything that needed to be injected with a syringe, he
eventually answered the question.  House Arrest  Bonds, who was sentenced to two years’ probation, 30 days
of house arrest and 250 hours of community service, and fined
$4,000, appealed his conviction and sentence in December 2011.  “We are gratified by the court’s decision and believe
justice is served,”  San Francisco  U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag
said in an e-mailed statement.  Defense attorney Allen Ruby of the  Palo Alto ,  California ,
office of New York-based Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on
the ruling. Dennis Riordan of Riordan & Horgan, who argued for
the defense before the appeals court, also didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  Bonds’s lawyers said his answer wasn’t the basis for any of
the counts in an indictment that also charged him with perjury
for allegedly making false statements about steroids. A mistrial
was declared on those counts after the jury couldn’t agree on
whether Bonds was lying when he denied knowingly doping.  Bobby Bonds  In his answer before the grand jury, Bonds spoke about his
childhood as the son of  Bobby Bonds , a three-time All-Star who
played for the Giants and the  New York  Yankees, and of
preserving his friendship with Anderson. He later answered no to
the question.  “The statement served to divert the grand jury’s attention
away from the relevant inquiry of the investigation,” Schroeder
wrote in her opinion. “The statement was also, at the very
least, misleading because it implied that Bonds did not know
whether Anderson distributed steroids and PEDs.”  Prosecutors told the appeals court in February that the
obstruction charge applied to any false statement Bonds made to
the grand jury and that his response to the syringe question was
a delay tactic and deceptive.  Former Yankee  Jason Giambi  and other athletes testified at
Bonds’s trial that the slugger’s trainer provided them with
injectable testosterone and syringes.  In his grand jury testimony, Bonds said that only his
personal physician touched him and he didn’t talk baseball with
Anderson because of his own history.  ‘Celebrity Child’  “That’s what keeps our friendship,” he testified,
according to the appeals court ruling. “I am sorry, but that --
you know, that -- I was a celebrity child, not just in baseball
by my own instincts. I became a celebrity child with a famous
father. I just don’t get into other people’s business because of
my father’s situation, you see.”  Bonds and pitcher  Roger Clemens , two of the sport’s most
decorated players, were snubbed in voting for baseball’s Hall of
Fame in January. Each got about half of the percentage of votes
needed for induction. Clemens was acquitted in June 2012 of
charges that he lied to Congress about his use of performance-enhancing drugs.  Bonds, who was named MVP a record seven times, broke  Hank
Aaron ’s record of 755 career home runs in August 2007. He was
indicted in November of that year.  The case is U.S. v Bonds, 11-10669, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  