-- Bernanke Gets Rapped; De Niro’s Don; D.C. Death: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-09-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/bernanke-gets-rapped-de-niro-s-don-d-c-death-movies.html
Four Americans storm Normandy in
Luc Besson’s dark comedy “ The Family ,” with only a bit less
bloodshed than the last time around.  Fitfully good and scrupulously perverse, “The Family”
plays on the title’s double meaning -- mafia and nuclear -- to
chronicle the misadventures abroad of some very Ugly Americans.  How ugly? Shopkeepers with attitude experience the gas-dousing side of mama bear  Michelle Pfeiffer . A greedy plumber
who overcharges  Robert De Niro ’s fallen mafia don meets the fat
end of a baseball bat.  De Niro and Pfeiffer play the pseudonymous Fred and Maggie
Blake, formerly of mobbed-up  Brooklyn  and, with state’s evidence
in their wake, now sharing life in small-town  France  with their
two teenage kids (Dianna Agron, John D’Leo).  Part “ Addams Family ,” part “Sopranos,” the Blakes are
always on the move, forever blowing their covers with flare-ups
of bad temper and sociopathy.  Under the watchful, impatient eye of their FBI Witness
Protection Program minder (Tommy Lee Jones), the Blakes have
settled grumpily into their latest backwater existence.  But with daughter Belle taking an unhealthy interest in a
hunky teaching assistant and son Warren quickly establishing
himself as a high-school racketeer, the Blakes probably aren’t
long for the quiet life.  Fuhged Aboudit  Riskiest of all, Fred has decided to pen a tell-all memoir,
probably not a great choice for self-reinvention.  Written by Besson and Michael Caleo from Tonino
Benacquista’s novel “Malavita,” “Family” peppers its comic
convolutions with bouts of extreme violence.  Even the sweet-faced Belle gets in on the family act,
viciously taking a tennis racket to a goofy nerd who presumes
one liberty too many.  The gut-churning scenes, audacious at first, become
repetitive -- a joke told too frequently. Plots and characters
are left dangling, and the script sometimes makes little sense
even by the movie’s own rules.  But even the silliest contrivance can be forgiven when De
Niro and Jones face off, their craggy, deadpan mugs telling
tales all their own.  “The Family,” from Relativity Media, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: *** (Evans)  The Fed  A decade of “booms, bail-outs and easy money” comes under
withering scrutiny in Jim Bruce’s “ Money for Nothing: Inside
the Federal Reserve .”  The director’s debut feature (funded “in significant
portion,” he says in a press release, through profits made on
short trades), “Money” chronicles the hundred-year history of
the Fed and its role in America’s financial life.  At 104 minutes (not so much of it actually “inside”),
“Money” works its way through any number of Greats -- the
Great War, the Great Depression, the Great Society and the post-Reagan Great Moderation before arriving at the crash of 2008,
when Bruce points a great, big finger at the Fed.  Current chairman  Ben Bernanke  and, especially, his
predecessor  Alan Greenspan  come in for particularly harsh
treatment. Multi-billion-dollar stimulus programs, in the words
of economists interviewed by Bruce, merely “papered over” a
broken system and created “an illusion of richness.”  Lively Pace  Bruce combines archival news clips and fresh interviews
with current and former Fed officials, economists and investors,
keeping “Money” at a livelier pace than might be expected.  Even so, the film would seem a likelier candidate for a PBS
slot than a theatrical release, particularly in the first
history-heavy section.  Nor does Bruce offer much by way of specific, novel
solutions, recommending short-term pain (higher  interest rates ,
an emphasis on personal saving) for long-term gain.  No country, warns the film (narrated by actor  Liev Schreiber ), “is too big to fail.”  “Money For Nothing: Inside the  Federal Reserve ,” from
Liberty Street Films, is playing in  New York ,  Washington  D.C.
and  Dallas . Rating: *** (Evans)  ‘Blue Caprice’  The Schubert andantino playing under the opening credits of
“ Blue Caprice ” signals you that the horrifying events to
follow are going to be handled tastefully, and they are: You
never have to look away from the screen.  The picture dramatizes the random sniper killings that
terrorized suburban Washington, D.C. in October 2002, leaving 10
people dead and three more injured. The perpetrators were a
former army sergeant, John Allen Muhammad (Isaiah Washington),
and a 17-year-old named Lee Boyd Malvo (Tequan Richmond).  Alexandre Moors, the film’s director, and his scenarist,
R.F.I. Porto, calmly and convincingly show how such a sick
relationship might have developed.  The older man is a loser with a rage problem who can’t stop
chafing that his ex-wife has custody of their three children.
The boy has been abandoned by his mother; it’s easy to see how
desperate he is for adult love, approval and guidance.  The movie is inventively shot, well-acted and absorbing;
everyone involved is full of promise. Because it’s good but not
great, however, it doesn’t transcend its terrible subject matter
to answer the viewer’s inevitable question: Why am I watching
this?  “Blue Caprice,” from Sundance Selects, is playing in New
York. Rating: *** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com  and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 