-- Bloomberg Says He Won’t Endorse in New York Mayoral Race
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-09-13T17:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/bloomberg-says-he-won-t-make-endorsement-in-nyc-mayoral-race.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
said he won’t support a candidate to succeed him and will
instead focus on easing the transition to the administration
that begins Jan. 1.  “I’ve never been a partisan guy,” Bloomberg said during
his weekly appearance on WOR radio. “Whoever the voters elect,
I want to make sure that person is ready to succeed.”  Bloomberg, 71, is nearing the end of 12 years as mayor of
the most populous U.S. city, a span in which crime dropped 31
percent and average  life expectancy  gained three years. He’s
been criticized by both city Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, the
presumptive Democratic nominee, and Republican candidate Joseph Lhota, a top aide to former Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani .  Bloomberg may have calculated that his backing wouldn’t
help either candidate, or decided to begin distancing himself
from city politics, said  Lee Miringoff , director of the Marist
Institute for  Public Opinion  in Poughkeepsie, New York.  “Endorsements make for nice headlines,” Miringoff said.
“Newspaper endorsements, political endorsements, those don’t
have as much sway with voters as people think.”  De Blasio, 52, has made  income inequality  the central theme
of his campaign, talking of a “Tale of Two Cities” in which 46
percent are poor or struggling. He says the mayor didn’t
recognize that as a problem.  ‘An Idiot’  “After 12 long years, we need a change and we need a break
from the policies of the Bloomberg administration that did not
address the crisis of inequality,” de Blasio told supporters
yesterday at a rally in  Brooklyn .  The mayor, the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, is barred from seeking a fourth term. He
ran twice as a Republican and once as an independent who also
appeared on the Republican line.  Lhota, 58, the former chairman of the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , was quoted in the New York Times last
year saying Bloomberg spoke “like an idiot” when he estimated
subway reopenings following  Hurricane Sandy . He later called the
mayor to apologize. He has also criticized the mayor’s budget
stewardship, saying he could have reduced health-care and debt-service spending that Bloomberg labeled “uncontrollable.”  Today, during a television interview on Channel 11, Lhota
said he agreed with more than 85 percent of the mayor’s
policies. He has told reporters he will be seeking the votes of
so-called “Bloomberg Democrats” who approve of the mayor’s
performance.  Didn’t Ask  “Joe did not ask for the mayor’s endorsement and he
respects his decision to stay out of the race,” said Jessica
Proud, Lhota’s spokeswoman.  George Arzt, a Democratic political consultant, said Lhota
benefits from not being linked to Bloomberg. His association
with City Council Speaker Christine Quinn “doomed her
candidacy” in the seven-way Democratic primary, he said.  “Lhota has enough trouble being identified with Giuliani,
who is a polarizing figure in this Democratic town,” Arzt said.
“So Bloomberg would not help him.”  During the Channel 11 interview, Lhota said he agreed with
de Blasio that the city should offer universal, all-day pre-kindergarten. He disagreed that the rich should be taxed to pay
for it.  The Democrat has made the proposal a signature issue of his
“Tale of Two Cities” campaign. It would raise the marginal  tax
rate  on incomes above $500,000 to 4.4 percent from almost 3.9
percent, or an average $973 a year for the 27,300 taxpayers
earning $500,000 to $1 million. That would raise more than $500
million to pay for universal all-day pre-school and after-hours
programs for adolescents.  Have Money  “We have the money within the budget to pay for universal
pre-K,” Lhota said. “We need to find more efficiencies in our
government to pay for programs just like this.”  Lhota has said de Blasio’s tax-the-rich plan and his
emphasis on the gap between wealthy and poor would divide the
city between income classes.  De Blasio finished the Sept. 10 primary election with 40.3
percent of the voting-machine tally, according to unofficial
returns from 99 percent of precincts, the  Associated Press 
reported. That surpassed the 40 percent he would need to avoid
an Oct. 1 runoff with former city Comptroller  William Thompson ,
who got 26.2 percent.  Before de Blasio can be certified as the Democratic mayoral
nominee, he must await the city Board of Elections official
count, which includes at least about 78,000 still-untallied
paper ballots.  Thompson, 60, said he wanted to wait until the board
completes its count before making a decision.  “As a democracy, our top priority must be that every vote
be counted,” Thompson said today in a statement. “Today we
begin that process with the Board of Election’s recanvass of all
machine votes. We expect that process to move forward as
accurately and expeditiously as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
Priya Anand in  New York  at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 