-- Bordeaux Grape Crop Seen Two Weeks Late in Worst Year Since 1991
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-13T12:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/bordeaux-grape-crop-seen-two-weeks-late-in-worst-year-since-1991.html
The  Bordeaux  region grape harvest
is about two weeks delayed after a cold start to the season,
with production set to fall to the lowest level in 22 years,
according to the region’s wine bureau.  Some growers in Pessac Leognan will start picking sauvignon
blanc grapes for dry white wines next week and most will begin
Sept. 23, compared with last year’s Sept. 4 start, Valerie
Descudet, a spokeswoman for industry group Conseil
Interprofessionnel du  Vin de Bordeaux , said by phone yesterday.  The wine bureau has predicted this year’s vintage will
slump 20 percent from last year’s 5.25 million hectoliters (139
million gallons), for the smallest volume since 2.58 million
hectoliters in 1991. Bordeaux suffered from a cold spring that
hurt pollination, followed by damaging hailstorms last month.  “We’re going to see the lowest crop we’ve seen in Bordeaux
since 1991, so the pricing will be really interesting to see,
how it comes out onto the market,” Tom Gearing, director of
Cult Wines Ltd., a wine investment company based in Richmond,
 England , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” with  Guy Johnson  yesterday.  The Liv-ex Fine Wine 50 index, which tracks leading
Bordeaux vintages, gained 5.5 percent in the past 12 months.  Red wine grapes won’t be picked before the start of
October, compared with a Sept. 24 start to the merlot harvest in
Saint-Emilion last year, while harvesting of grapes for the
sweet Sauternes white wines is expected to start in the first
week of next month, Descudet said.  Descudet declined to provide a precise harvest estimate,
saying production figures will be more certain at the start of
next year after growers have declared their crops.  Low Temperatures  Vines across  France  suffered from failed grape development
due to unpollinated flowers, a condition caused by unusually
cold and humid weather or excessive warmth. Average June
 temperatures  in the southwest region that includes Bordeaux were
1.6 degrees Celsius (2.9 degrees Fahrenheit) below the norm,
with rainfall 53 percent higher than usual, according to Meteo
France data published by the  Agriculture Ministry .  Hailstorms at the start of August damaged 15,000 hectares
(37,065 acres) of vines in Bordeaux’s Entre-Deux-Mers and
Libournais areas. On 7,000 hectares, more than 80 percent of
vines were damaged, Descudet said. The Pomerol and Saint-Emilion
areas of Libournais were spared, with damage occurring in Cotes
de Castillon to the east, according to the spokeswoman.  Bordeaux is France’s biggest producer of designated-origin
wines and ranks behind Languedoc-Roussillon and Charentes in
total wine volume.  “We know that this year’s harvest will be lower,”
Descudet said. “The risk is to lose market share. France
accounts for two thirds of sales, and exports for one third.”  Picking Delayed  Grape picking in Burgundy will also be delayed by the cold
start to the growing season, with production hurt by poor
pollination and hail, according to Cecile Mathiaud, a
spokeswoman for the  Burgundy Wine Board . The harvest is two to
three weeks late and is expected to start at the end of the
month or early in October, she said.  Burgundy growers have started harvesting earlier in recent
decades, with the harvest generally commencing before the fourth
week of September since the mid-1980s, Mathiaud said. Vines in
the region typically require 90 to 100 days between flowering
and harvest, and that holds true this year, she said.  “It’s late compared to the past 20 years, but historically
it’s a date at which Burgundy has harvested before,” Mathiaud
said.  Production in the region is forecast to be less than 1.4
million hectoliters, though “undoubtedly” more than last
year’s volume of 1.26 million hectoliters, according to the
spokeswoman. That compares with a normal level for Burgundy of
1.5 million hectoliters, Mathiaud said.  Hail Damage  About 1,350 hectares of vines in Burgundy’s Cote de Beaune
area were damaged by hail on July 23, from Meursault in the
south to Corton-Charlemagne in the north, according to Mathiaud.
Damage in Corton was limited to 10 percent to 20 percent of
plots, unlike the destruction in Volnay, Pommard and Savigny-les-Beaune, she said.  In the north of Pommard, 70 percent to 90 percent of vines
were damaged, while 30 percent to 70 percent suffered in
southern Pommard and neighboring Volnay, the Burgundy Wine Board
reported in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  