-- Brazil Real Heads for Weekly Advance on Eased Concern Over Fed
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-09-13T14:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/brazil-real-heads-for-weekly-advance-on-eased-concern-over-fed.html
Brazil ’s real was headed for a
second straight weekly gain as the central bank maintained its
intervention program and concern eased that the  Federal Reserve 
will begin winding down its stimulus program next week.  The currency has climbed 1.2 percent to 2.2797 per  U.S.
dollar  since Sept. 6 after a 3.4 percent rally in the prior
week. The real dropped 0.2 percent today as of 10:59 a.m. in  Sao
Paulo . Swap rates due in January 2015 fell three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 10.46 percent, paring their
increase this week to 17 basis points.  The real has gained 6.9 percent since Aug. 22, when the
central bank announced its $60 billion plan to stem the
currency’s slide with auctions of foreign-exchange swaps and
credit lines. The rally is the biggest among 24 major emerging-market dollar counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  “The central bank’s currency program, with auctions
through the rest of the year, gives a certain comfort to the
market,”  Reginaldo Galhardo , a currency manager at Treviso
Corretora de Cambio in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview.
“Investors are reducing” bets against the real.  Federal Reserve officials are scheduled to meet Sept. 17-18
to consider curtailing a record stimulus program that has
supported emerging-market assets.  The U.S. Commerce Department reported today that retail
sales rose 0.2 percent in August, the smallest increase in four
months. Payrolls in the U.S. climbed less than economists
forecast, the Labor Department reported last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  