-- Brazil July Economic Activity Drops Less Than Analysts Forecast
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-09-13T11:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/brazil-july-economic-activity-drops-less-than-analysts-forecast.html
Brazil’s economic activity  in July 
declined less than analysts forecast, signaling a continued
uneven recovery in the world’s second-biggest emerging market.  The seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a proxy
for gross domestic product, fell 0.33 percent in July from the
previous month after rising a revised 1.03 percent in June, the
central bank said today in a report posted on its website.
Analysts expected a 0.6 percent drop, according to the median
estimate of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The index a posted 3.38 percent rise from the year before,
higher than the 2.89 median estimate from 26 economists.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has endeavored to
spur recovery by lowering tariffs on some imports, boosting
subsidized lending and cutting payroll taxes to spur demand.
Central bankers have intervened in the  currency market  to boost
a weakening real and lifted the key rate in four straight
meetings to prevent inflation running near the top of their
target range from damaging economic activity.  Brazil’s economy  grew  1.5 percent during the second
quarter, or an annualized 6 percent, as investments picked up.
 Latin America ’s largest economy will expand 2.7 percent this
year, up from 0.9 percent in 2012, according to the latest
central bank estimate. Retail sales in July rose 1.9 percent
from June, almost 10 times faster than forecast by economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  Policy makers on Aug. 28 raised the benchmark Selic by a
half-percentage point to 9 percent. They have boosted the rate
by 175 basis points since April, the fastest pace of monetary
tightening among major world economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation  measured by the IPCA index decelerated in
August to 6.09 percent, the slowest since December, the national
statistics agency said Sept. 6.  Brazil  targets annual inflation
at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  