-- Business Inventories in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast in July
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-09-13T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/business-inventories-in-u-s-rose-more-than-forecast-in-july.html
Inventories at U.S. companies
increased more than forecast in July, trailing a gain in sales
that signals a pickup in factory orders.  Stockpiles (MTIBCHNG)  rose 0.4 percent, the most in six months, after
climbing a revised 0.1 percent in June, the Commerce Department
reported today in Washington. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey projected a 0.2 percent advance. Sales rose 0.6 percent
in July.  Merchants had enough goods on hand to last 1.28 months at
the current sales pace, the least since May 2012. Improved
demand for goods including home furnishings and cars may
encourage companies to replenish stockpiles.  The median  forecast  for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 44 economists. Estimates ranged from no
change to a 0.5 percent gain. June was previously reported as
unchanged.  Retailers’ stockpiles, the only part of today’s inventory
report that hasn’t been previously released, rose 0.8 percent in
July, the biggest gain since January. Sales advanced 0.4
percent.  Another Commerce Department report today showed  retail
purchases  increased less than forecast in August. The 0.2
percent gain was the smallest in four months. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.5
percent advance.  Eight of 13 major categories showed increased sales last
month, led by auto dealerships, electronics outlets and
furniture stores. Purchases of building materials, clothing and
sporting goods fell.  The value of unsold cars and auto parts rose 0.8 percent in
July as demand eased, today’s inventory report showed.  Factory inventories rose 0.2 percent in July and wholesaler
stockpiles increased 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  