-- California City Disincorporates as Cash Goes to Prisons
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-09-13T21:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/california-city-disincorporates-as-cash-goes-to-prisons.html
California ’s newest city may become
the first to self-destruct in 40 years, disincorporating because
Governor Jerry Brown and lawmakers stripped funds from local
government to reduce prison crowding.  Jurupa Valley, a city of 100,000 formed two years ago about
50 miles (75 kilometers) east of Los Angeles, will file papers
in December to revert to an unincorporated area of Riverside
County, Mayor Verne Lauritzen said.  California cities have struggled since 2011 when Brown
signed a bill  redirecting  $130 million in vehicle-license fees
earmarked for municipalities. He put the funds toward a program
that shifted social services and thousands of state prisoners to
county responsibility. Three other suburbs in Riverside County
face the same predicament.  “We don’t need a handout,” Lauritzen said in an
interview. “All we’re looking to do is deal with an inequity.
They should fix it.” A  bill  to make up for the funding has
stalled in the state legislature, whose session ends today.   Jurupa Valley became California’s newest city in 2011,
after  54 percent  of voters in five unincorporated communities
voted to form a municipality covering 45 square miles, about the
area of San Francisco.  By incorporating, Lauritzen said, local residents took
control of their taxes to fix roads, enhance police protection
and regulate zoning to preserve rural pockets from encroaching
development.  Fees Reallocated  The city officially came into being the day before Brown,
facing a budget gap of $17.2 billion, reallocated the fees
assessed against vehicle owners toward what he called
realignment.  Faced with a federal court order to reduce prison crowding,
he shifted felons convicted of nonviolent, low-level crimes to
county jails. He also handed responsibility for anti-drug
programs, criminal probation, mental health programs, foster
care and other services to counties.  The decision cost Jurupa Valley $4.2 million, or 47 percent
of its expected revenue in its first year as a city, Lauritzen
said.  Legal Quirk  The vehicle fees are important to the youngest cities
because of a quirk in the law. In 2004, then-Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger reduced car-registration fees, part of which went
to municipalities, and compensated by directing a like amount of
property taxes to their budgets,  according  to Michael Coleman,
the fiscal adviser to the League of California Cities. Cities
incorporated after 2004 didn’t receive the boost in property
taxes; instead they were compensated with a larger share of car
fees, Coleman said. But that ended in 2011.  While disincorporation might bear some resemblance to
bankruptcy, there’s one important difference. Unlike the four
California cities that have filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy
protection since 2008, Jurupa Valley won’t need to negotiate
with creditors. It has none, Lauritzen said.  The city hasn’t issued debt and has no pension obligations,
since all of its “employees” are contractors, he said. None of
the other three vulnerable cities incorporated since 2004 --
Wildomar, Eastvale and Menifee, all in Riverside County -- have
debt outstanding.  Utilities Debt  A separate government body, the Jurupa Community Services
District, has $75.7 million in long-term debt. It provides
water, sewer, landscaping and other services to most of Jurupa
Valley and all of Eastvale. If one or both cities
disincorporates, the district could lose contracts for graffiti
removal, with minimal effect on its finances, General Manager
Todd Corbin said.  “Disincorporation is going to be interesting, but it won’t
directly affect our bonds,” he said by telephone. “All of
those bonds are the responsibility of the community services
district, not the cities.”  Even if all four cities revert to unincorporated areas, the
municipal bond market is unlikely to react much, said Matt Fabian, managing director of Municipal Market Advisors in
Concord,  Massachusetts .  “Without debt associated with it, it’s hard to take any
kind of precedent from that,” Fabian said by telephone.  Mayors and city managers in Wildomar, Eastvale and Menifee
said they’ve cut policing and other services since losing the
vehicle-fee revenue. They said they should be able to avoid
disincorporating if the state restores funding in the next few
years.  ‘Table Scraps’  “It’s unconscionable to me that the leaders in Sacramento
couldn’t come up with legislation to give to the governor for
him to sign,” said Scott Mann, the mayor of Menifee, a city of
about 80,000 that incorporated in 2008. “Our four cities don’t
even get table scraps from  Sacramento .”  A bill in the Democrat-controlled legislature would have
made up for the lost vehicle-license revenue by boosting the
newer cities’ share of property taxes. The state’s general fund
would have lost out, according to an  analysis  of the bill.  Brown’s press office didn’t respond to a message yesterday
seeking comment on the 75-year-old Democrat’s position on the
bill. Spokesman Evan Westrup said the governor doesn’t generally
comment on bills before signing or vetoing them.  No Incentive  Until lawmakers restore funding for newer municipalities,
no community will have an incentive to become a city, and cities
will avoid annexing developing areas on their fringes, said Gary
Nordquist, the Wildomar city manager. The city of 32,000
incorporated in 2008.  No California municipality has disincorporated since 1973,
when Hornitos, a city of fewer than 100 in the agricultural San
Joaquin Valley, was  dissolved  by the legislature, and Cabazon
was terminated by a public vote after civic discord over
gambling, according to a legislative analysis.  In 2011, state Assembly Speaker John Perez sponsored a bill
to disincorporate Vernon, an industrial hamlet in Los Angeles
plagued by allegations of corruption. Perez’s bill failed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 