-- California Lawmakers Boost State Minimum Wage to $10 an Hour
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-09-13T12:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/california-lawmakers-pass-minimum-wage-increase-to-10-an-hour.html
California  lawmakers sent Governor
 Jerry Brown  a measure to increase the minimum wage 25 percent to
$10 an hour. The Democrat has said he’ll sign the bill.  The measure, passed yesterday, would raise the basic
minimum rate, now $8 an hour, to $9 in July 2014 and $10 in
January 2016. That would be the highest in the U.S. if other
states hold their rates steady.  A $10 minimum wage would pump $2.6 billion into the world’s
ninth-biggest economy, Assembly Speaker John Perez, a Los
Angeles Democrat, said in a statement. It will also help workers
by giving them more money to spend, Senator Marty Block, a San
Diego Democrat, told the  Associated Press   “They’re not going to put it into a hedge fund,” he said.  California last boosted the  minimum wage  in 2008, when
Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger was governor. Business groups,
such as the California Chamber of Commerce, have said the bill
would stifle job growth.  “We have it tagged as a job-killer, given the increased
costs businesses will be faced with,” Jennifer Barrera, policy
advocate for the chamber, said before the vote, according to the
AP.  Only eight U.S. states, including California, pay $8 per
hour or more. Washington currently pays $9.19 an hour and
adjusts it annually based on inflation.  Congress last voted to raise the federal minimum wage in
2007, and President  Barack Obama ’s call to raise it to $9 an
hour from $7.25 has gone nowhere with lawmakers.  ‘Big Help’  Jot Condie, president of the California Restaurant
Association, told the  Los Angeles  Times that the legislation was
“an unprecedented wage hike” for an industry that is the
state’s second-biggest private employer, with more than 1.4
million workers. While he said the measure will result in fewer
hours and reduced hiring Louis Benitez, a waiter at the J.W.
Marriott Hotel in Los Angeles, said he was glad the bill passed.  “It would be a big help to get a little bit more money per
hour,” Benitez, who also said earns tips, told the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  