-- California Lawmakers Approve Tighter Gun Restrictions
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   M a r k   M e l n i c o e
-- 2013-09-13T05:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/california-lawmakers-approve-tighter-gun-restrictions.html
California  lawmakers, inspired by a
Connecticut school massacre, agreed to tighten firearm laws in
the most populous state.  The bills headed to Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  would
outlaw semi-automatic rifles with detachable magazines, ban
adapters to convert magazines to high-capacity clips, order
safety certification to buy any gun and require ownership
records for all firearms.  The restrictions put California in line with other states
that enacted tougher rules after 20 children and six educators
were shot to death in December at Sandy Hook Elementary School
in Newtown, Connecticut. California lawmakers spurned a ban on
ammunition magazines holding more than 10 rounds, and shelved a
bill that would require permits and background checks for those
buying shells and bullets.  The bills that passed “are designed to close loopholes, to
keep the circulation of guns and ammunition out of the hands of
dangerous persons,” said Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg of  Sacramento . “The common characteristic in each of
these mass shootings is easy access to rapidly reloading guns
with detachable high-capacity magazines.”  The Newtown killings, which came only months after a movie-theater attack in a Denver suburb killed 12 people and wounded
70, prompted lawmakers in  Colorado ,  New York , Connecticut and
 Maryland  to pass stricter gun laws, even as a push for federal
measures stalled in Congress.  Risky Vote  Colorado approved the most sweeping restrictions in more
than a decade, limiting ammunition magazines to 15 rounds and
requiring background checks for all gun sales. A backlash led to
the recall of two senators Sept. 10, the first in the state’s
history.  In New York, Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a 55-year-old Democrat,
pushed through a seven-round limit on magazines. However, no
manufacturer made such a magazine. A measure approved in March
allowed 10-round magazines to be sold, while permitting users to
carry only seven rounds in them.  The California bills include a measure to prohibit the
sale, purchase, manufacture or importation of center-fire semi-automatic rifles that can accept detachable magazines.  California’s proposed limits would expand the state’s
definition of an assault weapon to ban shotguns with rifled
bores and revolving ammunition cylinders.  California passed the nation’s first ban on some semi-automatic rifles in 1989 after a gunman with an AK-47 sprayed an
elementary school in Stockton, killing five children and
wounding 29.  A federal ban passed in 1994 has since expired and efforts
to restore it, led by U.S. Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a
California Democrat, stalled in Congress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Melnicoe in Sacramento at 
 mmelnicoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  