-- Canada Heavy Oil Falls to Weakest in 7 Months as Kearl Ramps Up
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-13T20:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/canada-heavy-oil-falls-to-weakest-in-7-months-as-kearl-ramps-up.html
Canadian heavy oil slid to the
weakest level in seven months against the U.S. benchmark grade
as  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  reported rising production from a new oil-sands project in  Alberta .  The Kearl project is producing more than 80,000 barrels a
day and is on track to reach its full capacity of 110,000
barrels by the end of the year, Imperial Oil Chief Executive
Richard Kruger said today at the Barclays CEO Energy-Power
Conference in  New York .  Western Canadian Select, a heavy blend that is a price
benchmark for oil-sands production, weakened by $1.75 a barrel
to $29 below West Texas Intermediate, according to Calgary oil
broker Net Energy Inc. It was the steepest discount for the
grade since Feb. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Imperial’s Kearl project adds more production to an export
pipeline system that is already stretched by rising output from
from the Alberta oil sands. The nation’s production will reach
roughly 300,000 barrels a day next year, according to the
Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers. The only new
pipeline out of Alberta in the next 12 months is  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s
120,000-barrel-a-day Alberta Clipper.  While the difference between the Clipper’s capacity and the
increase predicted by CAPP will be made up by railroad
shipments, the Canadian oil market will remain vulnerable to
price swings, Tim Simard, head of National Bank of Canada’s
commodities derivatives business, said at the Bloomberg Canadian
Fixed-Income Conference in New York yesterday.  Montana Work  Also adding downward pressure to the Canadian heavy oil
price, Calumet Specialty Products Partners LP’s refinery in
Great Falls,  Montana , has shut down for 30 days of planned
maintenance, according to the Great Falls Tribune’s website. The
9,800-barrel-a-day plant processes Canadian heavy, Jennifer Straumins, Calumet’s president, said in an e-mail.  Syncrude, a Canadian light crude processed from oil-sands
bitumen, weakened by 10 cents to a $4 discount to WTI, Net
Energy said. Canadian conventional light, sweet oil at  Edmonton 
weakened by 25 cents to a $10.25 discount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  