-- Canada Household Debt Ratio Rises to Record in 2nd Qtr
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-09-13T20:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/canada-household-debt-ratio-rises-to-record.html
The ratio of Canadian household
debt to disposable income rose to a record in the second quarter
on increased mortgage borrowing, even after policy makers took
steps to slow the housing market.  Credit-market debt such as mortgages rose to 163.4 percent
of disposable income, compared with a revised 162.1 percent in
the prior three-month period, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. Mortgage borrowing rose 1.7 percent to C$1.11 trillion
($1.08 trillion).  “That isn’t comforting,” said  Carlos Leitao , chief
economist at Laurentian Bank Securities in  Montreal . “At this
point in the cycle we would have thought this would have
stabilized.”  Canada’s housing market had shown signs of moderating after
a surge in condominium construction in Toronto and  Vancouver 
pressured Finance Minister Jim Flaherty to tighten mortgage
rules four times. Housing  starts  fell 6.6 percent in August led
by multiple-unit work, and Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz
reiterated on Sept. 4 that household imbalances appear to be
improving.  Canada’s dollar fell for a second day after the report,
weakening 0.2 percent to C$1.0347 per U.S. dollar at 4:00 p.m.
in Toronto. One dollar buys 96.65 U.S. cents.  The rise in the debt-income ratio follows two quarters of
declines. The growth in household credit market debt rose to 1.6
percent in the April-June period from 0.5 percent in the
previous quarter, Statistics Canada said.  Spring Lending  Part of the increase is due to a traditional rise in
mortgage lending in the spring when more people look for houses,
Royal Bank of Canada economist David Onyett-Jeffries wrote in a
note to clients. Statistics Canada doesn’t adjust the figures
for seasonal swings.  The annual pace of household credit growth slowed to 4.9
percent in the quarter, Onyett-Jeffries said, the slowest pace
since the end of 2001.  The housing boom that helped lead the world’s 11th largest
economy out of the 2008 global financial crisis was fueled by
some of the lowest  mortgage rates  in decades as the Bank of
Canada cut its key rate to a record low 0.25 percent. Mortgage
rates are now rising and that may curb demand according to Derek Burleton, deputy chief economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank.  “The rebound in housing has raised eyebrows,” he said.
“There are some near term upside risks to housing and the debt
ratio, but it’s reasonable to expect the ratio remains quite
stable.”  Price Drop  Higher mortgage rates along with growth in the supply of
homes will trigger a 10 percent to 15 percent drop in home
prices, Sun Life Global Investments Inc. Chief Investment
officer Sadiq Adatia said yesterday at the Bloomberg Canadian
fixed-income conference in New York.  “I’m not panicking,” said Benjamin Tal, deputy chief
economist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto. “The only time this
ratio goes down is in a recession, as we saw in the U.S. That’s
the only time we see real deleveraging.”  “It was a record high last year, it’s a record high now,
it will be a record high next year,” Tal said. “The issue is
what is the rate at which credit is rising, and this rate is
slowing down notably.”  National net worth rose 3.1 percent to C$7.31 trillion in
the second quarter, Statistics  Canada  said, reflecting rising
real-estate values. On a per capita basis, the increase was to
C$207,300 from C$201,800.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  