-- Canadian Dollar Falls 2nd Day on Record Household-Debt Growth
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-13T21:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/canadian-dollar-falls-as-focus-shifts-to-chance-of-fed-tapering.html
The Canadian dollar fell for a
second day as the ratio of Canadian  household debt  to disposable
income rose to a record in the second quarter, signaling
consumers may struggle to lead the economic recovery.  The currency pared the decline versus its U.S. peer after
retail sales in the U.S. rose less than forecast as investors
weighed whether the U.S. central bank will begin to taper its
$85 billion-per-month bond purchases at its next meeting Sept.
17-18.  Canada ’s dollar fell a second day versus that of fellow
commodities exporter  New Zealand  after the South Pacific
nation’s central bank said yesterday that  interest-rate 
increases were on tap for next year. Oil dropped.  “The household debt number shows you can’t expect the
Canadian consumer to contribute much to Canadian growth, and
reflects the troubles the Canadian economy still faces, which is
not a positive for the currency,” said  Adrian Miller , director
of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in  New York .
“Any strength in the Canadian dollar has to be discounted, as
the bias is still to the downside as the U.S dollar gains
strength with a better economic performance and expected
tapering from the Fed.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.3 percent to
C$1.0351 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys
96.61 U.S. cents.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, with
yields falling two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
2.76 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
added 9 cents to C$89.27.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, were little
changed at $108.58 per barrel in New York and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of  U.S. stocks  rose 0.3 percent.  The loonie’s drop pared a second weekly gain, part of a
retracement that may take it to C$1.0250, where it will meet
resistance,  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed-income and currency strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada,
said in a note to clients. That level will present a buying
opportunity for the U.S. dollar as valuations approach
“oversold levels,” he said, opening to way to the C$1.0378-to-C$1.0442 area, with a close above C$1.0551 suggesting a
continuation of greenback strength.  “Prices will have to register a daily close below the
trend-line dating back to last September at C$1.0198 in order to
nullify the current uptrend” in the greenback against the
loonie, Davis said.  Loonie Stalls  Credit-market debt such as mortgages rose to 163.4 percent
of disposable income, compared with a revised 162.1 percent in
the prior three-month period,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. Mortgage borrowing rose 1.7 percent to C$1.11 trillion
($1.08 trillion).  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has tightened
mortgage rules four times amid signs of overbuilding in markets
such as Toronto and  Vancouver . Bank of Canada Governor Stephen
Poloz has warned that elevated household debt represents the
biggest domestic threat to the world’s 11th-largest economy.  The growth in household credit market debt rose to 1.6
percent in the April-June period from 0.5 percent in the
previous quarter, Statistics Canada said. The rise in the debt-income ratio follows two quarters where it declined.  “We’ve seen the Canadian dollar soar over the last five
sessions, soar then stall -- and the stall leads me to believe
we’re a little bit too close to the sun and we’ll start to
fall,” said Brad Schruder, a director of foreign exchange at
Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “The degree to which
that happens depends on the degree to which the Fed tapers.”  Fed Watching  The 0.2 percent increase in U.S. retail sales was the
smallest in four months and followed a revised 0.4 percent July
gain that was bigger than previously estimated, the Commerce
Department reported. The median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg called for a 0.5 percent advance. Sales excluding
motor vehicles rose 0.1 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will decide to reduce
monthly purchases of Treasuries to $35 billion from $45 billion,
according to the median of 34 responses in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Policy makers will maintain mortgage-bond buying at
$40 billion, the survey shows.  “It certainly seems like markets in general are tied up in
knots right now over what the  Federal Reserve  is going to say
next week,” said  David Watt , chief economist at the Canadian
unit of HSBC Holdings Plc.  Kiwi Soars  The  New Zealand dollar , known as the kiwi, climbed for a
sixth day after central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said
yesterday he would probably raise interest rates next year,
putting it in line to be the first developed nations to start
raising borrowing rates.  Bank of Canada’s Poloz last week kept his main  interest
rate  unchanged and reiterated that current monetary policy
remains appropriate, as an expected rotation of demand to
exports and investment is being delayed, suggesting a pause in
higher rates through 2014.  The loonie has fallen 0.6 percent in the past month against
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The kiwi gained 1.8 percent,
trailing only the pound’s 2.5 percent rise. The  U.S. dollar  fell
0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  