-- Canada Stocks Rise as Easing Fed Concern Boosts Commodity Shares
-- B y   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-09-13T20:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/canadian-stocks-increase-as-commodity-consumer-shares-advance.html
Canadian  stocks  rose, following the
biggest retreat in two weeks yesterday, as commodity producers
advanced after concern over possible cuts to U.S. central bank
stimulus eased.  Niko Resources Ltd., the Canadian oil and natural gas
explorer, jumped 10 percent to lead energy shares higher despite
a decline in  oil prices  amid continuing talks over  Syria .
Centerra Gold Inc. and B2Gold Corp. rallied at least 5.2
percent. Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. and Canadian National
Railway Co. gained more than 0.5 percent. Silvercorp Metals Inc.
fell 2 percent as the commodity’s price tumbled.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 22.35
points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,723.40 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.
Trading volume was 12 percent below the 30-day average. The
benchmark Canadian index trimmed its loss for the week to 0.8
percent.  Stocks rose after a “long week of selling pressure on the
Canadian markets” due to the lowering tensions over Syria, Paul Gardner, portfolio manager at Avenue Investment Management, said
in a phone interview. His firm oversees C$300 million ($290
million). “What gets hit hard is oil and gold. But it was a bit
overdone, so we are seeing a bit of a relief rally” in those
industries.  Oil and  gold prices  led commodities lower today after the
U.S. and  Russia  discussed a plan for Syria to surrender chemical
weapons. U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  reported a
“constructive” start to the talks. President  Barack Obama  has
delayed a possible U.S. military intervention to take up the
proposal for international oversight of Syria’s chemicals
arsenal.  Fed Stimulus  Equities rose as concerns eased over possible cuts to U.S.
central bank stimulus. Investors, who have been scrutinizing
economic data to determine whether growth is robust enough for
the  Federal Reserve  to slow stimulus following its Sept. 17-18
meeting, will see a reduction next week as no big deal,
according to a Bloomberg Global Poll of investors.  Fifty-seven percent of those surveyed say they don’t expect
a sudden change in the markets because investors already
anticipate tapering action.  U.S. data today showed retail sales rose 0.2 percent, the
smallest increase in four months and below the 0.5 percent
advance seen in Bloomberg survey.  Consumer confidence  in the
U.S. declined in September to the lowest level since April.
Wholesale prices in the U.S. rose more than forecast in August,
while a separate report showed inventories at companies
increased more than forecast in July.  ‘Somewhat Disappointing’  “The retail sales were somewhat disappointing, but put all
of the economic data together and it seems neutral,”  Richard Sichel , who oversees about $1.9 billion as chief investment
officer at Philadelphia Trust Co., said by phone. “The fear of
the Fed taper has gone away, as has the immediacy of the Syrian
crisis.”  Energy shares rose 0.2 percent as a group, even as West
Texas Intermediate crude capped its biggest weekly drop since
July. Six out of 10 industries  advanced  in the S&P/TSX.  Calgary-based Niko Resources increased 10 percent to
C$4.17. The gas and oil company’s stock had plummeted as much as
68 percent this year, reaching an almost 15-year low on Sept. 6.  AltaGas Ltd. shares rose 1.2 percent to C$35.43 after the
company said late Thursday it will acquire a 25 percent stake in
Petrogas Energy Corp., a privately held North American
integrated midstream company.  Gold Companies  Raw-materials stocks added 1.4 percent. Centerra Gold paced
gains among mining companies, rising 7 percent to C$6.27 for its
largest increase in more than three weeks. B2Gold Corp. climbed
5.2 percent to C$2.63. Gold companies plunged 5.3 percent as a
group yesterday.  Gabriel Resources Ltd. rallied 12 percent to 93 Canadian
cents. The gold and silver exploration company, backed by
billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson , slumped 54 percent
on Sept. 9, its biggest decline in 25 years. The drop came on
news that  Romania ’s prime minister urged lawmakers to reject
plans for a gold mine.  Silvercorp Metals tumbled 2 percent to C$3.41. Silver
futures dropped 1.9 percent, while gold for December delivery
was down 1.7 percent today. Both metals had the largest weekly
decline since June.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.,  Canada ’s largest maker
of the fertilizer, rallied 2.3 percent to C$33.57 and Agrium
Inc. climbed 1.4 percent to C$92.55.  Potash Prices  Russian entrepreneur Vladimir Kogan, a longtime ally of
President  Vladimir Putin , is the leading bidder for the world’s
leading potash producer, OAO Uralkali. Kogan is seeking to buy
out the company’s three main shareholders, according to people
familiar with the situation.  The talks began after Belarus arrested Uralkali Chief
Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner Aug. 26, a month after
he pulled out of a trading venture with Belarus, said the people
familiar with the matter. The breakup of the venture sent potash
prices plummeting.  “People view this sale of stock as a precursor event to
the BPC export agency getting back together again,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at BGC Partners LP, said by
phone, referring to Uralkali and Belaruskali’s venture,
Belarusian Potash Co. “A lot of people believe that this is one
of many steps to BPC getting back together again.”  Industrial shares gained 0.4 percent as railroad companies
climbed. Canadian Pacific Railway jumped 1.7 percent to
C$127.75. Canadian National Railway gained 0.5 percent to
C$101.28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aubrey Pringle in  New York  at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  