-- Carlsberg Sees Sustained China Growth on Premium Beer Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-13T06:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/carlsberg-sees-sustained-china-growth-as-it-pushes-premium-beer.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLB)  forecasts the 5
percent organic sales growth it had in the first half in  China 
will be sustained the rest of the year as it boosts premium
brews in the world’s biggest beer market.  “With the expanding middle class, international beers are
becoming more affordable,” said Soren Ravn, who heads the
Danish brewer’s business in the Greater China region. Rising
incomes and urbanization will drive demand for its premium
products, he said in an interview yesterday in Dalian, China,
where he was attending the  World Economic Forum .  The growth of Carlsberg’s business in Asia and Eastern
Europe countered the decline in Western Europe, the Copenhagen-based company said last month. Brewers including Carlsberg and
global market leader  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  seek to increase
sales in  emerging markets  such as Mexico and China.  Carlsberg had a 2.6 percent share of China’s beer market
last year, ranking sixth, according to Euromonitor
International.  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) , the maker of
Snow beer and the state-backed partner of SABMiller Plc, had the
most share at 21.7 percent while  Tsingtao Brewery Co. (600600)  ranked
second with 15.7 percent, the London-based research company
said.  Beijing Yanjing Brewery Co. ranked third with 11.7 percent,
followed by AB InBev’s 11.4 percent and Henan Jinxing Brewery
with 3.4 percent, according to Euromonitor.  Sales of Carlsberg’s premium brands such as Carlsberg Light
and Tuborg are growing twice as fast as its local brands, Ravn
said.  “The momentum we have seen in the first half, we can
continue in the second half,” the executive said. “After many
years of urbanization, you can start to do more of a cluster
strategy and go for big cities.”  Acquisition Opportunities  Carlsberg has stakes in 40 breweries in China, mostly in
the western and central region, and is “looking at
opportunities available” for acquisitions, he said, declining
to provide details.  Carlsberg rose 0.5 percent to 570 kroner in Copenhagen
trading yesterday. The stock has gained 2.9 percent this year.  The world’s fourth-largest brewer saw a slight slowdown in
its China business in the second quarter, Chief Executive
Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said on a conference call on Aug.
21. “In places like China, developing markets, you do see
variance quarter on quarter,” he said at the time.  In March, Carlsberg offered to increase its stake in
 Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132) , seeking to buy as much as 2.9 billion
 yuan  ($474 million) of shares or a further 30 percent of the
brewer. The purchase is pending regulatory approval.  Organic volume growth excludes the effect of acquisitions
and disposals.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Liza Lin in
Shanghai at   llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  