-- Chile Says Cuts Are Possible as Peru Keeps Key Rate Unchanged
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-09-13T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/chile-says-cuts-are-possible-as-peru-keeps-key-rate-unchanged.html
Chile  and  Peru  kept their key
 interest rates  unchanged yesterday as the Andean neighbors weigh
whether new stimulus measures are needed to stave off an
economic deceleration.  Policy makers in Chile, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held the benchmark rate at 5 percent for the 20th
straight meeting as forecast by 15 of 19 economists  surveyed by
Bloomberg . Four analysts estimated a quarter-point reduction.
Peru’s five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
kept borrowing costs at 4.25 percent for a 28th month, matching
the forecasts of all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  South America ’s two largest copper producers are forecast
to post the fastest expansion among major economies in the
region this year even as weaker demand for exports threatens to
eat away at growth and investment. Chilean policy makers
signaled in the statement accompanying yesterday’s decision they
may cut if a slowdown in output takes hold.  “The identifiable trigger for them to move is a sure sign
that consumption is moderating,” Luis Arcentales, an economist
at Morgan Stanley in  New York , said by phone about Chile after
yesterday’s decision.  Peru’s economy will expand 5.5 percent this year after
climbing 6.3 percent in 2012 while Chile’s will expand 4.35
percent following 5.6 percent growth last year, according to
analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Latin America  as a whole will
expand 2.57 percent in 2013, the survey shows.  Lower Estimates  Chilean policy makers in their quarterly Monetary Policy
Report published last week reduced their 2013 economic growth
estimate to a range of 4 percent to 4.5 percent from 4 percent
to 5 percent as they cut their outlook for global expansion.  Gross domestic product growth eased to 4.5 percent in the
first quarter and 4.1 percent in the second after climbing 5.6
percent in 2012 from the previous year. The government’s monthly
manufacturing index has contracted three times this year.  Inflation accelerated in the past three months to 2.2
percent in August, which is still shy of the central bank
board’s 3 percent target. Consumer prices will climb 2.6 percent
at the end of this year and 2.8 percent in December 2014,
according to their forecasts.  “The consolidation of the trends outlined in the last
Monetary Policy Report could call for adjustments to the
monetary policy interest rate in the coming months,” according
to yesterday’s statement.  Export Decline  In Peru, economic growth has lagged economists’ estimates
in six of the past seven months as this year’s 12 percent
decline in copper prices damps business sentiment. Exports fell
19.5 percent in July from a year earlier while imports climbed 1
percent, leaving a record $486 million trade  gap .  Policy makers have cut their 2013 expansion forecast to 5.8
percent from 6.1 percent and in a statement accompanying
yesterday’s decision said they will reduce  reserve requirements 
if needed. The central bank in August said it would lower the
ceiling for average reserve requirements by two percentage
points.  Inflation will ease in September after breaching the
central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range in the past
two months, policy makers wrote yesterday. Reduced consumer
price pressures would allow the bank to continue cutting reserve
requirements, HSBC Holdings Plc said in a Sept 9 report.  “We expect slower growth to tame inflation over the coming
months and allow the central bank to keep rates on hold for the
rest of this year,” said David Rees, an analyst at Capital
Economics Ltd in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  