-- China Detains Venture Capitalist After Open Letter, SCMP Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-13T09:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/china-detains-venture-capitalist-after-open-letter-scmp-reports.html
Chinese police detained venture
capitalist Wang Gongquan, telling him he was being summoned for
questioning on suspicion of “gathering a crowd to disturb order
in public places,” the  South China Morning Post  reported.  The report of Wang’s detention today came after he signed
an open letter calling for the release of Xu Zhiyong, a
prominent lawyer and rights activist who was detained in July,
according to a copy of the letter on the  website  of the Hong
Kong-based  China  Media Project.  Word of Wang’s detention prompted widespread responses from
Chinese users of  Sina Corp.’s (SINA)  Twitter-like Weibo service.
Huayuan Property Co. Chairman Ren Zhiqiang, who has more than 15
million followers, posted on his account, “Gongquan, where are
you now, Gongquan?”  China’s Communist Party has sought to increase its control
of the Internet as microblog services such as Weibo make
information harder to censor and activists take to the web to
accuse officials of corruption. The nation’s  Supreme Court 
issued a legal interpretation this week allowing authorities to
jail Internet users for as much as three years if they post
online comments that are deemed defamatory.  Calls to Wang’s mobile phone today prompted a message
saying the handset was turned off. The Beijing police
department’s news office didn’t immediately responded to a faxed
requested for comment that it requested.  Before being detained Xu had helped start a group called
the New Citizens’ Movement that met across the country. He
called it a social movement to fight corruption and the abuse of
power and to construct a new order of fairness and justice,
according to a May 2012 article he wrote.  Venture Capital  Wang founded CDH Venture in 2005, the  venture capital  unit
of CDH Investments, according to the parent’s  website . Prior to
that he was a general partner at IDG Technology Venture
Investment, and previously one of the founders of Vantone
Industry Group. His notoriety surged in May 2011 when he used
Sina Weibo to announce he was leaving his wife for his mistress.  “He is an extraordinary entrepreneur of this country and
the consciousness of this society,”  Wang Ying , chairwoman of
the Beijing Zhongheng Juxin Investment Fund Management Co.,
posted on her Weibo account. “I beg the Chinese government and
the ruling party to treat Mr. Wang Gongquan fairly.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  