-- China Rejects Open Nomination for Election of Hong Kong Leader
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-09-13T01:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/china-rejects-open-nomination-for-election-of-hong-kong-leader.html
The  Hong Kong  public can’t nominate
candidates for the next chief executive election under the
city’s de facto constitution,  China ’s top official in the former
British colony said, rejecting a lawmaker’s proposal.  The city’s Basic Law states that candidates for the chief
executive position have to be nominated by a “broadly
representative” committee, Zhang Xiaoming, director of China’s
Liaison Office in Hong Kong, said in an open letter to Alan
Leong, the head of the Civic Party.  Zhang’s comments are the clearest China has made in
rejecting demands from Hong Kong opposition lawmakers to allow
for democracy in line with international standards in 2017, when
it has pledged to allow election of the city’s leader. Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying, who was picked by a committee of
billionaires, professionals and lawmakers, is facing rising
calls to start consultation on arranging the vote.  “The proper way forward is to follow the Basic Law and the
National People’s Congress Standing Committee’s procedures,
rather than straying from the law and going the wrong way,”
Zhang said in the  statement  published on the office’s website,
as he rejected Leong’s invitation to discuss the proposal at a
seminar.  Leung said in an interview in June he wants to deliver on
the electoral reforms, though increased democracy may lead to
China’s refusal to appoint a leader elected by the city’s
people. Allowing for a full exercise in democracy in Hong Kong
will also contrast with the political system in China, which has
been ruled by the Communist Party since 1949.  Pro-democracy groups in Hong Kong have suggested options
including opening the nomination to candidates who receive
support from at least 2 percent of registered voters.  China’s “One Country, Two Systems” policy granted Hong
Kong its own legal system under the Basic Law for 50 years from
1997. The city allows residents civil liberties including a free
press and freedom of assembly not permitted in the mainland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  