-- China Swap Rate Drops for Second Week as PBOC Drains Less
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-13T03:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/china-swap-rate-drops-for-second-week-as-pboc-drains-less.html
China ’s one-year interest rate swap
fell to a one-week low as the central bank drained less funds
from the financial system than the week before.  The cost of one-year swap contracts, the fixed payment to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, declined two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.11 percent as of 10:53
a.m. in Shanghai. It touched 4.08 percent earlier, the lowest
since Sept. 6, and rose two basis points this week.  The People’s Bank of China withdrew a net 1.1 billion  yuan 
($180 million) this week, compared with 37 billion yuan in the
period ended Sept. 6, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Local markets will be closed Sept. 19-20 and Oct. 1-7 for public
holidays. China’s interbank market witnessed the worst cash
crunch in at least a decade in June, with key money-market rates
surging to records as commercial lenders scrambled to find money
to meet quarter-end requirements set by the PBOC.  “After the June crunch, banks have become more preemptive
in managing funds, so there shouldn’t be big fluctuations this
month even though it’s quarter-end,” said Cheng Qingsheng, an
analyst at Evergrowing Bank Co. in  Shanghai .  The one-day repurchase  rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, was steady at 2.98 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It rose two basis points this week.  China’s monetary policy should provide a stable environment,
avoiding “excessive fluctuation,” Xu Nuojin, deputy head of
PBOC’s statistics department, wrote in an article in the
Shanghai Securities News today. China shouldn’t simply control
bank loans to achieve monetary policy goals, Xu said.  The yield on 4.08 percent government bonds due August 2023
fell one basis point to 4.15 percent, according to prices from
the Interbank Funding Center. The rate rose seven basis points
this week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  