-- Citigroup’s Rhodes Says Shanghai Zone Can Accelerate Yuan Reform
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-13T04:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/citigroup-s-rhodes-says-shanghai-zone-can-accelerate-yuan-reform.html
William Rhodes , a former  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  senior vice chairman and a senior adviser to the bank,
comments on the role of Shanghai’s free-trade zone in  China ’s
financial reforms and the outlook for China’s economy.  Rhodes spoke in an interview today in the Chinese city of
Dalian, where he’s attending a conference organized by the  World
Economic Forum .  On Shanghai’s free-trade zone:  “It could be used as a laboratory, like expanding
financial markets initially in that area and then expanding to
rest of China. Very importantly, I think it can accelerate  yuan 
convertibility by trying things out there. I think it is a very
very important move. I think it shows this leadership is serious
about structural reforms and moving forward.”  On if the Shanghai zone can accelerating convertibility:  “I think so, yes. People are talking about 20 years. I
think we are looking at five to 10 years.”  On biggest challenge for  China’s economy :  “One issue the government has got to be careful about is
to make sure banks are properly capitalized and they have proper
liquidity and proper risk management, because it’s only a little
over a decade ago that the state had to intervene in all of the
state-owned banks and form asset management companies to take
off the bad debt. And the situation was a lot easier to handle
then than it would be now.”  “Of course now you have shadow banking, which you didn’t
have then, so i think it’s very important that the banks do
their job and the regulators and supervisors do their job
because that’s the last thing this new leadership wants when
it’s opening up the economy.”  On chances of financial crisis:  “I certainly am hopeful that they see there is a clear and
present danger and take steps to make sure it doesn’t happen in
the sense of watching non-performing loans very closely and
making sure banks have tough risk management.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  