-- Clegg Calls for Unity as U.K. Liberal Democrats Begin Conference
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-09-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/clegg-calls-for-unity-as-u-k-liberal-democrats-begin-conference.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg will appeal for unity when he opens the annual conference
of his Liberal Democrat party today in Glasgow,  Scotland .  Less than a week after former minister Sarah Teather said
she was quitting as a Liberal Democrat lawmaker because the
coalition government’s policies on welfare and immigration made
her “catastrophically depressed,” Clegg will tell party
members to be proud of their achievements in power.  “We can tell people how we took the right decisions in
government to make sure interest rates were kept down and to
protect people from the economic crises we have seen elsewhere
in Europe,” Clegg will say, according to extracts of his speech
released by his office. “This is a great party and in a short
space of time we have achieved great things.”  The conference, under the slogan “Stronger Economy, Fairer
Society,” will seek to set the tone for the 2015 general
election with attacks on the opposition Labour Party and Prime
Minister David Cameron’s Conservatives. Labour, it will argue,
cannot be trusted to build a strong economy on its own and the
Tories cannot be trusted to build a fair society on their own.  “People who don’t understand us like to call debate
division. I think it’s debates that give us our unity,” Clegg
will say. “Unity about what we want to see for our country.
Fairer taxes. A green planet safe for our children. And a
rebalanced economy that benefits the whole country.”  Teather, a former education minister, announced she is
quitting the House of Commons at the next election because she
no longer feels Clegg’s party fights enough for social justice
and a liberal immigration policy. She said “something broke”
inside her when her party backed a cap on the amount of welfare
a household can claim.  Oakeshott Warning  Matthew Oakeshott, a Liberal Democrat lawmaker in the House
of Lords, called for Clegg to go, in an interview published in
the House magazine, a publication distributed to lawmakers, on
Sept. 12. Unless there is a change of leader, the Liberal
Democrats could have just 20 lawmakers after 2015, down from 55
today, Oakeshott said.  The Liberal Democrats have concluded from internal polling
that 75 percent of the electorate will not vote for it and it is
concentrating its message on the 25 percent who have said they
might, according to a party official who declined to be
identified.  Opinion polls show only 10 percent of voters back the
party. That’s less than half what they got at the 2010 election
and puts the Liberal Democrats behind the anti-European Union,
anti-immigration U.K. Independence Party.  The Liberal Democrat conference runs until Sept. 18.
Delegates will debate motions on policies ranging from the
economy and taxation to pornography and the reform of cycling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  