-- Colombia’s Verizon-Like Deal Signals More to Come: Andes Credit
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-09-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/colombia-s-verizon-like-deal-signals-more-to-come-andes-credit.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) ,  Colombia ’s state-controlled oil producer, sought to drum up demand this week for
 notes  due in five and 10 years in its first overseas offering
since 2009. As it fielded $12 billion in bids, the company
tacked on a 30-year bond and swelled the sale to $2.5 billion.  The deal, coinciding with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s
record-setting offering this week, is Colombia’s biggest ever,
signaling renewed demand for the South American country’s debt
after the longest drought in almost two years. Ecopetrol’s $1.3
billion of 10-year bonds, the biggest portion of sale, was
priced to yield 3.05 percentage points above Treasuries, less
than the 3.18 percentage point premium for similar-maturity
notes in  emerging markets  that share its BBB rating.  Borrowers are racing to obtain debt financing while the
 Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented bond buying program keeps
borrowing costs down in emerging markets, according to  Credit
Agricole SA. (ACA)   Empresa de Energia de Bogota SA , the capital’s
power utility, said it’s seeking to sell bonds overseas soon.
Latin American dollar debt issuance has reached $3.7 billion
this month, more than the total amount raised in August, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There was definitely demand for the credit, that’s
undeniable,” said Jennifer Stubbert, a fixed-income trader at
 Credit Agricole ’s Miami brokerage unit. “For good-quality
credit, I see the demand is there, and it’s seeming like
borrowers are all trying to enter through this tiny window at
the same time, before it closes.”  Regional Issuance  Ecopetrol’s sale on Sept. 11 was 67 percent larger than the
previous record of $1.5 billion sold by the Bogota-based company
in 2009. Prior to Ecopetrol, six Colombian companies sold bonds
this year totaling $2.9 billion.  Avianca Holdings SA’s $300 million sale of seven-year notes
in May had been the most recent.  Verizon sold $49 billion of bonds this week in eight parts
in the biggest company debt offering ever. The New York-based
company’s $15 billion of 30-year debentures is the biggest
portion of the eight-part deal.  The main buyers of Ecopetrol’s bonds were portfolio
managers in the U.S., who are looking to make a long-term
investment, an Ecopetrol press official said in an e-mailed
reply to questions.  While Ecopetrol issued at less than the market rate, its
three new bonds jumped in the first trading day after the sale.
Debt due in 2023 rose 4.5 cents on the dollar from the issue
price to 103.5 cents and the 2018 bond gained 1.4 cents to 100.9
cents.  Bond Pipeline  The 30-year bonds jumped 4 cents to the dollar to 103.5
cents, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Colombia’s potential pipeline of dollar-denominated bond
sales includes Empresa de Energia de Bogota, which said last
month it may sell more of its 2021 dollar bond.  Chief Executive Officer Sandra Fonseca said yesterday that
the company will sell bonds overseas “very soon,” but declined
to give a date. The company is also seeking “significant” bank
credit lines, she told reporters.  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO)  had said it may delay a potential bond sale,
according to chief executive officer Carlos Yepes. Colombia’s
largest lender may decide against selling bonds this year
because of “market conditions,” Yepes said on Aug. 30.  Bancolombia isn’t planning a sale this year, a press
official said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Initial Projections  Issuers will find demand for bonds through the rest of the
year, and the next sale may come in the first week of October,
according to Carlos Sanchez, the head of fixed income at
Credicorp Capital’s Colombia unit.  Ecopetrol paid at least 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage
point, less than initial projections for each of the three
maturities it sold, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The projected borrowing costs started at about 300 basis
points above Treasuries for the five-year bonds and 325 basis
points for the 10-year notes, according to people familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to comment publicly.  Three-Part Offering  The sale turned into a three-part offering after a 30-year
issue was added with a projected 375 basis point premium.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Colombian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was little
changed at 186 basis points yesterday, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBIG index.  Colombia’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
fell one basis point to 122 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso yesterday reached a two-week intraday high of
1,916.80 per  U.S. dollar , advancing in part on speculation that
Ecopetrol would bring home some of the dollars to Colombia.
Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said the day of the sale that
most of the funds would be used abroad.  “It dictates a different dynamic going forward for
emerging market issuers as a whole,” Pedro Pereira, a Latin
America bond analyst at Bank of America Corp., said in a
telephone interview from  New York . “For sure, it should be a
catalyst in terms of supply out of emerging markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  