-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Falls to Lowest Since April
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-09-13T14:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-falls-to-lowest-since-april-1-.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
declined in September to the lowest level since April,
indicating household spending may take time to pick up.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment this month fell to 76.8 from
August’s 82.1. Economists in a Bloomberg survey called for 82,
according to the  median  projection.  Payrolls had the smallest back-to-back gains in a year and
mortgage interest rates are hovering close to a two-year high,
weighing on confidence. The restrained pace of hiring makes it
harder to spur consumers’ purchases, which account for about 70
percent of the economy.  “Consumers have things to worry about,”  Scott Brown ,
chief economist for Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , said before the report. “Confidence will
improve gradually.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 77 to 85. The
index averaged 64.2 during the 18-month recession that ended in
June 2009, and 89 in the five years leading up to the slump that
began in December 2007.  A separate report from the Commerce Department today showed
 retail sales  rose less than forecast in August. The 0.2 percent
increase was the smallest in four months and followed a revised
0.4 percent July gain that was bigger than previously estimated,
the report said.  Personal Finances  The Michigan sentiment survey’s  current conditions  index,
which takes stock of Americans’ view of their personal finances,
fell to a five-month low of 91.8 in September from 95.2 in
August.  The measure of  expectations  six months from now plunged to
67.2, the lowest since January, from 73.7 last month.  Americans expect an inflation rate of 3.2 percent over the
next  year , up from 3 percent in the prior month. Over the next
 five years , they expect a 3 percent rate of inflation, up from
2.9 percent.  Among other confidence measures reported recently, the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index stabilized last week after four
straight declines.  Rising mortgage rates may be reining in confidence. The
rate on a 30-year fixed loan was at  4.57 percent  as of Sept. 12,
close to the highest level since July 2011, according to Freddie
Mac data.  Payrolls Expansion  Payrolls expanded by 169,000 workers last month after
rising 104,000 in July, Labor Department data showed on Sept. 6.
The jobless rate dropped to  7.3 percent  in August, the lowest
since December 2008, as workers left the  labor force . Other
figures this week showed job openings fell in July to the lowest
level in six months.  Household wealth continues to get a boost from the recovery
in the housing market, which is driving up home values, and from
advances in equity prices.  Vehicle sales remain a bright spot. Cars and light trucks
 sold  in August at the fastest annualized rate since November
2007, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group. Results at
General Motors Co.,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Toyota Motor Corp.
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Even with the gains, executives at automakers are watching
the signals from the labor market and other parts of the economy
to assess the outlook for demand.  Recent “job growth is consistent with lackluster gains and
after-tax incomes which are running at less than 1 percent year-over-year growth during the January to July period,” Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief economist at Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford, said on a Sept. 4 sales call. “As an offset, low
borrowing costs and rising consumer wealth should continue to
support spending growth going forward.”  Housing-related businesses are benefiting from the rebound
in the industry even as higher borrowing costs pose a restraint.
Home Depot Inc., the biggest U.S. home improvements retailer,
projects rising  home prices  this year will spur spending on
renovations, according to Chief Executive Officer  Frank Blake .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  