-- Crop Insurance, Short-Sell Fight, Data Backup: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/crop-insurance-short-sell-fight-data-backup-compliance.html
Critics of the U.S. crop insurance
program are calling for cuts to it and other agribusiness
subsidies as Congress revamps farm policy.  A bipartisan group of lawmakers planned to meet yesterday
in  Washington  to re-examine U.S. farm spending for the next five
years.  Under the insurance program, the U.S. taxpayer subsidizes
the majority of premiums paid by farmers, covers much of the
administrative costs tallied by insurers to run the program, and
guarantees that all losses are covered, according to a  series of
articles  published by Bloomberg News this week.  Crop insurance covered $117 billion worth of product in
2012, including almost all the corn, soybeans, cotton and wheat
produced in the country. The U.S. Department of Agriculture
spent about $14 billion last year on the program, due to
drought.  Supporters of crop insurance are stepping up their lobbying
to preserve the program’s funding levels.  Richard Gibson, founder of American Agrisurance Inc. and a
business consultant, told agents of NAU Country Insurance Co. in
an e-mail this week to lobby their lawmakers. In e-mails to
agents, he criticized Bloomberg News stories that examined the
program’s costs and vulnerability to fraud. Crop insurers and
the USDA said subsidized insurance helps stabilize food prices
and protects farmers from the vagaries of weather.  Adjustments to the farm bill are still possible as both
houses of Congress reconcile separate measures in a conference
to shape the final law.  The House legislation is H.R. 2642; Senate is S.954.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC’s White to Push Exchange Executives for Better Data Backups  Exchange executives and securities regulators discussed
improvements in systems for distributing price data as they met
in Washington yesterday in the latest attempt to strengthen the
fragmented U.S. equity market.  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White
was expected to hold private talks with the chief executive
officers of the 13 U.S. stock exchanges to discuss the Aug. 22
failure in  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc.’s backup system for
disseminating prices, which prompted a three-hour trading halt
for thousands of companies.  The malfunction was the latest in a series of mishaps that
have shaken confidence in computerized trading since May 6,
2010, when an algorithm briefly caused markets to erase about
$862 billion in share value. The SEC expects Nasdaq and NYSE
Euronext to explain that incident and coordinate with other
exchange operators to prevent future occurrences.  White, who was a Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. board member from
2002 to 2006, has said she will seek new protocols for breaking
trades if a network fails and push to advance rules that would
require exchanges to show trading can continue through natural
disasters and programming glitches.  Nasdaq’s computers were flooded Aug. 22 with data from NYSE
Arca, a rival exchange, revealing a bug in Nasdaq’s software
that disabled systems that should have prevented the malfunction
from snowballing, according to a statement. Nasdaq experienced
another glitch with the system on Sept. 4.  The private meeting was expected to focus new scrutiny on
the price networks, known as securities information processors,
or SIPs that distribute stock prices to the public.  For more, click here.  Fed District Bank Presidents Support SEC Money Fund Proposal  Presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve District banks backed
a Securities and Exchange Commission proposal for regulation of
money market mutual funds, saying the measure will better
safeguard investors and financial stability.  “We believe the SEC is well-positioned to implement
meaningful reforms,” the Fed district bank presidents said to
the SEC in  a letter  dated Sept. 12 and released by the Boston
Fed. Such measures “not only better protect investors but also
address the risks to financial stability posed by MMMFs,” they
said.  Courts  Visa-MasterCard Judge Questions Lawsuit Shield in Fee Accord  A federal judge said he is concerned that the  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  multibillion-dollar price-fixing settlement over
merchant swipe fees might go too far in protecting the card
firms from future lawsuits over new payment technologies.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson heard arguments yesterday
in Brooklyn, New York, over whether to grant final approval to
the nationwide class-action settlement, which aims to end future
antitrust battles with U.S. merchants over fee-setting
practices. Scores of big-box retailers and other consumer
businesses oppose the settlement in part because they think the
release is too broad.  Visa, based in Foster City,  California , and MasterCard,
based in Purchase, New York, asked the judge to grant final
approval in order to put to rest antitrust claims over fees paid
by U.S. merchants to support the credit-card networks.  New payment technologies such as contactless or mobile
phone-based payment systems might offer opportunities for
merchants to reduce or escape from interchange fees, Michael
Canter, a lawyer for some of the objectors, said in the hearing.  Developed by banks half a century ago, Visa and MasterCard
have been subject to government scrutiny over their business
practices for decades, Georgetown University law professor Adam
Levitin wrote in 2008. The card firms faced an antitrust suit
filed by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other retailers in 1996 and
actions by the Justice Department, leading to some rule changes.  Bank-owned groups spun off the card companies through
initial public offerings in 2006 and 2008 in a move that
merchants alleged was intended to dodge antitrust liability.  The card companies received final approval of their
previous settlement of more than $4 billion in January 2004. The
current case was brought against them in 2005.  Merchants are expected to receive about one-third of a
year’s worth of interchange payments if final approval is
granted and the order isn’t delayed by an appeal. That estimate
is based on assumptions about the number of merchants that will
file claims and other factors.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  For more, click here.  U.K. Wins Backing in Court Fight Over EU Short-Selling Rules  The U.K. was denied a veto over rules giving a European
Union agency powers to ban short selling, a top judge said in an
opinion that boosts Britain’s chances of winning a turf war with
EU financial regulators.  Emergency powers granted to the  European Securities and
Markets Authority  were based on a flawed interpretation of EU
treaties, Niilo Jaeaeskinen, an advocate general at the EU Court
of Justice said in a non-binding opinion yesterday. A unanimous
vote among nations should have been required to ensure
“enhanced democratic input.”  The short-selling skirmish is one of several legal U.K.
challenges against EU financial regulations at the bloc’s  
courts , including opposition to a proposed common financial
transactions tax. U.K. opposition has prompted warnings from EU
officials that it can’t pick and choose the terms of its
relationship with the bloc.  The Luxembourg-based court follows these opinions in a
majority of cases and normally rules about six months later.  A  provision  in the short-selling rules that grants ESMA the
powers to intervene in the financial markets to regulate or
prohibit short selling was adopted in a manner that goes beyond
what is “necessary for the establishment or functioning of the
internal market,” the court said in the opinion.  Jaeaeskinen dismissed the government’s remaining claims.  If the full court disagrees on the interpretation, “then
the U.K.’s challenge could still be lost,” Michael Wainwright,
a partner at Eversheds LLP in  London , said in an e-mail.  “We take note of the advocate general opinion,”  Chantal
Hughes , a spokeswoman for Barnier, said in an e-mail. “We will
look at it carefully, and need to wait for the court’s final
ruling.”  Interviews  Isakson Might Support Summers, Questions Independence  U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, a Republican from  Georgia ,
talked about the outlook for President  Barack Obama ’s nomination
to lead the Federal Reserve.  Isakson, who spoke with Bloomberg reporters and editors in
Washington, also discussed Obama’s nomination of Representative
Mel Watt to lead the  Federal Housing Finance Agency .  For the audio, click here.  Warren Says Congress Should Act Now on Too Big to Fail Measure  U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren said banks remain too big to
fail even amid the progress that has been made on financial
regulation since the 2008 credit crisis.  “If Dodd-Frank gives the regulators the tools to end too
big to fail, great -- end too big to fail,” Warren, a
Massachusetts Democrat, said of the Wall Street rules overhaul
in a Washington speech yesterday. “If the regulators won’t end
too big to fail, then Congress must act to protect our economy
and prevent future crises.”  Warren, who set up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
before being elected to Congress in 2012, used her speech at an
event marking the fifth anniversary of the crisis to promote her
proposal to re-create the Glass-Steagall Act, the 1930s law that
separated commercial and investment banking.  The senator’s call to end too big to fail aligns her with
Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Vice Chairman Thomas Hoenig. While regulators
and lawmakers acknowledge the problem still exists, consensus
hasn’t formed around a single approach.  Previous Senate attempts to revive Glass-Steagall, which
was repealed in 1999, or otherwise limit the size of banks have
failed to gain enough support to become law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  