-- WTI Crude Caps Biggest Weekly Drop Since July on Syria
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-09-13T19:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/crude-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-july-on-syria.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
capped its biggest weekly drop since July as the U.S. and Russia
held talks on a plan for Syria to surrender chemical weapons to
avert a strike that could stoke Middle East tensions.  Prices fell for the first time in three days as Secretary
of State John Kerry reported a “constructive” start to
negotiations with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. He
gave no sign of a breakthrough. President  Barack Obama  postponed
a decision on military strikes this week to pursue diplomacy.
WTI pared losses in the last five minutes of floor trading, and
Brent rose, after Obama said any agreement must be verifiable.  “The fact that there is some progress with regard to the
Syria situation is alleviating some of the security premium
built in the price,” said John Kilduff, a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“The diplomatic back-and-forth is going to take awhile. If it’s
a little optimistic, you’ll see a pullback. And if it goes off
the rail, it will head back up.”  WTI for October delivery slid 39 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
settle at $108.21 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Prices declined 2.1 percent this week, the most since the five
days ended July 26. The volume of all futures traded was 26
percent less than the 100-day average at 3:12 p.m.  Brent for October settlement, which expires today, rose 15
cents to $112.78 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract expired today. The more-active November
futures gained 17 cents to $111.70. Volume was 5.3 percent below
the 100-day average.  The front-month European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $4.57 to WTI, compared with $4.03 at yesterday’s settlement.  ‘Constructive Conversations’  “We would both agree that we had constructive
conversations” regarding Syria’s chemical weapons, Kerry said
in Geneva after initial meetings with Lavrov. “But those
conversations are continuing.”  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said the U.S. must
forswear any military strike and cease arming the rebel
“terrorists” fighting to overthrow his regime.  The president delayed a possible U.S. military intervention
twice: first on Aug. 31 to consult Congress, then on Sept. 10 to
consider Russia’s proposal for international oversight of
Syria’s chemicals arsenal.  Obama said he hopes the negotiations in Geneva “bear
fruit” and that any agreement “needs to be verifiable and
enforceable.” He spoke to reporters today after meeting with
the emir of Kuwait at the White House. Syria’s use of chemical
weapons is a “criminal act,” he said.  ‘Receding Fears’  “The market came under some pressure on receding fears
that there will be an imminent attack on Syria,” said Gene McGillian, an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “We are going to continue to see
headline-driven trading while the market keeps a wary eye on the
Syria talks.”  Crude rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 on concern that
tension in Syria will spread and disrupt Middle East exports.  Syria borders Iraq and is near Iran, countries that
together hold almost a fifth of the output capacity from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Bloomberg
estimates show. The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of
global oil production in the first quarter of this year,
according to the International Energy Agency.  “A lot of the geopolitical risk in prices linked to Syria
has deflated over the past week as the U.S. accepts to explore
alternative diplomatic routes with the Russians to solving the
Syrian crisis,” said Harry Tchilinguirian, head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London.  Fed Stimulus  Crude also declined on speculation that the Federal Reserve
will announce a plan to taper stimulus measures next week. Fed
policy makers, meeting Sept. 17-18, are likely to reduce monthly
asset purchases to $75 billion from $85 billion, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 34 economists.  “Some selling is generated by the fears that the Fed will
start to taper,” Kilduff said.  Brent rose after Libya declared force majeure yesterday on
exports from the Mellitah, Hariga and Zawiya ports as workers
continue to strike, according to state-owned National Oil Corp.
The legal clause excuses the company from meeting its delivery
commitments because of circumstances beyond its control.  The OPEC nation is pumping about 200,000 to 300,000 barrels
a day, compared with a post-revolution high of 1.6 million a
year ago, Prime Minister Ali Zaidan said in Tripoli on Sept. 11.
Force majeure is in place at three other terminals.  Libyan Outages  “If the Libyan outages are not at least partially
addressed in the next four to six weeks, then Libya will start
to become more bullish, because in October and November, crude
buying starts to pick up again, ahead of seasonally higher runs
in the winter,” Societe Generale SA analysts including Mike Wittner, head of oil-market research in New York, said in a
report today.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 21.3 percent, down from 21.8 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 403,463
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. It totaled 579,068 contracts
yesterday, 8.4 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.93 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  