-- Cyprus Exits ‘Danger Zone’ With Aid Payment: Georgiades
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-09-13T13:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/cyprus-exits-danger-zone-with-aid-payment-georgiades.html
Cypriot Finance Minister Haris Georgiades said the country has “exited the danger zone” after
the euro area endorsed a fresh disbursement of emergency aid and
 Bank of Cyprus  Pcl emerged from resolution.  “I am very optimistic that, little by little, the
situation is stabilizing,” Georgiades said in an interview
today in Vilnius,  Lithuania , where he took part in a meeting of
his euro-area counterparts. “The government will press on.”  Euro finance chiefs earlier today approved a 1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion) payout to Cyprus, the region’s second transfer
under the Cypriot 10 billion-euro rescue program. The country
has battled to keep its aid plan on track since winning the
lifeline in March in return for pursuing a tighter budget and
forcing losses on uninsured depositors in the two largest
Cypriot banks. Bank of Cyprus, which emerged from resolution in
late July, had to absorb the second-biggest lender, Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl.  The Cypriot economy, the third-smallest in the 17-nation
euro region last year, will shrink a cumulative 13 percent in
2013 and 2014, the country’s international creditors said on
July 31. The International Monetary Fund is also contributing to
the country’s rescue.  ‘Decisive Steps’  The Mediterranean island has already received an initial
tranche of 3 billion euros from the European Stability
Mechanism, the euro area’s permanent rescue fund. The ESM’s next
installment of 1.5 billion euros is due by the end of September,
the euro-area finance ministers said today after giving their
approval.  “The Cypriot authorities have taken decisive steps to
stabilize the financial sector” and “meet the fiscal
targets,” the ministers said in a  joint statement . “Because
the short-run economic outlook remains difficult and subject to
considerable uncertainty, continued full and timely policy
implementation remains essential.”  This month’s ESM disbursement will be used to recapitalize
Cypriot cooperative banks, according to Georgiades.  “Despite all the difficulties we have in front of us, the
program is proceeding normally,” he said. “We are making
progress.”  The ESM is due to provide 9 billion euros to Cyprus over
three years under the Mediterranean island’s aid program. A
third ESM tranche is due around the end of the year.  Georgiades said Bank of Cyprus, whose shareholders elected
a new board three days ago, now needs to work out a
restructuring plan. He said this would occur in the coming
weeks.  Capital Controls  The Cypriot government will continue to dismantle capital
controls imposed in a bid to avert a run on banks after the
agreement to impose losses on uninsured depositors, Georgiades
said.  “Already these restrictions are significantly relaxed
compared to what they were back in spring,” he told reporters.
“We shall continue along this path of a gradual, but steady,
relaxation until we do away with them completely.”  The total elimination of Cypriot capital controls will take
months rather than years, Georgiades said.  “We are not talking years, definitely,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Vilnius at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  