-- Daimler Joins Vitol to Get Credit Lines as New Rules Proposed
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   T o m   F r e k e
-- 2013-09-13T10:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/daimler-joins-vitol-to-get-credit-lines-as-new-rules-proposed.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , Vitol SA and other
European companies are refinancing about $40 billion of credit
lines at lower interest rates as regulators propose rules that
may drive up the cost of the debt.  Daimler, the third-biggest luxury automaker, is raising a 9
billion-euro ($12 billion) revolving credit facility and
offering a lower interest margin than its outstanding deal,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Vitol, a commodity
trader with revenues of more than $300 billion, is seeking more
than $5 billion to replace existing debt that pays higher
interest margins.  The amount of syndicated loans this year has declined by 6
percent, allowing some of Europe’s largest companies to
negotiate lower interest rates on credit lines as banks compete
to arrange deals. Regulators at the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision are proposing rules requiring lenders to increase
provisions for undrawn revolving credit facilities which will
make them more expensive for banks to provide.  “The main advantage of refinancing is that it covers the
period of uncertainty during the expected implementation of
Basel III, which gives peace of mind,” Roland Boehm, the
Frankfurt-based global head of DCM loans at Commerzbank AG, said
in an interview in Commerzbank’s London office on Sept. 11.
“Pricing on loans are good, but these are undrawn instruments
usually.”  Lower Rates  Daimler’s loan is being marketed with an interest margin of
27.5 basis points, or 0.275 percentage point, more than the
European interbank offered rate, less than half the 60 basis
points it pays currently, Bloomberg data show. Vitol is
borrowing one- and three-year loans carrying margins of 80 and
90 basis points, respectively, compared with the 137.5 basis-point rate on the debt it’s replacing.  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, is replacing $13
billion of loans and maintaining the 10 basis-point spread on
the one-year portion and 12.5 basis-point margin on the five-year piece.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , Europe’s largest postal service,
is seeking a 2 billion-euro revolver paying interest of 30 basis
points more than Euribor, 25 basis points less than its current
facility.  “Over the last two years spreads on loans have
significantly tightened,” said Hans-Peter Rupprecht, corporate
treasurer of  Siemens AG (SIE) , which raised a 4 billion-euro credit
line last year. “On the one side, banks don’t really like
lending to us at these rates, but on the other, they need to do
it because of the competition.”  European syndicated bank lending has fallen to $498 billion
this year across 714 deals from $531 billion representing 868
transactions in the same period in 2012, Bloomberg data show.
There are more than $1 trillion of revolving credit facilities
outstanding in the region.  Relationship Pricing  “Demand for high-grade corporate relationships remains
core to lenders, therefore pricing remains a relationship
issue,” Ian Fitzgerald, chief executive officer of Loan
Specialist Advisory Services Ltd. and former head of loan
markets at Lloyds Banking Group Plc, said in a telephone
interview.  Regulators’ proposals to boost provisions for revolving
credit facilities, a type of debt that allows money repaid to be
borrowed again, are part of tougher capital measures known as
Basel III. The lenders’ capital levels will be tested using a
leverage ratio -- equity as a proportion of total assets -- from
2015 and become binding by 2018.  Lenders of backup credit lines to companies must ensure
access to funds equivalent to 30 percent of the loan, even if it
is undrawn, according to a  January report  from the Bank of
International Settlements. Banks currently don’t have to
allocate anything against the credit lines.  “Allocating about 30 percent of high-quality assets to
back these facilities should have a cost implication for banks,
and therefore will have negative implications for provision of
credit in this area of the market,” Loan SAS’s Fitzgerald said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Freke in London at 
 tfreke@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  