-- Dimon Boosted Compliance as Examiners Lost Trust, WSJ Says
-- B y   D a v i d   S c h e e r
-- 2013-09-13T03:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/dimon-boosted-compliance-as-u-s-examiners-lost-trust-wsj-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  overhauled leadership of the
bank’s regulatory matters this year as U.S. examiners said they
had lost trust in management, the Wall Street Journal reported.  Top examiners from the Comptroller of the Currency and the
 Federal Reserve  told Dimon and the New York-based bank’s  board 
of their concern in April, the Journal said, citing unidentified
people familiar with the meeting. Around that time, Dimon
assigned senior executives to handle separate elements of the
firm’s regulatory burden, resulting in about 50 monthly meetings
between those managers and watchdogs, it said.  JPMorgan is boosting legal reserves this year and
committing more employees to handle risks, compliance and legal
matters as it grapples with federal probes and regulatory
orders. The U.S. is conducting criminal investigations linked to
the bank’s energy-trading and mortgage-backed securities
businesses as well as separate probes of hiring practices in
 Asia  and a record trading loss in London last year.  The bank is making “a huge investment of people, time and
money,” the newspaper quoted Dimon as saying in an interview.
“But it will make us stronger in the long run.”  Dimon met with U.S. Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  in Washington this week to update the agency on the bank’s
activities and its compliance with various regulatory orders,
 Bloomberg News  reported Sept. 11, citing people with knowledge
of the talks. Some of the bank’s board members also were in
Washington and put in calls to regulators as JPMorgan tries to
repair its relations with its supervisors, the people said.  Legal Fees  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment on the newspaper’s report. Spokesmen for the OCC and Fed
didn’t immediately reply to messages left after business hours.  JPMorgan has devoted $21.3 billion to legal fees and
litigation since the start of 2008, more than any other U.S.
lender, and added $8.1 billion to reserves for mortgage
buybacks, company filings show.  The firm will probably add about $1 billion to legal
reserves in the fourth quarter, the newspaper said, citing
people close to the company. Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake told investors at a Sept. 9 conference that this quarter’s
addition to legal reserves would “more than offset” about $1.5
billion of consumer reserve releases.  JPMorgan has added 3,000 employees to bolster internal
controls and compliance, Lake said at the event. An additional
2,000 workers were assigned to the effort inside their business
units, the newspaper said.  Dimon assigned each senior executive to a separate
“control initiative,” such as anti-money laundering efforts,
the newspaper said. Those people are accountable for results in
their area, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Scheer in  New York  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  