-- Dollar Declines for Week Before Fed Considers Stimulus Taper
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-13T21:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/dollar-heads-for-weekly-drop-before-fed-considers-stimulus-taper.html
The  dollar  had its biggest weekly
decline in six weeks as weaker-than-forecast economic data
prompted investors to pare bets of an aggressive reduction in
monetary stimulus at the Federal Reserve’s policy meeting next
week.  The U.S. currency weakened against the yen today after a
report showed retail sales rose less than projected last month,
following a report on August payroll growth last week that also
trailed forecasts. The U.S. central bank may begin to taper the
$85 billion-per-month bond purchases it uses to lower borrowing
costs at its meeting Sept. 17-18. The British pound touched its
highest level in more than seven months as July construction
output rose at its fastest pace in three months.  “I would say the general consensus is still very much that
they’ll taper,” said Tom Fitzpatrick, chief technical analyst
at Citigroup Inc., by phone from New York. “But we’ve seen just
enough to know that the tapering they will do will be in the low
end of expectations.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the
performance of a basket of 10 leading global currencies against
the dollar, fell 0.7 percent this week to 1,023.95 in New York,
the biggest weekly decline since the week ending Aug. 9.  Market Prices  The U.S. currency fell 0.2 percent today to 99.38 yen,
after rising as much as 0.4 percent. The dollar was little
changed at $1.3294 per euro, after falling as much as 0.2
percent. The yen gained 0.2 percent to 132.10 per euro.  The greenback has appreciated 3.9 percent this year, the
best performer after the euro of 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
appreciated 4.8 percent and the yen slumped 10.6 percent.  “The weaker-than-expected report may have increased the
possibility that the Fed either reduces the total amount or
potentially delays the time it expects to begin reducing asset
purchases,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit, said by phone. “They’re tempering their views
on tapering, you might say.”  The U.K. currency advanced versus all of its 16 major peers
before the Bank of England releases the minutes of its September
meeting next week amid speculation policy makers may have to
raise interest rates sooner than they have projected. Data
earlier this week showed the unemployment rate unexpectedly
fell.  The pound gained 0.5 percent to $1.5876, after rising to
the highest level since Jan. 23.  Krona Weakness  The krona slid for the first time in six days against the
euro as Statistics Sweden said gross domestic product shrank a
quarterly 0.2 percent in the three months through June, revised
from a 0.1 percent drop. The economy grew 0.1 percent from a
year earlier, down from an estimate of 0.6 percent released in
July.  The krona fell 0.6 percent to 8.7188 per euro, and slipped
0.6 percent to 6.5587 per dollar.  Norway’s krone weakened after a regional network report
showed growth slowed over the past three months. The krone
dropped 0.8 percent to 7.8860 per euro, and declined 0.8 percent
to 5.9314 per dollar.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $16.5 billion, compared with $18 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $3.2 billion, the
largest share of trades at 19 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled $3.1 billion, or 18 percent.  Options Trade  Dollar-yen options trading was 8 percent less than the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options
trading was 108 percent more than average.  Retail sales rose 0.2 percent in August, the smallest gain
in four months and followed a revised 0.4 percent July gain that
was bigger than previously estimated, the Commerce Department
reported today in  Washington . The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.5 percent advance. Sales
excluding motor vehicles rose 0.1 percent.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. declined in September to
the lowest level since April, indicating household spending may
take time to pick up. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment this month fell to 76.8
from August’s 82.1. Economists in a Bloomberg survey called for
82, according to the median projection.  “The weaker-than-expected report may have increased the
possibility that the Fed either reduces the total amount or
potentially delays the time it expects to begin reducing asset
purchases,” Brian Daingerfield, a Stamford, Connecticut-based
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit, said by phone. “They’re tempering their views
on tapering, you might say.”  Fed Policy  The Fed will slow its monthly asset purchases to $75
billion from $85 billion at its next meeting on Sept. 17-18,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists on Sept. 6. Policy
makers have pledged to keep their benchmark interest rate near
zero at least as long as unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent and
the outlook for inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  President  Barack Obama  hasn’t made a decision on whom to
nominate as Fed chairman, White House spokeswoman  Amy Brundage 
said via Twitter. Nikkei reported Obama was set to name Lawrence
Summers as Fed chairman, Lael Brainard likely to be named vice
chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  