-- Dutch House Prices Undervalued and Set to Recover
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-09-13T11:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/dutch-house-prices-undervalued-and-set-to-recover.html
A five-year decline in Dutch  house
prices  is set to end soon because residential properties are
“significantly undervalued,” according to economists at
Rabobank Groep, the Netherlands’s biggest mortgage lender.  “House prices will stabilize in the near future and will
eventually start rising moderately,” economists led by Hans Stegeman said in a report today. Rabobank, based in Utrecht,
said while economists studied data from 1978 until 2011 to
explain long-term house-price trends, it couldn’t give an exact
estimate for the expected recovery in prices.  The Dutch are trying to revive a sluggish housing market
while reining in home-loan debt levels that are among  Europe ’s
highest. House prices have fallen 20 percent from a 2008 peak,
after doubling in the preceding decade. The swing, triggered by
the credit crisis and a deteriorating economy, was aggravated by
government measures restricting mortgage-interest tax breaks and
loan-to-value caps.  A comparison of factors including sale prices, income
levels and housing supply showed properties are undervalued by
25 percent to 30 percent, Stegeman told reporters today. Policy
changes may have a negative effect on prices of 10 percent to 20
percent, he said.  Prices will probably continue to decline for the rest of
this year and into next as consumers remain concerned about
unemployment and as the Dutch struggle to adjust to structurally
lower  house prices , Stegeman said. The market may stabilize and
recover from 2015 or 2014 at the earliest, he said.  The Dutch economy, the euro area’s fifth-largest, has
contracted in eight of the last nine quarters and isn’t expected
to return to growth until next year, according to the country’s
central-planning bureau. Gross domestic product will shrink 1.25
percent this year and grow 0.75 percent in 2014, the CPB said
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  