-- EU Rejects German Request to Review Telefonica-KPN Deal
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-13T13:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/e-plus-deal-faces-eu-probe-as-almunia-focuses-on-national-market.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s
proposal to combine their German assets will be reviewed by the
European Union, the bloc’s antitrust chief said today, rejecting
a bid by  Germany  to take over the regulatory analysis.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia ’s comments in
Florence, Italy, are a blow to German regulators concerned that
Telefonica’s purchase of KPN’s E-Plus unit would reduce the
number of mobile phone providers in the country from four to
three.  The Telefonica acquisition, valued at 8.55 billion euros
($11.36 billion), is one of two deals that may transform the
German telecommunications industry once dominated by  Deutsche
Telekom AG. (DTE)  EU regulators are already examining  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) ’s 7.7 billion-euro bid for  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG. (KD8)   “This is very good news, it looks like this deal will go
through,” Jos Versteeg, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Theodoor
Gilissen Bankiers, said about the Telefonica-KPN deal.  Andreas Mundt, the head of the German Federal Cartel
Office, said last month that the Telefonica deal only affects
his country and should be reviewed by his office. E-Plus was
also very active in price competition, he said.  Kay Weidner, a spokesman for the Cartel Office, referred to
Mundt’s August statement and declined to comment further.  “We took notice of” the commission’s intention to review
the E-Plus transaction, Ward Snijders, a spokesman for KPN in
The Hague, said by phone. “This is in line with the process
started after the E-Plus sale was announced.”  Telefonica Deutschland (O2D)  spokesman Albert Fetsch couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  National Factors  Industry competition is still contained within national
borders and EU antitrust regulators will continue to examine
telecommunications deals based on their impact on national
markets rather than the whole EU “at least for some time,”
Almunia said today.  While the commission adopted a plan to overhaul the EU
telecommunications industry earlier this week, Almunia said “we
do not expect market structures to change from one day to the
next.”  Under the plan, consumers in the EU would no longer have to
pay premiums to receive calls while traveling in the 28-nation
bloc as of mid-2014. Providers could choose to offer phone plans
that apply everywhere in the region or let customers opt for a
separate roaming provider without having to buy a new SIM card.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Florence at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Florence at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  