-- Hedge-Fund Manager 36 South Doubles Bets on Securities Swings
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-09-13T02:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/hedge-fund-manager-36-south-doubles-bets-on-securities-swings.html
36 South Capital Advisors LLP ,
whose  Black Swan  Fund returned 204 percent in 2008, has doubled
bets this year on greater fluctuations in markets including
currencies, commodities and equities.  The manager overseeing $626 million has increased
volatility investments to 90 percent of assets from 50 percent
at the beginning of the year, Chief Executive Officer and Head
of Investments Jerry Haworth of the London-based company said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  Central bank intervention, including asset purchases
globally in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis, have
calmed investor jitters and suppressed price gyrations, making
protection against bigger security price swings cheaper to
obtain for funds such as 36 South.  The hedge-fund manager’s own Global Implied Volatility
Overall Index, which tracks volatility implied by prices for
options on currencies, commodities, interest-rate securities and
stocks, stood about 10 percent below its average since the end
of 2006 and was approaching the pre-crisis level in 2007.  “The central banks have been flooding the world with
liquidity, which in a way confuses the pricing mechanism,”
Haworth said. “We got the feeling that the longer that it
carries on, the subsequent volatility that will happen
afterwards will be greater.”  Black Swan  36 South runs funds that profit from increases in
volatility. Its flagship Kohinoor series of funds, which account
for 94 percent of assets, returned 73 percent in 2008, according
to a presentation seen by  Bloomberg News . They lost 2 percent in
the first seven months this year. When volatility is expensive,
the funds raise their cash and government bond holdings.  It also oversees funds that benefit from rare events that
have a heavy impact on markets such as the global financial
crisis. The Black Swan Fund and its successor the Black Eyrar
Fund refer to a theory developed by  New York  University risk
engineering professor  Nassim Nicholas Taleb , in which highly
improbable events wreak havoc on markets.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the
cost measure of using options to protect against falls in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index better known as  VIX (VIX) , is 39 percent
below its average since the start of 2007.  Subdued volatility led to investment losses and closure of
managers whose funds sought to benefit from increases in price
swings. Two Hong Kong-based managers -- Sharp Peak Capital
Management Ltd. and Protege Partners LP-backed Expedition
Advisors Ltd. -- shut down in the last two years.  ‘Cheap Ticket’  People should be reminded that this is probably a better
time to buy volatility than sell it, Haworth said.  “You buy a ticket to a life raft well before everyone else
is clambering to get on,” he said. “When you have an
opportunity to get a cheap ticket, you should buy it.”  Volatility is particularly undervalued in the currency and
commodity markets, Haworth said. Equity options are also
emerging as attractive bets, he added.  The U.S. stimulus program has  funneled  more than $2.6
trillion into the financial system since September 2008. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on May 22 that
the central bank could scale back the pace of its $85 billion of
mortgage bond and Treasuries purchases if the  U.S. economy 
showed sustained improvement.  The Fed this month will taper its monthly bond purchases to
$75 billion from the current $85 billion pace, according to the
median estimate of 34 economists surveyed on Sept. 6 by
Bloomberg News.  ‘Gray Swan’  The unintended consequences for the financial system of the
unprecedented central bank intervention in the last four years
could be significant, Haworth said. He also described the level
of credit and debt globally as a “gray swan” that keeps the
financial system complex and fragile. Gray Swan refers to a
predictable event with a potentially very high impact.  36 South’s assets have steadily grown from about $250
million in March 2011, as asset managers, pension funds and
wealthy individuals have sought to increase protection and
investment returns that don’t move in tandem with traditional
assets, Haworth said. Last month, it saw a small redemption.  “In a way, I’ve been looking forward to redemptions
because they tell me that it’s probably the last thing that
happens before it turns,” he said, without providing details on
the withdrawn amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  