-- El-Erian Says Fed to End Easing to Prevent Excessive Risk
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-09-13T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/el-erian-says-fed-to-end-easing-to-prevent-excessive-risk.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian said the U.S. Federal Reserve will start to
reduce its unprecedented asset purchases because it sees the
economy healing and aims to prevent unintended consequences of
its monetary policy, such as excessive risk taking.  “In all likelihood, the Fed will taper for a mix of
reasons,” El-Erian, chief executive officer and co-chief
investment officer of the Newport Beach, California-based firm
along with  Bill Gross , wrote in a September viewpoint published
on Pimco’s website today. “It will likely be comforted by the
notion that the American economy continues to heal, but also
frustrated by the gradualism of the recovery and the threat of
collateral damage.”  The Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to meet
Sept. 17-18 to consider the future of the third round of
quantitative easing known as QE3. Economists expect the Fed to
reduce monthly asset purchases to $75 billion from $85 billion,
according to a Sept. 6 Bloomberg News survey. The central bank
will also release its 2016 economic projections next week for
the first time, including the outlook for the benchmark rate,
which it has kept at a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  While there’s not enough evidence to suggest that the
economy is strengthening decisively, market perceptions of a
change in Fed policy and withdrawals from bond funds have
resulted in Treasuries being a “technically damaged” asset
class for now, said El-Erian. Investors should focus on shorter
maturities and consider Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities
as a hedge, he said.  Gross’s $251 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s
largest mutual fund, contracted by more than $41 billion, or 14
percent of its assets, in the past four months through losses
and investor withdrawals.  Last week, Gross said in a Bloomberg radio interview the
Fed will go ahead with its plan to reduce its bond purchases
despite a disappointing jobs report, and focus on a “taper
lite” of about $10 billion in Treasury bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  