-- Emerging Stocks Trim Best Weekly Gain Since June on China Slump
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-13T06:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/emerging-stocks-trim-best-weekly-gain-since-june-on-china-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
second day, paring the biggest weekly advance since June.
Philippine and Chinese shares led declines.  Manila Water Co. (MWC)  plunged 14 percent and Metro Pacific
Investments Corp. retreated to an eight-month low after a
Philippine regulator ordered them to cut rates.  Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co. (YZC)  sank 5.3 percent in  Hong Kong  on concern about weaker
demand. Indonesia’s rupiah slid 0.8 percent against the dollar
and currencies in Malaysia and India lost at least 0.4 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.6 percent to
984.25 as of 1:34 p.m. in Hong Kong, extending declines from a
three-month high. The gauge rallied 3 percent this week as
prospects for an imminent U.S. strike on  Syria  eased and  China’s
economy  improved. The largest developing nations for the first
time have the worst market opportunities as optimism for
stronger growth shifts to the U.S. and Europe, a Bloomberg
Global Poll showed. The  Federal Reserve  meets next week to
decide on cuts to monetary stimulus.  “Investors are taking profits after the rally,” Giang Trung Kien, head of research at FPT Securities Co., said in
Hanoi. “Investors are now waiting for a clearer signal from the
Fed on stimulus tapering.”  Fed policy makers will resume a debate on when to pare $85
billion in monthly bond purchases at their Sept. 17-18 meeting.
The central bank is likely to cut asset purchases to $75 billion
this month, according to a Bloomberg survey of 34 economists.  BRIC Outlook  Indian markets were judged to have the worst outlook,
followed by  Brazil ,  Russia  and  China , a worldwide poll of
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers
showed this week. The number of respondents who see the European
Union as one of the two best opportunities rose to 34 percent,
its best showing dating to 2009, with the U.S. at 51 percent.  Capital flows into emerging market stocks are showing signs
of reversing, even with cheap valuations, as investors focus on
brighter growth prospects and lower volatility in Europe, U.S.
and Japan, Dwyfor Evans, a Hong Kong-based macro strategist at
State Street Global Markets, said in an interview yesterday.  Eight out of 10 industry  groups  in MSCI’s  emerging-markets 
index dropped, led by material and industrial companies. The
broad measure has lost 6.6 percent this year, compared with a 14
percent increase in the MSCI World Index. The developing-nation
index  trades  at 10.5 times projected 12-month earnings, trailing
the MSCI World’s 13.8 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Manila Water  Manila Water  tumbled the most since Jan. 16, 2009, the
biggest drag on the Philippine Stock Exchange Index, which lost
0.9 percent. Metro Pacific, which owns Maynilad Water Services
Inc., declined 4.9 percent.  Manila Water and Maynilad Water’s separate petitions for
rate increases were rejected by the Metropolitan Waterworks &
Sewerage System as they were both ordered yesterday to cut their
basic charges. JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its rating on Manila
Water yesterday to neutral from overweight.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland stocks
traded in Hong Kong sank 1.5 percent, paring a second weekly
gain. Yanzhou, China’s fourth-biggest coal producer, dropped the
most since July 30.  China aims to cut the share of coal in overall energy
consumption to below 65 percent by 2017 and reduce output
capacity of iron and steel by 15 million tons each in 2015, the
cabinet said in a statement yesterday.  Shipping Downgrade  China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.1 percent, led by
shippers and banks, after UBS AG downgraded China Shipping
Development Co. and investors speculated a recent rally on the
Shanghai free-trade zone’s prospects was overdone.  The Chinese gauge gained 4.3 percent this week, the most
since February. Trading volumes for the measure were 42 percent
above the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Asian currencies headed for their best week in two months,
led by India’s rupee. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index
rose 0.5 percent this week, the most since the period ended July
12. The rupiah dropped for a fifth week.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  and Thailand’s SET Index each
rose 0.2 percent. South Korea’s Kospi index dropped 0.5 percent.
The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index fell 0.3 percent, with
trading volumes 42 percent below the 30-day average.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  