-- Tepco Advisers Urge Separate Entity to Decommission Plant
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-09-13T10:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/tepco-urged-to-form-separate-company-to-oversee-decommissioning.html
Decommissioning the wrecked
Fukushima nuclear plant would be better handled by a separate
entity, leaving its operator  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  to focus
on its core business of generating electricity, advisers to the
company said.  “I would like to see a structure where those involved on
the clean-up are focused, and clearly know that their job, and
their job only, is safe, reliable clean-up of that site,”  Dale
Klein , the chairman of  Tokyo Electric ’s Nuclear Reform
Monitoring Committee, said in an interview in Tokyo today.  The idea of relieving Tokyo Electric, or Tepco, of
responsibility for a decommissioning process that could take as
long as 40 years follows the Japanese government’s pledge last
month to intervene in the clean-up of the plant.  Tepco reported a 300 metric ton leak last month at a tank
used to store contaminated water, which  Japan ’s Nuclear
Regulation Authority designated as the worst accident since the
March 2011 earthquake and tsunami forced Fukushima’s reactors
into meltdown.  Nuclear Accident  Klein served as chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission from 2006 until 2009. He said that the response to
the 1979 nuclear accident at Three Mile Island, in which
operator GPU Inc. formed an independent unit for reactor
decommissioning, could provide a model for the restructuring of
Tepco’s clean-up tasks.  Barbara Judge, deputy chairwoman of Tepco’s monitoring
committee, said another possible model for decommissioning would
be to hand the task to a government-funded body, which could
then contract private companies to retire the site.  It’s the model adopted by the Nuclear Decommissioning
Authority in the U.K., where she served as chairwoman of the
country’s Atomic Energy Authority.  “It’s a different skill,” said Judge, in a separate
interview in  Tokyo . “One is operating and producing electricity
and the other is dismantling infrastructure that is old and
dangerous.”  Tepco had spent 1.4 trillion yen ($14 billion) on the
clean-up and decommissioning of Fukushima, as of the end of
June, the company said in July.  “You’ve got this company that’s expected to be providing
cash-flow on profit statements,” said Tom O’Sullivan, founder
of Tokyo-based energy consultant Mathyos. “That’s a constraint
on what they can do on the decommissioning side. They just don’t
have the resources to do it.”  Tepco has no comment on proposals that decommissioning be
assigned to another entity, spokeswoman Mayumi Yoshida said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  