-- Merkel Warns Against German Tax Rises as Euro Crisis Not Over
-- B y   A r n e   D e l f s   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-09-13T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/merkel-warns-against-german-tax-rises-as-euro-crisis-not-over.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said she’s opposed to any tax rise for Europe’s biggest economy
as the 17-nation euro bloc remains in crisis.  “If the first thing we do is raise taxes for those who are
successful, then it could be they won’t want to create any more
jobs,” Merkel said at an election rally of her Christian
Democrats in the western city of Osnabrueck yesterday.
“Therefore, tax increases are wrong.”  Merkel is stepping up attacks on opposition Social
Democratic challenger  Peer Steinbrueck  who’s calling for tax
increases. Eight days before the Sept. 22 elections, polls show
Merkel’s lead over the SPD holding and Germany’s first woman
chancellor within grasp of a repeat of her current coalition
with the Free Democratic Party.  “The euro crisis isn’t over but I see the first small
green shoots giving us hope,” Merkel said, repeating her
“nein” to a debt redemption fund to assist indebted euro
nations.  Steinbrueck, speaking in an ARD television town-hall style
interview on Sept. 11, defended his party’s plan to expand taxes
on the wealthy to fund  Germany ’s “dilapidated” infrastructure
and local governments. The SPD plans to raise the top income tax
rate to 49 percent from 45 percent.  Support for Merkel’s Christian Union bloc dropped one
percentage point from a week earlier to 40 percent in an FG
Wahlen poll yesterday for ZDF television. Together with its pro-business FDP coalition partner, which held at 6 percent, there
would be enough for Merkel to continue her government for four
more years if the result is replicated on Election Day.  Greens Gain  The SPD was unchanged at 26 percent and their Green party
allies gained a point to 11 percent. The anti-capitalist Left
Party was unchanged at 8 percent. Steinbrueck and SPD leaders
have vowed not to form a coalition with the Left, the successor
to former East Germany’s communists, which calls for
nationalizing large banks, imposing an annual wealth tax and
scrapping NATO.  The anti-euro Alternative for Germany party, or AfD, rose
one point to 4 percent support -- below the 5 percent threshold
need to wins seats in the Bundestag under German election law.  The survey of 1,298 voters was taken Sept. 10-12. No margin
of error was given.  Even if Merkel fails to win a repeat of her current
coalition with the FDP and resorts to a repeat of the grand
coalition with the SPD she had from 2005 to 2009, the result
would be political continuity, Citigroup analysts led by
Alessandro Tentori wrote in a client note.  Periphery bond spreads could see volatility in a left
coalition of SPD, the Greens and the Left Party, which is
unlikely, Citigroup said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arne Delfs in Osnabrueck, Germany 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  