-- Merrill Lynch Must Face Mortgage Lawsuit, Judge Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-09-13T17:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/merrill-lynch-must-face-mortgage-lawsuit-judge-says.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill
Lynch unit must face a lawsuit filed by two trusts that hold and
administer mortgages on behalf of investors who own more than
$1 billion worth of securities collateralized by the loans.  The trusts sued Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending Inc. in New
York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  in December, seeking to
force it to repurchase loans that allegedly didn’t conform to
representations and warranties about their quality and
characteristics.  Merrill in 2006 bought more than 6,000 mortgages with an
original principal balance of more than $1.1 billion from a
third-party loan originator, ResMAE Mortgage Corp., and turned
them into tradeable securities that were sold to investors,
according to the complaint.  ResMAE filed for bankruptcy in February 2007 and the trusts
pursued claims against ResMAE in bankruptcy through LaSalle
Bank, demanding that it buy back loans on which borrowers had
missed their first or second payments or provide other
compensation, according to the complaint. LaSalle in July 2008
settled those claims on behalf of five Merrill-sponsored trusts,
including the two plaintiffs in the suit.  Contractual Obligations  The trusts said Merrill is obligated to buy back loans in
which the representations and warranties were breached by
ResMAE, which can no longer fulfill its contractual obligations
because it has been liquidated in bankruptcy. Merrill had asked
Justice Melvin Schweitzer to dismiss the suit, saying it’s not
responsible for breaches made by ResMAE.  Schweitzer, in a ruling dated Sept. 10 and made public
today, denied the motion to dismiss, saying Merrill has
guaranteed the obligations of ResMAE under a transfer agreement.  “The force of the trusts’ arguments subordinates Merrill’s
unreasonable positions, however cleverly put they may be,”
Schweitzer said.  The case is Merrill Lynch Mortgage Investors Trust, Series
2006-RM4 v. Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending Inc., 654403/2012,
 New York  State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  