-- EU Finance Chiefs Boost Italy’s Letta Amid Berlusconi Threat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-09-13T10:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/eu-finance-chiefs-urge-italian-stability-amid-berlusconi-threat.html
Euro-area finance chiefs gave a
boost to Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta by calling for
political stability in the country amid threats by Silvio Berlusconi’s party to topple the ruling coalition.  Berlusconi said last month that he would bring down the
government in  Rome  should Letta’s  Democratic Party  vote to oust
him from the Senate over tax fraud. The billionaire former
premier softened his rhetoric a day later, saying he wasn’t
issuing an ultimatum and wanted the coalition to continue.
Still, allies including Renato Brunetta, chief whip of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party in the lower house of
parliament, have kept up the pressure.  Italy  can’t afford political chaos as Letta pursues a
budget-austerity goal and struggles to spur the nation’s
economy. Italian industrial production unexpectedly fell in
July, a sign that the euro region’s third-biggest economy may
still be stuck in its longest recession since World War II.  “The Italian government has made very clear commitments,”
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters today in Vilnius,  Lithuania , before a
meeting of euro-area finance ministers.  “It’s moving forward and now it’s important that we all
can avoid any political instability and instead concentrate on
economic reforms, because that’s what  Europe  needs and that’s
what Italy needs,” Rehn said. “It’s essential to maintain
political stability in the country.”  Tax Fraud  The 17-nation euro area is trying to capitalize on its
emergence from recession in the second quarter, seeking to
prolong a period of market calm after three years of debt-crisis
battles and 496 billion euros ($659 billion) in emergency aid
pledges for Greece, Ireland,  Portugal , Spain and Cyprus. Italy
has so far avoided a bailout, pushing ahead with a goal to keep
the  budget deficit  this year below the EU limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product.  Italian borrowing costs rose to the highest in almost a
year yesterday at a sale of three, five and 15- year debt as
investor concern about the country’s political stability
persisted.  Berlusconi faces potential expulsion from Italy’s
parliament because he was convicted of tax fraud and last month
exhausted his final appeal. The Democratic Party, whose members
opposed Berlusconi for almost two decades, has said the ouster
is warranted under a 2012 anti-corruption law.  If Letta were to lose a confidence vote, it would be up to
President Giorgio Napolitano either to seek a new majority or to
dissolve parliament. Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the
upstart anti-establishment party, is the biggest force in
opposition. Grillo, a comedian-turned-political crusader, has
ruled out alliances with other parties.  “The most important” thing in Italy “is political
stability,” Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who
leads the group of euro-area finance chiefs, told reporters in
Vilnius.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Vilnius at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Vilnius at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  