-- EU Ministers Back Slovenia’s Quest to Avoid Bailout
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-09-13T09:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/eu-ministers-back-slovenia-s-quest-to-avoid-bailout.html
European finance ministers endorsed
Slovenia’s quest to shore up its banks and avoid becoming the
sixth euro-area country to seek a bailout.  Slovenian Finance Minister Uros Cufer told reporters in
Vilnius,  Lithuania , that his country has enough cash reserves to
fix bank problems. A week ago, Slovenia liquidated two of its
smaller banks,  Probanka d.d.  and Factor Banka d.d., in a move
described by Central Bank Governor Bostjan Jazbec as a
preemptive action to avoid the fate of Cyprus.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Slovenia
may not need aid if it can follow through with promised reforms.  “I think if they stay strictly on course -- and they’ve
said that want to do that; they’ve supplied two small banks with
capital over the weekend -- then they’ll manage without it,”
Schaeuble said. “So as long as Slovenia itself says they can
manage it, we should encourage them in that.”  The European Commission has urged Slovenia to take “swift
and decisive action” to tackle fiscal consolidation, financial
-sector repairs and structural reforms to remove bottlenecks to
growth in its economy. European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn sought to reinforce Slovenia’s
actions, speaking in Vilnius today at the start of two days of
meetings of EU finance heads.  ‘Strong Action’  “Slovenia has taken strong actions across both the banking
sector and other areas,” Rehn said. “There is still more to be
done concerning structural reforms, fiscal policy and to
finalize their financial repair, but Slovenia is now moving in
the right direction. We support the government in its actions.”  While taking action to close the smaller banks, including
imposing some investor losses while also providing state aid,
Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s government has delayed a fix of
the bank industry originally planned for the end of June. The
project has slowed due to a dispute with the EU over banks’
capital needs and the value of their bad assets, which are now
being assessed.  “Slovenia is dealing with its banks and progress is being
made,” said Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who
chairs meetings of euro-area finance ministers, in Vilnius,
today. “We will await the outcome of the asset quality
review.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Vilnius at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Vilnius at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Vilnius at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  