-- Euro-Area Bank Plan Stumbles Under German-Led Challenge
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/eu-nations-fight-barnier-plan-for-bank-failure-authority.html
European Union attempts to
centralize control of failing banks stumbled under a German-led
attack that may imperil efforts to restore confidence in the
euro zone’s financial system.  If the plan doesn’t move forward quickly, the  European
Central Bank  won’t be able to count on cross-border backstops if
it encounters problems at euro-area banks. The ECB is scheduled
to begin supervising lenders in the currency zone as soon as
October 2014, forcing the EU to grapple with who should decide
when to close a bank and who will pay for it.  “There’s quite a lot to do,” German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters on Sept. 14 after two days of
talks with his EU colleagues in Vilnius,  Lithuania . “The path
that the commission has proposed toward a resolution mechanism
is a rocky one. There can be no doubt about it: we need to be on
a legally certain foundation.”  Schaeuble said the European Commission’s proposal for a
Single Resolution Mechanism must be overhauled because it’s on
shaky legal ground and could endanger national control of
budgets. In Vilnius, the German was joined by critics from
 Sweden  to  Slovakia .  At the same time, finance ministers renewed pledges to
strive for an agreement quickly so financial markets won’t lose
confidence that the currency zone is overcoming its crisis.
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who chairs meetings
of euro-area finance chiefs, said a deal on the resolution
mechanism is needed by year-end.  ‘Cannon Shots’  “So far there have been cannon shots going back and forth,
but there hasn’t actually been a debate on how it could be
solved,” he said.  The authority “needs to be independent in such a way that
when a bank is in trouble one can act quickly, and that is what
the Germans also want,” he said. “They only say that it can’t
be done legally. But for now I have no reason to assume that we
end up with something weak and strange.”  The new resolution authority, along with ECB oversight,
form the core of an effort to create a euro-area banking union
that would sever the link between bank and sovereign debt. In
the coming months, the ECB will assess the balance sheets of
banks it will later supervise.  Objections to the commission’s strategy, proposed by EU
financial-services chief  Michel Barnier , included resistance to
a planned common resolution fund and the scope of the system.
Nations also voiced skepticism about expanded powers for the
Brussels-based commission.  ‘Cross-Border Banks’  Governments won a concession from Barnier in Vilnius on
which banks the resolution system would cover. Facing calls to
exempt smaller banks, Barnier said he could see limiting the new
authority to lenders, big or small, that have cross-border
operations.  “What is at stake here is mostly possible resolution of
cross-border banks, which if they are done in a national context
have proved to be more difficult,” said  Vitor Constancio , vice
president of the ECB, a consistent backer of the commission’s
proposal.  “We do want a European resolution mechanism to be put in
place to accompany the first leg of the banking union,”
Constancio said. The new mechanism needn’t be operational for
central-bank oversight to start, because banks aren’t under as
much strain as they were at the height of the financial crisis,
he said.  National Budgets  Opposition grew after a Sept. 11 opinion from the legal
service of the Council of the European Union, which represents
the executives of the bloc’s 28 member states. The lawyers said
the plan needs more safeguards to protect national budgets.
Germany said the ruling confirmed its misgivings.  Barnier defended the core of his Single Resolution
Mechanism, which would involve a 55 billion-euro ($73 billion)
resolution fund and give the commission the power to close
banks.  Sweden’s finance minister,  Anders Borg , echoed the concerns
of a number of his colleagues when he said handing the
commission the power to shut down banks alongside its existing
role as the bloc’s state-aid enforcer is a “conflict of
interest.” This is a problem for Sweden even though it won’t
join the banking union in “any foreseeable future,” he said.  Barnier said the commission isn’t wedded to being chief
decision-maker in the resolution system and would welcome a
discussion on alternatives. The commission put itself forward
for the role because of its reading of the bloc’s treaties, he
said.  ‘Weaker Countries’  Borg emphasized the necessity for euro countries to band
together to prevent a resurgence of the sovereign debt crisis,
now in its fourth year.  “It is necessary that the stronger countries are
supporting the weaker countries,” he said. “I strongly back
the idea that you need a fiscal backstop for a banking union
among the euro countries.”  Germany  has spearheaded calls to drop the common fund and
centralized authority in favor of a network of national
resources, a stance Barnier said would leave the euro area
vulnerable in future crises. Borg said similar arguments were
made by the U.K., Sweden and the  Czech Republic .  The Germans object to the legal foundation of Barnier’s
proposal, currently based on Article 114 of the Treaty on the
Functioning of the European Union, which requires approval by
the European Parliament and a weighted majority of nations.  ‘Legal Foundation’  The process could be enhanced in Germany’s view by relying
instead on a different provision, Article 352, which is intended
for actions not specifically foreseen under the bloc’s basic
laws. This would require unanimous approval of legislation
setting up the resolution system, meaning all nations would have
to sign off.  “It’s clear that the proposal the way it was presented is
impossible to implement,” said Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann. “Is the legal foundation even suited for such a
mechanism to be built on? Then there is the question to which
extent distorting effects in national resolution funds are
avoided.”  Estonian Finance Minister Juergen Ligi said the resolution
mechanism shouldn’t be built in a way that makes national
finances vulnerable when problems emerge in other countries.  “I’m most troubled by the thought that somewhere, someone
decides something that would suddenly affect budgets,” Ligi
said in an interview. “We definitely also have constitutional
justification to protect this.”  The need to adopt resolution plans quickly may ease if the
ECB’s asset-quality reviews don’t turn up major capital
shortfalls at euro-area banks. The assessments, which will
involve third-party experts, are unlikely to uncover terminal
problems at a major European bank, Constancio said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Vilnius at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Vilnius at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  