-- European Stocks Rise as Fresenius Gains on Hospitals Deal
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-09-13T16:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/european-stock-futures-little-changed-fresenius-may-move.html
European  stocks  advanced, extending
a second weekly gain for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, as
companies from Fresenius SE to Kabel Deutschland Holding AG
rallied following mergers-and-acquisitions activity.  Fresenius rose 3.6 percent after its Helios subsidiary
agreed to buy 43 hospitals from  Rhoen-Klinikum (RHK)  AG.  BHP Billiton 
Ltd. and Anglo American Plc both dropped at least 2 percent,
contributing the most to a decline by a gauge of commodity
producers. TDC A/S fell 3.1 percent as a group of private-equity
firms sold its stake in Denmark’s biggest phone company.  The Stoxx 600 rose 0.2 percent to 311.46 at the close in
 London  after earlier dropping as much as 0.4 percent. The equity
benchmark gained 1.8 percent this week as investors awaited the
next Federal Reserve meeting, while a report showed that  Chinese
exports (CNFREXPY)  grew at a faster-than-expected pace.  “With acceptable macro data and some progress on the Syria
issue, sentiment seems to have slightly improved,” said Anja Hochberg, the chief investment officer for Europe and
 Switzerland  at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “In spite of
our optimistic medium- to longer-term outlook, we stay on the
sidelines for the time being. Markets are eagerly awaiting the
Fed meeting next week.”  The Stoxx 600 fell from its highest level in more than five
years yesterday as a report showed the euro area’s  industrial
output  contracted more than forecast.  Syria Talks  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  meets with Russian
counterpart  Sergei Lavrov  in Geneva to discuss a deal to remove
Syria’s chemical weapons. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said
that the administration of President  Barack Obama  must stop its
military threats and cease arming rebel groups for the nation to
give up its chemical arsenal. Obama delayed a decision on
military action after  Russia  proposed putting the chemical
weapons under international control.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
retail sales rose at a slower pace in August.  Purchases (RSTAMOM)  climbed
0.2 percent, after increasing a revised 0.4 percent in July. The
 median  forecast in a Bloomberg News survey had called for sales
to increase 0.5 percent.  The retail report was one of the last pieces of data before
the Fed meeting on Sept. 17-18 when policy makers will discuss
whether to reduce their monthly bond purchases. Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  has said that the central bank may consider tapering if
the economy continues to grow in line with its forecasts.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 11 of the 18 western-European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 and  Germany ’s DAX each rose
0.2 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 fell 0.1 percent.  Fresenius Gains  Fresenius increased 3.6 percent to 91.10 euros and Rhoen-Klinikum rallied 11 percent to 19.45 euros. The boards of both
German companies endorsed the deal for Fresenius’s Helios unit
to buy 43 hospitals from Rhoen-Klinikum. The deal requires
regulatory approval and the support of minority shareholders and
the former owners of some of the hospitals. Fresenius said that
the purchase will add 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in annual
revenue and 250 million euros in earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Kabel Deutschland  jumped 6.3 percent to 91.82 euros.
Vodafone Group Plc said that at least 75 percent of the German
company’s shareholders supported its 7.7 billion-euro bid before
yesterday’s deadline expired. Kabel Deutschland investors who
haven’t tendered their shares will get a second chance to do so
from Sept. 17 to Sept. 30.  Carlsberg Climbs  Carlsberg A/S gained 1.6 percent to 579 kroner. The brewer
predicted that it will sustain the 5 percent organic-sales
growth in the China from the first half.  Separately, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised the stock to
neutral, the equivalent of hold, from sell. The brokerage cited
the improving economy in Europe and cost-saving measures.  BHP Billiton slid 2 percent to 1,885 pence and Anglo
American, the world’s largest platinum producer, lost 3.2
percent to 1,568.5 pence as a gauge of mining companies posted
the biggest decline of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  TDC dropped 3.1 percent to 46.41 kroner as a group of
private-equity firms sold its stake in the company for 4.17
billion-krone ($743 million). NTC sold 90 million shares at
46.30 kroner apiece. That amounted to an 11 percent stake in
 TDC, (TDC)  according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. which managed the sale.  Gerry Weber International AG sank 8.1 percent to 29.42
euros, its biggest slump since October 2011. The German apparel
maker posted third-quarter net income of 11.5 million euros,
missing the  average analyst estimate  of 12.8 million euros. The
company also cut its forecast for earnings before interest and
taxes in the year through October to 105 million euros. It had
predicted Ebit of 120 million euros.  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600-listed
companies was 15 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  