-- European Stocks Gain for Second Week on China Data, Syria
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-09-13T16:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/european-stocks-gain-for-second-week-on-china-data-syria.html
European stocks  posted a second
week of gains as Chinese economic reports beat forecasts and as
the U.S. delayed a decision on military action against  Syria .  Kabel Deutschland AG rose 7.1 percent after its
shareholders approved a bid by Vodafone Group Plc. Nokia Oyj
surged 15 percent, gaining every day of the week, after
brokerages including Bank of America Corp. and Berenberg Bank
upgraded the shares. Randgold Resources Ltd. and Fresnillo Plc
each dropped at least 5 percent as gold and silver prices fell.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 1.8 percent to 311.46
this week, reaching a five-year high on a daily closing basis.
It has  climbed  11 percent so far this year as the euro area
emerged from recession and as central banks pledged to maintain
stimulus measures to support the global economy.  “European stocks have underperformed U.S. equities so far
this year, and with the  euro zone  out of recession, we’re now in
a catch-up phase,” said Espen Furnes, who helps oversee $75
billion as a  fund manager  at Storebrand Asset Management in
Oslo. “The upward move over the last two weeks is warranted and
has a solid fundamental basis. For the time being, the Syria
situation seems to be under control, and financial markets are
responding positively to a dampened conflict level.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 18 percent so
far this year. The Stoxx 600, while lagging U.S. equities in
year-to-date returns, has beaten the  S&P 500  this quarter. The
European gauge has rallied 9.3 percent since the end of June,
compared with a 5.1 percent increase in the U.S. benchmark.  Chinese Economy  In  China , a report on Sept. 10 from the National Bureau of
Statistics showed  industrial output  rose 10.4 percent in August
from a year earlier, exceeding the 9.9 percent median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Another release the same
day showed retail sales in the world’s second-biggest economy
gained 13.4 percent, compared with a projection for a 13.3
percent increase. China’s August exports increased more than
forecast, separate data showed.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in a Sept. 10 address from
 Washington  that he will pursue a proposal by Russia to have
Syria surrender chemical weapons to international authorities.
He asked Congress to postpone a vote on military action against
the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, which he
intended as a response to a chemical attack last month that the
U.S. says killed more than 1,400 people.  Fed Policy  Federal Reserve officials meet next week to decide whether
to start reducing the central bank’s $85 billion monthly bond
purchases. The Fed will taper asset purchases to $75 billion at
the Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 16 of the 18 western-European markets.  Germany ’s DAX added 2.8 percent. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 gained 0.6 percent.  France ’s CAC 40 rose 1.6 percent.  Kabel Deutschland  climbed 7.1 percent, the biggest weekly
gain in three months. Vodafone on Sept. 12 said its offer of 7.7
billion euros ($10.2 billion) won the backing of at least 75
percent of the German broadcaster’s shareholders, the minimum
threshold for the deal to go through.  Nokia, the Finnish company which last week agreed to sell
its mobile-phone business to Microsoft Corp., rallied 15
percent. It has surged 62 percent this month. Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch unit raised its rating on the shares to buy from
neutral, while Berenberg upgraded the stock to buy from sell.
 RBC Capital Markets  raised its recommendation on Nokia to
outperform, similar to buy, from sector perform.  A gauge of technology companies climbed 3.6 percent for the
second-best performance on the Stoxx 600. Alcatel-Lucent climbed
8.9 percent and Ericsson AB gained 3 percent.  ARM Holdings  ARM Holdings  Plc, which designs chips for Apple Inc.’s
iPhones, gained 8.9 percent after the U.S. company unveiled two
new models of the device. The introductions will benefit ARM
because Apple will use ARM’s more advanced technology earlier
than expected, Deutsche Bank AG analysts Johannes Schaller and
Kai Korschelt wrote in a note.  Home Retail Group Plc advanced 12 percent after saying that
same-store sales at its Homebase business jumped 11 percent in
the 13 weeks ended Aug. 31. That beat the 3 percent median of
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales at its Argos unit
rose 2.7 percent, also exceeding the median forecast.  K+S AG, a German potash producer, jumped 20 percent. Forbes
magazine’s Russian edition named three possible bidders for
billionaire Suleiman Kerimov’s 22 percent stake in OAO Uralkali,
the world’s biggest producer of the fertilizer ingredient. K+S
tumbled 24 percent on July 30 as Uralkali ended a deal that had
set prices for more than 40 percent of global supplies.  Fresnillo, a producer of gold and silver in  Mexico , lost
5.2 percent as prices of both precious metals tumbled this week.
Randgold Resources slid 9.7 percent and Polymetal International
Plc declined 7.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  