-- Teva, Marijuana, Pandora, Malibu: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/teva-marijuana-pandora-malibu-intellectual-property.html
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. and
Par Pharmaceutical Cos. won an appeal in their bid to sell a
generic version of  BASF SE (BAS) ’s heart medicine Lovaza in the U.S.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in a
ruling yesterday said it reversed a lower court decision because
one patent held by BASF’s Pronova unit had been made publicly
accessible and another had expired.  Lovaza is the first and only fish-oil derived prescription
drug approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and
Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva and Par want to market generic
versions, the court said in its ruling.  U.S. sales of Lovaza were more than $2.3 billion as of
August 2010, the court said.  Pronova was acquired this year by Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF, and Par was bought last year by TPG Capital.  Government Marijuana Used for Alzheimer’s, Stroke, Dementia  The federal government patented medicinal uses of marijuana
a decade ago, the New York Post  reported  Sept. 11.  Patent 6,630,507 was issued Oct. 7, 2003, to the U.S. as
represented by the Department of Health and Human Services. It
covers the use of marijuana-derived compounds as antioxidants
and neuroprotectants.  These compounds are “substantially free of psychoactive or
psychotoxic effects, are substantially non-toxic even at very
high doses, and have good tissue penetration, for example
crossing the blood brain barrier,” according to the patent.  Drugs derived from marijuana can be used to treat stroke
and chronic neurodegerative disease such as Alzheimer’s and
AIDS-related dementia, according to the patent. They could also
be used to prevent some kinds of damage in transplanted organs.  The patent application was filed in February 2001 with
assistance from Klarquist Sparkman LLP of  Portland ,  Oregon .  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Pandora Media Asks Judge to Block Ascap From Limiting Songs  Pandora Media Inc., the biggest Internet radio service,
asked a federal judge to stop a group representing songwriters
and music publishers from narrowing the scope of licenses that
allow their music to be played.  The radio company argued in federal court in  Manhattan 
Sept. 11 that if the American Society of Composers, Authors and
Publishers is permitted to change the scope of the licenses, it
would have far fewer songs from the Ascap repertory to offer its
listeners than its competitors. U.S. District Judge Denise Cote
said she would rule later on Pandora’s motion for summary
judgment.  “I am very concerned about unintended consequences,” Cote
said at the end of a 3 1/2-hour hearing. “What ruling I give I
want to be as narrow as possible.”  Large music publishers including EMI Music Publishing Ltd.
and Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC have decided to withdraw new-media rights from Ascap and negotiate license fees directly with
Web radio services. Pandora said that while its license renewal
with Ascap is pending, the organization shouldn’t allow the
withdrawals, which would reduce the number of songs covered by
Ascap’s licenses.  Pandora filed a lawsuit in November asking the court to set
“reasonable” fees for a licensing agreement with Ascap through
2015. It’s seeking a blanket license that would cover all songs
represented by the 470,000-member group. Pandora said the
current fees make sustained profitability impossible.  Ascap and Pandora reached an “experimental” fee agreement
in 2005 that lasted until 2010. The parties then were unable to
agree on licensing rates after more than a year of talks,
Pandora said in its complaint.  Under the terms of a federal consent decree, the U.S.
District Court in New York has jurisdiction over rate-setting if
the parties can’t agree. Cote will conduct a trial in December.  The case is In re Petition of  Pandora Media Inc. (P) , 12-cv-08035, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Malibu Media Sanctioned Over Exhibits Listing Lewd Film Titles  Malibu Media LLC was hit with monetary sanctions in 11
copyright-infringement lawsuits it filed in federal court in
Wisconsin.  The company, which makes adult films, sued 11 unknown
defendants, each in a separate suit, claiming they used the
BitTorrent file-sharing protocol to download copies of Malibu’s
films without authorization.  The court objected to an exhibit Malibu filed with each
complaint containing a list of films defendants allegedly
downloaded, none of which were the company’s films. The court
said that while the Malibu films had relatively tame titles, the
titles of the films listed in the exhibit were “far more
disturbing, lewd, unusual” than the Malibu products.  The court said the exhibit served no pleading purpose and
“appears calculated principally to harass defendants” and to
shame them into settlement agreements even if they had
meritorious defenses.  The “lewd and obscene nature of the graphic titles and
content are enough to persuade many initially anonymous
defendants to reach early settlements out of fear of being
‘outed’ should the lawsuit proceed,” the court said.  Malibu’s arguments that the exhibit served a legitimate
purpose “do not pass the smell test, and any denial of improper
motive by its counsel does not pass the laugh test,” U.S.
District Judge William M. Conley wrote in his Sept. 10 order.  He ordered the exhibit struck for each of the complaints in
all 11 cases and said the film company must pay a sanction of
$200 per case.  The San Francisco-based  Electronic Frontier Foundation , a
digital-rights group, filed a friend of the court brief in the
case. Earlier a magistrate judge ordered Malibu to show why it
shouldn’t be sanctioned over the exhibit and EFF argued for the
imposition of the sanctions.  The cases include Malibu Media v. Doe, 13-cv-00205 and 13-cv-00320, U.S. District Court, Western District of  Wisconsin 
(Madison).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Hong Kong Customs Seized Fake Mooncakes Sold for Autumn Festival  Customs officials in Hong Kong seized 135 boxes of
counterfeit moon cakes, the egg and lotus seed paste pastries
that are an essential element in the Chinese  Mid-Autumn
Festival , the South China Morning Post  reported .  The fake pastries were seized from a cosmetics and beauty
shop and the shop’s 50-year-old proprietor was arrested,
according to the newspaper.  Michael Kwan Yuk-Kwan, who heads customs’ intellectual
property investigation group, said the fake  mooncakes  were safe
to eat but of a lower quality, the Post reported.  The fakes, worth about HK$20,000 ($2,600),  were believed to have been
produced in  China  and sold for a little more than half the price
of the legitimate mooncakes, according to the Post.  Ohio  Baker Seeks ‘Doughssant’ Mark, Says They Predate ‘Cronuts’  A baker in Hilliard, Ohio, says he beat the “ cronut ” fad
by 20 years and has filed an application to register
“doughssant” as a trademark for his version of the deep-fried
pastry, the Columbus Dispatch  reported .  Roy Auddino, owner of  Auddino’s Bakery & Cafe , told the
Dispatch that he had to submit “extra papers” with his
trademark application to confirm his product isn’t brand new,
because many other bakeries rushed to file applications after
the New York cronuts became popular this year.  He said even though he had long wanted to register the
trademark, he had been put off by the cost of more than $1,000
to file an application, the Dispatch reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  