-- Lewis Lapham: Sting Netted $100 Million Diamond Necklace
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2013-09-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/lewis-lapham-sting-netted-100-million-diamond-necklace.html
Louis XV had Parisian jeweler
Boehmer make a fabulous diamond bauble for his inamorata, Madame
du Barry. By the time the necklace -- valued at $100 million in
today’s currency -- was finished, the king was dead and the lady
was banished.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  The desperate jeweler offered it to the new queen, Marie Antoinette, who wasn’t interested.  Enter con artist Jeanne de la Motte. She manipulated a rich
cardinal -- in disfavor with the queen -- into believing Marie
Antoinette wanted him to secretly acquire the necklace for her.  In her clever sting operation, Jeanne forged letters, set
up a clandestine meeting between the cardinal and the “queen,”
played by a prostitute, and then made off with the necklace
which she passed to her husband.  After the scandal broke, Jeanne was whipped, branded as a
thief and sentenced to life imprisonment at the Salpetriere.
Disguised as a boy, she escaped and fled to  London .  As the affair became the gossip of all Europe, the queen’s
popularity plummeted. Four years later the French Revolution
deposed the Bourbon monarchy.  I spoke with John V. Fleming, author of “The Dark Side of
the Enlightenment,” on the following topics:  1. Alchemists and Freemasons.  2. Anticlerical Yet Religious.  3. Rational, Ethical Man.  4. Voltaire & Kant.  5. Cons & Scandals.  To buy this book in North America, click  here .  (Lewis Lapham is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg’s NYC  Weekend  and
Greg Evans on  movies .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in  New York  at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 