-- A Mexico World Cup No-Show Would Be an Economic No-No
-- B y   L e o n   K r a u z e
-- 2013-09-13T15:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/mexico-world-cup-no-show-would-be-economic-no-no.html
Something terrible is happening in
 Mexico : The country’s national soccer team is nearing the abyss
of elimination from next year’s World Cup in Brazil. A bit
hyperbolic, I know. After all, Mexico is besieged by much
greater ills. But in Mexico, the importance of soccer and its
quadrennial celebration can’t be so easily dismissed, and
failure to qualify for the  World Cup  would reverberate off the
field long after the fans’ wailing and jeering had stopped.  In a country used to dizzying inequality and increasing
political polarization, the green jersey worn by the national
futbol team serves as an uncommon unifying social force. Just as
in other soccer-crazy countries, Mexicans come together when
“ El Tri ” plays. The country’s domestic Primera Division is one
of the continent’s top-grossing leagues, with teams whose appeal
rivals that of many world powerhouses. During the last World Cup
in  South Africa , Mexico’s innovative black jersey outsold all
others. According to  Adidas AG (ADS) , more than 1.2 million Mexican
shirts were sold worldwide. More than 15,000 Mexicans traveled
to South Africa to support their team (each paying at least
$10,000 for the pleasure).  All this, mind you, in spite of the team’s enduring
mediocrity: Mexico has failed to advance past the round of 16 in
its last five World Cups. Apparently, Mexicans don’t care about
the team’s obvious lack of excellence: We simply want to watch
the team play every four years on the world’s biggest stage,
even if the outcome is almost always defeat at the hands of
 Argentina . That’s the nature of our peculiar passion.  High Stakes  Mexico has failed to qualify before. Back in 1973, while
playing in the qualifying tournament in  Haiti , Mexican players
fell ill from local voodoo (I kid you not) and didn’t make it to
 Germany ’s World Cup. They also had a lapse prior to the 1982
tournament. But things have changed since then. Now, Concacaf
(the governing body for soccer in North and Central America and
the Caribbean) organizes the region’s top six teams in a playoff
group. After hosting each other in a six-month reciprocity
affair, the top three teams earn a ticket to Brazil. The (sort
of) lucky fourth-place finishers get to play  New Zealand  for
another spot. Under the current format, Mexico has qualified
with certain ease for the last five World Cups. Now, after
losing to the U.S., the team sits -- like a swollen, beat-up
boxer -- in fifth place. Only two matches are left.  Many will lose if Mexico fails to make it to  Brazil .
According to Rogelio Roa, a Mexican sports-marketing specialist,
the economic effects of the fiasco would be devastating for the
sport and the many companies it nourishes. “Mexico’s team is
one of the top-five earners in the sport,” Roa says. “If it
doesn’t make it to the World Cup, everything related to it will
devaluate. Losses could be upwards of $600 million.” Radio and
television stations, both in Mexico and the U.S., would  suffer
greatly  from dismal ratings and the ensuing loss of advertising
revenue.  The team’s breakdown would also surely hurt Enrique Pena Nieto, Mexico’s president, and not only because a sporting
defeat of historic proportions undermines the narrative he has
been trying hard to impose since he took office. Pena Nieto’s
reformist agenda faces scrutiny and growing -- if not definitive
-- resistance, and the government stands to benefit from the
welcome social respite the World Cup brings every four years.
But the image of a lost generation of young Mexican sportsmen
would be a sad reminder of the perils of paralysis for a country
that has already squandered a sizable chunk of its demographic
dividend. No wonder Peña Nieto recently ad-libbed: “Every
Mexican is hopeful. We trust the team will reach its goal.
Mexico’s president se la juega con la Seleccion Nacional” --
all in with Mexico’s national team.  Patriotic Pride  But suits with long faces and disappointed politicians
should be the least of Mexico’s worries if the team somehow
bungles its next two games (and the very probable visit to the
land of the Kiwis). My main concern is the fans. I once had a
long debate on Twitter with someone who insisted that soccer was
nonsense, its cultural and social significance blown out of
proportion. I asked him if he had ever had the privilege of
joining the raucous Mexican crowd in one of the many games the
national team plays in the U.S. every year. He hadn’t, of
course.  But I had. Mexico was playing a lesser opponent and,
because the game had been hastily organized, the team hadn’t
even brought its most famous players. None of that mattered to
the crowd. They had been waiting a long time to see the men in
green play. They cheered every move, stood up every time the
team approached the goal. Their enthusiasm exceeded anything
else I had witnessed back in Mexico, even at Mexico City’s
imposing Azteca Stadium at its most boisterous. In the end,
Mexico won easily. And the crowd went wild again, wide smiles
all around, patriotic pride reignited. “It’s Mexico. This is
Mexico,” one fan told me. And he was right. For the briefest 90
minutes, every Mexican there experienced a sense of belonging
long lost from their everyday lives in the U.S. The team was
their way back to Mexico. The team was Mexico.  Those fans deserve better today. Come summer 2014, they
deserve to cheer as loudly. I sure hope they have the chance.  (Leon Krauze is the main anchor for Univision’s KMEX in  Los
Angeles  and a former historian of the Mexican national soccer
team. Follow him on Twitter at  @leon_krauze .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Leon Krauze at  lkrauze@univision.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 