-- Mexico Peso Set for Weekly Gain as Rate Cut Fuels Growth Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-09-13T14:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/mexico-peso-set-for-weekly-gain-as-rate-cut-fuels-growth-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso headed to its second
straight weekly gain after the central bank cut benchmark
lending rates, fueling speculation economic growth will pick up.  The peso has appreciated 0.8 percent this week to 13.0598
at 8:28 a.m. in Mexico City. It was down 0.1 percent today.
Yields on peso bonds maturing in 2024 fell 0.01 percentage point
today to 6.22 percent, leaving them down 0.15 percentage point
for the week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s local-currency securities have benefited since
policy makers surprised analysts by cutting their benchmark
 interest rate  on Sept. 6, the second reduction this year, saying
the economy experienced a significant and unexpected slowdown in
the second quarter. The cut implies faster growth in the future,
helping lure capital into the country, according to Roberto Galvan, a trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA.  “The fact that there was a cut was very beneficial,”
Galvan said in a phone interview from Mexico City. “They’re
taking action to avoid a recession.”  The currency got an extra boost as concern eased that the
U.S. will start to reduce monetary stimulus this month and that
an attack on  Syria  is imminent, Galvan said.  Citigroup Inc. recommended Mexico’s local-currency bonds on
Sept. 10 in part on the prospect that policy makers will reduce
borrowing costs to jumpstart growth.  Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB projected this week
that the central bank will cut the  reference rate  by 0.25
percentage point next month after the central bank reduced it by
that amount on Sept. 6 to a record low of 3.75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  