-- FBI May Close Offices for 10 Days Because of Budget Cuts
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-09-13T13:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/fbi-may-close-offices-for-10-days-because-of-budget-cuts.html
The FBI may shut down offices
around the country for as many as 10 days spread over the next
fiscal year to manage the effects of federal spending cuts,
according to two officials briefed on the matter.  The decision, which is not final, comes as the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  welcomes its new director, James B. Comey, and after months of back and forth among senior officials
over how to handle the automatic cuts, known as sequestration.  “I was surprised to learn about the impact that
sequestration is having on the FBI,” Comey said yesterday at a
press conference in Richmond.  The FBI is planning as Congress continues to fight over how
to fund the government in the next fiscal year, which begins
Oct. 1. With the deadline approaching, lawmakers have not yet
voted on the annual legislation that authorizes federal
spending.  Comey, in Richmond, said he didn’t think the general public
grasped what harm the cuts would have on  law enforcement  and he
would continue making the case for more funds in the weeks
ahead.  The FBI was forced to impose a hiring freeze and has also
cut back spending on travel,  information technology  and lower-priority investigations in an effort to avoid furloughs in the
current fiscal year.  Little Movement  With the new year approaching and little movement to
restore the funding scheduled to be cut, even those efforts will
fall short. The result will be the 10 days of closures of
offices around the country and FBI headquarters in the next
fiscal year, the officials said, asking for anonymity to discuss
internal deliberations.  The FBI plan was first reported by the  New York  Times.  “Not only am I having to lose 3,000 positions, but there’s
a very real prospect, unless something is done, that I’m going
to have to send home, for two weeks without pay, the good men
and women who work in this building behind me,” Comey said as
he stood in front of the FBI’s Richmond office.  Comey, deputy attorney general under former President
 George W. Bush , was sworn into office on Sept. 4. His
predecessor,  Robert Mueller , warned that budget cuts would be
among the most difficult issues Comey would face.  “The budget, making hard choices, I think that’s going to
be the biggest hurdle he faces at this juncture,” Mueller told
a group of reporters during and August interview before his
departure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  