-- Fenner Rises as UBS Says Stock Cheaper Than Peers: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-13T10:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/fenner-rises-as-ubs-says-stock-cheaper-than-peers-london-mover.html
Fenner Plc (FENR) , the world’s largest
conveyor-belt maker, rose to a six-month high after UBS AG said
the stock is valued at 25 percent less than the average of other
U.K. engineering firms covered by the bank.  The  shares  advanced as much as 5.6 percent to 409 pence,
the highest intraday price since March 21, and were up 3.9
percent at 11:12 a.m. in  London . That extended Fenner’s gain in
the last 10 days to about 17 percent.  “After a poor first half, we believe the shares have been
unfairly punished and continue to discount further misses,”
Robbie Capp, an analyst at UBS, said in a note to clients
initiating coverage with a  buy  recommendation and a price
prediction of 460 pence. “Whilst the end-market outlook is
muted,” Capp said, “the stock is still cheap on our numbers.”  Fenner trades at a discount to similar companies because
“the market is too focused on the plight of” capital
expenditure by mining companies, Capp said. Mining production
and the continuing need for conveyor belts will benefit Fenner
more than possible capital expenditure slowdowns might hurt the
company, according to the analyst.  Fenner anticipates a return to growth in the fiscal year
that started Sept. 1, the company said in a statement three days
ago. Full-year results for last year are set to be in line with
forecasts, with trading conditions “broadly unchanged” since
mid-July. Fenner, based near Hull,  England , is scheduled to
report earnings on Nov. 13.  Its conveyor belt unit could achieve annual growth of about
8 percent in more normal market conditions, Capp said. The
analyst’s price target still values Fenner at a 10 percent
discount to comparable companies based on multiples using
estimated earnings before interest, taxes and amortization.  Among other analysts who report recommendations to
Bloomberg, five advise buying the shares while nine have a hold
recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at  dlytle@bloomberg.net  