-- Fiat CEO Marchionne Says Chrysler IPO Would Delay Merger
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-09-13T13:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/fiat-ceo-marchionne-says-chrysler-ipo-would-delay-merger.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
Sergio Marchionne said his efforts to merge the Italian
automaker with Chrysler Group LLC may have hit a snag as a
retiree health-care trust that owns a minority stake pushes
instead for an initial public offering of the American carmaker.  The United Auto Workers’ trust may try to sell part of its
41.5 percent holding through an IPO by the first quarter,
Marchionne, who runs both automakers, told reporters today at an
event in Turin. Fiat then may buy the trust’s holding at the
market price, he said.  “The dialog is going on; we are not getting closer but we
keep on talking,” Marchionne said. An eventual share sale at
Chrysler “may delay” the merger.  The CEO, 61, said Chrysler will file IPO documents by the
end of the month with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to list a 16.6 percent stake, which the trust has the
legal right to do. The two are also in a court dispute over the
value of part of the trust holding which Fiat has options to
buy.  “It gets much trickier for Fiat to buy out Chrysler
minorities after an IPO,” said Erich Hauser, an analyst at ISI
Group in  London . “Marchionne’s plan to merge the two carmakers
and get his hands on Chrysler cash may be at risk.”  Fiat  dropped  as much as 21 cents, or 3.4 percent, to 6.03
euros and traded 1.7 percent lower as of 3:02 p.m. in Milan. The
shares have gained 62 percent this year, valuing the Turin-based
company at 7.67 billion euros ($10.2 billion).  Lottery Ticket  Marchionne has spent the past four years seeking to unify
the companies so they can better compete with  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  A fully integrated
automaker would feature the mass-market Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep and
Dodge brands, along with the high-end Maserati and Ferrari
lines.  “I will work my buns off to get the best possible
reception in the equity market but there’s a limit to my
talents,” Marchionne said. “I can do whatever I like at the
time,” he said when asked if Fiat would buy the holding at
price set by the IPO process.  Marchionne also said that the VEBA trust “should buy a
ticket for the lottery” if they want to get at least $5 billion
for its holding. Fiat has the right to buy the entire stake for
$4.25 billion, plus 9 percent annual interest calculated from
January 2010.  Updating Targets  Fiat will update its  targets  for 2013 at the end of October
after taking into account “positive and negative signs,” he
said. “Pricing in Latin America is not as exciting as it was in
the first part of the year, so we need to be careful,”
Marchionne said when asked if 2013 targets are still reachable.  Fiat stuck in July to a forecast for 2013 trading profit in
a range of 4 billion euros to 4.5 billion euros, up from 3.81
billion last year. At the time Marchionne lowered its profit
forecast for Chrysler as the American carmaker spends more money
on rolling out new models.  Marchionne said he did not attend this week’s Frankfurt
auto show because of more pressing engagements, without
elaborating.  Marchionne also said that CNH Industrial will be listed in
 New York  September 30. The new company is being created from the
merger of  CNH Global NV (CNH)  with its parent  Fiat Industrial SpA. (FI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  