-- Fire at Jersey Shore’s Boardwalk Follows Sandy’s Wrath
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-09-13T16:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/fire-at-jersey-shore-s-boardwalk-follows-sandy-s-wrath.html
The scene of so much destruction on
the New Jersey shore has a new landmark to replace the mangled
Jet Star roller coaster: a charred boardwalk and dozens of
smoldering businesses, newly rebuilt after Hurricane Sandy.  Almost 100 of 400 firefighters remained on the scene where
wind-driven flames last night consumed at least four blocks of
Seaside Park and Seaside Heights, Governor  Chris Christie  said
at a news conference. He promised to dismantle and rebuild the
boardwalk and an estimated 30 ruined buildings.  “We have an obligation now to get aggressive and
rebuild,” Christie said. “I will not permit all the work we’ve
done over the last 10 months to be diminished or destroyed by
what happened last night. We’re going to get back on our feet
and do what we need to do.”  Investigators from agencies including the Ocean County
Prosecutor’s Office, state police and the federal Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were on the scene,
though Christie said there was no evidence of arson and it was
too soon to say whether the fire was intentional.  “We honestly have no idea,” he said. “It’s not even 24
hours. We always treat it as a crime scene because we don’t know
what happened.”  Pool Water  Three police officers were injured when they fell off an
emergency vehicle, and two were being treated for head trauma,
Christie said. Injuries at the scene itself were limited to
exhaustion and smoke inhalation, he said.  The fire struck in an area not yet recovered from Sandy,
which destroyed homes and beachside resorts along the Jersey
coast on Oct. 29. Flames were whipped by wind and smoldering may
continue for days, Christie said.  Four hundred firefighters responded to the blaze, reported
at 2:15 p.m. yesterday at the boardwalk’s south end, in Seaside
Park. It appeared to start near a Kohr’s frozen-custard stand,
and was driven north by gusts of 30 to 40 miles per hour (48 to
64 kilometers per hour). Crews, who pumped water from the
Barnegat Bay and motel swimming pools to supplement piped
supplies, brought the flames under control about 11 p.m.  The flames jumped a fire break cut into the boardwalk at
Dupont Avenue, according to David Hansen, Seaside Park fire
chief. Crews created another gap, as much as 20 feet (6 meters)
wide, one block north at Lincoln Avenue, a maneuver that
Christie called the “decisive moment” in containing the blaze.  Trench Cut  “We call it a trench cut: We rip up the boardwalk and tear
out anything that can be set on fire,” Hansen said in an
interview. “This fire was just moving too fast” for the first
trench to contain.  One small fire at a condominium complex was quickly
extinguished and the blaze was limited to commercial properties
on the boardwalk, Christie said. Anything not destroyed at Fun
Town Pier by Sandy was leveled by flame, said Seaside Park Mayor
Bob Matthies.  “Gone,” Matthies, 65, said in an interview last night. He
called the fire demoralizing.  Christie told reporters last night that when he got word of
the fire, he said to aides: “I feel like I want to throw up.”  “It finished the job that Sandy started,” he said of the
fire. “Obviously we spent a lot of time on Fun Town Pier and we
saw it burn to the ground last night. Places where decades of
memories were built have been destroyed.”  Snooki Speaks  Seaside was home to the Jet Star roller coaster. Pushed off
its pier by Sandy and into the ocean, it was a symbol that
deepened the town’s image beyond being the scene of  MTV ’s
“Jersey Shore” reality show, six seasons of singles’ excesses
in a shared beach house. This morning, their boardwalk
playground was smoldering.  “Stay strong, Seaside,” one cast member, Jennifer
“JWoww” Farley, wrote on her Twitter account. Her co-star, the
wide-eyed and puffy-haired Nicole “Snooki” Polizzi, wrote:
“My prayers to Seaside Park -- can’t catch a break.”  Christie, 51, a Republican, staked his re-election in
November on his handling of the Sandy recovery. He starred in a
$25 million advertising campaign urging visitors to return to a
shore “stronger than the storm.” He has estimated the cost of
reconstruction and fortification statewide at $36.9 billion.  Matthies said the boardwalk will be back.  “We’re going to have no other choice but to get back in
there and do what we did after Sandy,” Matthies said. “We have
to get back online, rebuild and continue the character of this
town.”  ’Memories Burning’  The fire struck a day before Seaside Heights was to start a
three-day celebration of its 100th anniversary.  The New Heights Festival grounds are on the boardwalk,
though almost a mile from the fire scene, and organizers
canceled tonight’s portion, which called for a bonfire and
fireworks. The weekend events will go on as planned, according
to the festival’s website.  Rita Sorensen said she has been staying at the Offshore
Motel in Seaside Heights, and her son called to tell her of the
fire about 2:30 p.m. She, her husband and another son watched
the fire all day, she said. The family, displaced by Sandy, is
scheduled to move back into their apartment next week.  “What more can they put us through?” she said last night
as she fought back tears. “I handled  Hurricane Sandy  well.
Emotionally, I did well. But this is killing me. It’s different.
Those are memories burning there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Seaside at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  