-- Ford Names U.S. Sales Chief as Toyota Tests Market Place
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-09-13T20:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/ford-names-new-u-s-sales-chief-no-2-executive-in-europe.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-biggest
U.S. automaker, named a new U.S. sales chief whose challenge
will be to maintain a sales lead over  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and its
growing willingness to discount cars such as the Camry.  Ken Czubay , 64, the current U.S. sales chief, is retiring,
effective Nov. 1. He will be replaced by John Felice, 51, the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company said today in a statement. Ford
also named Barb Samardzich, 54, chief operating officer in
Europe, where she now heads product development.  Demand for F-Series pickups, the new Fusion family car and
Escape sport utility vehicle has paced Ford as it’s gained more
market share than any other major automaker in the U.S. this
year. New models that analysts expect for 2014 will be crucial
to maintaining those gains after Toyota, the world’s largest
automaker, has outsold Ford in the U.S. the past two months and
vowed to protect its Camry sedan with heftier incentives.  “Ford has two huge new products coming next year: the
Mustang and the F-150,” Alan Baum, an independent auto analyst
in West Bloomfield, Michigan, said by telephone. “They
obviously want to keep their momentum going. They’re also going
to have more Fusions, and that will be a marketing challenge to
keep the transaction prices high as volume goes up.”  Ford captured 16 percent of U.S. light-vehicle deliveries
through August, up from 15.6 percent a year earlier. While
Toyota’s market share was little changed at 14.4 percent, the
Toyota City, Japan-based company outsold Ford by 314 cars and
light trucks in July and more than 11,000 in August.  Protecting Camry  Toyota plans to protect the Camry sedan’s position as the
top-selling U.S. car,  Bob Carter , senior vice president of the
carmaker’s U.S. sales unit, said last week during an Automotive
Press Association event in  Detroit .  “The mid-size sedan market is the largest segment in the
industry and we want Toyota to continue to be America’s favorite
car, period,” he said.  While Toyota has trimmed incentives 1.8 percent this year
through August, its car discounts increased by 18 percent,
according to an analysis by researcher Autodata Corp.  The U.S. is Ford’s strongest market while its money-losing
European operations are one of Chief Executive OfficerAlan Mulally’s biggest challenges. It’s trying to replicate the
turnaround plan followed at home to return to profitability in
Europe by 2015.  Europe’s Drag  Ford has reported five straight months of market share
increases, driven by B-Max, Kuga and Transit Custom models. The
company in July narrowed its 2013 loss forecast for  Europe  to
about $1.8 billion from $2 billion. Stephen Odell, Ford’s
European head, said this week in  Germany  the unit will turn a
profit in 2015. He was the unit’s COO for six months before
becoming CEO of Volvo Cars, which Ford owned at the time.  “Europe is dragging down the company from a financial
standpoint,” Baum said. “Barb is somebody Ford thinks very
highly of, and they want to bring her talents to bear on a very
difficult problem.”  Samardzich will be succeeded in her Europe product
development role by Joe Bakaj, who has been serving as vice
president of powertrain engineering. Bob Fascetti, director of
global engine engineering, will become a vice president and take
on Bakaj’s previous role.  Czubay Retires  In the U.S., Felice is currently general sales manager for
Ford and Lincoln. He takes over as Czubay completes a 43-year
career in the  auto industry , which started with Ford in 1970.
After leaving the company in 1983, he rejoined Ford in 2008.  Ford this month is using a dealer-bonus program often
called stair-step incentives in which the automaker pays dealers
more cash per model as they cross sales thresholds for some of
its oldest Lincoln models.  While Czubay said on a Sept. 4 conference call that Ford
doesn’t run stair-step programs, company sales analyst Erich Merkle said later the automaker is using them selectively.  Ford slipped 0.2 percent to $17.35 at the close in in  New
York . The shares have surged 34 percent this year, outpacing the
18 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan ,  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  