-- Former Tullett Broker Starts Commodities Options Business
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-09-13T17:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/former-tullett-broker-wilson-starts-commodities-options-business.html
Richard Wilson, a director of
 carbon emissions , coal and iron ore at  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  until
April, has set up his own commodities options brokerage.  Hot Options Ltd., which opened last month, handles carbon,
coal and iron ore options as commodities trades are increasingly
conducted on exchanges, Wilson, 41, said in an interview today
from his  home office  near Basingstoke,  England .  “There is plenty of scope for boutique broking,” said
Wilson, who matched buyers with sellers at Tullett for 20 years.
“Underlying markets are shifting toward the exchanges.”  Trading in European Union carbon permit forwards is
shifting to exchanges from brokers as the eight-year-old market
matures. The volume of EU carbon contracts handled by members of
the London Energy Brokers’ Association plunged 52 percent in
August compared with the same month last year, the group said
Sept. 4. The volume of contracts handled by ICE Futures  Europe 
in London, the biggest exchange for carbon trading, dropped 41
percent in the same period.  Most options trades in energy markets still include a
broker, Wilson said. Hot Options will handle contracts for
clearing on multiple exchanges, including ICE and CME Group
Inc., he said.  Options are the right, but not the obligation, to buy or a
sell an asset at a set date and price. Traders and investors use
the contracts to bet on or guard against price fluctuations in
underlying assets.  Wilson declined to detail why he left Tullett. “After 20
years of service, it was time to move on,” he said.  Hot Options is a trading partner of Schneider Trading
Associates Ltd. in  London , according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  