-- France’s Moscovici Rebuffs European Concern on Pensions
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-09-13T14:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/france-s-moscovici-rebuffs-european-concern-on-pensions.html
French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici rebuffed European concern that President Francois Hollande may be moving too slowly to revamp the  economy , saying
his government’s policies are “ambitious and credible.”  “ France  is reforming hard and reforming fast,” Moscovici
told journalists in Vilnius,  Lithuania , where he was meeting
with euro-area finance ministers, central bankers and European
Commissioners including Olli Rehn.  The remarks reflect the international pressure on
Hollande’s government to overhaul an economy that has lost
competitiveness to its European peers over the past decade as
labor costs climbed and deficits accumulated. In the past two
weeks France announced a pension reform that avoided lifting the
retirement age and plans for a larger-than-expected deficit this
year.  “There’s always the question whether the glass is half
full or half empty” with France, Rehn said today. “France is
going into the right direction in terms of economic reforms but
there is still much more to do.”  Hollande’s pension plan will extend working lives to 43
years by 2035 from 41 years currently. Yet the increase avoids
accelerating an increase in the effective retirement age until
2020, relying instead on higher contributions from employees and
employers to trim the retirement system’s deficit in the
meantime. The government has pledged to offset the increase for
employers to hold down labor costs, though it has yet to specify
how.  ‘Negative Impact’  The pensions overhaul “must not add costs for business or
discourage employment,” Rehn said earlier this week in  Le
Figaro  newspaper.  “We’re still waiting to hear how the
negative impact on labor costs will be compensated.”  Moscovici said he had a “long meeting” with Rehn last
week in St. Petersburg and that the discussion was “serious and
constructive.” The two men have “excellent relations,” he
said.  Hollande’s Socialist government also announced this week
that it expects to have a  budget deficit  equivalent to 4.1
percent of gross domestic product this year and 3.6 percent in
2014, before bringing the shortfall below 3 percent the
following year. The commission had predicted a 2013 deficit of
3.9 percent of GDP.  The difference is due to the slower-than-expected economic
recovery, Moscovici said, adding that the 2014 deficit-reduction
effort will rely on 15 billion euros ($20 billion) of spending
cuts and only 3 billion euros of tax increases, in line with
commission recommendations.  ‘Resilient Economy’  “France is a country that is changing quickly,” Moscovici
said. The objective “is to have a more resilient economy,” he
said.  The finance minister also pointed to France’s low borrowing
costs as evidence of the credibility of its policy. The  premium 
France pays over  Germany  to borrow for 10 years is currently 56
basis points, down from 80 points in November last year and more
than 200 points in late 2011. The country also pays about 40
points less than the U.K. to borrow for a decade.  “The best proof remains the same: interest rates haven’t
moved,” he said. “Our reforms are understood, our policies are
credible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Vilnius at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  