-- Fresenius Unit to Pay $4.1 Billion for Rhoen Hospitals
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-09-13T15:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/fresenius-unit-to-pay-4-1-billion-for-rhoen-klinikum-hospitals.html
     Sept. 13 (Bloomberg) -- Fresenius SE agreed to pay  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  3.07 billion euros ($4.1 billion) for 43 hospitals,
sidestepping competitors who had tried to block a deal to create
 Europe ’s biggest chain of private hospitals.  The purchase will add about 2 billion euros in annual sales
and 250 million euros in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, Fresenius said in a statement
today. Rhoen-Klinikum shares rose the most since April 2012.  Unlike Fresenius’s attempt last year to buy all of Rhoen-Klinikum, today’s deal won’t require a shareholder vote. That
means the two companies will be able to create the Germany-wide
hospital network they’d envisioned without the competitors who
own Rhoen shares blocking the way, analysts for Jefferies
International Ltd. said.  “Where there is a will there is a way,” analysts Ingeborg Oie and  Chris Cooper , both based in  London , wrote in a note to
investors this morning.  The boards of both German companies endorsed the deal,
which requires regulatory approval and the support of minority
shareholders or former owners of certain hospitals, Rhoen-Klinikum, based in Bad Neustadt An Der Saale, said in a
statement.  Shares Gain  Rhoen-Klinikum shares gained 11 percent to close at 19.45
euros at 5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the company at 2.68
billion euros. Bad Homburg-based Fresenius rose 3.6 percent to
91.10 euros, the largest increase since April 23.  Fresenius raised its full-year profit  forecast  in July,
saying additional funding for German hospitals will boost
earnings from its Helios unit, which owns and operates 74
hospitals in  Germany . The Rhoen-Klinikum facilities will add
11,800 beds and 15 outpatient centers, and put the majority of
the German population within an hour’s drive of a Helios
hospital. The resulting business will have 117 hospitals and
almost 5.5 billion euros in annual sales.  The agreement follows more than a year of tussling over
control of Rhoen-Klinikum. Fresenius and Rhoen-Klinikum said the
hospitals the smaller company keeps will also be part of a
cooperation network with Fresenius. Fresenius will remain in
close contact with Rhoen-Klinikum Chairman Eugen Muench, Ulf Mark Schneider, Fresenius’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview.  Failed Bid  Fresenius’s 3.1 billion-euro bid to buy all of Rhoen-Klinikum failed last year after an attempt to gain at least 90
percent of the hospital operator’s stock was foiled by Asklepios
Kliniken GmbH. B. Braun Holding GmbH sought regulatory approval
this month to increase its stake in Rhoen-Klinikum to 25 percent
to gain more control over the German hospital operator.  “What was perceived as a stalemate has now been
dissolved,” Schneider said. He said he is certain the deal
won’t require a shareholder vote and that the company has been
“very mindful” of potential legal restrictions.  While German courts have found in some cases that
shareholders need to approve a transaction if it covers more or
less all of a company’s assets, the Rhoen deal is unlikely to
trigger these rules, said Regina Engelstaedter, a corporate law
partner at  Paul Hastings  in  Frankfurt .  “You can bet that Fresenius’ lawyers have looked in each
and every angle of that part of the law for months before making
the statement that such a vote isn’t necessary,” said
Engelstaedter, who isn’t involved in the transaction. “The
courts have backed up in recent years and restrict the rules to
extreme cases which we don’t really have here.”  German Law  It can never be ruled out that shareholders opposing the
move will sue and try to torpedo the transaction, she said. The
chances they would succeed are low, though, according to the
lawyer.  “I would be very relaxed in this case, to tell you the
truth,” said Engelstaedter.  Fresenius said it will finance the transaction with  debt 
and won’t assume any of Rhoen-Klinikum’s debt as part of the
deal. It expects one-time, pretax costs of about 80 million
euros from the transaction and annual savings of 85 million
euros before tax by 2015.  The company expects the purchase to add to earnings in the
first year and said it may result in savings, such as through
bundling procurement. The transaction for the majority of
hospitals will close this year, with the acquisition of the
remaining hospitals to be completed in 2014, Schneider said.
Fresenius will consider additional hospital purchases, he said.  Special Dividend  Rhoen-Klinikum will keep hospitals in Bad Neustadt, Bad
Berka, Frankfurt (Oder), as well as the university hospitals in
Giessen and Marburg, the company said. The sale will leave
Rhoen-Klinikum with 5,300 hospital beds, generating about 1
billion euros in annual revenue.  The sale proceeds will enable Rhoen-Klinikum to repay  debt 
and about 200 million euros will be left over for investments,
the company said. The board is proposing a  special dividend  of
as much as 1.9 billion euros, or 13.80 euros a share, from the
proceeds. The company is also considering a stock repurchasing
plan.  The deal renders previous revenue and earnings forecasts
obsolete, Rhoen-Klinikum said. The company assumes “organic
 growth rates ” of 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent a year in the
medium term and an Ebitda margin of 14 percent until 2015
“appears realistic,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  