-- General Growth Says Most of Share Buyback From Pershing
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-13T13:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/general-growth-says-most-of-567-million-buyback-from-pershing.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the
second-largest U.S. shopping mall owner, said it spent $567
million repurchasing shares, mostly from  Bill Ackman ’s Pershing
Square Capital Management LP.  The real estate investment trust’s board has approved the
repurchase of 28.3 million shares at an average price of $20 a
share in the third quarter through yesterday, according to a
statement today. General Growth, based in  Chicago , said it
bought 25 million shares at $20 a share from Pershing yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer  Sandeep Mathrani  said the shares
are being bought at a capitalization rate of about 6 percent.
“This is a discount to private-market valuation for high-quality U.S. retail properties,” he said in the statement.  Pershing was the second-largest  investor  in General Growth,
holding about 68 million shares as of June 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The New York-based hedge-fund firm
previously sold about 7 million shares of the mall landlord in
June, the data show. General Growth’s shares fell 1.1 percent to
$19.36 yesterday and have dropped 2.5 percent this year.  Mall REITs, which enjoyed strong tenant sales growth since
the credit crisis and recession, now face sluggish  retail sales 
and limited opportunities to expand. This has pushed investors
to look elsewhere for earnings growth.  Share Performance  The Bloomberg mall REIT  index  has fallen 5.4 percent this
year, the worst performing part of the industry, after posting
the biggest increases from the start of 2009 through 2012. REITs
that own regional malls reported the smallest increase in tenant
sales per square foot in three years in the second quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  General Growth’s purchases reduced the REIT’s total shares
outstanding to about 964 million, according to the statement.
The company paid for the transaction in cash.  Ackman, founder of Pershing, helped rescue General Growth
from near-collapse by pushing it to file for bankruptcy in 2009,
when he also won a board seat. The effort “turned $60 million
into $1.6 billion,” Ackman told  Bloomberg News  in 2011, and
contributed to his flagship fund’s net return of 29 percent in
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  