-- Georgia’s Dangerous War Against Obamacare
-- B y   F o r d   V o x
-- 2013-09-13T14:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/georgia-s-dangerous-war-against-obamacare.html
Open enrollment in the new state
 health-insurance marketplaces  begins in a matter of days. With
less than three weeks to go before the Oct. 1 start date,
 Georgia ’s Republican governor and insurance commissioner are
doing everything in their power to make it hard to attract
people to Georgia’s exchange. And the state’s big health
insurers have been chipping in with well-timed donations.  Georgia is one of  22  mostly Republican-led states that are
opting out of Medicaid expansion altogether, despite the federal
subsidy that goes with it. In Georgia, that leaves  650,000  of
the state’s  working poor  in limbo, without any subsidy to help
them buy insurance on the exchange.  But that’s old news. Georgia is also participating in the
next wave of resistance to the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act.  In a  speech  last month, Ralph Hudgens, Georgia’s insurance
commissioner, reassured an audience of Republican Party faithful
that he’s solving the “problem” of Obamacare in Georgia by
doing “everything in our power to be an obstructionist.”  The health-care law does not allow states to require that
navigators -- who help people find insurance plans on the state
exchanges -- be licensed insurance agents. But Hudgens has an
alternative strategy: He’ll simply subject navigators to the
same test that insurance agents must pass.  “Basically, you take the insurance agents’ test, you erase
the name, you write ‘navigator test’ on there,” Hudgens said to
howls and cackles from his delighted audience in the tiny town
of  Rome .  Straining Stability  The public rationale for setting the bar so high for
exchange navigators is that it increases “consumer
protection.” The real reason is to limit the number of
navigators, thereby obstructing Obamacare.  The health-care law protects Georgia insurance buyers by
requiring that all plans meet minimum quality standards. And
there’s no requirement that consumers enlist a navigator to help
them use the insurance-exchange website. Navigators are meant to
help disadvantaged and nonnative consumers who might have
trouble selecting plans for themselves and their families.
There’s no practical reason these helpers should be able to pass
tests designed for insurance agents, who have a markedly
different and more complex job.  In order for the state exchanges to work well, a broad and
diverse population needs to enroll. Uninsured and poorly insured
people who desperately need immediate health care are sure to
sign up in droves, straining the fiscal stability of individual
insurance plans -- unless many, many healthy people sign up as
well.  So who, exactly, are Georgia’s top officials really
fighting for? Perhaps it is the donors to Real PAC -- a
political action committee named after Governor Nathan Deal’s
campaign slogan (“Deal. Real.”) and funded by some of the
state’s biggest health insurers, hospitals and nursing home
associations. Recent reports by independent investigative
journalist  Jim Walls  and the Atlanta Journal-Constitution have
pushed Real PAC to disclose that it has received almost $1
million in donations since late 2011, most of it from the
health-care industry, according to an analysis by Better
Georgia, an organization that advocates for progressive
government policies.  What’s funny is that Georgia’s governor was for state-based
health-insurance exchanges before he was against them. In the
summer of 2011, when Deal started an  exploratory committee  to
investigate how Georgia could set up its own exchange, he
declared that it was his “hope” that the committee would find
a way for the state to so. His change of heart came in November
2012, after Real PAC started raking in large donations from the
health-care industry.  Bandwagon Leader  These days, Deal is leading the bandwagon of largely
Southern  state leaders  in blocking implementation of the health-care law. This past spring,  he told  Fox Business News
commentator Neil Cavuto that he subscribes to the conspiracy
theory that the law is a Trojan horse full of socialists.
Rolling Obamacare over the Georgia line is “one way to get to a
one-payer system,” Deal said, because it will “set up a system
that fails miserably.” After Obamacare implodes, the story
goes, Democrats will be able to claim that only total federal
control can make the health-care system work effectively.  It’s an absurd claim. Nathan Deal is the one doing
everything in his power to ensure the law’s failure in Georgia -
- even though almost 20 percent of the state’s citizens lack any
kind of health insurance.  (Ford Vox, a doctor at the Shepherd Center for brain and
spinal-cord injury in Atlanta, writes about health-care policy.
Follow him on Twitter  @fordvox .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ford Vox at  docvox@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 