-- German Energy Plan ‘Schizophrenic’ as Coal Beats Gas, Greens Say
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-09-13T07:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/german-energy-plan-schizophrenic-as-coal-beats-gas-greens-say.html
Germany’s renewable-energy drive is
boosting  carbon emissions  by spurring coal-fed electricity
generation at the expense of cleaner-burning natural gas,  Lower
Saxony ’s environment minister said.  “What we are seeing is the schizophrenic situation of the
renaissance of lignite plants while efficient  power plants  don’t
get a chance to enter the market,” Stefan Wenzel, a member of
the opposition Green party, said Sept. 11 in an interview in
Munich. Lower Saxony has the biggest share of installed wind
farms in Germany, according to wind power lobby group  BWE .  German utilities and factories emitted 452 million metric
tons of carbon dioxide last year, the most since 2008, as coal
use soared, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The nation
increased its share of renewable generation to 23 percent last
year from 15 percent in 2008, according to AG Energiebilanzen,
an association of energy lobbies and research institutes.  Under  Germany ’s clean-energy law, the government guarantees
above-market prices for wind, biomass and solar power
generators, driving a surge in subsidized supply that’s helped
push wholesale costs down 20 percent in the past year. The price
drop is cutting profit at gas-fired plants as utilities turn to
relatively cheaper coal to cover demand when wind and solar
output slows in Europe’s biggest energy-consuming nation.  Germany’s Green opposition party wants to cut emissions
from thermal power plants. Generation from lignite-fired units,
which can emit three times as much as gas generators, rose to
161 terawatt-hours last year, the highest since 1990, AG
Energiebilanzen data show.  Carbon Floor  The surplus of emission permits in  Europe  needs to be cut
and a minimum price for carbon put in place to reduce the output
of coal-fired plants, Wenzel said. Low prices for emissions have
cut the penalty for coal-fired production and eroded the
incentive to operate cleaner generators, he said.  Europe “needs to make sure that the dirtiest fossil power
plants go offline first, along with nuclear plants,” he said.  The profit from burning coal increased 3.4 percent to 8.89
euros a megawatt-hour yesterday in Berlin, based on German
power, coal and emissions prices for next year. Gas-fired plants
generated a loss of 17.40 euros a megawatt-hour, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Greens want to challenge the current government
coalition between  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Union and the
Liberal Democrats in the election on Sept. 22. and may form a
coalition with the  Social Democrats .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  