-- German Stocks Are Little Changed Before U.S. Retail Sales
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-13T07:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/german-stocks-are-little-changed-before-u-s-retail-sales.html
German stocks  were little changed,
with the  DAX (DAX)  Index heading for a weekly gain, as investors
awaited American retail-sales data, and the U.S. and Russia hold
talks on Syria.  Suedzucker AG (SZU)  dropped 2.6 percent after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc added the stock to its conviction-sell list. Fresenius SE
added 4.3 percent after the health-care company’s Helios unit
agreed to pay  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  3.07 billion euros ($4.07
billion) for 43 hospitals. Rhoen-Klinikum surged 11 percent.  The DAX retreated 0.1 percent to 8,482.37 at 9:32 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The benchmark has still gained 2.5 percent this week
amid better-than-expected economic data from China and as U.S.
President  Barack Obama  delayed a decision on military action
against Syria. The broader HDAX Index fell 0.1 percent today.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington may show that retail sales rose in August.  Purchases (RSTAMOM) 
climbed 0.5 percent after a 0.2 percent gain in July, according
to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The retail report is one of the last pieces of data before
next week’s Federal Reserve meeting on Sept. 17-18 as policy
makers consider whether to pare monetary stimulus. Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke has said that the central bank may consider tapering
if the economy grows in line with its forecasts.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry meets his Russian
counterpart  Sergei Lavrov  in Geneva today for talks on the
removal of Syria’s chemical weapons. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said any deal to surrender the nation’s chemical arsenal
must be a “two-way street,” with Obama’s administration
dropping its military threats and ceasing to arm Syrian rebels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  