-- Glencore Agrees to Study $3 Billion Congo Iron Ore Mine
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-09-13T16:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/glencore-agrees-to-progress-study-of-3-billion-congo-iron-mine.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the global
commodity trader and metals producer run by billionaire Ivan Glasenberg, agreed to proceed with a study into an iron ore mine
in the Republic of Congo that may cost as much as $3 billion.  The assessment, with partner Zanaga Iron Ore Co., “is now
being advanced on the basis of a staged development,
substantially reducing the initial capital requirement and
including the potential for initial production using existing
infrastructure,” Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore said today in
a statement.  The development cost is now estimated at $2.5 billion to $3
billion, down from $7.4 billion, Zanaga said in a presentation
on its  website . Glencore’s Glasenberg has led a call for an
industrywide crackdown on over-spending on new mines, which he
blames for a glut of some raw materials that has trimmed prices
and profits for producers.  The revised agreement between Glencore and Zanaga “should
increase the likelihood of project finance,” London-based
Liberum Capital Ltd. analyst Richard Knights wrote today in a
note. “The company now has a materially more palatable project
for potential investors and debt providers given its lower and
more efficient capex number.”  Glencore owns a stake of 50 percent plus one share in the
project and Zanaga the rest. An examination of the proposed
development is due to be completed in the second quarter of next
year, with a decision on investment following that.  The mine may initially produce as much as 14 million metric
tons of iron ore a year, Zanaga said. The previous plan was for
a mine producing 30 million tons a year.  Zanaga Surges  Zanaga  jumped  7.1 percent to close at 28.375 pence in
London, the highest since Dec. 19. The stock has more than
 doubled  in the last month, giving the company a market value of
79 million pounds ($125 million).  Glencore, which acquired the stake in the project with
Zanaga through the $29 billion takeover of Xstrata Plc in May,
dropped 1.8 percent to 337.55 pence.  The biggest mining companies including Glencore,  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Rio Tinto Group and Vale SA are set to spend
about $244 billion on expansions through 2015, according to
forecasts compiled this month by Bloomberg from the 20 largest
mining companies by market value.  Glencore is the world’s biggest exporter of power-station
coal. It’s the third-biggest producer of mined copper, third in
nickel and biggest in zinc and lead.  The company this week estimated savings of $2 billion next
year through the takeover of Xstrata by closing 33 offices,
firing workers and reducing costs at existing operations.  Glencore reviewed 88 projects acquired from Xstrata and
decided to suspend 44 of them, it said Sept. 10. It also raised
the cost estimate for its Koniambo nickel project, inherited
from Xstrata, by $1 billion to $6.3 billion.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, is a non-executive director of Glencore Xstrata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  