-- MGM Film Studio Adopts Takeover Defense, Weighs Options
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-09-13T19:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/mgm-film-studio-adopts-takeover-defense-weighs-options.html
MGM Holdings Inc. (MGMB) , maker of the
 James Bond movies , approved a stock buyback and adopted a
shareholder rights plan to thwart any unfriendly takeovers as it
considers ways to maximize shareholder value.  The studio, which filed for an initial public offering last
year, is weighing options amid the box-office success of Bond
films and “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,” as well as a
recovery in home entertainment. The actions aren’t in response
to any known buyout effort, the Beverly Hills, California-based
company, owner of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, said today in a
statement.  “It sounds like the company is entertaining deals that
would be beneficial to the entire shareholder base,” Steven Azarbad, co-founder of New York-based Maglan Capital LP and an
MGM investor, said in an e-mail.  MGM Holdings’ gains have attracted investors including
billionaire  Daniel Loeb , who previously pressed Sony Corp. to
sell as much as 20 percent of its film and TV business in an
initial public offering.  Loeb’s  Third Point  LLC is one of MGM’s top five owners,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  “I don’t think the poison pill is directed specifically at
Dan Loeb,” Azarbad said.  In May, the  Hollywood Reporter  said Loeb had purchased an
undisclosed amount of MGM Holdings, helping to drive up the
price in private trades. The company submitted a confidential
filing for initial public offering in July 2012, without going
forward.  Stock Buyback  Elissa Doyle, a managing director with Third Point in  New
York , declined to comment.  MGM has about 55 million shares outstanding, according to
the company. The repurchase authorization totals $75 million, or
about 2.5 percent of the stock. Shares of MGM Holdings,  traded
intermittently over the counter, were quoted at $55 today,
according to Azarbad, up about 50 percent this year.  Under the stock rights plan, investors would be able to buy
new junior preferred shares if a party acquired 10 percent or
more of the company or announced a tender offer. The plan is
designed to deter “abusive, coercive, manipulative and
discriminatory takeover tactics,” MGM Holdings said.  “MGM’s healthy balance sheet and efficient operating
structure position the company for a wide array of options to
maximize  shareholder value ,” Ann Mather, the studio’s lead
director, said in the statement. “The MGM board is considering
all of these options carefully, and has approved the share
repurchase plan in recognition of the company’s strong
performance to date and future prospects.”  Profit Gains  MGM studio emerged from bankruptcy almost three years ago,
with creditors Highland Capital, Solus Alternative Asset
Management LP and Anchorage Capital Group LLC as the controlling
owners. They continue to be among the top investors, said the
person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly and asked to
remain anonymous.  The company has prospered under its new owners. Profit
increased more than sixfold to $35.9 million in the second
quarter, the studio said on Aug. 14. Revenue more than doubled
to $339 million.  Two theatrical releases are scheduled for later this year:
“Carrie,” with Sony, is set to open in theaters on Oct. 18.
“The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug,” with Time Warner Inc.’s
New Line, comes out on Dec. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  