-- Gol Leads Ibovespa Higher as Route Cuts Boost Profitability
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-09-13T20:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/gol-leads-ibovespa-as-airline-cuts-routes-to-boost-profitability.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA,
 Brazil ’s second-biggest air carrier by market share, was the
best performer on the  Ibovespa (IBOV)  stock index after saying a gauge
of profitability rose last month as it cut flights.  The  shares  climbed 9.8 percent to a four-month high of
11.36 reais at the close of trading in Sao Paulo. The benchmark
Ibovespa added 0.9 percent.  Net passenger income per available seat-kilometer, a
measure of profitability known as Prask, rose 24 percent in
August from a year earlier, the 17th consecutive increase, Gol
said today in a regulatory filing. Domestic flights dropped 7.6
percent from a year earlier while international flights
increased 22 percent.  “That shows Gol’s recovery plan is really working,”
Sandro Fernandes, an analyst at brokerage firm Geraldo Correa,
said by phone from  Belo Horizonte , Brazil. “Investors are very
excited with those numbers and expect further improvement in the
coming quarters.”  The Sao Paulo-based airline has cut costs, reducing its
workforce as of June by 13 percent from a year earlier to 16,465
employees.  Chief Executive Officer Paulo Kakinoff, who took over in
July 2012, said in a Sept. 11 interview that his turnaround plan
is showing results for the company that has posted losses in
eight of the past nine quarters.  “Gol still has numerous strategic measures to be taken,
which we cannot presently reveal,” Kakinoff said  The shares have tumbled 12 percent this year as a falling
real drove up costs for dollar-denominated expenses such as
fuel, plane leases and debt payments. The Ibovespa is down 12
percent and the currency has weakened 10 percent.  Fuel accounted for 41 percent of Gol’s second-quarter
operating expenses, the most among 16 carriers in the Americas
with at least 100 planes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  