-- Goldman Lifts Soybean Price Outlook as USDA Downgrades U.S. Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-09-13T09:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/goldman-lifts-soybean-price-outlook-as-usda-downgrades-u-s-crop.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
outlook for U.S. soybean prices in the next three and six months
after a government report yesterday showed U.S. production will
be reduced due to dry weather.  Soybeans may be $12.50 a bushel in three months and $11.50
in six months, below current price levels while above the bank’s
previous outlook of $10.50 a bushel, Goldman analysts including
Damien Courvalin wrote in an e-mailed report today. The U.S.
Department of Agriculture lowered its forecast for the U.S.
harvest to 3.149 billion bushels yesterday, its second cut in as
many months and 3.3 percent less than expected in August.  “Uncertainty over the size of the U.S. corn and especially
soybean crops remain unusually high for this time of year given
the volatility and extremes in planting and growing weather
across the Midwest,” Courvalin wrote. The USDA may lower its
outlook for U.S. yields again in its October report, he said.  Soybeans for November delivery rallied 2.8 percent
yesterday on the Chicago Board of Trade, before falling as much
as 0.7 percent today to $13.8675 a bushel. The most-active
contract has jumped 20 percent since reaching a 19-month low in
August as heat and dry weather intensified in U.S. growing
areas.  Areas of the Midwest, including top growers Iowa and
 Illinois , had as little as 5 percent of the normal amount of
rain in the last 30 days, according to the National Weather
Service. Crop development was already  delayed  by wet, cool
weather earlier this year, leaving yields vulnerable to heat and
dry weather in August, a time when plants are developing pods
and maturing before the harvest, USDA data show.  Production  Soybean prices may still be pressured by ample world
supplies, Courvalin said. Global production may be 281.66
million metric tons, less than expected in August while still
the biggest crop on record, the USDA estimated.  “While we see upside risk to current prices given downside
risks to U.S. production, we ultimately believe that lower U.S.
exports and another large increase in South American soybean
acreage and production will leave U.S. inventories above last
year’s level and prices below the current forward curve,”
Courvalin said.  Corn prices may be $4.25 a bushel in the next three, six
and 12 months, Courvalin said. The bank left its wheat forecast
unchanged at $6.50 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  