-- Goldman Sees Risk of Gold Below $1,000 on U.S. Economy
-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-09-13T15:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/goldman-sees-risk-of-gold-below-1-000-as-u-s-economy-gains-1-.html
Gold is poised to extend declines
as the U.S. Federal Reserve withdraws stimulus and economic data
improve, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which says that
there’s a risk that bullion may drop below $1,000 an ounce.
Futures retreated in  New York .  While debt-ceiling discussions in the U.S. and the Syrian
crisis may support bullion in the near term, gold will resume
its decline into next year,  Jeffrey Currie , head of commodities
research, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.
The bank’s target for 2014 is $1,050, and the commodity may
overshoot to the downside, Currie said in  Singapore . Gold
futures haven’t traded below $1,000 since October 2009.  Bullion has dropped 22 percent this year as some investors
lost faith in the metal as a store of value, the  U.S. economy 
improved and stocks and the dollar rallied. The Fed will pare
its $85 billion a month bond-buying program next week, according
to a Bloomberg survey. Earlier this year, Currie issued a sell
recommendation on bullion on April 10, before gold plunged 13
percent in a two-session slump that ended April 15.  “While we agree with the mid-cycle price somewhere around
$1,200, we believe that at least near term it can overshoot to
the downside, which is why we have $1,050” as a target, Currie
said. “It clearly could trade below $1,000.”  Record Price  Gold for December delivery fell as much as 2 percent to
$1,304.60 on the Comex, the lowest since Aug. 9, and traded at
$1,314.40 at 11:52 a.m. in New York. Most-active futures reached
a record $1,923.70 in September 2011. Goldman’s three- and six-month targets are $1,300, according to a report on Sept. 11.  Global stocks tracked by the MSCI All-Country World Index
rallied 12 percent this year and the Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index
climbed 3.9 percent. The Fed began buying $40 billion of
mortgage-backed securities per month in September of last year
and then supplemented that with $45 billion of  Treasury
securities  in December to bolster the recovery. Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  suggested on June 19 that the program might be wound
up by the middle of next year.  “For next year, a move to $1,000 is on the cards,” said
Dominic Schnider, head of commodities research at UBS AG’s
wealth-management unit in Singapore. “Once a timetable of
tapering is known, then you probably will see a fresh selling
wave of the exchange-traded fund side.”  Most of the Fed’s expected decision next week to start
tapering has been priced in, and Goldman expects an initial
reduction of $10 billion a month in asset purchases, said
Currie. A stronger dollar would diminish gold demand, he said.  ETP Sales  Investors have sold bullion at a record pace from  exchange-traded products  this year. Holdings in ETPs have contracted
684.1 metric tons to 1,947.8 tons after shrinking every month in
2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse Group AG raised the possibility of gold
trading below $1,000 in May as Ric Deverell, head of commodities
research at the bank, said then that bullion was going to get
crushed as inflation risks remained muted. That forecast was for
bullion in five years’ time.  “The real key in gold is to see the evidence of the
improving economic data in the U.S.,” said Currie, who is based
in New York. Weakening emerging-market currencies, especially
the South African rand, will also help to reduce the cost of
production in dollars, he said  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index showed
U.S. manufacturing expanded in August at the fastest pace since
June 2011. The group’s gauge of service industries, which cover
almost 90 percent of the economy, posted the highest reading
since December 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Disaster Insurance  Gold has fallen this year because investors see less need
for disaster insurance, Bernanke said in July. One reason that
prices are lower is that people are less concerned about extreme
outcomes, particularly negative, he said.  The U.S. federal government needs to increase its debt
limit later this year, and Goldman expects that the ceiling will
be raised by the end of next month, according to the Sept. 11
report. On  Syria , U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  met with
Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  this week to seek to get
Syria to give up its chemical weapons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  