-- Google EU Probe Outcome to Be Decided in Weeks, Almunia Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   G a s p a r d   S e b a g
-- 2013-09-13T10:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/google-antitrust-decision-planned-in-coming-weeks-almunia-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will find out within
weeks whether its recent offer to European Union antitrust
regulators was enough to settle an almost three-year-old EU
probe into the way it operates its search services.  “This investigation started in November 2010, it has been
difficult,” Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia told a
conference in Florence,  Italy , today. “It’s important but it
cannot be prolonged forever, so we are now in the decisive
weeks.”  Almunia said “time is running fast” and he will “in the
coming weeks” decide whether to accept Google’s settlement
offer or go forward with a formal complaint, known as a
statement of objections, and ultimately adopt “a possible
negative decision.”  Almunia told Bloomberg Television last week that Google had
submitted a new proposal to address the European Commission’s
competition concerns. A previous  offer  by Google in April to
label its branded search services and show links to rival
specialized search services was rejected as insufficient by
Almunia in July.  Google rivals, including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , have urged the EU
to seek tougher concessions from the Mountain View, California-based company. Competitors and users were able to review
Google’s proposed remedies the first time around and are asking
the Brussels-based European Commission to market test the latest
offer as well.  “Our proposal to the European Commission addresses their”
areas of concern, Al Verney, a Brussels-based spokesman for
Google, said by phone today. “We continue to work with the
commission to settle this case.”  First Offer  The first offer by Google sought to address concerns that
the company promotes its own specialist search services, such as
Google News and Google Finance, copies rivals’ travel and
restaurant reviews, and has agreements with websites and
software developers that stifle competition in the advertising
industry. The latest offer by Google isn’t public.  The EU will adopt a statement of objections against Google
“if we consider that the new proposals are not able to limit
our concerns,” Almunia told Bloomberg Television Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Florence via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  