-- IMF Staff Urge India to Tackle Twin Deficits Amid Slower Growth
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-13T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/imf-staff-urge-india-to-tackle-twin-deficits-amid-slower-growth.html
The International Monetary Fund
staff urged  India  to make “tough choices” on its tax and
subsidies system, calling for measures to improve the business
climate as the country battles a slowing expansion and faster
inflation.  “India is saddled with large fiscal and external
deficits,” the IMF staff said in a report released today on the
Group of 20 economies. “With slower growth and persistent twin
deficits, investor sentiment has weakened and risks have risen
alongside recent market turbulence.”  The IMF’s assessment on India was part of a broader study
of imbalances in the world’s economy, which was released just as
several emerging markets see their currencies tumble in
anticipation of the Federal Reserve’s plans to reduce monetary
stimulus.  Overseas funds have cut holdings of Indian debt by $10.5
billion since May 22, when Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke first
flagged a potential cut in monthly purchases of U.S. assets that
had fueled demand for  emerging markets  in a search for profit.  Faced with revenues that are too low and spending that’s
too high, India needs to overhaul its tax system to create a
single sales tax, according to the report.  “Removing supply bottlenecks and improving the business
climate would help reduce medium-term external imbalances, lift
growth and improve fiscal dynamics,” the IMF staff also said.  ‘Large Imbalances’  Besides India, the report identified seven countries and
the euro region as having “relatively large imbalances” in
2013. While overall imbalances in the global economy have
decreased, only part of the improvement is permanent, according
to the IMF staff assessment.  While some of the adjustment has been healthy, some of it
stems from weaker demand in advanced nations, according to the
report. “Exchange rates have also broadly moved in the right
direction to help rebalancing, though with some exceptions,”
the staff said in the report.  China ’s growth has been too reliant on investment and an
“unsustainable surge in credit,” according to the IMF staff
report, which identified reform in the financial sector as an
“urgent priority” for the world’s second-largest economy.  The U.S. fiscal outlook remains a “major” concern despite
improvement and more remains to be done to safeguard stability
of its financial system, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  