-- Indian Rupee Poised for Best Week This Year on Inflow Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-09-13T05:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/indian-rupee-poised-for-best-week-this-year-on-inflow-optimism.html
India’s rupee headed for its
biggest weekly gain since November on optimism steps announced
by the new central bank chief will boost the supply of dollars.  In his first speech since taking charge as  Reserve Bank  of
India Governor on Sept. 4,  Raghuram Rajan  offered to sell
concessional swaps for lenders’ foreign-currency deposits and
vowed to rein in inflation. The measures will boost the nation’s
reserves by $10 billion, Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates.
The rupee fell today on concern slowing growth will deter
investment when the U.S. pares stimulus.  The Indian currency rose 2 percent this week to 63.96 per
dollar as of 10:07 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest gain since the
five days through Nov. 30, 2012, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency weakened 0.7 percent
today, the sharpest drop since Sept. 3.  The recent RBI policies “are near-term positives for the
rupee,” Barclays Plc analysts, including London-based  Christian Keller , wrote in a report yesterday. “However, it remains to be
seen whether these measures will translate into better sentiment
and a pick-up in portfolio inflows in the context of Fed
tapering later this month.”  Overseas funds have cut holdings of Indian debt by $10.5
billion since May 22, when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  first flagged a potential cut in asset purchases that
had fueled demand for emerging-market assets. U.S. policy makers
meet Sept. 17-18 and the RBI reviews policy on Sept. 20.  Industrial Production  The largest developing nations for the first time have the
worst market opportunities as optimism for stronger growth
shifts to the U.S. and Europe, according to a Bloomberg Global
Poll. India fared the poorest, followed by  Brazil ,  Russia  and
China. A reduction in Fed stimulus will be seen as no big deal
if it goes ahead next week, according to another Bloomberg
Global Poll of investors.  Indian  industrial production  unexpectedly rose in July,
according to official data published after the market shut
yesterday, while a separate report showed consumer prices
increased 9.52 percent in August from a year earlier.  “We don’t see the rise in industrial production as
sustainable as it is driven by volatile categories, which will
likely reverse,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “The growth outlook is very weak.”  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
21 basis points today, or 0.21 percentage point, to 17.78
percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.5 percent to
65.64 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts declined 0.2 percent to 65.96. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  