-- Investors Trapped in Expensive Stocks as Fed Nears Exit
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-09-13T12:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/investors-trapped-in-expensive-stocks-as-fed-nears-exit.html
Central banks may force investors
to hold expensive equities for years to come by leaving  interest
rates  lower than inflation, according to Fleming Family &
Partners Ltd.  U.S. stocks  are trading at 23.8 times their 10-year average
earnings, compared with their average valuation of 16.5 since
1881, according to Yale University Professor  Robert Shiller .
U.S. government bonds have dropped 3.8 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg indexes, and may fall further as the
majority of economists expect the  Federal Reserve  to start
reducing its monthly asset purchases next week.  “History tells you that you have to de-risk, but what if
you have to de-risk into bad assets?” said Arthur Grigoryants,
who helps oversee $6 billion, in an interview in London on Sept.
12. “Your option is to keep holding risk while the music keeps
playing, or you move into assets that may cap your returns.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index last month climbed to a
record high amid signs of a global economic recovery. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  have both pledged to leave interest rates at record
lows for a prolonged period. Company earnings in the equities
benchmark represent 6.20 percent of share prices, 3.28
percentage points more than  yields  on 10-year Treasuries. The
premium offered by equities has come down from as much as 6.70
percent in 2011.  “While the Fed was behind us, everyone was happy to hold
those assets,” said Grigoryants, an investment manager at the
family office. “But now that the thing has been pushed so far,
staying in the game has become dangerous.”  Bond Tapering  The Fed began buying $40 billion of mortgage-backed
securities per month in September last year and then $45 billion
of Treasuries in December. The central bank had already lowered
its benchmark  rate  to almost zero. The Fed will decide to reduce
its monthly bond purchases to $75 billion when it meets next
week, according to the median estimate of 34 economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News  on Sept. 6.  The central bank will continue to buy mortgage-backed
securities at its current pace, while reducing its Treasury
purchases to $35 billion per month, the economists predicted.  FF&P said the Fed held interest rates at 3 percent for
almost two decades in the aftermath of the Great Depression in
1929, meaning bondholders’ returns were less than inflation.  London-based FF&P, which traces its origins to the 19th-century Scottish financier Robert Fleming, said in a note to
investors obtained by Bloomberg News that the best returns may
come from investments such as non-directional hedge-fund
strategies, catastrophe-insurance bonds and developing-nation
local currency debt.  Emerging Markets  “Emerging-market equities are the only reasonably priced
asset class,” the firm wrote. “We maintain -- somewhat
reluctantly -- a relatively full exposure to the least
overvalued assets, such as global equities.”  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  has risen 149 percent from its 12 1/2-year low
in March 2009. The equity benchmark traded at 15.5 times its
constituents’ forecast earnings on Aug. 2, the highest multiple
since April 2010.  Investors could lose money by staying out of the market as
inflation would erode the value of their assets, Fleming Family
& Partners said in the newsletter.  “We could continue playing the game and remain fully
invested, trying to chase the last few points of available
return,” the family office said in the letter. “But, even if
one is able to identify the critical policy change, there is a
high risk of being trampled by the crowd as all investors run
for the fire exit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  