-- ISS Says Deutsche Wohnen Investors Should Approve GSW Takeover
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-09-13T10:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/iss-says-deutsche-wohnen-investors-should-approve-gsw-takeover.html
Shareholders of  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWN) ,
which include  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Norway ’s sovereign-wealth fund,
were advised to approve the acquisition of  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) ,
documents obtained by Bloomberg show.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., a proxy advisory
firm, advised voting in favor of a capital increase to finance
the purchase, which would create the second-largest owner of
German homes. The cost savings generated by the transaction
would outweigh the risk of making a bid without carrying out due
diligence, ISS said in a report sent to investors on Sept. 6.  “Deutsche Wohnen and GSW’s holdings portfolios are highly
complementary,” ISS wrote. “The potential benefits of the
proposed business combination outweigh the aforementioned
concerns.”  The combined company would own about 150,000 apartments
valued at 8.5 billion euros, according to the companies’
quarterly reports. Most of the homes would be in Berlin, where
price and rent gains have outpaced the rest of the country.  “We are convinced of our offer and are hopeful about the
process,” Deutsche Wohnen spokeswoman Manuela Damianakis said
by phone.  Both Sides  Deutsche Wohnen,  Germany ’s second-largest residential
company by market value, on Aug. 20 offered to buy its
competitor in an all-share transaction that values GSW at about
1.75 billion euros.  Deutsche Wohnen shareholders must approve the issuance of
about 129 million shares, which would be used to finance the
deal, at a Sept. 30 meeting. At least 75 percent of GSW
shareholders must accept the offer for the transaction to
proceed.  Deutsche Wohnen owns about 90,000 apartments in large
German cities including Berlin and  Frankfurt , and GSW owns
60,000 homes in the capital.  BlackRock holds about 6.5 percent of Deutsche Wohnen
shares, while Norges Bank owns about 4.5 percent, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  