-- Portugal’s 10-Year Bonds Decline for Fourth Day as Italy’s Drop
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-09-13T15:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/italian-10-year-bonds-drop-as-portugal-s-decline-for-fourth-day.html
 Portugal’s 10-year bonds fell for
a fourth day before European Union and International Monetary
Fund officials begin two reviews next week on how the nation is
meeting the terms of its financial aid program.  Italy’s 10-year government bonds declined for the first
time in three days as euro-area leaders voiced concern that
political instability could threaten economic reforms. Italian
three-year borrowing costs rose to the most since October at an
auction yesterday.  German (GDBR10)  bonds rose after a report showing U.S.
retail sales climbed less than economists forecast boosted
demand for safer assets before the Federal Reserve decides
whether to slow the pace of bond purchases next week.  “Italy and Portugal are the riskiest places in Europe
right now,” said Allan von Mehren, chief analyst at  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “There is also the tapering issue next week
and people are probably cutting down on risk ahead of the
meeting.”  Portuguese 10-year  yields  climbed 19 basis points, or 0.19
percentage point, to 7.42 percent at 4:43 p.m. London time after
reaching 7.43 percent, the highest since July 15. The 4.95
percent bond maturing in October 2023 fell 1.165, or 11.65 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,328) face amount, to 82.845.  The rate on similar-maturity Italian bonds increased five
basis points to 4.58 percent, while that on Spain’s 10-year
securities climbed four basis points to 4.50 percent.  Portugal Bailout  Portugal requested a 78-billion euro bailout package from
the EU and IMF in April 2011 following a surge in debt levels
and borrowing costs.  Portugal has not formally requested to change its 4 percent
budget deficit target which forms part of its aid program,
Finance Minister Maria Luis  Albuquerque  told reporters in
Vilnius today. A potential adjustment of the deficit target does
mean Portugal will need more time or more money, she said.  Albuquerque’s comments came after Vice Premier Paulo Portas
said this week the government has argued the case for a deficit
target of 4.5 percent.  Silvio Berlusconi said last month that he would bring down
the Italian government should Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s
Democratic Party vote to oust him from the Senate over tax
fraud. The billionaire former premier softened his rhetoric a
day later, saying he wasn’t issuing an ultimatum and wanted the
coalition to continue. Still, allies including Renato Brunetta,
chief whip of Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party in the lower
house of parliament, have kept up the pressure.  ‘Political Stability’  “It’s essential to maintain political stability,” in
 Italy , European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
Olli Rehn told reporters today in Vilnius,  Lithuania , before a
meeting of euro-area finance ministers.  Retail  sales  in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent in August, the
smallest increase in four months, the Commerce Department said
in  Washington . The median  forecast  of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.5 percent advance.  Benchmark German 10-year  yields  dropped three basis points
to 1.97 percent after climbing as much as five basis points to
2.05 percent.  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest in the euro
area today, followed by those of the Netherlands and Italy,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Portuguese bonds returned 1.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italian
securities earned 3 percent, while those of  Germany  dropped 2.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  