-- Japan Display Said to Plan IPO With Government Control
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-09-13T04:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/japan-display-said-to-plan-ipo-with-government-control.html
Japan  Display Inc., which supplies
liquid-crystal displays to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , plans to raise as much as
200 billion yen ($2 billion) in an initial public offering with
a government fund maintaining control after the IPO, according
to a person with direct knowledge of discussions.  Government-backed  Innovation Network Corp. of Japan  will
retain more than a third of the company, which will have a
market value of as much as 800 billion yen, the person said,
asking to not be identified as the matter is private. The IPO
may take place before the end of March 2014 and some
underwriters have been selected to oversee the sale, the
person said.  Japan Display was set up last year when  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Toshiba
Corp. (6502)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  spun off their businesses to the
government-backed fund after struggling to compete with South
Korea’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in the TV display market. The
world’s largest maker of LCDs used in mobile devices is
expanding a factory that makes panels for smartphones and tablet
computers as the yen’s weakness helps spur overseas demand.  “It’s needed for Japan Display to raise funds for its R&D
and production capacity expansion,” said Keita Wakabayashi, an
analyst at Mito Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Demand for mid- to
small-size LCD panels will still increase as the mobile market
is expanding.”  Chie Tanaka, a spokeswoman for Japan Display, declined to
comment on any potential IPO. Nikkei reported earlier today
that Japan Display may go public this fiscal year.  Sales Growth  INCJ invested 200 billion yen in Japan Display for its
controlling 70 percent stake. Sony, Toshiba and Hitachi each own
10 percent. All the companies are based in  Tokyo .  The government fund set a target for a Japan Display IPO by
the year ending March 2016 with a goal to boost sales to at
least 750 billion yen for that year, INCJ said when the venture
was announced in 2011.  Japan Display may post sales between 700 billion yen and
800 billion yen in the year started April 1, from about 450
billion yen last fiscal year, President Shuichi Otsuka said in a
May interview. The company wants to expand sales of displays
used in cars such as instrument panels, Otsuka said at the time.  The display maker, which employs about 6,200 workers, has
five factories in Japan and five overseas, according to its
 website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  