-- Japan Stocks Post First Two-Week Gain Since July
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-09-13T06:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/japan-stocks-fall-third-day-on-yen-fed-taper-prospects.html
Japan stocks  rose today on high
trading volumes, posting their first back-to-back weekly gain
since July. Yahoo  Japan  Corp. surged after Twitter Inc. filed
paperwork for a share sale.  A gauge tracking paper producers gained 1 percent, the most
among the 33 Topix index subsectors. Digital Garage Inc., an
Internet company said to have a stake in Twitter, surged 17
percent after the San Francisco-based microblogging service
filed to go public. Yahoo Japan, a partner of Twitter, rose the
most on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Mitsui OSK Lines Ltd. (9104) ,
operator of the world’s largest merchant shipping fleet, lost
3.5 percent.  The Topix rose 0.1 percent to 1,185.28 at the close in
Tokyo, swinging between gains of 0.5 percent and losses of as
much as 0.8 percent during the session. Volume was 66 percent
above the 30-day average. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  added 0.1 percent to
14,404.67. The Fed meets Sept. 17-18, with economists predicting
the U.S. central bank will taper its monthly bond buying by $10
billion to $75 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “We don’t know how markets will react after the Fed
meeting,” said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “We have to wait and see on that, which means
it’s hard for investors to be active right now. That said, the
mood is becoming more positive, with Tokyo winning the Olympics,
the upward revision of second-quarter GDP and the talk of
stimulus to accompany the sales-tax rise.”  Weekly Advance  The Topix climbed 3.3 percent this week on optimism that
 Tokyo ’s winning bid to host the 2020 Olympic Games, announced
last weekend, would boost profits at real estate, construction
and tourism companies.  Japanese output expanded an annualized 3.8 percent in the
three months through June from the first quarter, higher than an
initial estimate of 2.6 percent, reflecting stronger private
capital investment, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo on Sept. 9.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The gauge declined yesterday for the first time in eight
days amid concern about a possible military strike on  Syria  and
the prospect of the Fed cutting stimulus. The S&P 500’s 18
percent rally this year has been outpaced by a 38 percent surge
for the Topix.  Japan’s Cabinet Office raised its monthly assessment of the
nation’s economy today ahead of an expected Oct. 1 decision by
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on whether to increase the sales tax.
Lawmakers are considering a reduction in corporate income taxes
as part of a stimulus package to cushion the economy from the
planned increase in the sales levy, according to three people
briefed on the matter.  Growth Strategies  “We could see some buying on dips,” said  Hideyuki Ishiguro , senior strategist at Okasan Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“Expectations are rising about the country’s economic policies
and growth strategies, which is reassuring investors.”  Digital Garage soared 17 percent to 690,000 yen. An initial
public offering for Twitter is positive for the firm as it has a
stake in the U.S. company, Iwai Cosmo Securities Co. analyst
Tomoaki Kawasaki said by phone.  Yahoo Japan climbed 4 percent to 52,500 yen, its biggest
advance in almost two months.  Shippers fell after the  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a measure of
freight prices, yesterday  posted  its first decline in nine days.
Mitsui OSK slid 3.5 percent to 445 yen. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha
Ltd. declined 1.2 percent to 240 yen.  Sharp Corp. sank 4.4 percent to 347 yen, extending a two-day slide to 10 percent. The TV maker may announce a public
share sale and third-party allotment as early as next week, the
Yomiuri newspaper reported yesterday, without saying where it
got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  