-- JetBlue Computer Failure to Delay Flights Throughout Day
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-09-13T20:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/jetblue-computer-system-outage-to-delay-flights-throughout-day.html
JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , the carrier
with the most domestic flights from New York’s John F. Kennedy
airport, said delays caused by a morning computer system failure
affected service throughout the day.  About 60 flight delays were directly related to the
computer issue, said Anders Lindstrom, a spokesman for New York-based JetBlue. Bad weather delayed other flights, he said.
 FlightAware.com , an online tracking service, showed about 222
JetBlue flights, about a third of the carrier’s daily total,
delayed more than 15 minutes today.  “JetBlue experienced an IT system outage early this
morning that has created delays in the system,” Lindstrom said.
“The system is now up and running and we are slowly returning
to normal service.”  The flight dispatch system involved was down for about 90
minutes, although full service wasn’t restored for about three
hours, he said. Seventy JetBlue flights were delayed more than
one hour today, FlightAware said. The cause of those delays
wasn’t known.  Additional delays were the result of a “major storm in the
northeast last night and ground delay programs in several
airports today,” including New York’s LaGuardia and New
Jersey’s Newark Liberty International, Lindstrom said in an e-mail. JetBlue makes about 700 flights a day.  Holiday Flights  The outage slowed flights for some passengers ahead of the
Jewish holiday of Yom Kippur, which begins at sundown.  “I had booked this flight to be home with my family for
Yom Kippur, and it’s frustrating to be delayed,” said Alyssa
Bogdanow, 24, who works at a nonprofit organization in
 Washington . Her flight to Boston left Washington at 3:20 p.m.
today, about 50 minutes after its originally scheduled departure
time of 2:30 p.m.  The failure occurred a day after United Airlines mistakenly
sold an unknown number of tickets online for free after faulty
data was put into its reservations system. The unit of  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  said today it would honor those
tickets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  