-- JPMorgan Trader Fighting Charges Said to Point to Iksil
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-09-13T16:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/jpmorgan-trader-fighting-charges-said-to-point-to-iksil.html
Julien Grout, a former  JPMorgan (JPM) 
Chase & Co. trader charged with trying to hide the bank’s record
trading loss last year, is arguing to prosecutors that he was
following orders from his then-boss, Bruno Iksil, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Grout’s lawyers provided records including e-mails to U.S.
prosecutors in  Manhattan  in the past two weeks in an effort to
cast doubt on the government’s assertion that Iksil resisted
pressure to inflate the value of the trades, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the talks were private. While
Grout and another supervisor, Javier Martin-Artajo, were charged
with conspiracy and  wire fraud , Iksil -- nicknamed the London
Whale -- avoided prosecution after agreeing to cooperate with
authorities.  The exchange shows that Grout, who is fighting accusations
he improperly marked assets to hide losses, is trying to damage
his former boss’s credibility. In  announcing  charges against
Grout and Martin-Artajo last month, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan said Iksil had sounded the alarm “more than once”
to co-workers.  “It may be part of an attempt to tell the government that
this case is weaker than you think, and you’ll be embarrassed,”
 John Coffee , a securities law professor at Columbia University
Law School, said of Grout’s effort. E-mails are often a matter
of debate, with defense attorneys trying “to tell the
prosecution that they can’t go forward because their
interpretation is wrong.”  ‘Accurate, Reliable’  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, lost more than
$6.2 billion last year on the derivatives bets made by its U.K.
chief investment office, where the three men worked. Grout
reported to Iksil, who reported to Martin-Artajo, the CIO’s head
of credit trading. Iksil, nicknamed the whale because his trades
were big enough to move markets, signed a non-prosecution
agreement in June that requires him to “truthfully and
completely disclose all information” while cooperating.  Iksil’s information “has been accurate and reliable, and
corroborated by, among other things, documents, e-mails and
recordings of telephone conversations,” Jonathan Polonitza, a
special agent at the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, wrote in a
statement for the complaint against Grout. It referred to Iksil
by the acronym “CW-1,” which can stand for cooperating or
confidential witness.  Proffer Session  It won’t be easy for Grout’s lawyers to change prosecutors’
view of the case, even if he hasn’t been indicted yet, Coffee
said.  “Once you file a criminal complaint, while you’re not
compelled to go forward with the indictment, you have crossed
the Rubicon,” he said.  Prosecutors have discussed allowing Grout to describe his
version of events in a so-called proffer session, according to
the people. Such an interview, also known as a “Queen for a
Day” agreement, typically lets someone under investigation
explain what happened, with the understanding that those
statements won’t be used against them in court. No such session
has been set yet for Grout, the people said.  Prosecutors wouldn’t be conceding they made a mistake in
their deal with Iksil if they meet with Grout, said Samuel Buell, a former federal prosecutor who teaches at Duke
University Law School.  “The government gives up almost nothing,” by having such
a meeting, Buell said. As for the notion that prosecutors had
overlooked or missed exculpatory evidence, Buell said he was
skeptical, because JPMorgan would have made all relevant
documents and e-mails available to investigators.  Prompting Inquiries  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for Bharara, declined to comment
on whether the office may meet with Grout for a proffer session.
A spokesman for the FBI and attorneys for Grout, Martin-Artajo
and Iksil also said they couldn’t comment.  JPMorgan’s losses prompted government probes on two
continents, U.S. congressional hearings and an internal review
that led to a 50 percent pay cut for Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon , 57, who the board said bore some responsibility for
lapses. Regulators in the U.K. and U.S. are preparing to impose
fines on the bank as soon as this month, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said in August.  Grout and Martin-Artajo, 49, mismarked investments to
“conceal hundreds of millions of dollars” in losses from
derivatives trades, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
said in a parallel lawsuit last month. Grout was 35 years old
when the suit was filed.  E-Mails Debated  The agency described how Grout allegedly ignored Iksil’s
requests to mark certain CIO positions within the latest bid-offer spreads available. As an example, the complaint stated
that Grout told Iksil he was able to come up with a $4 million
loss for March 16 last year with “lots of effort.” If Grout
had followed Iksil’s marking request, the daily loss would have
been greater than $100 million, the SEC said.  Internal e-mails have become a regular part of Wall Street
court battles, with the government and defense attorneys arguing
over which messages best reflect the thinking of bank employees.  A  New York  jury found  Fabrice Tourre , an ex- Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  trader, liable Aug. 1 in a lawsuit brought by the SEC
over his role in selling a $1 billion investment that failed.
The agency focused on Tourre’s e-mails to overcome his defense
that as a junior employee he wasn’t primarily responsible for
the deal.  Defendants Acquitted  A Brooklyn jury in 2009 found two former Bear Stearns Cos.
portfolio managers not guilty of defrauding investors by
improperly touting the health of funds made up mostly of
subprime mortgage-backed securities. After the trial judge
barred prosecutors from presenting a key 2006 e-mail, jurors
acquitted the men, saying other e-mails shown by the government
were ambiguous.  Grout and Martin-Artajo remain in  Europe , facing as long as
20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious counts.
Grout, a French citizen, moved to  France  this year and hasn’t
been arrested.  Martin-Artajo was on vacation when prosecutors unsealed the
criminal charges Aug. 14, according to a statement that week
from his attorneys at Norton Rose Fulbright LLP. He turned
himself in to Spanish police Aug. 27, a police official there
said at the time. Martin-Artajo was released on bail in  Madrid 
and said he was unwilling to be extradited, a spokeswoman for
the National Court said.  Stock Slide  JPMorgan’s stock stock fell 5.5 percent through yesterday
from Aug. 7 when the company disclosed a criminal probe of its
mortgage-bond sales practices. A criminal probe tied to the
firm’s energy-trading practices and a U.S. investigation of the
company’s hiring in  Asia  also emerged in that time. The broader
KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S. firms fell 2.8 percent in the period.  The criminal cases are U.S. v. Grout, 13-MAG-01976, and
U.S. v. Martin-Artajo, 13-MAG-01975, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Martin-Artajo, 13-cv-05677, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  