-- Judge Said to Seek Answers on Post’s Martha Stewart Story
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-09-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/judge-said-to-seek-answers-on-post-s-martha-stewart-story.html
A New York Post article saying  J.C.
Penney Co. (JCP)  is ending a home-goods deal with  Martha Stewart ’s
company while facing a  Macy’s Inc. (M)  lawsuit is the subject of a
court hearing set for Sept. 25, a person familiar with the
matter said.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey Oing yesterday
scheduled the hearing without saying why, according to court
records. Oing oversaw a non-jury trial of a claim by Cincinnati-based Macy’s that a December 2011 sales deal between  Martha
Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  and J.C. Penney violated its 2006
agreement with the home-goods designer. Closing arguments in
that trial ended Aug. 1 and a decision could come at any time.  Oing has indicated he plans to ask the companies’ lawyers
if the Post story is true because it may affect his ruling on
the contract, said the person, who asked not be named because
the purpose of the hearing has not been made public.  The Post reported Sept. 4 that J.C. Penney Chief Executive
Officer Mike Ullman was ending the merchandising deal because of
low sales, unimpressive designs and items discounted as much as
50 percent.  Kristin Hays, a J.C. Penney spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the Post story at the time. A message left at the
company’s press office yesterday wasn’t immediately returned.  Suzanne Halpin , a New York Post spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the court hearing.  Ted Grossman, a lawyer for Macy’s, declined to comment on
the scheduled hearing, as did Mark H. Epstein, a lawyer for J.C.
Penney.  Closing arguments in the trial took place more than three
months after the companies sparred in a five-week trial that
featured testimony from Stewart and appearances on the stand by
Macy’s Chief Executive Officer Terry Lundgren and then-J.C.
Penney CEO  Ron Johnson , who was fired about a month later.  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  