-- Kawasaki Moves Shipbuilding Workers, Targets LNG to Boost Profit
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-09-13T03:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/kawasaki-moves-shipbuilding-workers-targets-lng-to-boost-profit.html
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012) , the
maker of industrial machinery that fired its president and ended
merger talks with  Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding Co. (7003)  in June,
relocated workers from a yard in Japan with excess capacity to
other domestic plants to streamline operations.  The builder of everything from liquefied natural gas
tankers to submarines reduced the number of temporary workers
and moved about 70 employees at its Sakaide yard to other
domestic plants making gas-powered engines, plane parts and
hydraulic equipment, Shigeru Murayama, who assumed the role of
president on June 13, said Sept. 9 in an interview in Tokyo.  The steps at Kobe, Japan-based Kawasaki Heavy are in
response to a supply glut that has hit prices, squeezing profits
among shipbuilders in Asia, where most of the global production
is based. In response, Kawasaki is focusing more on LNG tankers
as  Japan  seeks to secure cheaper energy sources after the
Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011.  “The Japanese will just have to build technologically
sophisticated ships,” said Murayama. “We expect the shale-gas
revolution will bring big demand for LNG ships and our strategy
focusing on that type of vessel was right.”  Mitsui, the most reliant of Japan’s major heavy machinery
makers on shipbuilding for sales, has teamed with other builders
in Japan to bid for contracts to service shale gas projects in
the U.S., President Takao Tanaka said Aug. 28 in an interview in
Tokyo, without specifying the potential partners.  LNG Focus  Kawasaki is considering building LNG ships at a lower-cost
Chinese venture, Murayama said. Such a move would be the first
time for a Japanese shipbuilder to construct a high-end vessel
outside Japan.  Kawasaki Heavy, better known in the U.S. as the producer of
Ninja motorcycles, fell as much as 1.3 percent, or 5 yen, to 380
yen as of the midday break in  Tokyo . The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average dropped as much as 0.5 percent.  The company’s aerospace unit, which Murayama headed until
June, may spend about 20 billion yen ($200 million) to build a
new plant in central Japan in 2015 to expand deliveries of
fuselage parts as Boeing Co. ramps up production of the 787
Dreamliner, he said. The new facility may increase capacity to
build fuselage parts for fourteen 787s per month, up from 7, he
said.  The company is also building a new plant to make
motorcycles in  Indonesia  and adding facilities at its Thai
factory, he said.  In June, Kawasaki Heavy removed Satoshi Hasegawa as the
president and said it scrapped talks with Mitsui Engineering to
combine, two months after denying merger talks had been held.  Kawasaki executives concluded a combination wouldn’t
provide many benefits, Murayama said in the interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  