-- Kerry Calls Talks Constructive With No Breakthrough Seen
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r ,   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-09-13T18:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/kerry-calls-talks-constructive-with-no-breakthrough-seen.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
reported a “constructive” start to talks with Russia over
Syria’s chemical weapons, while giving no sign of a breakthrough
in negotiations.  “We would both agree that we had constructive
conversations regarding that, but those conversations are
continuing,” Kerry said in Geneva today after initial meetings
with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov .  Obstacles included a U.S. refusal to take military options
off the table, a Russian official said under condition of
anonymity. For its part, the U.S. has demanded that Syria be
held to tight timelines in putting its chemical warfare agents
under international control.  In  New York ,  United Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon
said today that a report by UN inspectors will confirm that
chemical weapons were used Aug. 21, in what the U.S. says was a
regime attack that killed more than 1,400 people in an
opposition-controlled area near Damascus. The UN team wasn’t
permitted under its mandate to assign responsibility for the
attack, and Syria and  Russia  have blamed anti-regime
“terrorists.”  While it is up to the Syrian people to decide whether to
oust President Bashar al-Assad, Ban said at a UN development
forum in New York, the regime’s leader has “committed many
crimes against humanity” and will be held accountable when the
conflict is over.  Peace Conference  Looking beyond the immediate focus on efforts to turn over
Syria’s chemical arsenal to international control, Kerry and
Lavrov also discussed today prospects for convening a long-proposed peace conference on Syria. The talks in Geneva
continued into the evening. From  Switzerland , Kerry is scheduled
to travel Sept. 15 to  Jerusalem  to meet Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu .  Oil prices  fell today, with West Texas Intermediate crude
headed for its biggest weekly drop since July as the Syria talks
continued. WTI for October delivery slid 94 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $107.66 a barrel at 12:07 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . That price is down from a two-year high of
$110.53 on Sept. 6.  President  Barack Obama  has delayed a possible U.S. military
intervention twice: first, on Aug. 31, to consult Congress, and
then on Sept. 10 to take up Russia’s proposal for international
oversight of Syria’s chemicals arsenal.  Assad and Russia, Syria’s principal great-power ally since
the 1970s, have exploited Obama’s focus on ridding the country
of chemical weapons while seeking to keep the U.S. out of the
civil war.  ‘Quickly, Professionally’  The goal is to “design a road that makes sure this issue
is resolved quickly, professionally, as soon as practical,”
Lavrov said of the chemical weapons.  The chemical weapons bargaining operated on two levels:
Kerry negotiated with Lavrov in Geneva and, via Russia as an
intermediary, with a Syrian regime that used the international
media to get its points across.  Assad appeared on Russian television yesterday to announce
that Syria would sign an international protocol known as the
Chemical Weapons Convention banning chemical weapons and to warn
the U.S. that the solution to the strife wouldn’t be a “one-way
street.”  Laying out his demands on Russian state TV channel Rossiya
24, Assad said the U.S. must forswear any military strike and
cease arming the rebel “terrorists” fighting to overthrow his
regime.  Military Option  The U.S. will “retain the military option and we will
maintain our military readiness while the Geneva process is
ongoing,” Pentagon spokesman  George Little  told reporters today
in  Washington .  Asked if the Navy can keep the four destroyers now on
station in the eastern Mediterranean there indefinitely, Little
said, “I can’t say for sure we won’t rotate out ships, but
suffice it to say we will maintain a sufficient posture to be
able to undertake military action if directed.”  The head of the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons, the world body that administers the
convention, said in a statement today that Syria’s application
to join the accord and to obtain technical assistance is being
considered. At the UN yesterday, Syrian Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari said his country now considers itself bound by the
accord as it undertakes the process necessary to become the
190th signatory nation.  Putin’s Support  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  hailed Syria’s pledge to
give up its chemical war-making capacity and insisted on
retaining the power to block a U.S. armed response by using
Russia’s veto in the UN Security Council.  “Russia sees itself still as a major geopolitical player,
as a superpower,” John Lough, a Russian specialist at  London ’s
Chatham House research institute, said on Bloomberg Television.
“It sees that through the United Nations it can exert a form of
restraint on the  United States .”  Russia’s diplomatic initiative -- taken by Putin to the
American people in a New York Times opinion piece this week --
met with skepticism among rebels battling to end Assad’s 13-year
grip on power.  Syria ’s National Coalition, the main political opposition
group, voiced “doubt and trepidation” about Assad’s pledge to
fall in line with the international ban on chemical warfare.  “The regime’s claims and promises are just a new attempt
to mislead the international community,” the coalition said in
an e-mailed statement. “It’s imperative that the threat of
using force remain on the table.”  Syrian Opposition  Kerry phoned opposition leaders to offer reassurance
yesterday, saying the U.S. will insist on a verifiable agreement
on the chemical-arms handover and will keep the military option
alive, according to a State Department official who asked not to
be identified.  France , the main U.S. ally in any military operation,
pressed for a strongly worded UN Security Council resolution to
govern Syria’s behavior. Foreign Ministry spokesman Philippe
Lalliot said Syrian chemicals disarmament must be “rapid,
precise, controlled, verified and verifiable.”  U.S.-Russian talks over chemical weapons were entwined with
a broader diplomatic push to end the hostilities by bringing
Assad and the opposition to the negotiating table.  Political Settlement  In that effort, Kerry and Lavrov met for an hour early
today with UN envoy Lakhdar Brahimi. The three said efforts to
spur the warring Syrian factions toward a political settlement
will continue at the UN General Assembly later this month,
possibly setting a date for a peace conference.  The prospects for a Geneva peace conference “obviously
depend” on whether the current talks to have Syria surrender
control of its chemical weapons are successful, Kerry told
reporters.  Putting together intra-Syrian peace talks is “extremely
important,” Brahimi said. Efforts to get Assad and the
opposition talking have failed since world powers met in Geneva
in June 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  