-- N.J. Shore Boardwalk Rebuilt After Sandy Consumed by Fire
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-09-13T07:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/n-j-shore-boardwalk-rebuilt-after-sandy-consumed-by-fire.html
A wind-driven blaze consumed a New
Jersey Shore boardwalk and amusements freshly rebuilt after
Hurricane Sandy, destroying dozens of businesses.  The fire swept through at least six blocks of Seaside Park
and Seaside Heights, turning more than 30 buildings to cinders.
Crews were forced to draw water from Barnegat Bay, a quarter-mile away, Governor  Chris Christie  said at the scene late
yesterday.  The boardwalk, which gained fame as the setting for  MTV ’s
‘‘Jersey Shore” reality show, suffered heavy damage in October
from Sandy, one of the costliest Atlantic storms in U.S.
history. The Jet Star roller coaster, flung into the ocean,
became a symbol of the storm’s strength. The boardwalk reopened
in May, just before the Memorial Day start of the shore’s
tourism season.  Four hundred fighters were on the scene from throughout the
state, Christie told reporters. The towns are about 80 miles
(130 kilometers) south of  New York City ,  Christie, 51, a Republican, has staked his re-election in
November on his handling of the Sandy recovery. He viewed the
scene with officials including the state fire marshal and
Richard Constable, head of the community affairs department.  When he received word of the fire’s size, Christie told
reporters, he said to aides: “I feel like I want to throw up.”
A  New Jersey  native, Christie has said he enjoyed bringing his
wife and four children to experience the rides and arcades of
his youth.  Fun Town  Christie said he felt sick “after all the effort and time
and resources” put into the shore’s recovery. He has estimated
the cost of reconstruction and fortification statewide at $36.9
billion.  Anything that wasn’t destroyed at Fun Town Pier by Sandy
was leveled by the fire, said Seaside Park Mayor Bob Matthies.  “Gone,” said Matthies, 65. He called the fire
“demoralizing.”  The blaze was reported at 2:15 p.m. local time in the
southernmost building of the Seaside Park boardwalk, the mayor
said. Video posted online showed smoke billowing from a Kohr’s
frozen-custard stand.  Authorities issued an “all-call,” meaning every available
crew in Ocean County was to report to the scene, according to Al
Della Fave, a spokesman for the county prosecutor’s office.  When the governor arrived, there were “dozens and dozens
of firefighters working like crazy, to exhaustion” against the
fire, Christie said.  Rain Helps  Wind gusts were reported at 30 to 40 miles per hour (48 to
64 kilometers per hour) in advance of a thunderstorm, and the
forecast called for drenching rain, Christie said.  “The best information we have at the moment is the biggest
reason for the spread is the wind,” he said.  No fatalities were reported and injuries were limited to
exhaustion and smoke inhalation, he said. Christie declined to
speculate on a cause. The fire was brought under control last
night, Seaside fire officials said.  Christie used $25 million from a Federal Emergency
Management Agency grant to star in a television ad campaign
proclaiming the state was “stronger than the storm” and
encouraging visitors to return to the  Jersey Shore , the
cornerstone of the state’s tourism industry. It generated a
record $40 billion in revenue last year.  ‘Get Back’  “We’re going to have no other choice but to get back in
there and do what we did after Sandy,” Matthies said in an
interview. “We have to get back online, rebuild and continue
the character of this town.”  Rita Sorensen said she has been staying at the Offshore
Motel in Seaside Heights, and her son called to tell her of the
fire about 2:30 p.m. She, her husband and another son watched
the fire all day, she said. The family is scheduled to move back
into their apartment next week after being displaced by Sandy.  What Sandy couldn’t destroy, the fire finished, she said.  “What more can they put us through?” she said as she
fought back tears last night. “I handled  Hurricane Sandy  well.
Emotionally, I did well. But this is killing me. It’s different.
Those are memories burning there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Seaside, New Jersey at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  