-- Natural Gas Futures Fall in Survey as Seasonal Slump Cuts Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-09-13T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/natural-gas-futures-fall-in-survey-as-seasonal-slump-cuts-demand.html
Natural gas futures may drop next
week as waning summer heat limits demand for the power-plant
fuel to run air conditioners.  Seven of 14 analysts, or 50 percent, predicted that futures
will decline on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through Sept.
20. Six, or 43 percent, said gas will increase and one predicted
prices will stay the same. Last week, 42 percent of participants
said gas would fall.  Warmer-than-normal weather may linger in the Midwest next
week but temperatures won’t top 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32
Celsius) as they did this week from New York to  Chicago , said
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . Gas is
trading at a 20-cent premium to coal when adjusted to British
thermal units, said Aaron Calder, senior market analyst at
Gelber & Associates in Houston.  “As we move into the more mild temperatures in the fall,
power generators will have more flexibility to choose between
the two fuels,” Calder said. “They will choose the cheaper
fuel, forcing natural gas to go lower to compete for market
share.”  Natural gas futures gained 10.8 cents, or 3.1 percent, to
$3.638 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex. The futures are up 8.6 percent
this year.  Inventory Report  Prices jumped 2 percent yesterday after the Energy
Information Administration reported  inventories  rose by 65
billion cubic feet to 3.253 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended Sept. 6.  Analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg predicted
a gain of 68 billion. The five-year average increase for the
period was 62 billion.  The high temperature in  New York City  and Chicago on Sept.
17 may be 72 degrees, 3 below normal for both cities, said
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . Power producers
account for 32 percent of U.S. gas demand, according to the
Energy Information Administration, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  6      7      1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  