-- Natural Gas Climbs on Speculation Heat Will Slow Inventory Gains
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-09-13T19:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/natural-gas-rises-a-second-day-on-lower-u-s-stockpile-increase.html
Natural gas futures advanced in  New
York , capping the fourth weekly gain since Aug. 9, on
speculation that late-summer heat is slowing stockpile gains.  Gas rose 1.1 percent as forecasters including Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , predicted above-normal
temperatures from the Midwest to  Texas  next week. Highs this
week in  Chicago , New York and  Washington  topped 90 degrees
Fahrenheit (32 Celsius).  “We had that heat, that will be the bullish saving grace
next week,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division
at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. “We’re still holding
on to yesterday’s gains from the supply number and next week the
number is going to be smaller.”  Natural gas for October delivery rose 3.9 cents to $3.677
per million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since Sept. 4. Volume was 21
percent below the 100-day average at 3:15 p.m. The futures
gained 4.2 percent this week, the biggest weekly advance since
Aug. 16, and are up 9.7 percent this year.  The discount of October to November futures widened 0.3
cent to 7.7 cents. October gas traded 31 cents below the January
contract, compared with 30.5 cents yesterday.  October $4.20 calls were the most active options in
electronic trading. They were unchanged at 0.1 cent per million
Btu on volume of 2,340 at 3:17 p.m. Calls accounted for 59
percent of trading volume. Implied volatility for October at-the-money options was 27.48 percent at 3:15 p.m., compared with
28.24 percent yesterday.  Prices Up  Gas prices  have risen 18 percent from a six-month intraday
low of $3.129 on Aug. 8 as late summer heat reduced the pace of
inventory increases.  The high temperature this week in  Boston  climbed to 97
degrees, 23 above normal, and Chicago reached 96, 18 above
average, according to data from AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania . Chicago’s readings were in the 60s today
and will return to the 80s next week, while Boston’s highs will
range from 65 to 75.  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, according to the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm.  Gas inventories  rose 65 billion cubic feet last week to
3.253 trillion, above-the five-year average gain of 62 billion
for the period, EIA data show.  Analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg forecast an advance of 68 billion. A  surplus  to the
five-year average held at 1.4 percent for a second week.
Supplies were 5 percent below year-earlier inventories, compared
with 6.2 percent the previous seven days.  Inventory Impact  This week’s surge of heat in the East, along with a drop in
nuclear generation, will probably mean that next week’s
inventory report will show an increase in the low 50s, said Teri
Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in
New York.  The five-year average for the seven days ending Sept. 13 is
74 billion, EIA data show. A number in the 50s would mean the
supply gain would fall below year-earlier levels for the first
time since April 26. Last year, a gas supply surplus ballooned
by the end of March because of an unusually mild winter and
record production, which then limited storage injections during
the summer months.  The U.S. National Hurricane Center is monitoring Tropical
Storm Ingrid in the Bay of Campeche off the southeastern coast
of  Mexico .  Gulf Watched  Storms in the  Gulf of Mexico , which includes the bay, tend
to be closely watched because of their proximity to oil and
natural gas producing and refining. The Gulf is home to about
5.6 percent of U.S. gas output, EIA data show.  In the Atlantic, Tropical Depression Gabrielle was moving
north-northeast with maximum sustained winds of 35 mph on track
to the Canadian Maritime provinces, the hurricane center said.  Hurricane Humberto weakened to a tropical storm with top
winds of 65 mph about 765 miles northwest of the Cape Verde
Islands.  “None of these appear particularly threatening” to U.S.
Gulf production, Viswanath said. “Humberto is simply tracking
too far north at this point and will likely take the same path
as Gabrielle.”  The number of  rigs drilling  for gas rose by 7 this week to
401, the most since March 22,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  data showed
today. The rig count is down 7 percent this year.  U.S. gas production may climb 1.1 percent this year to a
record 69.91 billion cubic feet day, gaining for the sixth
straight year, the EIA said in its  Short-Term Energy Outlook  on
Sept. 9. The forecast was increased from 69.89 billion last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  