-- New Flyer CEO Sees Growth as U.S. Buses Age
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-09-13T15:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/new-flyer-ceo-sees-growth-as-u-s-buses-age.html
New Flyer Industries Inc. (NFI) , the
largest transit bus manufacturer in North America, forecasts
sales will rise about 32 percent after buying an Alabama-based
competitor and as U.S. cities start to replenish fleets.  “The U.S. starved the upgrade of their fleets for a period
of time,” Chief Executive Officer Paul Soubry said in an Aug.
30 interview in Winnipeg, where the company is based. “You’ve
got more people now getting back on transit because jobs are
back up and you’ve got states being a little healthier with
their funds.”  New Flyer, founded in 1930 as Western Auto and Truck Body
Ltd., is boosting output and plans to expand product lines and
its parts business, which should drive sales to about $1.15
billion in 2013 from $872 million in 2012, the 50-year-old CEO
said.  The company’s shares have gained 41 percent in the 12
months through yesterday, matching the 41 percent average
advance of 15 global commercial vehicle companies tracked by
Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite index has gained
3.8 percent over the same time.  New Flyer agreed to  buy  North American Bus Industries for
$80 million in cash on June 21. The purchase was funded by C$65
million in proceeds from Brazil-based Marcopolo S.A., the
world’s second largest bus builder, which agreed to  invest  C$116
million in January and now  owns  a 20 percent stake.  Orders Surge  The purchase will help New Flyer increase bus production to
about 2,400 a year from 1,800 and market share to 42 percent
from 32 percent as the company adds a plant in Anniston,
 Alabama , as well as facilities in Winnipeg, and in St. Cloud and
Crookston, Minnesota. Direct labor costs in Alabama are as much
as 20 percent less than in  Minnesota , Soubry said.  Many municipalities that deferred bus purchases because of
tight budgets are now buying, Trevor Johnson, equity analyst
with National Bank Financial, said in a telephone interview from
Toronto on Sept. 4. New transit buses are more fuel efficient,
and the federal government will subsidize the bulk of the
purchase, he said.  “I’ve never seen it as active as it has been in the last
six months and that’s just from municipalities saying, ’Yes, we
want to buy 300 replacement buses over the next two years,’”
Johnson said.  New Flyer’s new orders stood at 513 in the second quarter
of 2013, compared with 90 in the second quarter of 2012, not
including the NABI acquisition.  Parts Business  The company now has the largest share of the North American
transit-bus market compared to competitor, Nova Bus, which is
part of Volvo Group  North America  Inc., and Gillig Corp., based
in Hayward,  California , according to the company’s  database  and
management estimates.  New Flyer’s share of the transit bus parts market also
jumped to 34 percent from 18 percent with the NABI acquisition
and its $29 million  purchase  of Orion assets from Daimler Buses
North America in March, Soubry said. The average transit bus
costs about $500,000 and for every dollar there is as much as $3
in repair costs over the life of the vehicle, he said.  “The margins in parts are twice what the margins of the
buses are,” Soubry said. “It is a very important part of our
business to increase the after-market size.”  Highest Valuation  Buses reach the end of their  lifespan  after 12 years and 18
percent of U.S. transit vehicles were older than that in 2011,
according to the latest available federal transportation data.
The average public transit bus was eight years old in 2011, the
American Public Transportation Association said in an Aug. 15
 report .  New Flyer’s  price to earnings  ratio of 42 is the highest of
its 15 North American peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares were unchanged at C$10.80 in Toronto at
10:58 a.m. today.  The recent rise in valuation is related to the positive
outlook for bus demand in the U.S., Kevin Chiang, analyst with
 CIBC World Markets  in Toronto, said in a Sept. 9  e-mail.  “While it will take some time for this to play out, the
multiple reflects an improving sentiment,” he said.  Three analysts, including Chiang, recommend holding the
stock, while one says buy and one says sell, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  New Flyer’s posted net earnings of $1.7 million in the
second quarter of 2013, down from $3.4 million a year earlier,
primarily due to $3.3 million in additional acquisition costs
associated with NABI and $600,000 in expenses related to Orion
parts, the Winnipeg-based company  said  Aug. 6.  Shuttle Expansion  The bus manufacturer agreed to an investment from
Marcopolo, based in Caxias do Sul,  Brazil , to fend off
competition, Soubry said.  “We went and said, ‘Hey, rather than you setting up or
buying something why don’t you buy part of us and we’ll do it
together?’” Soubry said.  The company will evaluate whether some of Marcopolo’s
products, which include motor coaches and shuttles, may work in
some North American markets, he said. The plan is to diversify
and sell to private companies, such as airports and hotels, to
reduce reliance on government contracts.  It’s unlikely the company will acquire more bus
manufacturing businesses, though they may consider increasing
their share of the parts market, National Bank Financial’s
Johnson said.  “There’s a lot of smaller players out there who they could
aggregate,” Johnson said. “Any of those could be potential
targets.”  New Flyer is looking at alternate product providers,
vertical integration and suppliers, Soubry said.  “At the same time we have to absorb and integrate and make
sure we deliver on the ones we just acquired,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  