-- Solberg Targets Krone in First Major Speech After Vote
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-09-13T13:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/norway-s-solberg-targets-krone-in-first-major-speech-after-vote.html
Norway  Conservative Party leader
Erna Solberg said she will work to weaken the krone to boost
competitiveness as cost pressures weigh on the economy of
western Europe’s largest oil producer.  The opposition “inherits a Norway in headwinds, with
growing unemployment, a stronger krone,” Solberg, who ousted
Labor Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg this week in elections
after promising tax cuts, said in her first major speech after
the vote. “Turning that trend around is something we must
prioritize. If we’re to build Norway for the future, we must be
careful to invest for the future, but also keep order today.”  Norway is struggling to stay competitive by finding ways to
avoid an overheating cycle that risks driving up wages and
rendering its  exports  too costly. The new government, which will
take power in mid-October, will need to deal with a potential
housing bubble, manufacturing wages that are about 70 percent
higher than the European Union average and an overvalued krone.  A regional network survey from the central bank today
signaled slower-than-expected growth over the past three months,
a “moderate expansion” over the next six months as well as
slowing employment growth.  The krone slid, weakening 0.74 percent to 7.8823 per euro
as of 3:14 p.m. in Oslo. The currency, which emerged as a haven
during  Europe ’s debt crisis, is up 17.7 percent against the
dollar and 24 percent against the euro since the end of 2008.  The krone is down 6.7 percent this year against the euro,
in part as the central bank signaled it was prepared to cut
rates to take pressure off the currency.  Government Talks  Solberg, 52, is preparing to become prime minister and
start government talks with the three other opposition parties,
including the Progress Party, which has promised to spend more
of the oil wealth. The Conservative leader said earlier this
week that she will seek to keep oil money spending well within a
4 percent spending rule of Norway’s $760 billion wealth fund.  Solberg said today that she was prepared to compromise and
“optimistic” about forming a new four-party government.  “Using more money on education and also increasing savings
rates will not lead to the type of pressure on the krone as we
have seen,” she said in an interview. “The pressure on the
kroner might decrease if the oil price falls a bit but we need
to make sure that we increase in other sides of the economy, not
just the oil and gas sector.”  Tougher Ahead  The spending rule, introduced last decade by the  Labor
Party , is one of the main sticking points dividing the four-party coalition that won the Sept. 9 vote. The Conservatives,
Liberals and the  Christian Democrats  all support the rule while
the Progress Party has campaigned on scrapping limits.  Central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen, who helped design the
4 percent rule while at the  finance ministry  last decade, has
proposed paring the spending limit to 3 percent to cool oil
money spending.  Norway’s  mainland economy , which excludes oil and gas
output, will grow 2 percent next year, unchanged from this year.
That will beat the 0.7 percent estimate for the euro area,
according to  DNB ASA (DNB)  forecasts.  “We’ve had a golden period in the Norwegian economy for
the past eight years,” Solberg said. “But unfortunately,
several arrows are pointing to possibly tougher years ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net ;
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  