-- U.S. Signals UN Wouldn’t Have to Threaten Syria Force
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r ,   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-09-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/obama-sets-requirements-for-syria-deal-with-russia.html
The U.S. may accept a United
Nations Security Council resolution that stops short of
authorizing military action for Syrian violations of a chemical-weapons deal, according to U.S. officials.  The move would overcome objections from  Russia  and
contribute to talks in Geneva, which resume today, and New York 
on a Syrian disarmament accord. A resolution acceptable to the 
U.S. could impose other consequences for Syrian violations, 
including economic sanctions and a provision for the council to 
revisit military authorization, said the officials, who asked 
not to be identified in briefing reporters.  Such a resolution wouldn’t foreclose unilateral U.S.
military strikes, as President  Barack Obama  threatened after
what his administration said was an Aug. 21 attack by the Syrian
regime with the nerve agent sarin that killed more than 1,400
people, including more than 400 children, near Damascus.  “The use of chemical weapons that we saw in  Syria  was a
criminal act,” Obama said yesterday. “It is absolutely
important for the international community to respond in not only
deterring repeated use of chemical weapons but hopefully getting
those chemical weapons outside of Syria.”  An agreement on securing and destroying Syria’s chemical
weapons must be “verifiable and enforceable,” Obama said, as
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry reported “constructive
conversations” in Geneva with his Russian counterpart.  ‘Bear Fruit’  Obama, who put his threat of military action against Syria
on hold this week, said he hopes that talks between Kerry and
Lavrov will “bear fruit.” He commented at the end of a meeting
at the White House with Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah, the emir
of  Kuwait , one of the Persian Gulf nations sending arms to
Syrian rebels seeking to topple President Bashar al-Assad.  The Geneva talks will continue for a third day today
because Kerry and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov are addressing
“some serious stuff,” Russian spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said
in Geneva.  U.S. and Russian experts made progress narrowing the gap
between their estimates about the size of Syria’s chemical
arsenal, according to a U.S. official in Geneva. Syria didn’t
officially acknowledge it has such weapons until this week.  Kerry has put the stockpile at 1,000 metric tons, while
Russia has used a lower figure. Consensus on the size of the
arsenal is necessary to ensure that Assad doesn’t hide some of
his weapons from international inspectors.  Kerry’s Travels  Kerry yesterday added plans to go to Paris on Sept. 16 for
meetings with the British, French and Saudi foreign ministers,
following a stop the previous day in  Israel  to meet with Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.  Agreement in Geneva on an approach to securing the weapons
would shift the focus to the UN for Security Council action to
mandate implementation.  In Washington, the U.S. officials indicated a lengthening
timeline for action that extends for months under a potential
accord. Syria is unlikely to embarrass its main ally, Russia, by
conducting further chemical attacks in the meantime, the
officials said.  It may take several weeks to pass a UN Security Council
resolution embodying a disarmament plan and then months to see
progress in bringing Syria’s chemical arms under international
control to be destroyed, according to the officials. Even so,
they portrayed that outcome as better than if the U.S. took
military action, which couldn’t destroy Syria’s chemical
arsenal.  U.S. Demand  The current round of diplomacy was initiated by Russia
after a Sept. 9 comment in  London  by Kerry that Assad could
avert a threatened U.S. attack by turning over “every single
bit of his chemical weapons to the international community in
the next week.” While Kerry added immediately that Assad
“isn’t about to do it, and it can’t be done, obviously,” the
idea took on a life of its own.  In New York, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon
said yesterday that a report by UN inspectors will confirm that
chemical weapons were used on Aug. 21 in an opposition-controlled area near Damascus. The UN team wasn’t allowed under
its mandate to assign responsibility for the attack, and Syria
and Russia have blamed anti-regime “terrorists.”  While it’s up to the Syrian people to decide whether to
oust Assad, Ban said at a UN development forum in New York, the
regime’s leader has “committed many crimes against humanity”
and will be held accountable when the conflict is over.  Peace Conference  Looking beyond the immediate focus on efforts to turn over
Syria’s chemical arsenal to international control, Kerry and
Lavrov also discussed yesterday prospects for convening a long-proposed peace conference on Syria.  West Texas Intermediate crude for October delivery slid 39
cents, or 0.4 percent, to settle at $108.21 a barrel yesterday
on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices declined 2.1 percent
this week, the most since the five days ended July 26.  Obama has delayed possible U.S. military action twice:
first, on Aug. 31, to consult Congress, and then on Sept. 10 to
take up Russia’s proposal for international oversight of Syria’s
chemicals arsenal.  Assad and Russia, Syria’s principal great-power ally since
the 1970s, have exploited Obama’s focus on ridding the country
of chemical weapons while seeking to keep the U.S. out of the
civil war.  The goal is to “design a road that makes sure this issue
is resolved quickly, professionally, as soon as practical,”
Lavrov said of the chemical weapons talks.  ‘One-Way Street’  Assad appeared on Russian television on Sept. 12 to
announce that Syria would sign an international protocol known
as the Chemical Weapons Convention banning chemical weapons and
to warn the U.S. that the solution to the strife wouldn’t be a
“one-way street.” Assad said the U.S. must forswear any
military strike and cease arming the rebel “terrorists”
fighting to overthrow his regime.  The U.S. will “retain the military option and we will
maintain our military readiness while the Geneva process is
ongoing,” Pentagon spokesman George Little told reporters
yesterday in  Washington . Earlier this week, Kerry called Syrian
opposition leaders to say they will continue to have U.S.
support.  France, the main U.S. ally in any military operation, has
pressed for a strongly worded UN Security Council resolution to
govern Syria’s behavior, including a military-action trigger  Syria’s Application  The head of the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons, the world body that administers the
convention, said in a statement yesterday that Syria’s
application to join the accord and to obtain technical
assistance is being reviewed. At the UN on Sept. 12, Syrian
Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari said his country now considers itself
bound by the accord as it undertakes the process necessary to
become the 190th signatory nation.  U.S.-Russian talks over chemical weapons were entwined with
a broader diplomatic push to end the hostilities by bringing
Assad and the opposition to the negotiating table.  In that effort, Kerry and Lavrov met yesterday with UN
envoy Lakhdar Brahimi. The prospects for a Geneva peace
conference “obviously depend” on whether current talks to have
Syria surrender control of its chemical weapons succeed, Kerry
told reporters.  Putting together intra-Syrian peace talks is “extremely
important,” Brahimi said. Efforts to get Assad and the
opposition talking have failed since world powers met in Geneva
in June 2012.  Diplomatic Push  The U.S. should use talks on weapons with Russia and Syria
to help forge a political solution, Edward Djerejian, a former
ambassador to Syria and Israel, said yesterday in an interview
at Bloomberg’s Houston office.  For that to work, the administration should support
moderate elements of the opposition forces, level the playing
field against Assad’s military advantages and ensure that
military strikes remain on the table to boost the incentives for
discussions, said Djerejian, founder director of the Baker
Institute for Public Policy at Rice University.  “There’s no military solution to the Syrian crisis,” he
said. ‘There’s not a military solution, there’s only a political
solution. The task of diplomacy is how to get to that political
solution.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  