-- Modi Is India Opposition BJP Pick for Prime Minister Before Poll
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-09-13T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/modi-is-india-opposition-bjp-pick-for-prime-minister-before-poll.html
India ’s main opposition party named
 Narendra Modi  as its prime ministerial candidate ahead of next
year’s general election in a bid to showcase his reformist
credentials and broaden its base beyond core Hindu nationalists.  Modi, chief minister of western Gujarat state since 2001,
will be prime minister if the  Bharatiya Janata Party  and its
coalition partners form a government after the polls, party
President Rajnath Singh said in New Delhi after a meeting of the
BJP’s highest decision-making body. The U.S. refused a visa to
the 62-year-old over his alleged role in the 2002 riots that
killed about 1,000 Muslims.  The opposition will push Modi’s record of delivering
higher-than-average growth rates in Gujarat in a bid to unseat
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  after India’s $1.8 trillion
economy expanded at the slowest pace in a decade and the rupee
slumped to a record. The ruling Congress party is likely to
attack Modi over his handling of the deadly riots in the home
state of peace icon Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi.  “Even if Modi has strong appeal among the corporate sector
and middle class, he doesn’t enjoy that charm among large
sections of the population,” said Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, an
independent analyst who has covered politics for more than three
decades. “His economic reforms in one state are not going to
influence the bulk of the electorate.”  Fractured Mandate  Opinion polls suggest a hung parliament once votes are
counted. Singh’s Congress party appointed  Rahul Gandhi , scion of
the country’s foremost political dynasty, to lead its poll
charge as it seeks to recover from three years of policy drift,
coalition infighting and corruption allegations.  Singh’s ruling coalition may win 136 seats of the total 545
in the lower house of parliament, with Congress getting 119, a
drop of 87 seats from the previous poll in 2009, a July survey
by the Times Now television channel and C-Voter polling agency 
found . The opposition alliance could get 156 seats, with the BJP
securing 131 or 15 seats more than the last ballot, the survey
showed.  Modi has raised his national profile since winning a third
term in Gujarat in December. The BJP appointed him to lead its
election campaign, and he routinely addresses gatherings of
business leaders and students.  Setting Goal  “Modi has the ability to galvanize the BJP cadre and
attract different sections of voters,” said Jai Mrug, a Mumbai-based political analyst, adding his candidacy will help the BJP
win more seats. “He is a very meticulous planner; sets a goal
and works for that.”  Modi arouses strong emotions in the nation of 1.2 billion
people. To followers, he’s a cult figure who dragged Gujarat
from the ashes of the 2002 rioting, wooing  businesses  and
cutting red tape and corruption. To opponents, he’s an autocrat
who failed to control the attacks on Muslims by Hindu mobs or
show enough remorse over the killings.  The 2002 carnage, which has also left Modi barred from
entering some European nations, followed the killing of Hindu
activists in a train fire, a blaze for which Muslims were later
found guilty. Human rights groups  accuse  Modi of not doing
enough to control the subsequent riots and exploiting religious
divisions for political gain.  Modi denies any wrongdoing and a Supreme Court-appointed
panel investigating one documented incident found no evidence
that he took decisions to prevent assistance from reaching those
being attacked.  Aide Jailed  Maya Kodnani, a former Modi aide, was jailed last year for
her role in the murder of 97 people in a suburb of Ahmedabad,
Gujarat’s biggest city.  The fallout of the riots continues to hinder Modi and the
BJP outside of the state and the party’s support base. His
elevation in the BJP prompted its biggest ally at the time --
which governs a state with a large Muslim minority -- to quit
the opposition alliance.  “I have been given a huge responsibility by the party,”
Modi said in a press conference in New Delhi yesterday after the
announcement. “I assure the party workers that I will ensure
BJP’s victory in 2014.”  Modi has been credited with increasing  Gujarat ’s economic
growth by an annual average rate of about 10 percent over the
last decade, compared with about 8 percent for the nation. While
he raised power generation capacity more than fivefold and won
investment with a rapid project-approval process, his success in
improving health and education indicators has lagged behind
other states.  As a young boy, Modi helped his father sell tea to
passengers at a Gujarat railway station before school, Kingshuk
Nag wrote in “The NaMo Story -- A Political Life.”  At the age of eight, Modi joined the student wing of the
 Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh , or National Volunteers Corps. The
RSS advocates that Hinduism is central to Indian culture and
life, and acts as a guide to the BJP.  Modi completed a master’s degree in political science
before entering politics in 1987 by joining the BJP, according
to his personal  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  