-- Money-Losing Maxim Magazine Sold to Atlanta’s Calvin Dard
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y
-- 2013-09-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/money-losing-maxim-magazine-sold-to-atlanta-s-calvin-dard.html
Maxim magazine, the bawdy men’s
title taken over by creditors after a $250 million buyout, was
sold to Darden Media Group, which plans to turn the brand into a
cable network.  Darden Media, run by Chairman Calvin Darden Sr., will buy
Maxim from Alpha Media Group, a New York-based company
controlled by Cerberus Capital Management LP, according to a
statement yesterday. The sale includes Maxim’s U.S. magazine,
sold in 49 countries, 15 international editions, an events
business and digital assets.  The transaction closes out an ill-timed buyout that left
the magazine, once a leading men’s title, in the hands of its
creditors. Darden said he plans to extend the Maxim brand across
cable TV, radio and music, countering the shifts that have hurt
the publishing industry as audiences move online.  “We look forward to investing in and building upon its
leading global platform,” Darden said in the statement. “The
opportunities to create powerful, transmedia brands that engage
consumers and advertisers on multiple platforms is significantly
on the rise.”  Darden, 63, rose to senior vice president of U.S.
operations for United Parcel Service Inc., according to the
website of his Atlanta-based real estate company,  Darden
Development Group . He serves on the boards of Target Corp.,
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. and  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH)   2007 Sale  Maxim and two sister publications, Blender and Stuff, were
purchased from U.K. publishing impresario Felix Dennis in 2007
by a group led by Quadrangle Capital Partners LP, just before
the recession gutted the magazine industry’s profits. As ad
sales dropped, Quadrangle stopped making payments on $160
million in debt, a person with knowledge of the situation said
in July.  Bids came in the range of $20 million, one-tenth of the
original purchase price, people familiar with the situation said
then. Alpha Media is expected to lose $3 million to $5 million
this year, according to the people, who asked not to be named
because the matter is confidential.  Annual ad sales dropped 18 percent to $112 million last
year, compared with a 2.9 percent slide among magazines as a
whole, according to the Publisher’s Information Bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  