-- Moody’s Alters Sovereign Rating Method to Better Assess Risk
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r
-- 2013-09-13T09:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/moody-s-revises-sovereign-rating-method-to-better-assess-risk.html
Moody’s (MCO)  Investors Service, the
world’s second-biggest credit rating company, is changing the
way it assigns rankings to government debt. Investors disagree
with their assessments more than half the time.  The changes include more detail on how Moody’s thinks about
economic, institutional and fiscal strength, as well as
vulnerability to shocks such as banking and foreign-exchange
crises that could increase the risk of default, the ratings
company said in a report today.  Global bond yields showed investors ignored 56 percent of
Moody’s and 50 percent of rival  Standard & Poor’s  rating and
outlook changes last year, more often than not disagreeing when
the companies said governments were becoming safer or more
risky, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The aim of this methodology is to enable issuers,
investors and other interested market participants to understand
how Moody’s assesses credit risk in this sector,” the company
wrote in the report. “Our objective is for users to be able to
estimate the likely  credit rating  for a sovereign within a three
notch alpha-numeric rating range in most cases.”  New York-based Moody’s has lowered ratings on about 2.5
sovereigns for each that it’s upgraded this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Portugal, Greece and Ireland are
among countries that claim sovereign-debt downgrades triggered
their need for bailouts from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Default Risks  Moody’s said in today’s report that a review of the
performance of its sovereign ratings since 1983 shows its
ratings “accurately rank-order sovereign  default risk .”  “In modern times, no sovereign government has defaulted on
its debt within a year of holding an investment-grade rating,”
it said.  For junk issuers, governments with B ratings have been 4.4
times more likely to miss payments over a 12-month horizon than
peers with Ba grades, according to the report. Sovereigns with
the lowest non-investment rankings, from Caa to C, have been
11.7 times more likely to default than those with B ratings, it
said. Today’s adjustments haven’t led to any changes in Moody’s
current sovereign ratings, the risk assessor said.  Soured Debt  The revised methodology supersedes material published in
September 2008 and another report published in February 2010.
Refinements to its analytical approach were outlined in a
request for comment which Moody’s published in December. Moody’s
“received significant market commentary which we have sought to
address where appropriate,” it said today.  Ratings companies were blamed for contributing to the 2008
financial crisis by giving top investment-grade ratings to
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations
that ultimately went sour, losing investors billions of dollars.
Moody’s, the world’s second-largest credit-rating company, has
come under fire for its ratings methodology in the past and in
July was sued by liquidators of two collapsed Bear Stearns Cos.
 hedge funds  seeking more than $1 billion over allegedly faulty
investment grades.  In August 2011, S&P downgraded the U.S.’s 60-year-running
AAA credit rating to AA+ with a negative outlook. McGraw Hill
Financial Inc., the company which owns S&P, has called a $5
billion fraud lawsuit filed against it by the federal government
“retaliation” for its downgrade of U.S. creditworthiness.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Batchelor in Sydney at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  