-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Fluctuates as U.S., Russia Talk Syria
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-09-13T07:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/top-oil-market-news-wti-fluctuates-as-u-s-russia-talk-syria.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Oil Fluctuates as U.S., Russia Begin Talks on Syrian Weapons  West Texas Intermediate crude swung between gains and
losses as the U.S. and Russia started talks on a plan for Syria
to surrender its chemical weapons to avert a strike that
investors speculate may disrupt oil supplies.  Power Diverging Most Since 2010 Shows EU Split: Energy Markets  Power prices in France and Germany are diverging more than
at any time since they were linked three years ago as
conflicting national energy policies undermine the European
Union’s plan for a single market in 2014.  Crude May Advance Next Week on Tension in Syria, Survey Shows  West Texas Intermediate crude will probably rise next week
on concern that tension in Syria will disrupt  Middle East 
supplies, a Bloomberg survey showed.  China Crude Output Increases 0.8% to 17.3 Million Tons in August  Country’s natural gas production last month at 8.9 bln
cubic meters, according to data from National Bureau of
Statistics.  ONGC Videsh Seeks to Sell Sokol Crude, MRPL Offers Fuel Cargoes  ONGC Videsh Ltd. is offering to sell 700,000 barrels of
Sokol crude for November loading from the Sakhalin-I project in
Russia, according to tender information obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Tropical Depression to Bring ‘Threatening’ Floods to  Mexico  (1)  A tropical depression in the Bay of Campeche is expected to
bring “life threatening” floods and mudslides across
southeastern Mexico through early next week, according to
weather watchers.  PT Pertamina Re-Issues Tenders for Crude, Condensate Cargoes  PT Pertamina re-issued tenders to buy crude and condensates
for October and November, according to documents obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  Libya Declares Force Majeure on Three More Crude Oil Terminals  Libya declared force majeure on crude exports from
Mellitah, Hariga and Zawiya terminals because of continued
strikes, according to a statement from state-owned National Oil
Corp.  U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for Sept. 11 (Text)  Following is the text of the weekly natural gas update as
released by the U. S. Department of Energy in Washington, D.C.:  Gasoil Stockpiles Rise in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says  Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage rose in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, according to PJK
International BV.  OPEC  OPEC Exports to Rise 1.5% on Asian Demand, Oil Movements Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase crude shipments by 1.5 percent this month to meet
rising demand from Asian refiners, tanker tracker Oil Movements
said.  Brent Rises a Second Day Amid U.S.-Russia Talks on Syria Crisis  Brent crude  advanced a second day before talks between the
U.S. and Russia to resolve the crisis in Syria, a conflict that
has sparked concern Middle Eastern oil supplies may be
disrupted.  Naimi Sees Oil Market Well Supplied as Politics Drives Price (1)  Crude prices are being affected by geopolitical events and
 Saudi Arabia  will continue to keep the market well-supplied, the
country’s oil minister said today.  Brent Rises a Second Day Amid U.S.-Russia Talks on Syria Crisis  Brent crude advanced a second day ahead of talks between
the U.S. and Russia to resolve the crisis in Syria, a conflict
that has sparked concern Middle Eastern oil supplies may be
disrupted.  OPEC August Crude Output Drops Amid Saudi Record, IEA Says (1)  OPEC produced 0.8 percent less crude oil in August due to
declining Libyan output, even after Saudi Arabia pumped the most
in 32 years, the  International Energy Agency  said.  Brent Rises a Second Day Amid U.S.-Russia Talks on Syria Crisis  Brent crude advanced a second day ahead of talks between
the U.S. and Russia to resolve the crisis in Syria, a conflict
that has sparked concern Middle Eastern oil supplies may be
disrupted.  WTI Crude Fluctuates as Saudi Arabia Sees Ample Oil Supply  West Texas Intermediate crude swung between gains and
losses after Saudi Arabia, the biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said the global
oil market is well-supplied.  Geopolitics Driving Oil Price, Market Well-Supplied, Naimi Says  Crude prices are being affected by geopolitical events and
Saudi Arabia will continue to keep the market well-supplied, the
country’s oil minister said today.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Valero St. Charles Has Emissions at Norco Refinery: NRC Filing  Co. shuts down line at St. Charles refinery in Norco,
 Louisiana , after discharge of slurry oil, according to filing
with the National Response Center.  Suncor Responding to Flooding Near Commerce City Refinery  Suncor Energy responding to heavy rains, flooding in the
Sand Creek in  Colorado , co. spokeswoman Nicole Fisher says in e-mail.  Suncor Montreal Beginning 5 Weeks of Planned Maintenance  Co. said planned maintenance on units will last about five
weeks in notice on the Association Industrielle de l’est de
Montreal website.  Gulf Crudes Weaken Against WTI as Refinery Maintenance Nears  Offshore Gulf Coast oils weakened against benchmark West
Texas Intermediate and extended three- year lows amid plans for
maintenance at area refineries.  Syncrude Discount Reaches Widest Level This Year on Plant Work  Syncrude reached the weakest level this year against West
Texas Intermediate on expectations that demand will decline as
U.S. and Canadian refineries process less. Other Canadian oils
also weakened against the benchmark.  Exxon Mobil Torrance Refinery Reports Breakdown, Flares Gases  Co. reported flaring related to breakdown occurred at
1045am local time, expected to last until 1159pm  BP Whiting Said to Start Fluid Catalytic Cracker, Ultraformer  BP Plc has restarted a fluid catalytic cracker and an
ultraformer after unplanned shutdowns at its Whiting, Indiana,
refinery, a person familiar with operations said.  North Sea Ekofisk Corrosion Findings May Boost Brent Crude  Brent for immediate shipment could cost buyers more than
crude for loading later amid speculation that corrosion issues
at the North Sea Ekofisk field will curtail production.  Valero Plans Houston 90,000 B/D Crude Topper for Late 2015  VLO to add crude topping units to Houston,  Corpus Christi ,
Texas, refineries in late 2015.  Valero Delays Expanding Port Arthur, St. Charles Hydrocrackers  VLO says expansions to be complete in 2018.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 2.2 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  fell 2.2 percent to 9.50 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Gulf Coast Diesel Nears Two-Week High on Record Tanker Fixtures  U.S. Gulf Coast diesel strengthened to a two-week high as
tankers are being chartered from the region at a record pace and
the premium of Europe over the U.S. widened, encouraging more
shipments.  Lukoil Sells Urals Crude; Force Majeure at Three Libyan Ports  BP Plc failed to buy North Sea Forties crude at a higher
price than yesterday. OAO Lukoil sold Russian Urals blend in
Northwest Europe at a larger discount to Dated Brent.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  S&P 500 Halts 7-Day Rally as Gold Drops, Treasuries Reverse Gain  U.S. stocks fell, halting a seven- day rally in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, while gold slid the most since July
and Treasuries erased early gains as investors weighed prospects
for  Federal Reserve  stimulus. Oil climbed ahead of U.S.-Russian
talks on Syria.  Asian Stocks Snap Best 2013 Rally as Gold Climbs; Ringgit Falls  Asian stocks dropped, with the benchmark gauge on course to
end the longest rally this year. Precious metals rose, paring
gold’s worst weekly decline in two months and Malaysia’s ringgit
weakened for a second day.  North Korea May Have Restarted Nuclear Reactor at Yongbyon (1)  North Korea may have restarted a nuclear reactor capable of
producing enough plutonium to make one atomic bomb every year, a
U.S. research institute said.  Nuclear-Free Japan Signals Sweet Crude Boost: Energy Markets  Premiums for oil burned in power stations are forecast to
extend a three-month advance as the shutdown of Japan’s last
nuclear reactor leaves utilities little choice but to increase
use of the fuel.  Pimco’s 19-Cent OGX Bonds Haunted by ATP Specter: Brazil Credit  As creditors led by Pacific Investment Management Co. try
to salvage what is left of their stake in  Eike Batista ’s oil
ambitions, the specter of ATP Oil & Gas Corp.’s demise
underscores how much more they stand to lose.  Diageo Sips Savings in Whisky’s C02 Footprint: Carbon & Climate  What’s in a bottle of Scotch?  Coal Industry Cries Foul Over Obama Rules Restricting Carbon (1)  Representatives of coal-intensive utilities and coal-producing regions said that President  Barack Obama  would
effectively outlaw construction of new  power plants  using the
fuel with pending environmental rules.  Dominion to Form Master-Limited Partnership for Gas Assets (2)  Dominion Resources Inc., the third- largest U.S. utility
owner, will form a master-limited partnership for natural gas
assets next year that may generate as much as $2 billion
annually in earnings.  California Approves Bill for Monthly Power Fee, Solar Expansion  California lawmakers sent legislation to Governor  Jerry
Brown  that would give regulators the ability to authorize a $10
monthly fee on power bills and expand a program requiring
utilities buy excess solar electricity from customers.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Snap Best 2013 Rally as Gold Rebounds, Dollar Gains  Asian stocks fell, snapping an 11- day rally that was the
longest this year, and the dollar gained before a report on U.S.
consumer spending. Precious metals rose, paring gold’s worst
weekly loss in two months.  Dollar Set for Weekly Gain Versus Yen Before Retail Sales, Fed  The dollar was set to complete a second weekly gain against
the yen before a government report forecast to show U.S. retail
sales accelerated.  Euro-Region Ties Provide Boon for Zloty Eluding Rout: Currencies  Two years after Europe’s sovereign- debt crisis peaked,
proximity to the 17-nation euro area is turning into an asset
from a liability for the Hungarian forint, Polish zloty and
Czech koruna.  Asian Stocks Fall, Snapping 11-Day Rally, Ahead of Fed Meeting  Asian stocks fell, with the regional benchmark index on
course to snap an 11-day rally, as the U.S. and Russia hold
talks on Syria and investors await the outcome of a Federal
Reserve meeting next week.  PetroChina Calls Rise to Seven-Year High on Profit Bets: Options  Options traders are the most bullish on PetroChina Co. in
seven years, betting that an earnings recovery will boost Asia’s
largest company after shares slumped amid corruption
investigations.  Goldman Sees Risk of Gold Below $1,000 as  U.S. Economy  Gains (1)  Gold is poised to extend declines as the U.S. Federal
Reserve withdraws stimulus and economic data improve, according
to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which says that there’s a risk that
bullion may drop below $1,000 an ounce. Futures retreated in  New
York .  Gold Traders Most Bearish Since June as Syria Eases: Commodities  Gold traders are the most bearish since June as the threat
of an imminent attack on Syria eased and speculation mounted the
Federal Reserve will start curbing stimulus as the U.S. economy
improves.  Syria Vows Chemical-Weapons Ban as U.S.-Russia Talks Seek Deal  Syria said it would abide by an international treaty
banning chemical weapons, even as President Bashar al-Assad set
conditions that the U.S. lift its threat of military strikes and
stop arming Syrian rebels.  Japan Said to Consider Corporate  Tax Cut  in Stimulus Package (1)  Japan is considering a reduction in corporate income taxes
as part of a stimulus package to cushion the economy from the
planned increase in the sales levy, according to three people
briefed on the matter.  SPORTS  Banks Converging With Hedge Funds on Risks as Capital Rules Bite  Breezing into a sunlit conference room near London’s Hyde
Park Corner wearing an open-collared white shirt that frames his
square jaw, Loic Fery exudes the confidence of a soccer club
owner who’s enjoyed success on the pitch and with the team’s
account ledgers.  Snedeker Leads BMW Championship Golf Playoff With Woods 3 Back  Brandt Snedeker birdied seven straight holes and has a one-shot lead over fellow American  Zach Johnson  during the first
round of the BMW Championship, the third tournament in the U.S.
PGA Tour’s playoff series.  Rangers Soccer Player Suspended for Betting Against His Own Team  Rangers midfielder Ian Black was suspended and fined by the
Scottish Football Association for breaking gambling rules,
including betting against his own soccer team.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      108.44  -0.16  -0.1  Nymex     Oct.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    112.72  +0.09  +0.1    Ice  October
Gasoil ($/Ton)         955.00  +3.50  +0.4    Ice     Oct.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       276.61  +0.34  +0.1  Nymex     Oct.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.64     --   0.0  Nymex     Oct.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    112.84  -0.26  -0.2    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            312.13  +0.49  +0.2  Nymex     Oct.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            81.71  +0.3
Gold ($/Oz)          1,330.60  -2.4
MSCI World Index     1,529.82  -0.2
Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  