-- OppenheimerFunds Loses Most as Puerto Rico Tumbles: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/oppenheimerfunds-loses-most-as-puerto-rico-tumbles-muni-credit.html
OppenheimerFunds Inc. is the
biggest loser as mutual funds investing in municipal debt get
pummeled by the worst year for Puerto Rican bonds since at least
2000.  Oppenheimer Rochester Fund Municipals (RMUYX)  has about 26 percent
of its $6.5 billion in assets in the U.S. territory and has lost
almost 12 percent in 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s the biggest allocation among all open-end muni funds that
are at least three years old, oversee $500 million or more and
target institutional clients. Western Asset  New York  Municipals,
with the next-highest percentage in Puerto Rico debt, fell about
8 percent. The declines exceed the 5.1 percent drop this year
for the $3.7 trillion municipal market.  Puerto Rico is rated one step above junk, and its economy
shrank in the 12 months through July at the fastest pace in 41
months. Its debt has declined 18.6 percent in 2013, on pace for
the worst annual loss in at least 13 years,  Standard & Poor’s 
data show. The losses have ensnared funds nationwide that hold
the securities because they are tax-exempt in all 50 states.  “This is more a sell-off based off of fear than it is
based off of reality,” said Steven Shachat, who manages $1.6
billion of munis, including  Puerto Rico  debt, at Alpine Woods
Capital Investors LLC in Purchase, New York.  Speculative Brink  A self-governing commonwealth of about 3.7 million people,
Puerto Rico is on the brink of speculative grade as Governor
Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, strives to reduce recurring budget
deficits and strengthen a pension system with a lower funding
level than that of any state.  The territory is working on improving its finances “and we
continue to believe the island is on the correct path,” Tanya
Valle, a spokeswoman for New York-based OppenheimerFunds, which
manages about $208 billion, said in a statement. “Puerto Rico
has never missed a general-obligation interest payment or
principal payment.”  The company declined to make the Rochester fund’s managers
available for an interview.  Yields on some Puerto Rico bonds jumped to records this
week, exceeding losses in the rest of the local-debt market.
Benchmark muni interest rates set a two-year high this month
amid bets the  Federal Reserve  will curb its monthly bond
purchases.  Historic Level  The commonwealth’s economy shrank 5 percent in the year
through July, the biggest contraction since February 2010,
according to the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico,
which handles the island’s capital-market transactions.  Puerto Rico general obligations maturing in July 2040
traded Sept. 9 with yields at a record 10.08 percent. The
average interest rate was almost five percentage points above
benchmark munis, twice the spread on Aug. 6, Bloomberg data
show.  Following the jump in yields, the Government Development
Bank said it would reduce its financing plans for the rest of
2013 to no more than $1.2 billion of new issues for the
commonwealth and its agencies.  Garcia Padilla, a member of the Popular Democratic Party
who took office in January, “has already begun to make tough
decisions that address some of the concerns raised by rating
agencies, including dramatically restructuring the pension
system,” the bank said in a statement.  The Oppenheimer Rochester Fund invests at least 80 percent
of net assets in investment-grade debt sold in New York. It lost
11.7 percent this year through Sept. 11, trailing 95 percent of
peers, Bloomberg data show.  Track Record  The fund has earned 3.5 percent on average in each of the
past five years, beating 65 percent of competitors, Bloomberg
data show.  The $806 million  Western Asset New York Municipals (SNPYX)  Fund
directs at least 80 percent of assets to debt from New York. It
has lost 7.8 percent this year, underperforming 72 percent of
peers, Bloomberg data show. About 10.7 percent of the fund is in
Puerto Rico debt.  While Puerto Rico faces financial challenges, credits such
as debt backed by sales taxes benefit from a reliable revenue
stream and an improving collection process, said Robert Amodeo,
who helps manage about $30 billion of debt at Western Asset
Management Co. in New York.  “We’ve been very vocal and open about our exposure to
Puerto Rico and it includes only a few different issuers”
Amodeo said. “Our strategy is to own the best names that we
think are sound fundamentals at prices that we think are steep
discounts.”  90th Percentile  The fund has earned about 3.9 percent on average in each of
the past five years, beating 90 percent of similar accounts,
Bloomberg data show.  Given the jump in Puerto Rico yields, the  money manager  is
considering buying commonwealth securities.  “We’re active in the Puerto Rico market for opportunities
to potentially add to names that we like, as long as we can buy
them at steep discounts,” Amodeo said.  The fund with the third-biggest Puerto Rico allocation has
outperformed 94 percent of its competitors this year in part by
focusing on shorter maturities.  The $1.4 billion  Alpine Ultra Short Tax Optimized Income
Fund (ATOIX)  dedicates 10.3 percent to Puerto Rico, Bloomberg data show.
Of that, the bulk is in variable-rate notes secured by bank
letters of credit, said Shachat.  “I can go to the bank and draw off the letter of credit to
pay my bonds off at any time I want,” Shachat said.  Maturity Benefit  The remainder is in Puerto Rico bonds due in 10 months,
Shachat said. About 84 percent of assets were in securities
maturing in six months or less as of July 31. The fund has
earned 0.25 percent this year.  Debt maturing in four years or less is the best-performing
part of the market, gaining 0.4 percent this year, according to
S&P.  Shachat plans to take advantage of spiking Puerto Rico
yields.  “We are absolutely looking at opportunities to potentially
add to that position,” Shachat said.  Localities nationwide are set to sell $3 billion of long-term debt next week, the  least  for a non-holiday week since
December, Bloomberg data show.  At  3.06 percent , yields on 10-year benchmark munis are the
lowest since Aug. 20 after posting the biggest one-day decline
since June. The  interest rate  compares with  2.91 percent  for
similar-maturity federal bonds.  The ratio of the yields, a measure of relative value, is
 105 percent , compared with a five-year average of about 101
percent. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are relative
to Treasuries.  NYU Ahead  Following is a pending sale:  The Dormitory Authority of the State of New York plans to
sell $183 million of tax-exempt and taxable debt as soon as
Sept. 25 for  New York University , according to Moody’s Investors
Service. Proceeds will go in part toward buying a facility on
 Manhattan ’s Lafayette Street and constructing a building for
dental and nursing programs near the NYU Hospitals Center,
according to S&P. The companies give the university their
fourth-highest grades with a stable outlook. Though the school
has “impressive” fundraising, extra debt beyond current plans
“could pressure the rating,” S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 