-- Lhota Would Fund Universal NYC Pre-K Without Higher Taxes
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-09-13T13:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/lhota-would-fund-universal-nyc-pre-k-without-higher-taxes.html
New York  Republican mayoral
candidate Joseph Lhota said he agreed with Bill de Blasio, the
presumptive Democratic candidate, that the city should offer
universal, all-day pre-kindergarten. He disagreed that the rich
should be taxed to pay for it.  “It's the right thing to do,” Lhota, who was a top aide to
former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, said today during an interview 
on WPIX Channel 11. ``It’s the wrong thing to raise taxes;
we’re the highest taxed city in the United States.”  De Blasio, 52, elected to the city watchdog post of public
advocate in 2009, has made the proposal a signature issue of a
campaign waged on the theme of a “Tale of Two Cities” divided
between rich and poor. His plan would improve student
performance and address income inequality in a city where almost
half are poor or struggling to get by, de Blasio says.  The proposal would raise the marginal tax rate on incomes
above $500,000 to 4.4 percent from almost 3.9 percent, or an
average $973 a year for the 27,300 taxpayers earning $500,000 to
$1 million. That would raise more than $500 million to pay for
universal all-day pre-school and after-hours programs for
adolescents.  “We have the money within the budget to pay for universal
pre-K,” Lhota said. “We need to find more efficiencies in our
government to pay for programs just like this.”  Vote Count  De Blasio finished a Sept. 10 primary election with 40.3
percent of the voting-machine tally, according to unofficial
returns from 99 percent of precincts, the Associated Press
reported. That surpassed the 40 percent he would need to avoid
an Oct. 1 runoff with former city Comptroller William Thompson,
who got 26.2 percent.  Before de Blasio can be certified as the Democratic mayoral
nominee, he must await the city Board of Elections official
count, which includes at least about 78,000 still-untallied
paper ballots.  Thompson, 60, said last night he wouldn’t concede victory
to de Blasio until the board completes its canvassing of the
machine vote.  Lhota, 58, a former Metropolitan Transportation Authority
chairman, has said de Blasio’s tax-the-rich plan and his “Tale
of Two Cities” campaign theme emphasizing the gap between the
wealthy and the poor would divide the city between income
classes.  De Blasio has said the gap has become a crisis after it was
neglected during 20 years of leadership under Giuliani and Mayor
Michael Bloomberg, who ran twice as a Republican and as an
independent on the Republican ballot line in 2009.  The mayor, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, is barred from seeking a fourth term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 