-- Patriots Hold on to Log Fifth Straight Win Over New York Jets
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-09-13T04:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/patriots-hold-on-to-log-fifth-straight-win-over-new-york-jets.html
The  New England Patriots  held on
for a stuttering 13-10 win against the  New York Jets  as the
division rivals struggled offensively in their second game of
the National Football League regular season.  Rookie wide receiver Aaron Dobson got the only touchdown
for the home team on its opening drive at Gillette Stadium in
Foxboro, Massachusetts, last night. The Patriots improved to 2-0
with their sixth consecutive regular-season win against New
York, which dropped to 1-1.  The Patriots have won 12 straight games against American
Football Conference East rivals and are unbeaten in 13 regular-season home games against teams in the division going back to a
34-31 loss to the Jets on Nov. 13, 2008. The Jets have lost five
straight games to  New England  since a win in the playoffs after
the 2010 season.  Both teams needed last-minute field goals to win their
opening games of the season, the Jets prevailing 18-17 at home
against the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  and the Patriots wining 23-21
at the  Buffalo Bills  on Sept. 8.  Rookie Geno Smith started his second straight game at
quarterback for the Jets in place of the injured  Mark Sanchez ,
who may decide in the next day or so to undergo season-ending
surgery on his right shoulder, ESPN reported yesterday.  Smith completed 15 of 35 passes for 214 yards and three
interceptions. Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  went 19-for-39,
for 185 yards and one touchdown.  The Patriots took the lead as Brady completed an 81-yard
opening drive with a 39-yard scoring pass to Dobson, a second-round pick out of Marshall University in this year’s draft.  Hill’s Fumble  After each team failed to make headway on its next
possession, Devin McCourty returned  Stephen Hill ’s fumble 44
yards and  Stephen Gostkowski  kicked a 21-yard field goal four
plays later to make it 10-0 for New England.  Officials signaled for a touchdown on the Jets’ next drive
when Smith found Clyde Gates in the end zone from nine yards.
The pass was ruled incomplete on review, though, and  Nick Folk ’s
27-yard field goal on the next play was nullified by a holding
penalty. The Jets kicker then succeeded from 10 yards farther
back for the last score of the first quarter.  The only score in the second quarter came on a 30-yard
field goal by Gostkowski with five minutes, nine seconds to
play. A catch in the end zone by New England’s Kenbrell
Thompkins was adjudged incomplete with 19 seconds remaining in
the half, and two plays later Gostkowski pulled a 43-yard field
goal attempt left of the posts.  Rain welcomed the teams for the start of the second half,
and both sides punted on their opening drives before New York’s
Bilal Powell drove in for a 3-yard touchdown run to leave the
Jets trailing 13-10 with one quarter to play.  Smith threw three fourth-quarter interceptions, two by Aqib Talib. The last one came in the closing minute of the game and
ended with an on-field scuffle between the teams that led to the
ejections of Jets tackle  D’Brickashaw Ferguson  and guard Willie Colon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 