-- Police Clear Mexico City Square Ahead of Pena Nieto Ceremony
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-09-13T23:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/police-clear-mexico-city-square-ahead-of-pena-nieto-ceremony.html
Mexico police forces cleared Mexico
City’s main square of thousands of demonstrating teachers ahead
of Independence Day celebrations, leaving police officers and
protesters injured.  Riot police clubbed marchers and sprayed them with water
cannons after the demonstrators lobbed objects in a struggle to
control the square, which had been occupied by teachers since
mid-August. Some protesters threw Molotov cocktails at the
officers, according to Milenio TV.  Thousands of teachers from southern Mexican states set up a
tent city in the square, known as the Zocalo, to protest
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s education overhaul, which was
passed this month and requires evaluations to hire and promote
educators. The Pena Nieto administration ordered the square
cleared in time for his Sept. 15 Independence Day “grito,” or
shout, traditionally given from the national palace to
spectators in the Zocalo.  “The purpose of this is so national festivities can be
carried out in the capital’s Zocalo without any incident,”
Deputy Interior Minister Eduardo Sanchez told reporters just
before police removed protesters.  Television images of the clashes showed one man with a
bloody face and a police officer wheeled away on a stretcher.
The federal police press office declined to comment when
contacted by phone about people injured during the teachers’
removal.  Educators have marched almost every day since occupying the
square Aug. 19, at times blocking access to the airport, stock
exchange and congressional building. More than 15,000 teachers
halted traffic on Paseo de la Reforma, the main business
boulevard, late last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  