-- Polish CPI Holds Steady in Boost to Unchanged Rates
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-09-13T12:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/polish-inflation-holds-steady-in-boost-to-unchanged-rates-stance.html
Polish inflation held steady in
August as the nation’s nascent economic recovery kept
price growth in check, bolstering the central bank’s plan to
keep  interest rates  unchanged.  Consumer prices  rose 1.1 percent from a year earlier, the
same as last month, the Warsaw-based statistics office said
today. That matches the median estimate of 33 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Prices fell 0.3 percent from July.  Central bank Governor Marek Belka said this month that 2.25
percentage points of  interest-rate  cuts since November 2012
should aid economic recovery, pledging to keep borrowing costs
at a record-low 2.5 percent at least until year-end. While
economic  growth  picked up to 0.8 percent from a year earlier
last quarter, policy makers said yesterday in guidelines for
2014 that expansion will “most likely” remain below potential,
helping keep inflation low.  “Only a significant acceleration in economic growth or a
sudden jump in inflation could persuade the central bank to
change its view,” Janusz Dancewicz, chief economist at DZ Bank
Polska SA, said today by e-mail before the data release. “The
most recent reports don’t seem to suggest that we’re in for any
big surprises in terms of growth or inflation.”  The zloty extended its gains to 4.2129 per euro at 2:04
p.m. in Warsaw. That’s 0.2 percent stronger from yesterday and
increased the currency’s advance to 2.7 percent on the quarter
to date, the second-best performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on two-year notes
rose one basis point after the data to 3.11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  