-- Popular Extends Drop on Doubt About Puerto Rico Debt Load
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-09-13T15:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/popular-extends-drop-on-doubt-about-puerto-rico-debt-load.html
Popular Inc. (BPOP) , Puerto Rico’s biggest
bank, extended a three-day slide after the island’s economy
shrank and yields on the government’s debt rose past 10 percent.  The stock fell 20 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $29.24 at 11:48
a.m. today in New York trading. The shares have declined 15
percent since their  two-year high  on Aug. 20.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Carrion has struggled to
rid Popular of bad loans after a $935 million U.S. bailout in
2008. The local economy contracted 5 percent this year through
July, the most since February 2010, government data show. Puerto
Rico’s bonds rank one step above junk, and yields have soared
amid doubt about the government’s ability to carry more debt.  “Regardless of what Popular or any of the Puerto Rican
banks own in their securities portfolio, they’re still highly
dependent on the Puerto Rican economy,” said Alexander Twerdahl, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. Teruca
Rullán, a spokeswoman for Popular, was not immediately
available to comment.  Popular’s bailout debt is the largest still outstanding in
the Troubled Asset Relief Program’s capital purchase fund, the
U.S. Treasury Department  reported . That’s almost three times
more than the second-largest debtor, Puerto Rico’s First
BanCorp, which owes $254 million. That Santurce-based company
has booked losses amounting to almost $200 million this year.  While Popular is talking with regulators about how to repay
the U.S., there is no “specific time frame,” Carrion, 60, told
investors on a July conference call.  Tax Benefit  Popular has been profitable in 2013 on the strength of a
tax benefit. For the first half, the bank’s pretax loss amounted
to $87 million. The stock gained 42 percent this year through
yesterday.  Puerto Rico’s commonwealth general obligations maturing
July 2040 traded Sept. 9 to yield a record 10.08 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The self-governing commonwealth of about 3.7 million people
is on the brink of speculative grade as Governor Alejandro
Garcia Padilla strives to reduce budget deficits and strengthen
a pension system that’s more underfunded than any state. The
July jobless rate of 13.5 percent also was worse than any state.  “There’s enough investors that still have probably more
exposure than they’d like to have,” said Peter Hayes, head of
munis at New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which manages $114
billion of local debt.  Debt sold in Puerto Rico is tax-exempt nationwide, leading
mutual funds to add it to holdings including state-specific
funds. Investors are being pummeled by the worst year for Puerto
Rican bonds since at least 2000, with debt sold by the
commonwealth and its agencies falling 17.8 percent, according to
Standard & Poor’s data.  Carrion was elected earlier this year to a three-year term
on the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s board, representing
banks with capital and surplus of more than $1 billion. He
previously was on the board representing banks with less than $1
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  