-- Power Diverging Most Since 2010 Shows EU Split: Energy Markets
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-09-13T14:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/power-diverging-most-since-2010-shows-eu-split-energy-markets.html
Power prices in France and  Germany 
are diverging more than at any time since they were linked three
years ago as conflicting national energy policies undermine the
European Union’s plan for a single market in 2014.  Next-day prices in the region’s two biggest consumers were
the same on 42 percent of the trading days in the first six
months of this year, compared with 60 percent in the same period
last year and 68 percent in 2011, according to data from the
Epex Spot SE exchange in Paris. French electricity for delivery
next year traded last month at its highest premium to the
equivalent German contract since 2009, broker data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s ambition to replace
nuclear power with renewable energy within a decade underscores
how national energy policies, from subsidizing solar and wind to
setting a minimum price for emissions, is overriding coordinated
strategies for a common market. France’s Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault plans a national market for peak electricity that
obliges generators to guarantee supplies, reducing the nation’s
dependence on neighbors at times when demand is at its greatest.  “There is a conflict between the EU goal of an internal
market and national decisions on energy mix, renewables-support
schemes and a carbon price floor,” Peter Reitz, chief executive
officer of the European Energy Exchange AG, said in a Sept. 5
interview in London. “Better coordination will lead to more
price convergence.”  Power Auction  French power for delivery tomorrow settled at 36.08 euros
($47.91) a megawatt-hour in an auction today on  Epex Spot , 65
euro cents higher than the equivalent German contract. German
next-year electricity, a regional benchmark, was as much as 5.55
euros a megawatt-hour cheaper than for  France  on Aug. 7, the
most since November 2009, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. The differential was 4.10 euros today.  The link between Germany and France was established through
so-called market coupling in November 2010. The process is part
of the EU’s third package of legislation to reduce national
barriers in power and natural gas to cut consumer prices, which
gained 23 percent in the five years through 2012, according to
Eurostat data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  The European Union plans to link day-ahead markets in 28
countries by the end of 2014 to allow power to flow freely
across nations to the markets with the highest prices.  “With market coupling, power is always moving to where
prices are highest but as interconnection is limited you are
left with different prices,” Stephen Woodhouse, a director at
Poeyry Management Consulting, said Sept. 6 by phone from London.
“If prices are the same in two zones all the time, then it
would show a surplus of interconnection that isn’t being used.”  Consumer Savings  Integrated electricity markets may save consumers and
producers as much as 40 billion euros a year, while the
equivalent saving in the gas industry is as much as 30 billion
euros a year, according to the EU.  Day-ahead coupling of 18 northwest and southwest European
countries is scheduled to start in November, Nord Pool Spot, the
Oslo-based exchange involved in the project, said on May 7.  “The ultimate goal is complete price convergence across
 Europe , and market coupling can go some way to achieve this,”
said Jean-Francois Conil Lacoste, Epex’s chief executive
officer, who led the coupling of France, the Netherlands and
 Belgium  in 2006. “Even if prices diverge, the spread between
markets narrows through market coupling,” he said Sept. 10 by
e-mail from Paris.  The EU has a goal to produce 20 percent of its power from
renewable energy by 2020.  Member countries  have national targets
ranging from 10 percent in Malta to 49 percent in  Sweden .  Biggest Producer  Germany, Europe’s biggest producer of electricity from wind
and the sun, plans to boost its share of renewable energy to 35
percent in 2020, up from 22 percent last year. The U.K. is
encouraging renewable energy through a minimum price for  carbon
emissions , increasing operating costs for power stations burning
coal. France plans to introduce so-called capacity certificates
in 2016 to ensure availability of  power plants  at times of peak
demand, according to CRE, the energy regulator based in Paris.  “European power prices are converging less than when
market coupling started as individual countries seek separate
solutions for their power markets,” Oliver Koch, deputy head of
the internal markets unit at the commission’s Directorate-General for Energy, said at a conference in Cologne, Germany on
Sept. 3. “There needs to be coordination on a European level.”  Costing Billions  Utilities and grid companies need to invest about 210
billion euros to upgrade and expand Europe’s electricity and gas
infrastructure by 2020, according to the commission.  “The links are actually still so bad, you can’t take one
business plan and apply it to all central European markets,”
said Simon Gadd, a senior energy adviser on European power, gas,
emissions and coal at LEAP Energy Ltd. in  London , who traded
energy for 13 years.  Germany’s renewables boom means prices in Europe’s biggest
economy have become less linked to wholesale costs in the
neighboring French market, Gadd said July 31 by e-mail.  French power for next-year delivery traded at an average
premium to Germany of 3.37 euros in the 12 months through
yesterday after becoming more expensive than its northern
neighbor on March 2, 2012, broker data show.  Vattenfall AB, the Nordic region’s biggest utility, will on
Jan. 1 split the company into one unit for Scandinavia and
another for continental Europe and the U.K. to mitigate “gloomy
market prospects” and increasingly national policy agendas, the
Stockholm-based company said July 23.  “Each country decides more and more on their specific
energy markets themselves,” Oeystein Loeseth, the company’s
chief executive officer, said on a call with analysts. “This
makes it a bit difficult to predict what is going to happen in
each specific market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  