-- Shanghai Trade Zone to Open This Month as Li Tackles Reform
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-14T10:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/premier-li-said-to-plan-shanghai-visit-to-open-free-trade-zone.html
An opening ceremony for a  Shanghai 
free-trade zone to test economic reforms is planned for this
month, with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang set to officiate, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The event may be on a day from Sept. 27 to 29, depending on
Li’s schedule, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the
matter. The Shanghai Daily  reported  yesterday that the zone will
officially open Sept. 29, citing Wang Xinkui, director of the
city’s counselor’s office.  The zone may allow freer  yuan  convertibility, liberalize
interest rates and relax restrictions on foreign investment as
part of Li’s drive to sustain growth by shifting the economy
toward services and consumption from investment and exports. It
also pushes forward China’s goal of making Shanghai a global
financial center by 2020 that was first laid out in 2009,
threatening to undermine Hong Kong’s role.  “An important part of economic-system reform is financial
reform,” Li said Sept. 11 at the  World Economic Forum  in the
northern Chinese city of Dalian. “It is because it is such a
complicated systematic project, it indicates China’s reform has
entered a deep-water zone, or the most difficult phase.”  Investors and analysts are assessing the strength of the
new Communist Party leadership’s commitment to economic changes,
ahead of a November meeting to set policy. Expanding the role of
markets could help to fuel growth that a Bloomberg News survey
of economists shows may slow to 7.5 percent this year, the
weakest pace since 1990.  Stocks Slip  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.9 percent yesterday,
the most in a month, amid speculation that gains linked to the
Shanghai plan have been overdone. Shanghai International Port
Group Co. slipped 2.5 percent. The port operator has climbed 155
percent since Aug. 22, when the Ministry of Commerce reiterated
that the government had approved the trade-zone plan.  Removing limits on interest rates in free-trade zones may
have a significant impact on capital flows, Wu Xiaoling, a
former deputy governor with the People’s Bank of  China , told
reporters at a conference at the China Europe International
Business School in Beijing today.  Free-trade zones don’t have much real economic output, they
are more a window for trading, Wu said. Restricting trials to
zones such as Shanghai may encourage capital inflows seeking to
exploit loopholes in institutions and regulations to conduct
arbitrage, which won’t have much benefit for financial-system
reform as a whole, she said.  ’Wake-up Call’  The government should speed up reform with nationwide
trials rather than giving certain districts special treatment,
Wu said, adding that these were her personal views.  Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong, said yesterday that the zone is a
“clear demonstration of the government’s drive for reform” and
a “wake-up call for Hong Kong.”  Mark Williams, a former U.K. Treasury adviser on China who
is now a London-based economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said
that the venture was “an experiment worth watching, but not the
game-changer some believe.” He said that “successful
innovations will ultimately be rolled out nationwide, but
probably only after many years.”  ‘Prohibited List’  Ten projects are scheduled to be announced at the opening
ceremony, the people said. Thirty projects are vying to be among
those disclosed at the event, one of the people said.  The government also aims to release on Sept. 15 a
“prohibited list” that will outline what kinds of foreign
investments won’t be allowed in the zone, the people said. This
list, which was  mentioned  by the Ministry of Commerce in a
statement released last month about the zone, would help
simplify approvals for foreign projects, according to Philip Cheng, a Shanghai-based partner at the law firm Hogan Lovells
International LLP.  The Shanghai city government referred questions about the
event to the State Council, China’s cabinet, which is headed by
Li. The State Council Information Office didn’t immediately
respond to faxed questions seeking comment.  A draft plan for the area seen by Bloomberg News included
expanded opportunities for foreign companies in industries from
banking to health insurance.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  