-- Promontory, PwC Said to Be Subpoenaed by N.Y. Regulator
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-09-13T16:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/promontory-pwc-said-to-be-subpoenaed-by-n-y-regulator.html
New York state ’s financial
regulator has expanded its investigation of conflicts of
interest among bank consulting firms by subpoenaing two more of
the advisers, a person familiar with the matter said.  Promontory Financial Group LLC and PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, which advise clients on how to satisfy regulatory
requirements, were sent subpoenas by the Department of Financial
Services during the past several months, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the matter is confidential.  Benjamin Lawsky , superintendent of the department, began
investigating consulting firms last year after determining that
financial adviser Deloitte LLP had not demonstrated sufficient
independence in advising  Standard Chartered  Bank in 2004 in
response to a regulatory warning that the bank needed to tighten
its money-laundering controls.  Lawsky reached an agreement with Deloitte in June, in which
the firm, accused of watering down a money-laundering report to
Standard Chartered, paid $10 million to the state and agreed to
a one-year suspension of its work for banks supervised by DFS.  “At times, the consulting industry has been infected by an
’I’ll scratch your back if you scratch mine’ culture and a
stunning lack of independence,” Lawsky said at the time of the
Deloitte settlement.  The latest round of subpoenas includes a request for
 Washington , D.C.-based Promontory to provide information related
to its own work with  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)  That bank agreed to
pay $667 million last year to Lawsky’s department and other
regulators to settle charges of violating U.S. laws concerning
money transfers to  Iran .  Second Subpoena  Lawsky’s office sent a second subpoena to Promontory that
asked for information about its work with another, unidentified
bank suspected of transferring dollars to Iran, the person said.  The PricewaterhouseCoopers subpoena is related to that
consulting firm’s work with Mitsubishi UFJ-Bank of  Tokyo , the
person said. In June, the Tokyo bank agreed to pay $250 million
to Lawsky’s department to settle claims that it had engaged in
improper dollar transfers to Iran, Sudan and Myanmar.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. , the main lending unit of
Japan’s biggest bank by market value, moved an estimated $100
billion through  New York  for government and privately owned
entities on the Specially Designated Nationals list issued by
the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control
from 2002 to 2007, the financial services department and New
York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said in a statement in June.  Clearing Transactions  The transfers involved about 28,000 clearing transactions
and the bank routinely stripped information from wire transfer
messages that could identify countries and people subject to
international sanctions, the department said.  In a statement, Promontory spokeswoman Debra Cope said:
“Promontory from time to time receives document requests in the
form of subpoenas relating to client activities. Promontory does
not disclose the nature of individual requests or scope of the
inquiry.”  Christopher Atkins, a spokesman for New York-based PWC, did
not respond to a request for comment.  The subpoenas were reported earlier by Time magazine and
the New York Times.  Promontory has done work this year for Bloomberg LP, parent
of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  