-- Tropical Systems Flank Southern Mexico Bringing Flash Floods
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-13T21:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/tropical-depression-to-bring-life-threatening-floods-to-mexico.html
Tropical Storm Ingrid drenched
southern Mexico from the  Gulf Coast  as Tropical Storm Manuel
formed in the Pacific, threatening even more rain.  The two systems will probably bring at least 15 inches (38
centimeters) of rain throughout southern Mexico, with 25 inches
possible in some areas, according to the  U.S. National Hurricane
Center  in Miami. Tropical storm warnings were posted on both
coasts.  “These rains are likely to result in life-threatening
flash floods and mudslides, especially in mountainous terrain,”
the center said.  Ingrid, the ninth tropical storm of the Atlantic season
that runs from June 1 to Nov. 30, is currently drifting west
across the Bay of Campeche where  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s
state-owned oil company known as Pemex, has its two largest  oil
fields . They produce about 1.25 million barrels a day.  Pemex suspended air and sea operations at its rigs in the
bay, according to a company statement. The oil ports of Cayo
Arcas, which processes about 68 percent of Mexico’s crude
exports, and Dos Bocas were closed.  Storm Positions  Ingrid  was 50 miles (80 kilometers) east of Veracruz with
maximum sustained winds of 45 miles per hour as of 4 p.m. Mexico
City time, according to the center in Miami. The system was
stationary.  The slow motion of the storm may allow it to strengthen
because it is over very warm water from which tropical systems
can draw power, said Dan Kottlowski, a meteorologist with
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  “This thing could ramp up to a very strong tropical storm
and it may become a Category 1 hurricane,” Kottlowski said.  Manuel  became the 13th storm of the Pacific season, which
begins on May 15. It was about 150 miles south of Zihuatanejo
with top winds of 40 mph and was moving west-northwest at 6 mph.  On the Atlantic coast, a tropical storm warning is in
effect from Coatzacoalcos to Cabo Rojo and a watch is in place
farther north to La Pesca, according to the center. In the
Pacific, a warning has been issued from west of  Lazaro Cardenas 
to Punta San Telmo, including Acapulco.  Ingrid is forecast to strike near Tampico, Mexico, early
next week, the hurricane center said. Manuel may strike near
Tecoman sometime tomorrow.  U.S. Threat  On its current track, Ingrid won’t be a threat to U.S.
production areas in the  Gulf of Mexico , said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  The Gulf is home to about 5.6 percent of U.S. gas output,
23 percent of crude production and more than 45 percent of
petroleum refining capacity, Energy Department data show.  Rogers said clouds and rain from Ingrid may cross into
 Texas  next week, bringing cooler temperatures that will dull
electricity demand across the state.  The main impact of the two storms will be “mammoth
rainfall amounts” across southern Mexico, said Michael Schlacter, founder of Weather 2000 Inc. in  New York .  “The worst thing for heavy rain are hills, mountains and
mud, and those mountains climb up in a hurry,” Schlacter said
by telephone. “The consequences for humanitarian purposes are
just that more horrific.”  Schlacter said it’s possible heavy rain will fall across
southern  Mexico  for the next five days.  The hurricane center was also tracking Tropical Storm
Humberto, which was 815 miles northwest of the Cape Verde
Islands with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph. It was heading
west-northwest at 12 mph and isn’t a threat to land.  Tropical Depression  Gabrielle  was absorbed by a cold front
today. Its remnants were bringing heavy rain to Canada’s
Atlantic coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  