-- Tropical Systems Flank Southern Mexico Bringing Deadly Flooding
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-13T16:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/tropical-systems-flank-southern-mexico-bringing-deadly-flooding.html
Tropical Storm Ingrid formed off
Mexico’s southern Gulf Coast while a tropical depression
developed in the Pacific, a one-two punch that’s expected to
unleash torrential rain and mudslides.  The two systems will probably bring at least 15 inches (38
centimeters) of rain throughout southern Mexico, with 25 inches
possible in some areas, the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  said
in advisories issued at 10 a.m. Mexico City time. Tropical storm
warnings were posted on both coasts.  “These rains are likely to result in life-threatening
flash floods and mudslides, especially in mountainous terrain,”
the center said.  Ingrid, the ninth tropical storm of the Atlantic season
that runs from June 1 to Nov. 30, is currently drifting west
across the Bay of Campeche where Petroleos Mexicanos, Mexico’s
state-owned oil company known as Pemex, has its two largest oil
fields. They produce about 1.25 million barrels a day.  Pemex suspended air and sea operations at its rigs in the
bay, according to a company statement. The oil ports of Cayo
Arcas, which processes about 68 percent of Mexico’s crude
exports, and Dos Bocas were closed.  Storm Positions  Ingrid  was 60 miles (97 kilometers) east-northeast of
Veracruz with maximum sustained winds of 45 miles per hour,
according to the center in Miami.  Tropical depression 13E  in the
Pacific was about 140 miles south of Zihuatanejo with top winds
of 35 mph.  A system becomes a tropical storm when its winds reach 39
mph and a hurricane at 74 mph.  On the Atlantic coast, a tropical storm warning is in
effect from Coatzacoalcos to Cabo Rojo and a watch is in place
further north to La Pesca, according to the center. In the
Pacific, a warning has been issued from Acapulco to Lazaro
Cardenas.  Ingrid is forecast to strike near Tampico, Mexico, early
next week, according to the hurricane center.  On its current track, it won’t be a threat to U.S.
production areas in the Gulf of Mexico, said Matt Rogers,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  The Gulf is home to about 5.6 percent of U.S. gas output,
23 percent of crude production and more than 45 percent of
petroleum refining capacity, Energy Department data show.  Texas Impact  Rogers said clouds and rain from Ingrid may cross into
Texas next week, bringing cooler temperatures that will dull
electricity demand across the state.  The main impact of the storms will be the “mammoth
rainfall amounts” across southern Mexico, said Michael Schlacter, founder of Weather 2000 Inc. in New York.  “The worst thing for heavy rain are hills, mountains and
mud, and those mountains climb up in a hurry,” Schlacter said
by telephone. “The consequences for humanitarian purposes are
just that more horrific.”  Schlacter said it’s possible heavy rain will fall across
southern Mexico for the next five days.  The hurricane center is also tracking Tropical Depression
Gabrielle and Tropical Storm Humberto.  Gabrielle  was about 410 miles south-southwest of Halifax,
Nova Scotia, with maximum sustained winds of 35 mph, moving
north-northeast at 23 mph, according to an advisory. It was
expected to be absorbed by a cold front.  Heavy-rain warnings have been issued for parts of Nova
Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Newfoundland and the Iles-de-la-Madeleine by  Environment Canada . About 3 inches of rain is
expected to fall in Halifax.  Humberto, with top winds of 65 mph, was  about 765 miles 
northwest of the Cape Verde Islands and isn’t an immediate
threat to land, the center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  