-- Roth Quits J.C. Penney Board as Vornado Plans Stake Sale
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-09-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/roth-quits-j-c-penney-board-as-vornado-exits-stake.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Steven Roth  resigned from  J.C. Penney
Co.’s (JCP)  board as his firm plans to sell its stake, ending a costly
three-year attempt to remake the department-store chain.  The real estate investment trust plans to exit its J.C.
Penney holding in the “not-too-distant future,” Vornado said
yesterday in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Vornado owns about 6.1 percent, according to the
filing. That makes it the retailer’s sixth-largest shareholder,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The board departure and plan to unload the chain’s stock
heralds the end of saga that saw Roth and fellow investor  Bill Ackman  acquire large stakes in the retailer in 2010, join the
board in 2011 and push for change.  Ron Johnson , their choice for
chief executive officer, was ousted in April after failing to
revamp the retailer. Ackman resigned from the board in August
and later sold his stake.  “We don’t think Roth’s resignation or Vornado’s decision
to sell its stake comes as a surprise to investors,”  Deborah Weinswig , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York, wrote in a
note to clients. It’s not surprising, given that Ackman,
Vornado’s investment partner, resigned a month ago, she said.  J.C. Penney fell 0.7 percent to $13.82 at the close in New
York yesterday. Shares of the Plano, Texas-based company have
slid 30 percent this year, compared with an 18 percent gain for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The stock has tumbled 57
percent since Oct. 8, 2010 when Pershing and Vornado announced
their investments.  Vision Backfires  Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP and Vornado
took initial stakes of 16.5 percent and 9.9 percent,
respectively.  The two investors joined the board in February 2011 and
four months later the retailer announced the hiring of Johnson,
the former Apple Inc. retail executive. Johnson implemented an
aggressive plan to transform the chain’s merchandise, pricing
and store layouts. His vision backfired as established customers
fled while not attracting enough new ones, leading to a sales
drop of 25 percent and a net loss of $985 million last year.  Vornado sold more than 40 percent of its stake in J.C.
Penney in March after the chain reported a fourth quarter in
which sales declined 28 percent and it posted a net loss of $552
million. On that transaction Vornado had a loss of $97 million
by selling the shares at $16.03 each.  Sears, McDonald’s  Roth gained fame within the real estate world in 1980 by
taking over Vornado, whose sole asset was the struggling Two
Guys discount-store chain. Since then, he has transformed
Vornado into the third biggest U.S. real estate investment trust
by market value, with office buildings in New York,  Washington 
and  San Francisco , as well as shopping malls throughout the
nation.  Roth has also taken stakes in companies such as Toys “R”
US,  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and McDonald’s Corp., often as a way of
gaining exposure to real estate at a lower cost than buying
property outright. He compared this strategy in an April 2005
shareholders letter to that of  T. Boone Pickens , noting that the
oilman discovered in the 1970s that he could “mine” for crude
more cheaply by purchasing energy stocks than drilling wells.  Vornado shares have generated an average annual return of
10.3 percent, including dividends, in the past 10 years through
Aug. 30, besting the average gains of 7.1 percent provided by
the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the same
period.  In the past two years through August, the REIT has posted
average annual gains of just 1.4 percent, well behind the
benchmark’s 18.3 percent and Roth had come under pressure to
abandon deal-making strategies outside of owning retail and
office space, analysts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  