-- Russia Holds Rates as Nabiullina Moves to Target CPI
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-09-13T16:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/russia-leaves-rates-unchanged-as-inflation-remains-above-target.html
Russia’s central bank, which
extended its interest-rate pause to a year, will introduce a
single policy rate as part of its shift to inflation targeting.  Bank Rossii will use the one-week auction rate for
providing or absorbing liquidity, currently at 5.5 percent, to
signal its monetary-policy stance, according to a statement on
its website, published after a meeting in Moscow today. It also
pledged to hold quarterly floating-rate auctions and will offer
three-month loans backed by non-marketable assets starting with
a 500 billion-ruble ($15 billion) offering on Oct. 14.  Policy makers led by Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina , who took
over as central bank chairman in June, are completing their
transition to targeting inflation by 2015 by fine-tuning policy
and streamlining the bank’s main rates.  Consumer-price growth 
above this year’s target of 5 percent to 6 percent has
handcuffed the regulator’s ability to deploy monetary stimulus
and boost an economy growing at its weakest pace since 2009.  “Inflation remains above the target corridor,” Nabiullina
told reporters after the announcement, elaborating on today’s
decision. “Inflation expectations are steadily not increasing,
but they remain at a high level. Our task is to lower inflation
expectations.”  High Chance  The likelihood is “strong” that borrowing costs will be
kept unchanged at the next policy meeting on Oct. 14 if current
trends and outlook are sustained, Nabiullina said.  The three-month MosPrime rate, which large Moscow banks say
they charge one another, may drop 36 basis points, or 0.36
percentage point, in the next three months, forward-rate
agreements tracked by Bloomberg show. That compares with an
increase of 15 basis points indicated March 27.  Bank Rossii has spurned calls from senior government
officials to ease policy, holding its main lending rates for a
12th month today. Commercial banks took 61 percent, or 306.8
billion rubles, at its debut auction in July for one-year funds
using non-marketable assets as collateral.  Providing three-month financing at the auction announced
today will “free up market collateral for operations on the
money market for banks and thereby improve the effectiveness of
our transmission mechanism,” Nabiullina said. The parameters of
the new auction were made after a review of the last offering,
she said.  Key Decision  The new three-month refinancing tool, to be offered at the
minimum rate of 5.75 percent, is the “key policy decision
today,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for  Russia  and CIS at
ING Groep in Moscow, said in e-mailed comments, adding that the
MosPrime rate will “continue drifting lower” as a result.
“The new three-month auction will likely be the most-demanded
one, making 12-month auctions redundant under similar costs.  The central bank, which estimates inflation will slow to 5
percent to 6 percent by year-end, said consumer-price growth
decelerated to 6.3 percent from a year earlier as of Sept. 9.
Threats to economic growth in the medium term are related to
weak investment and the sluggish recovery of external demand,
according to the statement.  ‘‘Considering current domestic and external trends, the
level of market interest rates is seen as appropriate in the
nearest future to achieve a balance between inflation risks and
risks of low economic growth,’’ the bank said.  Single Rate  The new key rate now stands at 5.5 percent after the one-week auction deposit rate was raised to that level from 5
percent, with the one-week auction-based repurchase rate kept at
5.5 percent. The central bank also reduced the cost of overnight
facilities secured by non-marketable assets to 6.5 percent from
6.75 percent, while the rate on overnight loans was cut to 6.5
percent from 8.25 percent.  The one-day rates on lending facilities and the central
bank’s fixed deposit operations overnight represent the upper
and lower bounds of the interest-rate corridor, whose width is
set at 2 percentage points, according to the statement. Changes
in the key rate will lead to automatic and symmetrical shifts in
the rate corridor, the bank said.  The corridor’s ‘‘width is considered as optimal for
limiting money market interest rates volatility while providing
incentives for interbank market activity,” policy makers said.  The  refinancing rate , which was held at 8.25 percent today,
will be brought to the level of the new key rate by Jan. 1,
2016, according to the statement.  Tariff Freeze  To help the central bank rein in inflation, the  Economy
Ministry  has proposed a freeze on regulated prices for natural
gas, power and rail in 2014, a measure opposed by state
companies such as OAO Russian Railways and backed by President
Vladimir Putin at a budget meeting Sept. 11.  The central bank wants to hold inflation to 4.5 percent
next year, which would represent a “rather serious slowdown”
in price growth, Nabiullina said. Considering the decision on
limiting utility tariffs, the inflation target may be achieved
“without excessive tightening” of monetary policy, she said.  If tariffs are frozen, the ministry may increase its 2014
economic-growth forecast to 3 percent from 2.8 percent, with
industrial output and investment projected to expand 2.2 percent
and 3.9 percent, respectively, Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev 
said Sept. 11.  Gross domestic product  will rise 1.8 percent this year, the
Economy Ministry said last month, trimming its April forecast
for a 2.4 percent advance. The economy grew 1.2 percent from a
year earlier in the second quarter, the worst result since the
last three months of 2009.  The central bank estimates Russia’s potential growth rate
at about 2 percent to 2.5 percent, Nabiullina said.  “To increase the pace of economic growth, we need an
increase in labor productivity, and monetary stimulus will
hardly be sufficiently effective here,” she said. Given the
small output gap and high inflation expectations, there are
“grounds to keep interest rates on the main operations at the
current level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  