-- Same-Sex Married Couples See New State-Law Tax Complexity
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-13T20:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/same-sex-married-couples-see-new-state-law-tax-complexity.html
Kat Morgan will check a “married”
box on her federal tax return next year for the first time since
her 2009 wedding, now that the Internal Revenue Service will
recognize same-sex marriages no matter where couples live.  Her South Carolina income tax return will be another
matter, because of the state’s  constitutional prohibition 
against treating her marriage as legal. She and her wife, Daena
Petersen, will probably need to create dummy federal tax returns
used only to fill out separate state tax forms, on which they
will each declare themselves single.  “Annoying doesn’t begin to capture how it feels,” said
Morgan, a 50-year-old nonprofit professional in Charleston who
was married in  Vermont  and moved to South Carolina for her
wife’s job earlier this year. “Every time I have to check that
box, there’s a disconnect between what’s reality and what’s
recognized here in South Carolina.”  The IRS’s decision last month to recognize all same-sex
marriages is reversing the scenario that had been in place.
Until now, same-sex couples in states that recognize gay
marriage filed joint state returns as well as separate federal
returns declaring themselves single. The burden of enforcing
laws at odds with federal policy now falls on states such as
South Carolina that prohibit same-sex marriage.  Undo ‘Discrimination’  “What happened before in marriage-equality states was that
those states had to find a way to undo the discrimination at the
federal level,” said Ruth Mason, a tax law professor at the
University of Virginia. “Now you have states that don’t want to
recognize same-sex marriages trying to redo the difference.”  Residents of states such as Massachusetts and  Connecticut 
that legalized same-sex marriage will no longer have to combine
separate federal tax returns for their joint state filings.  Instead, those who will have to split returns are same-sex
couples who were legally married in one of 13 states, the
District of Columbia or a foreign country and now live in a
state that doesn’t recognize their marriage. Residents of states
such as  Oklahoma , Utah and Wisconsin will have to use different
rules for their state and federal tax returns, adding complexity
and cost. It’s prompting state officials to write new rules and
come up with new tax forms.  “It has sort of flipped the states,” said Verenda Smith,
deputy director of the Federation of Tax Administrators, a
Washington-based association of state revenue officials.  130,000 Couples  There are more than 130,000 married, same-sex couples in
the U.S., according to estimates from the 2010 Census. Many of
them will pay more in taxes, because of the so-called marriage
penalties in the tax code for couples with relatively equal
incomes.  In states that recognize same-sex marriage, the new system
will be easier, because the federal and state returns will be as
seamless as they are for opposite-sex couples.  Some states without same-sex marriage, such as  Oregon ,
allow joint income-tax filing by registered domestic partners.
Other states that prohibit same-sex marriage, such as Florida
and  Texas , don’t impose income taxes.  That narrows the conflict to  24 states  that don’t recognize
same-sex marriage and also have state income tax systems that
refer to definitions or income data from the federal government,
according to the Tax Foundation. The nonprofit group in
 Washington  tracks state tax policy and advocates for simpler tax
rules.  Amending Rules  Some states will be able to provide rules for taxpayers
administratively. Others may need to amend state laws that
require taxpayers to use the same federal and state filing
status and are now at odds with state constitutions.  Wisconsin  made the first such ruling, announcing that it
would soon issue a new tax form, “ Schedule S : Allocation of
Income to be Reported by Same-Sex Couples Filing a Joint Federal
Return.”  States must act quickly. Starting Sept. 16, the IRS will
prohibit same-sex married couples from filing individual
returns. That means couples who received extensions through Oct.
15 for their 2012 tax returns will face the conflict
immediately, without the help of guidance from their states.  Then, tax filing for 2013 will open in January 2014 --
before many state legislatures convene.  Stephanie Cheek, a spokeswoman for the South Carolina
Department of Revenue, said officials are reviewing the issue.
Charlie Roberts, a spokesman for the  Utah  State Tax Commission,
said state lawyers are studying the questions involved.  Short Run  “It’s going to be a hassle in the short run,” said Pat
Cain, a tax law professor at Santa Clara University in
 California . She said the patchwork of laws may help speed up
consideration of lawsuits challenging those state constitutions.  “Everybody has their opinion on the moral issue,” said
Nanette Lee Miller, national leader of the accounting firm
Marcum LLP’s practice for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
clients. “But everybody has an opinion that nobody should have
such craziness on their taxes.”  Beyond tax filing status, states will have to consider
other ways in which marriage affects the definition of income.  For example, many companies offer health benefits to the
same-sex spouses of their employees. Until the IRS decision,
those payments were treated as taxable income.  Now, they won’t appear on the W-2 form that companies
submit to the federal government, meaning that states that want
to continue taxing that income must tell businesses to keep
reporting the income to the state.  Taxable Events  Other laws that involve marriage include those governing
whether transactions between two people are taxable events.  “Tax accountants are going to be very busy,” said John McGowan, managing director of the LGBT practice at  Northern
Trust Corp. (NTRS)  in  Chicago .  Sarah Schmidt, a political and business consultant in
Wilmette,  Illinois , said she and her wife are reviewing their
estate plans and tax filings.  Because she’s part owner of her family’s Wisconsin-based
petroleum-distribution business, Schmidt said she files eight or
nine state income tax returns a year.  “We’re now going to look at what needs to be changed given
this ruling,” said Schmidt, who leads LPAC, a lesbian political
action committee. “I’m happy to deal with the added
complication.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  