-- Samsung, Motorola Mobility Antitrust Rulings Close, EU Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   G a s p a r d   S e b a g
-- 2013-09-13T14:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/samsung-motorola-patent-abuse-rulings-close-eu-s-almunia-says.html
The European Union’s antitrust
chief said probes are close to completion into whether Samsung
Electronics Co. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility abused key
mobile-phone patents in their struggle for supremacy with Apple
Inc.  The European Commission’s approach on standard-essential
patents will be “clarified” in two separate cases, one
concerning Samsung, the other Motorola Mobility, Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said today at an event in Florence,
 Italy . Decisions are in the “pipeline,” he said. The timing of
the decisions “does not depend only on the commission side.”  The EU is cracking down on patent abuses as Google’s
Motorola Mobility,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Apple and Samsung trade
victories in divergent court rulings across the world on
intellectual property. Almunia has sent statements of objections
to Samsung and to Motorola Mobility, laying out the EU’s
concerns about possible antitrust violations. Almunia has said
he is targeting “rules of the game” to prevent companies from
unfairly leveraging their inventions to thwart rivals.  “We have some others in the pipeline but not as advanced
as these two” cases, Almunia said. In the Samsung case, the
Brussels-based EU regulator is “trying to reach an agreement.”  “I am not anticipating the date of the decision, because
it doesn’t depend only on my will,” Almunia told reporters.  Samsung failed to deflect the EU complaint when it
announced on Dec. 18 it planned to withdraw injunctions in
 Europe  that seek to block sales of  Apple (AAPL)  products.  Under phone industry agreements on standards, companies
owning the rights to essential technology must usually license
it to competitors on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms, known as FRAND.  Samsung began seeking injunctions against Apple in courts
in EU member countries in 2011, based on alleged infringement of
patents for 3G technology, according to the commission.  Samsung’s spokeswoman Rhee So-Eui declined to comment.  The EU opened a similar probe into Motorola Mobility, which
makes smartphones that run on Google’s Android software, in
April 2012, following complaints by Microsoft and Apple.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Florence at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Gaspard Sebag in Florence at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  