-- Silver Lake Investors Said to See Dell as Mixed Blessing
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-09-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/silver-lake-investors-said-to-see-dell-as-mixed-blessing.html
After their hard-won victory in
yesterday’s shareholder vote,  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake
Management LLC face the sterner test of turning around  Dell
Inc. (DELL) , the computer maker they are acquiring for $24.9 billion in
the largest buyout of a technology company ever.  It’s a task some of Silver Lake’s backers wish it hadn’t
taken on, according to interviews with six investors in the
Menlo Park, California-based firm. Three said they would have
preferred the deal hadn’t gone through, while three others said
they were willing to give Silver Lake the benefit of the doubt.  Since Silver Lake agreed seven months ago to spend $1.4
billion for a stake of about 25 percent in Dell, prospects for
the computer maker have faded so quickly that advisory firm
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. called the company a
“falling knife,” even as it endorsed the deal. To reverse the
slide, Silver Lake agreed to rely on founder Michael Dell, who
has presided over a 55 percent drop in adjusted  net income  since
he returned as chief executive officer in 2007.  “Now comes the hard part,” said  Erik Gordon , a private-equity and law professor at the University of Michigan. “If it
succeeds, Silver Lake will be crowned either the greatest tech
turnaround visionary of the decade, or the luckiest duck. If the
deal turns into a dog, its reputation takes a big hit.”  Shareholders approved the buyout after billionaire
financier  Carl Icahn  and Southeastern Asset Management Inc.
dropped their effort to upend the deal. The decision ends months
of fighting between the parties over the computer maker’s value.  Minority Deals  The financial adviser to the special committee overseeing
the sale process for Dell’s board had pegged the annual returns
Silver Lake and Michael Dell could make if their deal went
through at close to 50 percent, Southeastern said in June. This
was based in part on a months-old estimate of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, of
$5.1 billion for the current fiscal year.  Two brokerage analysts, who requested anonymity because
they weren’t authorized to speak, projected annualized
investment returns of less than 11 percent, based on the latest
consensus estimates for the next few years. Private-equity
managers historically have sought annualized returns of 20
percent or more.  Silver Lake, whose $23 billion in assets make it the
biggest technology-oriented buyout firm, has typically fared
well in large technology buyouts in which it held a minority
stake. According to marketing materials for its $10.3 billion
third fund, which completed fundraising in April, the firm made
a 213 percent profit on a $934 million investment in Skype
Technologies SA, a video-chat company; a 730 percent gain on a
$324 million stake in disk-drive maker  Seagate Technology Plc (STX) ;
and a 430 percent profit on the $392 million it put into
chipmaker Avago Technologies Ltd., as of Sept. 30.  Skype, Seagate  Skype and Seagate were gambles that at first had the firm’s
limited partners scratching their heads, said one of the
investors, who like the others asked not to be identified to
avoid damaging relations with Silver Lake. Three investors said
they have confidence in Silver Lake’s chances based on its past
success with these technology deals.  Skype was barely profitable and embroiled in an
intellectual property lawsuit when Silver Lake and others
acquired it in 2009. The suit was settled and Ebitda had more
than doubled when Microsoft bought  Skype  for $8.5 billion in
2011. Seagate, a buyout Silver Lake led in 2000, was a bet on
disk drives, a fast-evolving, money-guzzling business that other
companies were abandoning.  Estimates Cut  At Dell, the biggest equity investment in Silver Lake’s 14-year history, the challenges are even bigger. Once the world’s
top supplier of PCs, Dell has spent about $13 billion on
acquisitions over the past five years to add enterprise
computing hardware, software and services. The deals have
yielded little return for investors, and the company has ceded
the fast-growing mobile-computing market to Apple Inc. and
devices running Google Inc.’s Android operating system.  In the last 12 months, analysts’ consensus per-share
earnings estimate for this year, excluding some items, have
fallen to 94 cents from $1.80. Their  consensus  estimate for
current-year earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization has dropped to $3.04 billion from $5 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The outlook helped persuade  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
world’s biggest manager of alternative assets such as private
equity, to bow out of bidding for the company. Dave Johnson, a
Blackstone executive who helped spearhead the firm’s bid, knew
Dell well, having led its merger-and-acquisition efforts from
2009 to 2012.  Limited Appetite  Even before the spate of bad news for Dell this year, the
buyout shaped up as risky. Late in 2012, KKR & Co., the private-equity firm run by Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , decided not
to make an offer for Dell because of the uncertain market for
personal computers and competitive pressures on Dell. Another
sponsor that had looked at Dell, TPG Capital, said no twice:
last year and then during the go-shop period this year, when
Dell had an opportunity to solicit alternatives to Michael
Dell’s bid, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Silver Lake’s appetite for risk also had a limit. Shortly
before the deal was signed, the special committee asked for a
final, modest price boost. When Silver Lake balked, Michael Dell
kicked in the extra money. In late July and early August, under
pressure from Icahn, they raised their original $13.65-a-share
proposal by 1.7 percent, adding 10 cents a share to the base
offer and a dividend of 13 cents a share.  Even with Michael Dell bearing most of the risk, a failure
to turn around Dell would damage the reputation of Silver Lake,
said one backer, who runs money for a large pension.  Showing Restraint  Not all of Silver Lake’s minority deals have panned out.
Last September, the firm valued its $1.01 billion investment in
networking-equipment maker Avaya Inc. -- its biggest single-company investment before Dell -- at 10 percent below cost,
according to a marketing document. Collectively, Silver Lake has
posted more than a 19 percent average annual net return in
almost 50 deals.  Gordon, the law professor, gave Silver Lake and Michael
Dell credit for resisting being drawn in a wide-open bidding
war. They displayed a restraint lacking in past takeover
contests, most famously in the $31 billion fight for RJR Nabisco
in 1988, he said. KKR’s victory in RJR proved to be Pyrrhic when
the firm wound up taking a loss of $816 million on its $3.6
billion equity investment, according to a confidential KKR
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  “To get the returns it needs for its investors,” Gordon
said, “a company that was declining in a declining industry
would have had to remake itself in highly competitive areas in
which it has no competitive advantage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  