-- Singh’s Advisers Cut India GDP Forecast and Signal High R
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-09-13T08:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/singh-s-advisers-cut-india-gdp-forecast-and-signal-high-r.html
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s economic advisory body cut its growth forecast and
signaled interest rates wouldn’t fall until the rupee stabilizes
and inflation eases. Bonds, the currency and stocks fell.  Asia’s third-biggest economy may expand 5.3 percent in the
year to March 2014 from an earlier estimate of 6.4 percent,
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s
Economic Advisory Council, said in a twice-yearly report
released today. That compares with a 5 percent growth rate last
year and an average expansion of 8 percent over the past decade.  “The current stance of monetary policy has to continue
until stability in the rupee is achieved,” Rangarajan said,
adding that the timeframe for that remained unclear.
“Thereafter, if the current trend in the moderation of
wholesale price inflation continues, which is in fact expected,
the monetary authority can switch to a policy of easing.”  The rupee has performed worse than most Asian currencies
this year as slowing growth and a record current-account deficit
hurt confidence in an economy with 1.2 billion people. Governor
Raghuram Rajan, who reviews interest rates for the first time
next week, is under pressure to support the currency and avoid a
surge in import costs that would fuel price pressures.  “ India  is likely to see a protracted slow growth recovery
this year,” said Tirthankar Patnaik, a strategist at Religare
Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai. “Odds are stacked against Rajan
lowering the rates.”  Growth Forecast  India and  Indonesia  have the highest policy rate among
Asia’s biggest economies at 7.25 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank has cut the repurchase
rate three times this year to revive flagging growth.  The rupee weakened 0.3 percent to 63.7050 per dollar at
12:30 p.m. in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex index of stocks fell
0.4 percent. The yield on the benchmark 7.16 percent government
bond due May 2023 jumped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 8.57 percent.  “The rupee at the current level is well corrected,”
Rangarajan said in the report, without specifying a number.
“Stability is returning to the foreign-exchange market. As
capital flows return and as current-account deficit begins to
fall, this tendency will strengthen.”  Concerns over inflation, the rupee’s fall and industrial
output that dipped in May and June prompted Standard Chartered
Plc last month to cut India’s economic growth forecast to 4.7
percent from 5.5 percent in the fiscal year ending March 2014.
CLSA Asia Pacific Markets now expects a 4.2 percent expansion,
down from 5.2 percent, while DBS Bank sees 4.3 percent growth.  Factory Output  India’s industrial production unexpectedly rose 2.6 percent
in July from a year earlier, a government report showed
yesterday. Consumer prices rose 9.52 percent in August from a
year earlier, according to another report released yesterday.  “It’s a good number but nowhere does it indicate a strong
revival in the weak growth story,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , an
economist at Standard Chartered in Mumbai, referring to the jump
in factory output. The central bank will remain focused on
containing the rupee volatility and keep rates on hold in the
next policy meeting, she said.  The central bank’s key goal is containing inflation
expectations, Rajan told reporters on Sept. 4 when he took over
as the Reserve Bank of India’s 23rd governor. India can fix its
growth slowdown and financial woes with “modest reforms” and
achieve economic growth of between 5 percent and 5.5 percent
this year, Rajan said in a  commentary  published on Sept. 11.  “This is not to say that ambitious reform is not good, or
is not warranted to sustain growth for the next decade,” Rajan
wrote in Project Syndicate. “But India does not need to become
a manufacturing giant overnight to fix its current problems.”  Record Low  India’s trade deficit narrowed in August as exports grew 13
percent in the month from a year ago, while imports fell 0.7
percent, the commerce ministry said Sept. 10.  The rupee sank to an all-time low 68.845 per dollar on Aug.
28, hurt by the possibility of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus
and a current-account deficit that reached a record during the
last fiscal year. It has pared some of those losses after Rajan
announced concessional swaps for banks’ foreign-currency
deposits, and U.S. jobs data prompted speculation the Federal
Reserve may be less aggressive in cutting stimulus.  India may have to use $9 billion from foreign exchange
reserves to finance the current-account deficit, Rangarajan said
in the report.  Wholesale-price inflation probably  accelerated  5.70 percent
in August, compared with 5.79 percent in July, according to the
median estimate in another Bloomberg survey, before data due
Sept. 16.  Raising Costs  Indian companies have been buffeted by climbing costs and
faltering growth, forcing them to raise prices. JSW Steel Ltd.,
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. and others said they will increase
prices by as much as 7 percent this month as the rupee’s decline
inflates costs of raw materials purchased overseas.  Rajan will make his interest rate decision on Sept. 20, two
days after the U.S. Federal Reserve holds a meeting. He
inherited an economy that expanded 4.4 percent last quarter from
a year earlier, the weakest pace since 2009, as investment fell
and consumer spending in the nation of 1.2 billion people
moderated.  The central bank raised two interest rates in July to help
stem the rupee’s slide against the dollar. Nations from  Brazil 
to Indonesia have also boosted borrowing costs to aid
currencies, as the prospect of reduced Federal Reserve monetary
stimulus saps demand for assets in  emerging markets .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  