-- Skiwear Maker Moncler Said to Plan a November IPO
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-09-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/skiwear-maker-moncler-said-to-plan-a-november-ipo.html
Moncler, whose luxury ski jackets
sell for more than $1,000, plans to sell shares in an initial
public offering as early as November, people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Moncler’s board decided this week to proceed, two years
after dropping a listing in favor of a stake sale to  Eurazeo (RF) ,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the plans
haven’t been disclosed. Moncler Chairman Remo Ruffini has no
plans to reduce his 32 percent stake, another person said.  An IPO could raise 800 million euros ($1.06 billion) to 1
billion euros as investors sell 30 percent to 35 percent of the
company, a person with knowledge of the plan told Bloomberg News
in June. The size of the stake to be sold hasn’t yet been
decided, one of the people said yesterday.  Listing Moncler would allow Eurazeo to reduce its 32.3
percent equity holding in Moncler. The Paris-based private-equity firm bought a stake in 2011 in a transaction that at the
time valued Moncler at no less than 1.2 billion euros, the
clothier said then. Carlyle Group LP holds a 17.8 percent stake.  The decision follows the success of fellow Italian luxury-goods makers like  Brunello Cucinelli SpA (BC)  and  Salvatore Ferragamo
SpA (SFER) , which have both more than doubled since selling stakes to
the public over the past two years.  Moncler picked Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Mediobanca SpA as global coordinators and UBS AG,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA as joint
bookrunners, three people with knowledge of the matter have
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  