-- Slovenia Doesn’t Need European Bank Aid Now, Jazbec Says
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-09-13T16:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/slovenia-doesn-t-need-european-bank-aid-now-jazbec-says.html
Slovenian Central Bank Governor
Bostjan Jazbec said the country doesn’t currently need help from
its European partners to shore up its banks.  “Nobody is talking about a program that has to happen
immediately,” Jazbec said in an interview in Vilnius today,
where he attended a meeting of European finance ministers and
central bankers. “Of course the question of a program is always
there, because if there was no planning or thinking of a program
all our work would be completely irresponsible.”  Slovenian Finance Minister Uros Cufer said today his
country has enough cash reserves to address problems in its
banking sector. A week ago, Slovenia liquidated two of its
smallest banks,  Probanka d.d.  and Factor Banka d.d., in a move
described by Jazbec at the time as a preemptive attempt to avoid
the fate of Cyprus.  “We are here to protect the depositors,” said Jazbec, who
is also a member of the European Central Bank’s Governing
Council. “It was the reason why we chose the controlled
liquidation process, believing that in the end of the day it
would cost less and the immediate impact on the ailing real
sector of the Slovenian economy is at the minimum.”  The country’s recession eased in the second quarter as the
euro area’s return to growth boosted exports and helped offset
weakness in consumption and investment. The economy will recover
in 2015, according to the government’s economic institute.  Lauding Efforts  Earlier today European officials lauded Slovenia, the first
post-communist nation to adopt the euro in 2007, for its efforts
to rein in a banking crisis that has sparked speculation about
the need for a European Union-led bailout.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said Slovenia has taken “strong actions across both the banking
sector and other areas.” Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who chairs meetings of euro-area finance
ministers, said “progress is being made.”  The task of European governments is to “support all the
efforts of all the  member states ,” Jazbec said, echoing German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who said Slovenia should be
encouraged to plug holes in its banking sector by itself.  “I still strongly believe that there are ways for Slovenia
to get out of this,” Jazbec said. “There is enough money,
enough opportunity and alternatives that Slovenia can solve by
itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Vilnius at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  