-- Slovak GDP Growth Will Help Budget Target, Kazimir Says
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-09-13T15:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/slovak-gdp-growth-will-help-budget-target-kazimir-says.html
Slovakia’s economy probably will
grow faster than previously predicted, helping the eastern euro-area member trim the  budget deficit  below the European Union’s
limit this year, Finance Minister Peter Kazimir said.  The revised forecast, due to be released next week, will
reflect an improvement in the entire euro area, Kazimir said
without elaborating. The Slovak government predicted in June
that the economy will  expand  0.5 percent this year and 2.2
percent in 2014, compared with January projections of a 1.2
percent expansion in 2013 a 2.9 percent a year later.  “We are a small country fully dependent on the German
engine,” Kazimir said in an interview in Vilnius, the
Lithuanian capital. “Hopefully, we’ll be able to announce
better growth and revenue.”  The euro-region economy’s  return  to growth in the second
three months of 2013 following six quarters of declines has
fueled exports in countries such as Slovakia. A faster expansion
will make it easier for the country to meet its target of
reducing the shortfall below the EU’s limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product as early as this year.  Slovakia has exceeded the EU’s budget ceiling since 2009,
when the world financial crisis pushed it into a recession.
Premier  Robert Fico  has said meeting the bloc’s fiscal rules is
his administration’s priority as he wants to distance the
country from ailing euro-sharing nations.  The benchmark Slovak 10-year bond yielded 2.697 percent, or
72 basis points more than similar German Bunds. The spread
compares with 83 basis points for euro-area founding member
 Belgium , which has a better  credit rating , and 460 basis points
for Slovenia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Vilnius at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Vilnius at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  