-- Societe Generale Said to Plan Sale of Private Bank in Asia
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-09-13T05:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/societe-generale-said-to-consider-sale-of-private-bank-in-asia.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s
second-largest bank by market value, is considering selling its
 Asia  private banking unit, said four people with knowledge of
the matter.  The Paris-based bank has reached out to possible bidders to
gauge their interest, the people said, asking not to be
identified as the process is private. SocGen may send financial
information on the unit to potential suitors as early as this
month, one person said.  Wealth management firms expect more mergers and
acquisitions in their industry amid pressure on margins and
increased regulatory and tax scrutiny, PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP said in June. Asia is the fastest-growing region for private
banks, according to McKinsey & Co.  “There are players who would want to bulk up on their
assets under management and client advisers to add scale to
their business,” said Tjun Tang, head of  Boston Consulting
Group ’s financial services practice in the Asia-Pacific region.
“For others, if you’ve got no pathway to growth and
profitability, then maybe it makes sense strategically to
exit.”  Tang said potential acquirers include regional Asian banks
or “mid- to larger-sized” international private banks, which
typically manage $25 billion to $75 billion of assets.  ING Sale  SocGen, led in Asia by Olivier Gougeon, has serviced
private-banking clients in Asia through  Singapore  and  Hong Kong 
since 1997, according to its  website .  Societe Generale ’s private
banking business is active in 16 countries with about 2,500
employees.  Societe Generale spokeswoman Nathalie Boschat in Paris
declined to comment. The bank’s plans to sell the unit was
reported by Reuters yesterday.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is working
with SocGen on the sale, two people said.  JPMorgan advised ING Groep NV when it sold its private
banking assets in Asia to Singapore’s  Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. (OCBC)  for $1.46 billion in 2009. Other deals in the region
include Swiss wealth manager Julius Baer Group Ltd.’s purchase
of Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch wealth management units
outside the U.S. for about 860 million Swiss francs ($923
million) last year, and Standard Chartered Plc’s acquisition of
Morgan Stanley’s Indian wealth management assets this year.  Millionaires in Asia outside  Japan  will create $7 trillion
in net new wealth by 2016, boosting the share of global riches
from  emerging markets , McKinsey said in June, based on a survey
of private banks.  Assets Fall  SocGen’s global private-banking  assets under management
fell to 84.5 billion euros ($112 billion) at the end of June
from 87.9 billion euros three months earlier, hurt by about 600
million euros in second-quarter outflows, according to an Aug. 1
presentation on the bank’s website. Still, second-quarter profit
at the unit rebounded and its revenue rose 26 percent, excluding
a 9 million-euro operational loss it booked in Asia in the
second quarter of 2012, it said.  The bank agreed in July to sell its Japanese private
banking operations to Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. Last
year, it retreated from  North America  with the sale of a
minority stake in Rockefeller Financial Services Inc. and its
shares in Canadian Wealth Management Group Inc.  SocGen, seeking to improve profitability after reducing
risk-weighted assets over the last two years, is eliminating
hundreds of jobs at its Paris headquarters and it is targeting
900 million euros of cost cuts by 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  