-- Solberg’s Coalition Push Seen Sacrificing Norway’s Lofoten Oil
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-09-13T11:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/solberg-s-coalition-push-seen-sacrificing-norway-s-lofoten-oil.html
Conservative leader Erna Solberg
could sacrifice opening oil exploration off Norway’s protected
Lofoten islands to lure Liberals and  Christian Democrats  as she
seeks a majority for her agenda over the next four years,
political scientists including Frank Aarebrot said.  While a minority government of the Conservatives and the
anti-immigration Progress Party is the most probable outcome
after this week’s election, the more equal balance between the
four parties than polls had forecast could lead to a four-party
majority government, said Aarebrot, a professor at the
University of Bergen.  “If a majority government is formed, opening Lofoten and
Vesteraalen will be sacrificed,” he said by phone, adding he
sees a 45 percent chance for that outcome. “The only way you
can prevent oil activity in Lofoten and Vesteraalen is if you
get a four-party center-right government, where the
Conservatives and Progress give up” the issue, he said.  The four parties won a total of 96 seats out of the 169 in
parliament in the Sept. 9 election, ousting Jens Stoltenberg’s
Labor-led coalition. The Conservatives got 48 seats and together
with the Progress Party favor an impact study of oil and gas
exploration and production in the environmentally sensitive
waters off Lofoten, Vesteraalen and Senja in northern  Norway . An
impact study is the formal first step needed to open up an area
for exploration.  ‘Highest Priority’  The Liberals and the Christian Democrats, who won nine and
10 seats, respectively, are opposed to opening the area, which
is home to the world’s biggest cold-water coral reef and
mainland  Europe ’s biggest seabird colony, according to the WWF.
It’s the breeding area for 70 percent of all fish caught in the
Norwegian and Barents seas, and home to sperm whales and seals.  Oil companies  such as state-controlled  Statoil ASA (STL) , which
operates more than 70 percent of all production in Norway, have
said it is urgent to open the area, which could hold 3.4 billion
barrels of oil equivalent, to make up for falling production
from the  North Sea . The outgoing government was also split on
the issue, with the bigger  Labor Party  in favor of opening the
area and the smaller partners opposed.  As coalition talks start next week, keeping a drilling ban
is the “highest priority,” said Ola Elvestuen, the Liberals’
deputy leader, said by phone on Sept. 11, stopping short of
ruling out government membership should an impact study go
ahead.  While Liberals and Christian Democrats will probably
“stand firm” on their demands on the issue, it’s unclear
whether they can prevent an opening, said Knut Heidar, a
political science professor of the University of Oslo. That will
depend on whether they join government or not, he said.  Real Willingness  It will be much easier for the two parties to block an
impact study if they can threaten to break the government from
within, which Labor’s junior partner, the Socialist Left, did in
2011, Aarebrot said. The Conservatives and Progress Party could
also seek support from Labor lawmakers for a study, he said.  “There seems to be a real willingness to form a majority
government,” Aarebrot said ahead of next week’s talks.  A shift in focus to the more-northern  Barents Sea  could
also have cooled some of the push to open Lofoten, he said.  Conservative and Progress lawmakers said having a majority
government could be worth sacrificing Lofoten exploration,
Aftenposten reported today, citing unidentified members of
parliament.  For now, the Conservatives maintained their support for
drilling ahead of coalition talks.  “Everybody knows that the  Conservative Party  is strongly
pro-opening of the Lofoten and Vesteraalen area,” Bent Hoeie, a
deputy party leader, said today in an interview at Gardermoen,
outside Oslo. “This is a difficult question on both sides” of
Norwegian politics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  