-- South Korea Stocks Lure Record Foreign Inflows of $3.6 Billion
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-09-13T10:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/south-korea-stocks-lure-record-foreign-inflows-of-3-6-billion.html
Overseas investors bought a record
$3.6 billion of South Korean equities this week as the nation’s
economic outlook improved.  Global funds acquired more local equities than they sold
for a 16th straight day today, the longest run of net purchases
since December 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Kospi
completed its third week of gains after touching the highest
level since March yesterday, when the won climbed to its
strongest level against the dollar since February.  South  Korea ’s economy grew 1.1 percent in the second
quarter from the preceding three months, the most in more than
two years, central bank data showed Sept. 5. Exports, which
account for around half of GDP, jumped 7.7 percent in August,
the most since January, official data show. The  finance ministry 
said today it will focus on boosting jobs and investment to aid
the recovery.  “It’s been a long time since foreigners bought such a
large amount of South Korean equities,” Heo Pil Seok, chief
executive officer at Midas International Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees about $6.4 billion, said from  Seoul .  The benchmark Kospi  index  gained 2 percent this week,
paring its year-to-date loss to 0.1 percent. Foreign money
managers bought $5.1 billion worth of Korean shares so far this
month, the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  South Korea’s economy is showing a gradual recovery and the
government will focus on creating jobs and easing rules to to
boost investment, according to a finance ministry report
presented to parliament today.  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy
expanded 2.3 percent in the second quarter, official data show.  The  Bank of Korea  kept its seven-day repurchase rate at 2.5
percent yesterday, the lowest since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  