-- South Africa Construction Strike Ends After 12% Wage Rise
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n   a n d   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-09-13T11:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/south-africa-construction-strike-ends-after-12-wage-increase.html
A three-week strike in  South
Africa ’s construction industry ended after 90,000 workers
accepted wage increases of as much as 12 percent, almost double
the country’s inflation rate.  The  National Union of Mineworkers  called the strike off
after building companies represented by the South African
Federation of Civil Engineering Contractors yesterday offered
wage increases of 11 percent to 12 percent, union spokesman
Lesiba Seshoka said today in a phone interview.  South  Africa  has been plagued by labor disputes for more
than a year, weighing on economic growth. Mining stoppages
shaved an estimated 0.5 percentage point off expansion in the
economy last year, according to the government.  Gross domestic
product  will probably grow 2 percent this year, the slowest pace
since a recession in 2009, according to the central bank.  “This is a major victory for us,” Issac Ntshangase, a NUM
coordinator, said in an e-mailed statement. “Our members stood
firm and we congratulate them.”  Safcec’s offer covers two years. An interim increase of
1.45 percent to 2.14 percent will be given in the first year to
lower grades workers, in addition to a 10 percent pay rise, the
federation’s communications manager, Annemie Cowley, said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  “Safcec awaits a formal response from NUM,” the builders’
federation said in an e-mailed statement. “Safcec received
notice from NUM that some employees have started to resume their
duties on Thursday, 12 September and confirmed that the
 construction industry  can expect 100 percent turnout by
Monday.”  Fewer Hires  Inflation in Africa’s biggest economy accelerated to 6.3
percent in July, breaching the central bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target for the first time in 15 months. The rand is the
worst performer against the dollar this year of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, falling 15 percent. The
currency traded little changed at 9.9677 a dollar by 12:26 p.m.
in Johannesburg.  “The 10 percent wage increase in relatively high,” said
Avior Research Pty Ltd. analyst Dirk Noeth in a phone interview
from  Cape Town  today. “It means that down the line, companies
will hire fewer people or fire existing workers to compensate
for the wage increase. The increase in  strike action  is a major
deterrent to future  job creation  in the sector.”  Safcec members include  Murray & Roberts Holdings Ltd. (MUR)  and
 Aveng Ltd. (AEG) , the country’s two biggest builders by market value.
For the 12 months ending June, labor unrest cost Murray &
Roberts about 350 million rand ($35 million), according to Chief
Executive Officer Henry Laas.  Murray & Roberts shares fell 0.7 percent to 28.70 rand a
share while Aveng declined 0.6 percent to 26.84 rand. The 7-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Construction and Building Materials Index 
retreated 0.6 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  