-- Spain’s Public Debt Rose Above 2013 Target Last Quarter
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-09-13T11:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/spain-s-public-debt-rose-above-2013-target-last-quarter.html
Spain’s  public debt  rose above
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s year-end goal last quarter as the
nation struggled to emerge from its second  recession  since 2008.  Borrowings by the euro area’s fourth-largest economy at the
end of June rose to 92.2 percent of gross domestic product, or
943 billion euros ($1.3 trillion), the Madrid-based Bank of
Spain said on its  website  today. That compares with 923 billion
euros, or 90.1 percent of GDP, at the end of March, and the
government’s goal of 91.4 percent by the end of the year.  Spain’s debt load has more than doubled since 2008, when
the end of a real-estate boom triggered an economic slump that
is now in its its  sixth year . The International Monetary Fund
predicts the debt-to-GDP ratio will top 100 percent in 2015. The
European Commission says it’ll be higher than the euro-area
average, forecast to be 96 percent, for the first time in the
single currency’s history.  Spain’s debt-to-GDP projections may be subject to
“slight” changes after revisions to the medium-term outlook
for the deficit, the government said in a  document  prepared for
a Group of 20 meeting last week.  The central government accounted for more than 70 percent
of public debt last quarter, while the 17 semi-autonomous
regions had 193 billion euros, up 1.9 percent from March, the
Bank of Spain data showed today. Debt from Spain’s more than
8,000 town halls was 43.2 billion euros, while the state’s
social security welfare system contributed 17.2 billion euros.  Credit Rating  With its sovereign bonds rated between one and two levels
above junk by three rating companies, Spain has so far avoided a
full bailout, in part due to the European Central Bank’s pledge
to defend the euro. The yield on the country’s  10-year benchmark
bonds  rose 2 basis points to 4.48 percent at 1:27 p.m. in
Madrid, compared with a euro-era high of 7.75 percent in July
2012, after it secured EU loans to shore up its banks.  Spain’s credit rating remains under pressure as it’s too
early to determine whether the economic crisis has bottomed out,
DBRS Inc. Head of Sovereign Ratings Fergus McCormick said in an
interview published Sept. 9 by Expansion.  The ECB yesterday said in its monthly bulletin that Spain’s
compliance with its general government deficit target is
“difficult to gauge” and that it will depend on a stronger
recovery of tax bases in the second half of the year.  Reform Focus  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn
today said Spain must stay the course of reform even as there
are signs of an economic turnaround. Meanwhile the general
secretary of Spain’s largest business lobby, CEOE, Jose Maria
Lacasa, told reporters in  Madrid  that the government must
stimulate growth and focus budget cuts on current spending.  Rajoy said Sept. 7 that Group of 20 leaders  didn’t discuss 
risk premiums and possible sovereign bailouts when they met in
St. Petersburg. They talked about signs of a recovery and
prospects that Spain’s recession will end soon, he said. The
economy contracted 0.1 percent in the three months through June.  The government predicts growth will return in the second
half after eight straight quarters of contraction. Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro said this week Spain is also on track
to meet its budget-deficit  target  of 6.5 percent of GDP in 2013,
after the  shortfall  widened to 10.6 percent last year from 9.4
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  