-- Steinmetz’s Jet Searched During Swiss Raids, Lawyer Says
-- B y   A n d y   H o f f m a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-09-13T18:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/steinmetz-s-jet-searched-during-swiss-raids-lawyer-says.html
Swiss authorities searched Beny Steinmetz’s private jet during August raids that also covered
his Geneva home, said the billionaire’s lawyer, who added that
the raids failed to yield any evidence of corruption relating to
a Guinea ore project.  Steinmetz, whose company BSG Resources Ltd. owns a 49 per
cent stake in a venture that controls half of the giant Simandou
iron ore deposit, is expected to meet Geneva’s public prosecutor
within three to four weeks, Marc Bonnant, his lawyer, said in a
phone interview today.  Steinmetz,  Israel ’s richest person, will answer questions
about documents seized in the August raids and an investigation
started by Swiss authorities at Guinea’s request, Bonnant said.
The probe stems from allegations that a BSGR official bribed a
wife of a former president of the African country to secure
mining rights.  “BSGR did not pay a cent to the president or his wife,”
Bonnant said. “There is not a cent of corruption. There are
audits that have been made on that. Amongst the documents that
have been seized are the audits that show not a cent was paid.”  The West African country is reviewing mining licenses
including the one for Simandou, which was once described as the
world’s largest untapped deposit of the steelmaking raw
material. In April, a U.S. grand jury investigation began into
claims bribes were paid by BSGR for  Guinea  mining rights. No
charges have been filed.  Plane Search  “They took even some documents, without importance, from
the plane,” Bonnant said. “Beny Steinmetz came with a private
plane. They made also a search of the plane.”  In addition to Steinmetz’s Geneva residence and the
aircraft, Swiss police raided local offices of Onyx Financial
Advisors UK, a London-based company whose chief executive
officer, Dag Cramer, is a director of BSGR. Geneva’s public
prosecutor said last month it opened an investigation into Onyx
Financial Advisors UK at the request of Guinea.  Onyx “provided the Swiss authorities with information
following a request to Switzerland by the Government of
Guinea,” it said in an Aug. 29 statement.  Henri Della Casa, a spokesman for the prosecutor’s office,
declined to comment on the case or the planned interview with
Steinmetz.  Steinmetz has a net worth of $7.4 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He has offered to collaborate with
Swiss authorities and is co-operating fully, Bonnant said.
Steinmetz wasn’t home during the raid and gave the prosecutor
and police access to the residence, the lawyer said.  Guinea ‘Battle’  The raids are part of a “battle” Steinmetz and his
companies are engaged in with Guinean president, Alpha Conde,
Bonnant said. BSGR said in March that Guinea was preparing to
remove mining rights from its joint venture with  Brazil ’s Vale
SA, which plans a $10 billion mining operation at Simandou.  “What is taking place in Switzerland is a part of an
international investigation which involves many countries,”
Albert Damatang Camara, a spokesman for Guinea’s government,
said by phone yesterday. “Guinea’s policy concerning review of
mining agreements does not aim at expropriating a particular
company.”  Steinmetz’s company gained control of two of four blocks at
Simandou after the government ordered Rio Tinto Group to hand
them over in 2008. In April 2010, Vale agreed to pay BSGR as
much as $2.5 billion for a 51 percent stake in deposits in the
country including Rio’s confiscated blocks. The two blocks were
legally stripped from Rio because the company failed to proceed
with development, BSGR said last month.  Fourth Wife  Frederic Cilins, a French citizen who says he has worked
for BSGR in Guinea, was denied bail in July while awaiting trial
on charges he interfered with the U.S. grand jury probe. He’s
charged with witness tampering, obstructing a criminal
investigation and destruction of evidence in a federal
investigation. The witness-tampering and record-destruction
charges carry maximum prison terms of 20 years.  The allegations against Cilins are based on faked
documents, said Bonnant, Steinmetz’s lawyer. “They are stupidly
forged.”  Cilins, who was described by Guinea as an “agent” of
BSGR, said he was arrested after trying to stop an extortion
attempt by the government’s main witness. He has pleaded not
guilty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  