-- Steinbrueck Giving Finger to Critics Stirs German Ballot Debate
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2013-09-13T10:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/steinbrueck-giving-finger-to-critics-stirs-german-ballot-debate.html
Peer Steinbrueck , the Social
Democrat trying to unseat  Angela Merkel  as German chancellor,
drew controversy by striking a vulgar pose in the cover photo of
a popular magazine, deriding his critics nine days before voters
go the ballot box.  The SPD candidate, who trails Merkel by more than 10 points
in election polls, is shown on the front page of Sueddeutsche
Zeitung Magazin extending his middle finger as part of the
publication’s regular photo series known as “Don’t Say Anything
Now.” The weekly magazine with 1 million readers poses
questions in a format that calls on the interviewee to respond
with gestures, which are then captured on photo.  Steinbrueck, 66, whose election campaign has been riddled
by gaffes and blunders, was responding to the question: “You’re
called Mishap Peer, Problem Peer, Peerlusconi -- you’ve got no
worries about being given nice nicknames? Seven other photos in
the interview include one of him grinning with an unbuttoned
shirt in response to: ‘‘A question of style: Do you wear an
undershirt?” Another shows him pointing both index fingers at
himself with a “who, me?” expression in answer to: “Only 26
percent would vote for the SPD. Are you to blame?”  “This is going to hurt him,”  Jan Techau , director of the
Brussels office of the Carnegie Endowment, said in a phone
interview. “Steinbrueck likes to be the rogue candidate but
he’s lost touch with what’s appropriate for someone who wants to
be chancellor. The suicidal gene of the German Social Democrats
is still in place.”  Campaign Gaffes  Jarmila Schneider, an SPD spokeswoman, said the photos were
authorized and are genuine. Steinbrueck endorsed the series on
his Twitter Inc. account, writing: “You don’t always need words
to tell it like it is. As in when you’re constantly being
bombarded with old hat instead of the questions that matter.”  “I think we should all have a bit of humor in an election
campaign,” Steinbrueck said on N-TV today. “Those who don’t
should go into the basement to laugh.”  Steinbrueck, who was Merkel’s finance minister in her first
term of office from 2005 to 2009, has made waves since being
nominated as the SPD chancellor candidate late last year.  He drew anger from members of the SPD, a party with its
roots in the 19th century labor movement, with repeated comments
focused on his own wallet. The  Social Democrat  also said he
avoids wine that costs less than 5 euros ($6.64) a bottle and
that the chancellor’s salary of 220,000 euros a year is too low.  In a campaign he described as starting out badly, he
declared he had earned 1.25 million euros by giving 89 speeches
since 2009 at companies and banks including Deutsche Bank AG and
JP Morgan Chase & Co. He also said he gave 237 non-paid speeches
since leaving the  finance ministry .  ‘Money Talk’  “He has not stopped talking about money, his money and
whether he has an erotic relationship to money,” said Daniel
Friedrich Sturm, who published a Steinbrueck  biography  last
year. “This has cost him sympathy.”  The SPD campaign program is aimed at narrowing the income
divide in  Germany , with proposals to increase taxes for high-income earners and to expand affordable housing and all-day
elementary schools.  Steinbrueck, speaking in an ARD television town-hall style
interview on Sept. 11, defended his party’s plan to raise taxes
on the wealthy to fund Germany’s “dilapidated” infrastructure
and underfunded local governments. The SPD plans to raise the
top income tax rate to 49 percent from 45 percent.  “Not everybody should pay more, but some should pay a
little more,” Steinbrueck said at the time.  Frontline Role  Steinbrueck played a frontline role as finance minister in
fighting the global financial crisis and remains a staunch
opponent of  tax evasion . In 2010, he published a book entitled
“Unterm Strich” (The Bottom Line), with detailed policy
recommendations on how to deal with crisis aftermath.  “Steinbrueck always complains that nobody wants to talk
about the serious things he wants to talk about, but always
gives reasons to talk about other things,” said Manfred Guellner, managing director of the Forsa polling company. “It’s
not the evil media which have painted that picture of him.”  The photos were “just another in a series of ineptitudes
he’s committed that have become the talk of the town,” Guellner
said.  “His main problem is that he’s very convinced of himself
and has lost all sensitivity. As a citizen, not as a pollster, I
say that I would have the greatest concerns if he became
chancellor because he is so uncontrolled. I look at this with
horror.”  German news magazine Focus published a cover story on Jan.
7 with a photo-montage of Steinbrueck as a bloodied boxer
titled: “The chaos-candidate --  has Steinbrueck knocked himself
out? ” News magazine  Der Spiegel  on the same day ran a cover-story titled: “ Why does Steinbrueck make so many mistakes? ”  Female Voters  Steinbrueck himself has admitted that some of his comments
have not been very fortunate, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the SPD’s
parliamentary leader, told reporters at a party retreat in
Potsdam Jan. 28. Steinmeier said the German public should return
to discussing the SPD’s themes of social justice, “which are
also Steinbrueck’s themes.”  Steinbrueck’s comments on gender are also seen as hampering
his effort to topple the country’s first woman leader and
attract female voters.  In an effort to explain Merkel’s popularity, he said she
profits from a “woman’s bonus,” in a Dec. 29 interview in
Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung. Female voters are
impressed “Merkel made it in a man’s world, seems unpretentious
and has a modest appearance,” he is cited as saying.  Teared Up  He teared up at a June 16 party event that sought to
display his compassionate side, overcome by emotion when his
wife Gertrud defended him by saying the politician pilloried in
the German media for his gaffes isn’t the man she knows.  The SPD trails Merkel’s Christian Democrat bloc in the race
to the Sept. 22 elections, according to Germany’s seven leading
 polling agencies . Merkel’s bloc stands at 39 percent to 41
percent, compared with 25 percent to 28 percent for the SPD.  The Free Democrats, Merkel’s current coalition partner with
whom she wants to ally again after the vote, are at 4 percent to
6 percent, while the SPD’s Greens ally is at 9 percent to 12.5
percent.  Vice Chancellor and Economics Minister Philipp Roesler, the
FDP’s chairman, condemned the SZ-Magazin’s photo.  “The gesture is a no-no for a chancellor candidate,”
Roesler is cited by  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  as saying.  A top candidate of the Greens party, with whom Steinbrueck
wants to form a coalition, said it was unclear at whom
Steinbrueck was expressing his derision.  “It wouldn’t be my style,” said Katrin Goering-Eckardt,
the co-leading Greens candidate, as quoted in an interview with
broadcaster MDR.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net  