-- Summers Suspends Citigroup Ties While Considered for Fed
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-14T18:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/summers-suspends-citigroup-ties-while-considered-for-fed.html
Former U.S. Treasury Secretary
Lawrence Summers has suspended ties with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  while
the White House considers nominating him to serve as the Federal
Reserve’s next chairman, the company said.  “Mr. Summers has withdrawn from participation in all Citi
events while he is under consideration to be chairman of the
Federal Reserve,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for
the firm, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Summers, a Harvard University Professor and former top
economic adviser to President  Barack Obama , was to give the
keynote address on challenges to the global economy at a
Citigroup research seminar Oct. 13, according to an invitation
on the website for the firm, the third-biggest U.S. lender. The
Washington event coincides with the annual meetings of the World
Bank and the International Monetary Fund.  Citigroup hired Summers, 58, “for small private-bank
client and institutional client meetings,” Romero-Apsilos said
in an earlier e-mailed statement. He provided “insight on a
broad range of topics including the global and domestic
economy.”  Kelly Friendly, a spokeswoman for Summers, declined to
comment.  Donald Kohn, 70, a former Fed vice chairman who is now a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, is also listed as a
speaker at the Citigroup event. Kohn declined to comment.  New Regulations  Obama mentioned Summers, Kohn and Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen, 67, as potential candidates to lead the central bank in
a meeting with legislators in July. Ben S. Bernanke’s term as
Fed chairman expires Jan. 31.  Part of the next Fed chairman’s job will be overseeing the
largest bank holding companies, assuring their safety and
soundness and implementing dozens of new regulations under the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act that could crimp their profits. The Fed is a
direct supervisor of New York-based Citigroup and annually tests
it and other large banks’ durability against financial stress.  While Obama hasn’t decided on a nominee, according to a
Twitter posting yesterday by White House spokeswoman  Amy Brundage , Summers faces opposition from Senate Democrats
concerned about his ties to financial institutions. He was an
advocate of financial deregulation before a meltdown in U.S.
mortgage finance led to the near-collapse of the banking system
in 2008.  ‘No’ Votes  Senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from  Oregon , said in a
July interview that he was “extraordinarily skeptical” about
the possibility of a Summers appointment.  “If you nominate someone who is a life-committed
deregulator to be in a regulatory position, and if you believe
regulation is necessary to prevent fraud, abuse, manipulation
and so forth, then there’s a lot of questions to be asked: Why
is this person appropriate?” Merkley said.  Senator Jon Tester, a Democrat from  Montana , and Senator
Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from  Ohio , indicated yesterday that
they would vote against a Summers nomination.  Brown is a “likely ‘No’” vote if Summers is nominated,
spokeswoman Meghan Dubyak said. Tester wouldn’t support Summers,
spokeswoman Andrea Helling said.  The three lawmakers are on the 22-member  Senate Banking
Committee , which votes on a nominee to the top Fed post before
final consideration by the full Senate. Democrats hold 12 of the
panel’s seats.  The U.S. Senate, controlled 54-46 by Democrats, will need
Republican votes to reach the 60-vote threshold that has become
required to put aside a filibuster and move forward with most
nominations. Earlier this summer, 20 senators, including 19
Democrats and one independent, signed a letter of support for
Yellen.  Forty percent of investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers see Summers getting the job, compared with
33 percent for Yellen, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll
conducted Sept. 10.  Summers served Obama as head of the National Economic
Council in 2009-2010. Citigroup received a $45 billion bailout
during the turmoil, which it later repaid.  Kohn was Bernanke’s top adviser during the financial crisis
and is currently a member of the Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee, a new unit specifically charged with removing
or reducing systemic risk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  