-- Suntech CEO David King Latest Executive to Leave Solar Maker
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-09-13T20:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/suntech-says-ceo-king-steps-down-zhou-weiping-takes-over.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese solar manufacturer whose main unit filed for bankruptcy
earlier this year, said Chief Executive Officer  David King 
stepped down.  King will be replaced by Zhou Weiping, who takes over as
CEO and chief financial officer on an interim basis, the Wuxi,
China-based company said today in a statement. The board will
first search for a new CFO. Zhou will keep his roles as
president and director.  Suntech this month said it reached an “understanding”
with creditors allowing for a conversion of debt to equity and
the introduction of a strategic investor. It’s seeking to
restore financial stability after  China ’s solar-panel industry
became unprofitable amid a worldwide glut. Three directors quit
in August, saying the company had no business plan.  “It’s a shame that it didn’t work out -- David had a lot
of credibility with U.S. investors,” Jeff Osborne, an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  New York , said in an interview
today. “It’s been a difficult time. They’ve lost a lot of
market share and are having a hard time renegotiating the
debt.”  Suntech rose 9.2 percent to $1.30 at the close in New York.  Once the world’s biggest solar-panel maker, Suntech
defaulted on $541 million of bonds this year, opening the way
for bondholders to sue in the U.S. where its shares and notes
trade.  Entirely Logical  “Given its bankruptcy, Suntech is being essentially
supported by the government of Wuxi, and Chinese banks also have
a lot of influence over what happens at the company,” said
 Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in Houston. “Under these circumstances, a CEO change seems
entirely logical.”  King replaced CEO and founder Shi Zhengrong in August 2012,
a month after the company said it may have been the victim of a
$680 million fraud. Shi, once China’s richest man, remained
chairman until March.  King joined Suntech in 2011 as finance chief after serving
in similar roles at  Pasadena , California-based  Tetra Tech Inc. (TTEK) ,
an environmental services and construction company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  