-- Swedish GDP Shrank More Last Quarter Than First Estimated
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-09-13T08:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/sweden-s-economy-shrank-more-last-quarter-than-first-estimated.html
Sweden ’s  economy  contracted more
than first estimated in the second quarter as weak demand from
 Europe  held back  exports (SWTBAL)  and investments declined.  Gross domestic product shrank a  quarterly  0.2 percent in
the three months through June, revised from a 0.1 percent drop,
 Statistics Sweden  said today. The economy grew 0.1 percent from
a year earlier, down from an estimate of 0.6 percent in July.  The krona lost as much as 0.4 percent against the euro, and
traded 0.2 percent lower at 8.6893 as of 10:17 a.m. in
 Stockholm . The difference in yield on Sweden’s two-year note and
similar-maturity German debt narrowed to 101 basis points from
103 basis points yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The level of GDP is lower than previously known, which
should affect the Riksbank’s assessment of resource
utilization,” Torbjoern Isaksson, chief analyst at Nordea
Markets Research, a unit of Nordea Bank AB, said in an e-mailed
note. “Add to this the weak start to the third quarter and the
first rate hike from the Riksbank seems more distant.”  Riksbank Outlook  Sweden’s central bank said last week it won’t raise its
main  interest rate  until late next year after keeping it at 1
percent for a fourth meeting to support demand. The $540 billion
economy, home to Ericsson AB and Volvo AB, has suffered higher
unemployment than in neighboring Norway and Denmark as its
exporters cut jobs to stay competitive.  Household consumption rose an annual 1.9 percent in the
second quarter and public spending rose 2 percent. Exports fell
2.3 percent, Statistics Sweden said today. Fixed investments
fell 3 percent on the year, while inventories boosted growth by
0.4 percentage point in the quarter, it said.  Sweden’s government said last month it will spend 25
billion kronor ($3.8 billion) on new initiatives next year to
boost the economy, which it predicts will grow 1.2 percent this
year and 2.5 percent in 2014. Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
has said he wants to spend most of the money on a fifth round of
income tax cuts since he came to power in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  