-- U.K. Construction Output Rises Amid Housing Demand
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-13T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/u-k-construction-output-rises-amid-housing-demand.html
U.K. construction output rose at
its fastest pace in three months in July, boosted by private
housing, infrastructure and commercial work.  Construction, which accounts for 6.3 percent of the
economy, rose 2.2 percent from June and was 2 percent higher
than a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in
London today.  Output was boosted by a 3.2 percent increase in new work,
adding to evidence that the economy maintained momentum into the
third quarter. New orders surged by 19.8 percent in the second
quarter from the first to highest level since early 2010, driven
by an increase in orders for new housing as well as  wind
turbines  and solar farms, the ONS said.  The figures suggest construction is getting a boost from
government initiatives to boost the housing market, including
Help to Buy, which allows people to buy new homes with a deposit
of as little as 5 percent of the value of the property. The
program is also boosting  house prices , prompting critics to warn
of another property bubble as supply struggles to keep up with
rising demand.  On the month, private-sector housing output rose 1.4
percent, infrastructure increased 4.4 percent and commercial
work rose 6.8 percent.  In the second quarter, construction output rose 1.9 percent
instead of the 1.4 percent previously estimated. The revision
will have a “minimal” impact on overall gross domestic
product, which rose 0.7 percent in the period, the ONS said.  Construction has fared worse than the services and
manufacturing sectors of the economy since the financial crisis,
the victim of government austerity and a credit famine. From its
peak in early 2008, the industry contracted by 21 percent over
the following five years.  Construction grew at the fastest pace in six years in
August, with a Markit Economics index of building output
published Sept. 3 rising to 59.1 from 57 in July. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  