-- U.K. Water Regulator Challenge Casts Doubt on Super-Sewer
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-09-13T13:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/u-k-water-regulator-challenge-casts-doubt-on-super-sewer.html
Britain’s biggest water and waste
company is facing questions from regulatory authorities over its
bid to raise customer bills by about 8 percent a year to help
pay for a “super-sewer” project in  London .  Ofwat is challenging Thames Water Utilities Ltd.’s request
to increase household bills by about 29 pounds ($46) a year, it
said today in a statement. The regulator says Thames Water has
underspent on sewer-flood and sewage-treatment works and failed
to sufficiently maintain parts of its wastewater network.  “We have been clear that we would challenge Thames’s
proposed bill increase,” Sonia Brown, chief regulation officer
at Ofwat, said in the statement. “So we are looking to see if
there are areas where we can claim back money for customers.”  Thames Water says the London-based utility needs the extra
money to help buy land to build its 4.1 billion-pound Thames
Tideway Tunnel, a sewer project that would follow the course of
the capital’s river. The Kemble Water Holdings Ltd. unit, which
has 14 million customers in the London area, said Aug. 12 it
expects to spend about 273 million pounds purchasing the land.  “We expected the regulator to set out the format for
assessing our application,’’ Thames Water said in response.
“This is part of the regulatory process. We don’t plan to
comment until after Ofwat’s draft decision, expected in mid-October.”  The average Thames Water bill is about 354 pounds, which it
says is among the lowest in the country. Ofwat will make a final
decision in early November and any permitted price increases
will take effect from April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  