-- U.K. Stocks Little Changed After U.S. Retail Sales Report
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-09-13T16:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/u-k-stocks-fall-for-first-time-in-four-days.html
U.K. stocks  closed little changed,
as the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  posted a second week of gains, as U.S.
retail-sales growth missed estimates and as investors watched
talks between the U.S. and  Russia  on Syria.  Polymetal International Plc led gold producers lower as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted the precious metal’s price
could fall below $1,000 an ounce.  Kentz Corp. (KENZ)  fell for an eighth
day after M+W Group GmbH said it won’t make an offer for the
oil-services company.  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG)  jumped
11 percent after announcing an expanded partnership with
MediaTek Inc.  The FTSE 100 Index slid 5.18 points, less than 0.1 percent,
to 6,583.8 in London. The gauge climbed 0.6 percent this week
amid better-than-expected economic data from  China  and as U.S.
President  Barack Obama  delayed a decision on military action
against Syria. The broader FTSE All-Share Index declined less
than 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slipped 0.7
percent.  “The figure is not too bad,” said Robert Carnell, chief
international economist at ING Bank NV in London, wrote in a
note. “It is not bad enough to shift the Fed from the course of
action they seem destined to fulfill next week. The taper is on
its way.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the FTSE 100 was 20 percent lower than the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Retail Sales  Retail sales increased 0.2 percent in August, the smallest
in four months, according to a U.S. Commerce Department report
in  Washington . That compares with the median forecast of 0.5
percent increase in a Bloomberg News survey. The department
revised the increase in July to 0.4 percent.  The retail report is one of the last pieces of data before
Federal Reserve policy makers meet Sept. 17-18 to consider
reducing monthly bond purchases. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
has said that the central bank may consider tapering if the
economy continues to grow in line with its forecasts.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry meets Russian
counterpart Sergei Lavrov in Geneva to discuss a deal to remove
 Syria ’s chemical weapons. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said
that the administration of President Barack Obama must stop its
military threats and cease arming rebel groups for the nation to
give up its chemical arsenal.  “Syria is an uncertain situation,” James Buckley, a
London-based fund manager at Baring Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees about $50 billion, said by telephone. “There are
tensions in the background that could emerge anytime.”  Gold Price  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which has estimated the price of
gold to be $1,050 an ounce in 2014, now says the precious metal
could fall below $1,000 as the U.S. economy improves and the
Federal Reserve cuts stimulus. Gold touched a high of $1,900.20
in September 2011.  Polymetal International Plc dropped 3.5 percent to 709.5
pence. African Barrick Gold Plc lost 2 percent to 164.2 pence. A
gauge of London-listed  mining companies  fell 1.6 percent. Anglo
American Plc retreated 3.2 percent to 1,568.5 pence. Glencore
Xstrata Plc slid 0.6 percent to 341.5 pence.  Kentz lost 1.4 percent to 492 pence, for the longest losing
streak since January 2012. M+W Group, a German engineering and
construction company, said it doesn’t intend to make another bid
for Kentz after its indicative offer in July was rejected by the
latter’s board. Kentz yesterday slumped the most in two years
after Amec Plc said it won’t make an offer.  Imagination Rallies  Imagination Technologies jumped 11 percent to 339.7 pence.
The designer of chip technology for phones and tablets announced
it expanded its partnership with Taiwan-based semiconductor
maker MediaTek for wireless-communication and digital-multimedia
products.  Fenner Plc (FENR)  rallied 5.2 percent to 407.4 pence, its highest
price since March 20. UBS AG started coverage of the conveyor-belt maker with a buy rating, saying shares are cheap. The bank
predicted the stock will climb to 460 pence in the next 12
months.  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  advanced 2.3 percent to 4,554
pence. The film version of the company’s Suboxone opioid-dependency drug continues to gain market share six months after
the entry of generic competition, Sanford Bernstein wrote in a
note.  ITV Plc (ITV)  climbed 2.1 percent to 183.4 pence, its highest
price since at least February 2004. Media buyers are indicating
accelerating growth in U.K. and German advertising, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc., which highlighted ITV, the owner of the
U.K.’s most-watched commercial TV station, as still offering
potential for price increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  London  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  