-- U.S. to Triple Afghan Cargo Shipments on Pakistan Routes
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-09-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/u-s-to-triple-afghan-cargo-shipments-on-pakistan-routes.html
The U.S. wants to triple the volume
of its cargo traffic leaving Afghanistan by road through
 Pakistan  as NATO combat forces withdraw from the South Asian
nation by the end of 2014.  Increasing the portion of cargo moving by road to 60
percent from the current 20 percent will lower U.S.
transportation costs compared with flying it home or sending it
by air to ports in the region for transfer to U.S.-bound ships,
a defense official said. The Pentagon has estimated the cost of
withdrawal at $5 billion to $7 billion.  Ashton Carter , the U.S. deputy secretary of defense, was
scheduled to arrive in Kabul today for meetings with U.S.
military and Afghan officials to discuss the transition of
security responsibilities to Afghan forces as well as to assess
progress on the withdrawal, said the defense official, who asked
not to be identified speaking about bilateral discussions.  The U.S. has faced setbacks in transporting military
equipment into and out of Afghanistan in the last two years. In
November 2011, Pakistan shut down its supply routes for seven
months after an American helicopter attack accidentally killed
24 Pakistani soldiers. The routes were reopened in June 2012.  Earlier this year, U.S. military supplies leaving
Afghanistan were held up after the country began charging
 customs duties  on the materiel. After U.S. lawmakers threatened
to cut off aid, Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  last month reached
agreement with NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force  to
waive $70 million in fines.  Pakistan Routes  Greater use of Pakistan’s supply routes will lower
transport costs because multimodal transport, using a
combination of aircraft and ships, costs three to five times as
much as sending cargo by road through Pakistan, the official
said. Sending equipment all the way by air costs five to 10
times as much, the official said.  Equipment leaving Afghanistan by road through Pakistan is
loaded on ships in Karachi.  Currently 20 percent of the cargo is leaving through
Pakistan, the official said. About half is moving by multi-modal
means and 30 percent is going solely by air, the official said.
The Northern Distribution Network, a combination of road and
rail routes that goes through central Asian republics, carries
only about 1 percent of the cargo, the official said.  2014 Deadline  The U.S. has about 24,000 vehicles and 20,000 containers of
materiel to remove from  Afghanistan  before the December 2014
deadline, the defense official said.  Among the equipment is the Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected
vehicle. About 2,500 of the armored trucks are still in
Afghanistan, and half of them are likely to be deemed excess by
the military services, making them eligible to be donated to
allies and other interested nations, the official said. The rest
may be fixed and shipped back to the U.S. at a cost of $50,000
to $75,000 each.  Of the 66,000 U.S. troops now in Afghanistan, about 32,000
will leave by February, and most of the rest will depart by
December 2014, leaving a smaller force to train and advise
Afghans as well as conduct counterterrorism operations. That
depends on the two countries reaching agreement that includes
protecting troops that remain from local prosecution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  