-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Hold; Occidental Default Risk Rises
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-13T16:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-occidental-default-risk-rises.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
held as retail sales rose less than forecast in August. The cost
to protect the debt of  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  increased.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.3
basis point to a mid-price of 77.6 basis points as of 11:25 a.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure typically declines as investor confidence improves and
climbs as it deteriorates.  Investors are looking at the strength of the economic
recovery to determine when the Federal Reserve will begin
tapering its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases, which have
boosted credit markets. The Commerce Department reported today
in  Washington  that retail sales increased 0.2 percent last
month, lower than the 0.5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  “The  bond market  is a little leery right now,” Matthew Duch, who helps oversee $12 billion as a  money manager  at
Calvert Investments Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“You’re juggling the exit from monetary stimulus while juggling
the appointment of another  Federal Reserve  chairman.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Occidental Sale  Credit risk for Occidental rose after the largest oil
producer in the continental U.S. sought to sell a 40 percent
stake in its Middle East unit for as much as $8 billion,
according to people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not
to be named as the talks are private.  Five-year swaps tied to the debt of Occidental increased 1
basis point to 74 basis points as of 11:33 a.m. in  New York ,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. Earlier the swaps fell as much as
9.5 basis points.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 0.6 basis point to 375.2, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries tightened 0.3 basis point to 132.7
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt tightened 0.2 basis point to 598.5.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  