-- Lufthansa Said to See Boeing-Airbus Split on Jet Order
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s ,   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-13T17:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/lufthansa-said-to-see-boeing-airbus-split-on-jet-order.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  will split an
order for about 50 wide-body aircraft between Airbus SAS and
 Boeing Co. (BA) , a purchase with a list value of at least $14
billion, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The twin-engine jets will be Boeing’s new 777-9X, which is
due to fly by decade’s end, and Airbus’s A350-900, said two of
the people, who asked not to be identified because the details
aren’t yet public. An announcement may come as soon as next
week, the people said.  Dividing the deal provides a boost for both planemakers
after Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa had said the order would
be a winner-take-all contest. Lufthansa hasn’t bought 777s for
its own passenger operations before, and has previously relied
heavily on jets from Toulouse, France-based Airbus.  Lufthansa, Europe’s second-largest airline, now uses four-engine Airbus A340-300s and A340-600s for some long-haul routes.
The carrier ordered 108 planes in May, including 100 Airbus A320
narrow-bodies, in a transaction with a catalog value of about
$12.4 billion. Airlines typically buy at a discount.  Boeing jets will make up a majority of the order, said one
of the people.  “No fleet decision has yet been taken by the Lufthansa
supervisory board,”  Thomas Jachnow , a Lufthansa spokesman, said
today by telephone. Any announcement will follow the board’s
approval of management’s fleet recommendation, he said.  Stefan Schaffrath, an Airbus spokesman, and Doug Alder of
Chicago-based Boeing declined to comment.  New Engines  With the 777X, Lufthansa will become the first purchaser
for the new model, the people said. The 777, the world’s biggest
twin-engine airliner, will feature new engines on the X variant
and the largest wing ever on a Boeing plane to help improve
performance.  The wide-body order will surpass the May purchase and be
Lufthansa’s largest ever, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified.  A precise deal value couldn’t immediately be determined,
because of the lack of specifics on which planes are in the
order and on what Boeing will charge for 777X once the jet’s
development gets final approval. It will be bigger and more
expensive than the current 777, whose largest variant lists for
$320.2 million. Airbus offers the A350-900 for $287.7 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  