-- Muhammad Secret Strategist; Foote’s Twisted Texans: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-09-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/muhammad-secret-strategist-foote-s-twisted-texans-stage.html
Cassius Clay had recently converted
to Islam, re-emerged as  Muhammad Ali  and was preparing for his
1965 heavyweight title rematch with Sonny Liston when he
introduced the press to his “secret strategist,” movie star
Lincoln Perry.  The unlikely friendship that Ali forged with the black
actor whose screen name was Stepin Fetchit -- “the laziest man
in the world” -- raised many an eyebrow. Just as it does in the
engaging “Fetch Clay, Make Man,” at the  New York Theatre
Workshop .  Ali had an agenda, according to Will Power’s play, staged
with great finesse by  Des McAnuff  and spiffily designed by
Riccardo Hernandez.  Nervous about the rematch with a better-prepared Liston and
the controversy surrounding his conversion, the Champ wanted
Perry to tell him any secrets he might have gleaned from his
earlier friendship with another boxing legend, Jack Johnson.  The key strength of the play lies in Perry’s willingness to
push back in the face of his host’s oddly seductive narcissism.
Stepin Fetchit gives no quarter.  Their relationship, which McAnuff winds-up carefully like a
dramatic mainspring, reveals two icons fluent in the dangerous
dance their private selves do with their public images.  “I snuck in the back door so you could walk in the
front,” Perry tells Ali.  Malcolm X  Public and private events -- the assassination of Malcolm
X, Ali’s faltering marriage -- swirl around the central story,
which build with steady but jagged momentum to the big fight.  K. Todd Freeman’s slouchy body language and piercing eyes
as Perry provide a great foil to Ray Fisher’s bobbing, imposing
Ali. Nikki M James makes a meal of wife Sonji, a woman who
declines to be embarrassed about her past and already bristles
at the sanctimony surrounding her.  The climax of “Fetch Clay, Make Man” is history, but the
tale within is completely absorbing.  Through Oct. 13 at  New York  Theatre Workshop, 79 E. 4th
St. Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.nytw.org . Rating:
****  ‘Old Friends’  A rather tender romance lies at the center of “The Old
Friends,” a drama by the late Horton Foote having its world
premiere in a dazzling production at the  Signature Theatre .  Foote surrounds the love story of the recently widowed
Sybil Borden (Hallie Foote, whose wellspring eyes convey Russian
novels) and Howard Ratliff (the fine Cotter Smith), with plenty
of family melodrama.  Howard manages the vast properties of his sister-in-law,
the voracious sodden dowager Gertrude Ratliff (Betty Buckley, in
the finest dramatic performance of her career).  She’s a sharp contrast to Lois Smith’s Mamie Borden,
Sybil’s lonely mother-in-law and the object of scorn by daughter
Julia (Veanne Cox, a tower of middle-aged delusion) and her
slobbering husband (the St. Bernardish Adam LeFevre).  Michael Wilson , who has proven to be the director Foote
spent his life searching for, allows all these characters to
breathe even as their unsavory rivalries and sad stories
threaten to overwhelm the central story.  All to masterful effect: Foote was an American Chekhov who
savored character over plot (there are echoes here of “Uncle
Vanya”). We leave the theater in the knowledge that Howard and
Sybil have finally found a safe harbor to nurse their awful
psychic wounds.  Through Oct. 6 at the Pershing Square Signature Center, 480
W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-244-7529;
 http://www.signaturetheatre.org . Rating: *****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include New York  Weekend  and  movies .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 