-- United Will Honor Free Tickets Sold by Mistake
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-09-13T19:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/united-says-honor-free-tickets-sold-on-faulty-web-data.html
United Airlines  said passengers who
bought tickets that were accidentally sold for free because of
faulty reservations data will be able to use them for travel.  “United has reviewed the error that occurred yesterday and
decided that, based on these specific circumstances, we will
honor the tickets,”  Mary Clark , a spokeswoman for the unit of
Chicago-based  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , said today in an
e-mail. The company isn’t disclosing how many of the tickets
were sold.  The $0 fares were only on the United.com website for “a
couple hours” at midday yesterday and weren’t distributed via
channels such as travel agencies,  Megan McCarthy , another
spokeswoman, said yesterday. United’s Shares reservation system
didn’t cause the fault, McCarthy said, without giving further
details.  The carrier had to close the booking engine on its
United.com website “so we could correct the error,” McCarthy
said. The website was back to normal at about 2:30 p.m. Chicago
time yesterday, she said.  Many of the tickets cost $5 or $10 in total, suggesting
that United was only collecting a mandatory 9/11 security fee of
$2.50 per leg, said  Rick Seaney , chief executive officer of
FareCompare.com, a ticket research firm based in  Dallas . Taxes
and fees typically add up to $22 or more a ticket, he said.  Robert Stokas, an attorney in the Chicago suburb of Oak
Lawn, said he was on United’s website when the erroneous data
was loaded and bought six tickets yesterday for a trip to  Los
Angeles  next June for $60 total.  ‘Bad Press’  “I assumed it was a promotion or something,” said Stokas,
who is 35. He said he is pleased that United will honor the
tickets.  “They took the high road, said ‘We made a mistake,’” he
said. “It may cost them some money on the front end, but it
saves them potential litigation and bad press.”  A similar pricing mistake occurred in May 2002 when a fare
sale accidentally appeared as a $5 round-trip ticket for about
45 minutes, the  Chicago Tribune  reported at the time.  The latest incident was at least the fourth public computer
disruption at United since March 2012, when the carrier switched
its former Apollo reservation system over to Shares, the program
used by merger partner Continental Airlines. United’s former
parent, UAL Corp., combined with Continental in October 2010.  In the reservation shift, United struggled with long lines
at airport check-in counters and a surge in call volumes while
making the transition.  Automated check-in access was lost at airport kiosks and on
United’s website in August 2012, and a software breakdown in the
carrier’s flight dispatching system delayed hundreds of flights
in November.  Separately today,  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , the carrier with
the most domestic flights from  New York ’s John F. Kennedy
airport, said delays caused by a computer system failure will
affect service throughout the day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Chen in New York at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  