-- Huntington Carrier Delay Saves Money, McCain Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-09-13T23:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/huntington-carrier-delay-saves-money-mccain-says.html
The Navy’s decision to delay the
award of a contract to start construction on the USS John F.
Kennedy will save money by giving the service “more time to
assess technical challenges” in a new class of aircraft
carriers, Senator  John McCain  said.  “I support the Navy’s decision this week to defer the
award of a construction contract for Kennedy,” McCain, an
 Arizona  Republican, said today in an e-mailed statement. “This
decision will ultimately save taxpayer dollars.”  The Navy will delay by as long as a year a contract for at
least $4 billion to  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  to start
construction on the Kennedy, Bloomberg reported yesterday,
citing U.S. officials who asked not to be identified because the
postponement hasn’t been announced.  The Kennedy is the second of three ships planned in the new
carrier class. The first, the USS Gerald R. Ford, is the the
costliest warship ever built and is projected to cost $12.8
billion when completed and fully equipped -- 22 percent more
than estimated five years ago.  In his statement, McCain criticized Navy contracts in which
“critical component technologies are developed and tested at
the same time they are procured and installed.” The senator, a
member of the Armed Service Committee, said he had “voiced my
deep concern that the Navy was rushing” to award a contract for
the Kennedy “before the costs of the first ship had
stabilized.”  ‘Lessons Learned’  Commander Thurraya Kent, a Navy spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement that until concluding negotiations with
Huntington Ingalls on the contract, the Navy intends to extend
funding on a smaller construction-preparation contract to
“avoid a costly production break.” The Navy awarded that $296
million contract to the shipbuilder last year.  Beci Brenton, a spokeswoman for  Newport News , Virginia-based Huntington Ingalls, said in an e-mailed statement that the
extension “provides time for the Navy and industry team to
implement lessons learned” from the Ford construction, to
“identify any government requirement reductions, and increase
the maturity of government technologies in order to stay within
a challenging budget.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  