-- ViroPharma Said to Hire Goldman Amid Sanofi Interest
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-13T20:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/viropharma-said-to-hire-goldman-amid-interest-from-sanofi-shire.html
ViroPharma Inc. (VPHM) , a producer of
drugs that treat rare diseases, has attracted interest from
suitors including European drugmakers  Sanofi (SAN)  and  Shire Plc (SHP) , said
people with knowledge of the process. ViroPharma’s shares
surged.  ViroPharma began working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on a
possible auction after fielding an unsolicited approach, said
the people, who asked not to be named because talks are private.
Goldman Sachs has actively sought other suitors for the Exton,
Pennsylvania-based drugmaker since then, said one person.
ViroPharma’s market value was about $2 billion before
Bloomberg’s report.  The world’s top pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
have pursued acquisitions this year as they seek new drugs to
replace products whose patents are expiring. After Amgen Inc.’s
agreement to buy  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  for $10.4 billion in
August, the value of deals in the two sectors has risen 14
percent from a year earlier to more than $70 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ViroPharma shares gained 28 percent to $39.13 at the close
in  New York , the biggest single-day increase since August 2005.
Representatives at Sanofi, ViroPharma, Shire and Goldman Sachs
declined to comment.  Sales at ViroPharma rose almost 10 percent in the second
quarter to $103.7 million, bolstered by its treatment Cinryze,
which treats hereditary angioedema, an inflammatory condition.
The company may report third-quarter results next month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Strategic Fit  Sanofi has been expanding into treatments of rare diseases
since its 2010 acquisition of Genzyme Inc. for $19.6 billion.
Cinryze, a rare-disease therapy, may fit Sanofi’s strategy.  Shire also develops treatments for rare illnesses such as
Fabry disease, which is an enzyme deficiency that can lead to
 kidney failure , heart problems or stroke. Shire also produces
Firazyr for hereditary angioedema.  If a company with a sales force for hereditary angioedema
drugs such as Shire acquires ViroPharma, the synergies would
give the company a future value of $52 a share, Robyn Karnauskas, a Deutsche Bank analyst, said today in a note to
clients. If an acquirer doesn’t have such a drug, ViroPharma may
be valued at about $46 a share, Karnauskas said.  ViroPharma is testing an experimental treatment, maribavir,
for Cytomegalovirus, a form of herpes that affects patients
whose immune systems are compromised due to other diseases or
treatments used during transplant procedures.  Maribavir has a
50 percent probability of coming to market, Karnauskas wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  