-- Wachtell, Davis Polk, Reed Smith: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/wachtell-davis-polk-reed-smith-business-of-law.html
Wachtell Lipton  Rosen & Katz
advised  Umpqua Holdings Corp. (UMPQ) , Oregon’s biggest bank, which
agreed to pay about $2 billion in stock and cash to buy Sterling
Financial Corp., the lender backed by Warburg Pincus LLC and
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP.  Sterling used  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP for legal advice.
Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP represented Thomas H. Lee and Kirkland
& Ellis LLP advised Warburg Pincus.  Wachtell Lipton’s team was led by corporate
attorneys Edward D. Herlihy, Matthew M. Guest and Brandon C.
Price. Other lawyers on the deal included Jeannemarie O’Brien,
executive compensation and benefits; and Joshua M. Holmes, tax.  The Weil team included Michael Aiello, M&A; and Heath Tarbert, financial institutions regulatory.  Davis Polk’s M&A team was led by  William Taylor .  The Kirkland team was led by  New York  partners Eunu Chun,
William Sorabella, Sergio Urias and Christian Nagler.  Sterling holders will receive 1.671 shares of Umpqua stock
and $2.18 in cash for each of their shares, the companies said
Sept. 11 in a statement. That values Spokane, Washington-based
Sterling at $30.52 a share, 26 percent more than its $24.20
close on Aug. 30, when Bloomberg reported Sterling was for sale.  “With our size, shared cultures and financial strength,
our combined organization will be uniquely positioned to deliver
value,” Umpqua Chief Executive Officer Raymond P. Davis, who
will lead the combined company, said in the statement.  Buying Sterling would  double Umpqua’s size  to about $22
billion in assets and almost 400 branches.  Warburg Pincus  and
Thomas H. Lee, the private-equity firms, each held more than 20
percent of Sterling’s  common stock  at midyear.  For more, click here.  Firm News  King & Spalding Establishes Energy Team in Paris  Five energy lawyers from  Herbert Smith  Freehills joined
King & Spalding LLP’s Paris office, establishing the group. The
practice will be led by Mehdi Haroun, former head of the North
Africa practice at Herbert Smith.  The team, which includes two counsels and two associates,
has corporate and public law expertise, and expands the firm’s
energy capabilities across Europe and North Africa.  “Their depth of experience covering transactional work,
projects, financings and disputes provides added firepower in
 France  and new opportunities for our established international
energy practice,” Robert D. Hays, Jr.chairman of King &
Spalding, said in a statement.  Haroun is a dual-qualified French and Algerian lawyer and
has experience in matters in France and North Africa. Among the
matters he’s handled was advising OMV AG on its $866 million
purchase of Pioneer Natural Resources Co. in  Tunisia  and BHP
Billiton Ltd., RWE Dea AG and BAT.  King & Spalding’s Paris office opened in 2009. Last year,
the office recruited a seven-lawyer group, led by Benoit Marcilhacy and Pascal Schmitz, to start a local real-estate
practice, as well as a three-partner French litigation team, the
firm said.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the  Middle East  and  Asia .  Cozen O’Connor Expands National Real-Estate Group  Cozen O’Connor expanded its national real-estate practice
with the addition of seven partners at six offices since March.
Most recently, Daniel W. Hardwick, previously of Bingham
McCutchen LLP, joined in Washington.  Other recent real-estate partner hires include Richard L.
Emge, who joined the Wilmington office in July. Brittiny
Sessions joined the firm’s New York office also in July. Richard S. Roisman and James Kennedy joined the Philadelphia office in
May and July respectively.  Thomas G. Wallrich joined as office managing partner in
 Minneapolis  in June while Michael E. Botos, joined the new West
Palm Beach office in March.  “This year, we have opened offices in West Palm Beach and
Minneapolis, and expanded our business law practice across a
number of key areas,” Cozen O’Connor Chief Executive Officer
Michael J. Heller said in a statement. “Our growth in real
estate is an extension of our strategy to continue to strengthen
our national full-service platform.”  The firm’s most recent addition, Hardwick, has represented
publicly-traded real estate investment trusts, pension fund
advisers, private equity firms, developers and institutional
lenders in complex acquisitions, sales, joint venture
arrangements, financing transactions and leases, the firm said.  Emge, who was most recently a senior assistant city
solicitor in Wilmington, has handled legal matters for the city
related to real estate,  land use , procurement and economic
development.  Sessions has represented governmental agencies, developers,
underwriters, trustees, lenders, not-for-profits and businesses
in financing and developing capital projects.  Roisman, who was most recently a partner at McCarter &
English LLP, has a background in financing work and
transactions/workouts involving secured and unsecured loans,
from all sides of the table.  Kennedy, who was senior vice president and general counsel
to GMH Associates, Inc., has experience in complex corporate and
real estate finance, securitization, financial services,
mortgage banking and commercial real estate transactions.  Cozen O’Connor has 575 attorneys at 23 U.S. offices.  Shawn Oller Named Littler Mendelson’s Phoenix Head  Littler Mendelson PC named Shawn Oller office managing
shareholder of the Phoenix office. Oller succeeds Mark Ogden,
who held the position for 15 years and will return to his
litigation practice full-time.  “Shawn’s outstanding legal background and proven
management qualities will be instrumental in furthering the
growth of the office,” Tom Bender and Jeremy Roth, co-managing
directors of Littler, said in a joint statement. “And, we look
forward to Mark’s ongoing senior leadership within the  law
firm .”  Oller, a trial lawyer, represents management and companies
in employment litigation, arbitration and mediation.  Littler Mendelson has more than 980 attorneys and 57
offices throughout the Americas and China.  Moves  White-Collar Duo Joins Reed Smith From Linklaters in New York  Reed Smith  LLP added government investigations and
litigation partners Joseph P. Armao and Paul Alfieri to the
firm’s global regulatory enforcement group in New York. Both
join from Linklaters LLP, where Armao was head of U.S.
litigation in the firm’s New York office.  “Strategic growth in New York with laterals of this
caliber is a priority for Reed Smith,” Edward Estrada, managing
partner of Reed Smith’s New York office, said in a statement.
“Both Joe and Paul bring top-tier white-collar criminal
expertise and a host of global clients. We certainly look
forward to having them on board.”  Armao has been lead counsel in white-collar criminal and
government regulatory proceedings. He specializes in complex
accounting and securities fraud, the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, the enforcement of U.S. economic sanctions, and
international price-fixing investigations, the firm said.  Alfieri, who has worked closely with Armao, has experience
in accounting and securities fraud matters, as well as in FCPA
and antitrust enforcement investigations. He has also worked on
shareholder securities class actions and derivative suits, as
well as price-fixing litigation.  Their cases have included representation of The Yokohama
Rubber Company, Ltd. in an investigation by the  U.S. Department
of Justice , European Commission, U.K.  Office of Fair Trading ,
into an alleged price-fixing cartel involving marine products,
the firm said.  Reed Smith has more than 1,800 lawyers in 25 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Corporate Partner Saslaw Joins Vinson & Elkins in Dallas  Dallas corporate lawyer Michael Saslaw joined Vinson &
Elkins LLP. He was previously at Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP.  Saslaw’s practice includes mergers and acquisitions,
private equity and general corporate counseling and governance.
He has worked on matters in the energy and infrastructure,
technology, retail, consumer products, media/telecomm and
manufacturing industries.  “His deep Texas roots and longstanding relationships with
a number of V&E clients make this an excellent fit for everyone
involved,” V&E managing partner Scott Wulfe said in a
statement.  Among his recent matters, Saslaw represented private equity
firm EQT Partners in its $465 million acquisition of Synagro
Technologies, Inc. pursuant to a bankruptcy plan and in its $270
million acquisition of Restaurant Technologies. He also advised
Trimble Navigation Ltd., a developer of GPS systems and software
including surveying, mapping and marine navigation equipment, in
multiple acquisitions, including its $335 million purchase of
TMW Systems Inc. and the acquisition of Google Inc.’s SketchUp
3D business, the firm said.  Vinson & Elkins has more than 675 lawyers at 16
offices worldwide.  Hunton & Williams Hires Former Justice Department Official  Former  Justice Department  lawyer Jamillia P.
Ferris joined Hunton & Williams LLP as a partner in the
antitrust and competition practice group in Washington.  Ferris was in the Justice Department’s antitrust division,
where she was chief of staff and counsel to the assistant
attorney general. In that role, she oversaw enforcement matters
and competition policy matters, including those involving the
high-tech, health insurance, and financial-services industries,
according to the firm.  “Jamillia also has experience in consumer protection and
privacy law, which will work well with our strong FTC-oriented
practice,” D. Bruce Hoffman, head of the global competition
practice at Hunton & Williams said in a statement.  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers at 19 offices
in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Mayer Brown Adds to White Collar Group With Former Prosecutor  Mayer Brown LLP announced that Marcus Christian joined the
firm in Washington as a partner in the litigation and dispute
resolution practice and white collar defense and compliance
group. Previously, he was the executive assistant U.S. attorney
at the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of
Florida.  In his previous job, Christian worked on the senior
management team with responsibility for the criminal, civil,
appellate, asset forfeiture and administrative divisions, the
firm said. Among the additional roles he held in the office were
deputy chief in the major crimes section.  Mayer Brown has lawyers in offices in the Americas, Asia
and Europe.  Barnes & Thornburg Adds Nonprofit Hospitality Lawyer  Barnes & Thornburg LLP has added Barbara F. Dunn to its
associations and foundations practice group as a partner in the
Chicago office’s corporate department. Dunn previously worked
for Howe & Hutton Ltd.  Dunn represents nonprofit and related organizations on
matters including hospitality and travel law; contracts;
employment law; computer law and trademark and copyright law;
litigation and risk management; administrative law; taxes;
antitrust and governance issues.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and legal
professionals at its U.S. offices.  Jones Day Hires Appellate Partner Thomas Allen in Dallas  Thomas F. Allen Jr. joined the Dallas office of  Jones Day 
as a partner in the issues and appeals practice. He was formerly
a partner at Carrington, Coleman, Sloman & Blumenthal LLP.  Allen has experience representing clients before the
 Supreme Court  of Texas, intermediate Texas courts of appeals,
and federal courts of appeals.  “Thomas’s arrival in Dallas fits in with our firm strategy
of positioning top-notch appellate talent wherever the clients
are, rather than keeping them bottled up in a Washington
bullpen,” Glen Nager, leader of Jones Day’s issues and appeals
practice, said in a statement.  Jones Day has 40 offices in the major centers of business
and finance throughout the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 