-- Warner Music Said to Plan Move to Times Square Tower
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-09-13T17:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/warner-music-said-to-plan-move-to-times-square-tower.html
Warner Music Group Corp., whose
artists have included  Frank Sinatra , Led Zeppelin and Bruno
Mars, is negotiating to move its headquarters to a tower north
of  Manhattan ’s Times Square, two people with knowledge of the
discussions said.  Warner, the third-largest music-content provider, agreed to
terms on a 15-year lease of almost 300,000 square feet at 1633
Broadway, also known as Paramount Plaza, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the negotiations are private.
The company, part of  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  until 2004, has to leave
its longtime headquarters at 75 Rockefeller Plaza next year,
when its rental agreement expires.  The deal would keep the company in  midtown Manhattan  at a
time when media firms have been flocking to older buildings
below 30th Street, in the area known as midtown south. Paramount
Plaza is about 86 percent leased, according to property-research
firm  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP)  The 48-story, 2.5 million-square-foot
(230,000-square-meter) tower is majority-owned by the German
investment firm Paramount Group Inc.  “The story in the media that has been circulating was that
these assets were obsolete as the tech/media companies only
wanted to be in the older buildings located in midtown south,
Flatiron or Chelsea submarkets,” Peter Hennessy,  New York 
regional president of brokerage Cassidy Turley, said in an e-mail. “This proposed lease affirms what we in the industry have
believed, that it was only a matter of time until this submarket
started to make a comeback.”  Cassidy Turley isn’t involved in the deal. Robert McGrath,
a spokesman for  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , which represents both  Warner
Music  and Paramount Group, declined to comment.  Digital Generation  Last year,  Digital Generation Inc. (DGIT) , operator of a network
that connects advertisers with TV and radio stations, took about
86,000 square feet on the lower floors of the tower at about $55
a square foot, according to CompStak Inc., a New York-based
provider of leasing data. The law firm Dickstein Shapiro LLP
took about 40,000 square feet on typically more-expensive higher
floors, for just more than $60 a foot.  The people didn’t say how much Warner Music agreed to pay
for its space. The company is paying slightly less than $40 a
square foot at 75 Rockefeller Plaza, according to CompStak.  Kathleen McMorrow, a spokeswoman for Paramount Group, and
James Steven, a Warner Music spokesman, declined to comment on
lease negotiations.  Rockefeller Plaza  Scott Rechler’s RXR Realty LLC. acquired a leasehold
interest in 75 Rockefeller Plaza, the youngest building in the
Rockefeller Center complex, earlier this year, with plans to
vacate the entire tower and renovate it. Warner Music, like all
the building’s tenants, subleases its space from Time Warner.
The agreement expires in mid-2014.  Warner Music also plans to vacate about 130,000 square feet
it rents at 1290 Avenue of the Americas, a tower next to
Rockefeller Center owned by  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , according to
the person with knowledge of the 1633 Broadway talks. A call to
Wendi Kopsick, a Vornado spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Other tenants at 1633 Broadway, which is on the northwest
corner of West 50th Street, include Morgan Stanley and  CBS
Corp. (CBS) , according to CoStar.  Warner Music yesterday announced that it would share
revenue with Clear Channel Communications Inc., the biggest
owner of U.S. radio stations, in a strategic partnership
designed to increase radio audiences and exposure for its
artists. Clear Channel is also a tenant at 75 Rockefeller Plaza.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  