-- Warren Criticizes U.S. Treasury Over Too-Big-to-Fail Research
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-09-13T19:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/warren-criticizes-u-s-treasury-over-too-big-to-fail-research.html
U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren
criticized the Treasury Department for not conducting a formal
study to determine if some banks receive a funding subsidy for
being perceived to be too big to fail.  “The best way to make an objective determination of
whether too-big-to-fail continues to exist over time is by
measuring the subsidy, and Treasury should develop its own
metrics for doing so through the Office of Financial Research,”
Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Warren’s comments came in response to a letter by Mary Miller, Treasury’s undersecretary for domestic finance. In the
Sept. 10 letter to Warren, which her office released today,
Miller said Treasury staff and the panel of regulators on the
Financial Stability Oversight Council are monitoring academic
research on the largest banks’ funding costs rather than
conducting their own research.  Whether the largest banks receive a market funding benefit
because of their size and a perception that the government will
not let them fail has been a source of debate among regulators
and lawmakers. The Government Accountability Office is
conducting a study on the issue in response to requests from
senators.  Miller said in her letter to Warren that Treasury staff met
in April with the GAO about its study. Treasury has not asked
the Office of Financial Research to examine the issue, she
wrote.  Monitoring ‘Indicators’  “Treasury will continue to monitor financial market
indicators, such as bank borrowing costs, to understand the
impacts of the rules implementing the Dodd-Frank Act, and to
understand whether these reforms are effective in creating
incentives for the largest, most complex firms to reduce their
size and complexity,” Miller said in the letter to Warren.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew in July said that if too
big to fail is not solved by the end of this year “we’re going
to have to look at other options.” He didn’t elaborate on what
alternatives President  Barack Obama ’s administration might
consider.  Warren, with Senator John McCain, an  Arizona  Republican,
and a bipartisan group of lawmakers have introduced a bill aimed
at re-creating the Glass-Steagall Act, the Depression-era
measure that separated commercial and investment banking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  