-- Wharton Offers Free Online Courses Copying First-Year MBA Study
-- B y   L o u i s   L a v e l l e
-- 2013-09-13T17:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/wharton-offers-free-online-courses-copying-first-year-mba-study.html
The University of Pennsylvania’s
 Wharton School  has expanded its offering of free online courses
to duplicate much of what its first-year MBA students learn.  Newly added classes in financial accounting, marketing and
corporate finance, and a fourth in operations management that
has been offered since last year, make up Wharton’s “foundation
series.” For a $49 fee, students can get a verified electronic
 certificate  showing they’ve completed course requirements.  Along with five electives, including health care and sports
business, the courses make it possible to learn much of what
students in Wharton’s  full-time MBA program  learn, and aren’t
watered-down versions, said Don Huesman, managing director of
the innovation group at Wharton. All nine courses are massive
open online courses, or MOOCs, offered through the  Coursera 
platform.  “This is the first time that a business school has bundled
a collection of MOOCs together in this fashion,” Huesman said
of the foundation series. “We’re taking our core required
classes in the MBA program, with the same instructors, to
provide those same core concepts.”  While students won’t get the full Wharton on-campus
experience -- including an internship, career services or alumni
network, the foundation courses provide a combination of pre-recorded lectures and interactive features such as discussion
boards that allow students to ask questions and get answers from
the professor or an assistant. All are six to 10 weeks long,
with the first, financial accounting, starting Sept. 16.  No Credit  Some  Wharton professors  are using the MOOC content in their
own classes, asking students to watch the lessons beforehand so
that class time can be used for discussion -- a practice known
as “flipping” a class.  Wharton has no plans to accept the certificates for course
credit should students subsequently enroll, Huesman said. The
cost to attend the two-year MBA program is about  $100,000 a
year , including tuition, room and board, books and other
expenses.  “There’s a very different experience that happens in a
two-year immersion in a community of scholars that culminates in
a degree,” he said.  Still, what students learn in the online classes can be
used to “test out” of required courses just as those with
knowledge of the subject matter can do now.  About 700,000 students in 173 countries have enrolled in
Wharton MOOCs, more than the combined enrollment in the school’s
traditional MBA and undergraduate programs since its founding in
1881, Huesman said. Additional courses are in the pipeline, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louis Lavelle at 
 llavelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  