-- Wireless Carriers Unveil IPhone Installment-Payment Plans
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-09-13T20:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/wireless-carriers-unveil-iphone-installment-payment-plans.html
T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Verizon Wireless (VZ) , touting their new installment-plan approach to
mobile-phone pricing, will offer  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5C without
an initial down payment.  T-Mobile  will subsequently require  24 months of $22
payments, the Bellevue, Washington-based company said on its
website. AT&T’s $22 installment plan will  only last  20 months,
though its service prices start at a higher rate. And Verizon is
offering the 5C without a down payment and $22.91 per month over
24 months, according to its  website .  The debut of the new iPhones, due in stores later this
month, is putting a spotlight on the industry’s shift toward
more flexible installment purchases, as an alternative to the
subsidized $200 phone, with a 2-year contract . T-Mobile, the
fourth-largest U.S. carrier, was first to adopt the approach
earlier this year, seeking to stand out from its larger rivals.
Verizon Wireless and AT&T then followed with similar plans.  “I think these plans are here to stay,” said  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. in  Chicago . “It’s
very good for the carriers since it decreases their subsidy
costs and takes some pressure off their hardware expenses.”  Traditional Subsidies  While T-Mobile no longer offers discounted phones tied to
contracts, the other major carriers still offer the traditional
method of subsidizing phones in exchange for two-year service
plans.  The higher-end iPhone 5S will sell for $99 down and $22.91
a month at T-Mobile, while AT&T will offer it for zero down and
20 monthly payments of $27. Verizon hasn’t determined an
installment plan price for the 5S yet. Verizon and AT&T will
offer the iPhone 5S starting at $199 with a two-year contract.  While the total cost of buying the iPhone through AT&T, for
example, is lower, T-Mobile aims to attract customers with its
service plans. The company charges $70 a month for unlimited
calling, text and data. AT&T, which no longer offers unlimited
data, has a starting price of $80 a month, with caps on calling
minutes and data.  T-Mobile shares declined 2.9 percent to $24.71 and AT&T
fell 5 cents to $34.32 at 4:10 p.m. in New York. Verizon gained
0.9 percent to $47.76.  ‘Significant Moment’  “This represents a significant moment for people to
rethink who their carrier is and switch to T-Mobile,” said T-Mobile Chief Marketing Officer Mike Sievert. “People have been
waiting, either because they are stuck in contracts, or waiting
for the new iPhone.”  Sprint Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. carrier, will offer
both handsets starting Sept. 20 on a two-year service agreement.
The cheapest model 5C will sell for $99.99 while the 5S will
start at $199.99, the Overland Park, Kansas-based company said
in a statement.  Apple unveiled the new iPhones this week, setting up the
first four-way showdown among major U.S. carriers offering the
device. T-Mobile became the last of the companies to get the
iPhone this year.  T-Mobile is working to rebound from years of customer
losses. In the second quarter, the company added 688,000 monthly
subscribers, surpassing the 551,000 that Dallas-based AT&T
gained. Fritzsche  predicts that T-Mobile will add 425,000
subscribers in the third quarter -- double her original
estimate.  With AT&T and Verizon imitating the installment plan, T-Mobile could be vulnerable, said Fritzsche.  “This could ultimately backfire on T-Mobile if the other
carriers have success with it,” she said. “T-Mobile would lose
its differentiation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.ne  