-- Twitter’s Private Filing Signals New Wave of Secrecy
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-09-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/twitter-s-private-filing-signals-new-wave-of-secrecy.html
Twitter Inc., the business that
thrives on a culture of excessive sharing, is taking a more
discreet route to its initial public offering, adopting a
strategy that others will follow.  The microblogging service sent out a 24-word  tweet  on Sept.
12, announcing that it had confidentially filed to go public
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. It provided no
financial details or time frame.  Twitter filed under the Jumpstart our Business Startups, or
JOBS, Act signed last year. The legislation lets companies with
less than $1 billion in annual revenue keep their most sensitive
information away from the competition and the public until
shortly before they promote the offering. Investors had better
get used to the secrecy as a host of emerging technology
companies, including Box Inc., Airbnb Inc., Square Inc. and
Dropbox Inc., are likely to take the same path.  “There’s a lot of stress in preparing for an IPO,” said
Jeff Crowe, a partner at  Norwest Venture Partners  in  Palo Alto ,
 California , and director at RetailMeNot Inc., which went public
under the JOBS Act in July. “One stress you don’t want to have
is tipping off the competition any sooner than you have to about
what your business model is like.”  Under the rules for so-called emerging-growth companies,
Twitter’s review process with the SEC will be confidential until
at least 21 days before the road show, where the company will
pitch investors before setting a final price.  Less Costly  The JOBS Act was created to simplify the IPO process for
smaller companies and make it less expensive to go public.
Between audited financial statements and legal costs, companies
spend on average $3.7 million for their IPOs in addition to
underwriter fees, according to a  report  last year from
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Most businesses that can are taking advantage of the rule.
Carter Mack, an investment banker who served on the  task force 
that wrote the recommendations for the IPO portion of the act,
estimates that more than 80 percent of emerging-growth companies
are filing confidentially.  “There’s a big backlog,” said Mack, president and co-founder of JMP Group Inc. in  San Francisco . “Twitter filed
because of that and because Internet stocks have done well
recently.”  Twitter is just small enough to qualify. The company’s
advertising revenue is projected to rise 63 percent to $950
million next year from $582.8 million this year, according to
EMarketer Inc.  Up Next  A group of companies with billion-dollar valuations on the
private market will be watching closely. Box Chief Executive
Officer Aaron Levie said earlier this year that his business-software company will likely go public in 2014. Airbnb, operator
of a home-rental website, was valued at $2.5 billion last year.
Square, the payments startup run by Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey, achieved a valuation of $3.25 billion a year ago after
an investment from Starbucks Corp., while document storage
provider Dropbox was valued at $4 billion in a 2011 financing.  Kim Rubey , a spokeswoman for Airbnb, Aaron Zamost, a
spokesman for Square, and Michael Moeschler, a Box spokesman,
all declined to comment. A representatives from Dropbox didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Twitter is unusual in even announcing that it’s filed. Most
JOBS Act candidates, including  Workday Inc. (WDAY) , Tableau Software
Inc., Ruckus Wireless Inc. and RetailMeNot, didn’t disclose
anything until making their S-1 prospectus public.  Musk’s Exception  SolarCity Corp. was an exception. The provider of rooftop
solar systems, whose chairman is Elon Musk, announced its
confidential filing in a press release in April 2012. The
company filed its public S-1 on Oct. 5, ahead of the December
debut.  Some high-profile Internet IPOs that filed under standard
disclosure rules paid the consequences of heightened scrutiny.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which held one of the biggest IPOs in U.S.
history last year, lost more than half its value in the months
following the deal. The prospectus was pored over for three
months before the offering by analysts, investors and reporters.  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  fell by more than three-quarters after its
2011 debut and was publicly ridiculed during the SEC review
because of its accounting methods and exorbitant losses. Neither
of those companies would have been eligible for the JOBS Act
provision, because they were too big.  Market Rally  Sixteen months have passed since Facebook’s troubled
offering and the market has bounced back. The social-networking
service is finally trading above its IPO price and other
consumer-Web companies like Trulia Inc. and RetailMeNot have
soared since their IPOs.  In addition to the JOBS Act, “we’re seeing a recovery from
the hangover effect of the  Facebook IPO ,” Crowe said.  For its size, hype and growth, Twitter is not the kind of
company that the JOBS Act was designed for, said  Erik Gordon , a
private-equity and law professor at the  University of Michigan 
in  Ann Arbor , who spoke with legislators when the bill was being
drafted.  Twitter is valued at more than $10 billion, based on a
public filing last month from an investor. It can afford the IPO
process and won’t have difficulty attracting underwriters and
investors, Gordon said. He said the revenue cap for an emerging-growth company should be lowered to $500 million.  “Twitter is the last IPO in the world that needs the
benefits of the JOBS Act,” Gordon said. It’s unfair to
investors, who get “a shorter period in which the S-1 is public
for you to tear it apart and do a thorough analysis,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  