-- Twitter Doesn’t Want Everything to Be Public
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-13T16:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/twitter-doesn-t-want-everything-to-be-public.html
Naturally, when Twitter Inc.
announced its plans for an initial public offering, it issued a
 statement  of merely 135 characters. Economy of language is
admirable by the logic of social-media posts. Whether it will
help the investing public is another matter.  Under the JOBS Act of 2012, companies that intend to go
public can keep their financials secret until 21 days before
they begin their “roadshow” to pitch investors, as long as
they earn less than $1 billion in annual revenue. That weak
threshold would have applied to about  90 percent  of public
offerings in the past two decades, and it allows companies to
work with regulators for months to sort out their businesses
without any public scrutiny.  Clearly, such secrecy could benefit Twitter. After
notorious recent flops from the likes of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA)  and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the company may be hoping to avoid undue
hype for its offering or to reduce the chances that one of its
employees will make tone-deaf public statements. (“You’ve got
to stay focused on doing the right stuff,”  Mark Zuckerberg  not
so helpfully  suggested  recently, when asked what his advice
would be for Twitter’s IPO.)  Twitter may also be able to hash out significant regulatory
problems outside of public scrutiny. One could argue that this
shouldn’t matter: If the Securities and Exchange Commission
finds that the company has made a misleading statement and
Twitter rewrites its documents accordingly, who gets harmed? Yet
surely such mistakes are indicative of the way the company
conducts business; at a minimum they suggest whether it’s
getting good legal advice. And the back-and-forth itself is
useful information. Groupon’s unusual pre-IPO accounting
measures offer a  relevant exhibit . At the moment, no one outside
of Twitter’s offices knows.  What we do know about Twitter is that in seven short years,
the service has amassed about 200 million users, strode
confidently into the mobile era, introduced smoothly integrated
and well-targeted advertising, made some  ambitious acquisitions 
and (unlike some other social-media behemoths we could mention)
mostly avoided antagonizing its users. Even the pope  is a fan .  All of which seems to be paying off. Twitter was valued
last month at about $10.5 billion by GSV Capital Corp., one of
its investors. The consultant eMarketer has  estimated  that the
company will earn $583 million in advertising revenue this year
and $950 million in 2014, up from $288 million last year.  Facebook’s example suggests another positive: After a
calamitous rollout last year, and a subsequent swoon in its
stock price, its shares reached  an all-time high  yesterday as
investors grew increasingly confident in its ability to sell ads
on smartphones and tablets. Mobile is clearly a strength for
Twitter, making up 53 percent of its ad revenue and growing,
according to eMarketer.  Twitter’s acquisition of the mobile ad exchange MoPub --
which will enable it to sell smartphone ads that capitalize on
users’ desktop browsing habits --  looks like  it will only
 intensify this strength . Combined with the improving  tools 
Twitter offers to help advertisers target customers, and its
increasingly dominant role as the go-to companion service to
televised events, this could allow Twitter to connect with users
at a more immediate and engaging level. With some 400 million
messages posted to the site each day, the amount of data Twitter
can amass about its users and then sell to advertisers has
enormous potential.  With so many promising signs, Twitter’s decision to file
confidentially with the SEC -- while logical -- is
disappointing. It’s true that any issues the SEC finds with
Twitter’s filing will be divulged well before the IPO. But using
secrecy to manage the company’s reputation in the meantime and
avoid the public eye looks unseemly.  And reputation is the immortal part of a digital business.
One day, a company looks destined to dominate the Internet
forevermore; the next, it’s MySpace. Twitter has done many
things right. That’s no guarantee that people will still like it
a decade from now. Or even a year from now. If it intends to be
a lasting public business, it should welcome public scrutiny.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 