-- Two Friends of Boston Bomb Suspect Plead Not Guilty
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-09-13T16:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/two-friends-of-boston-bomb-suspect-plead-not-guilty.html
Two college friends of the alleged
 Boston  Marathon bomber, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, pleaded not guilty to
charges they hindered the investigation of the April 15
terrorist attack by hiding evidence to protect their classmate.  Dias Kadyrbayev today pleaded not guilty to obstruction of
justice, and Robel Phillipos pleaded not guilty to making false
statements to investigators, in federal court in Boston. A third
friend, Azamat Tazhayakov, will appear later. His lawyer was
delayed on a train from  New York .  The three are accused of removing a laptop and backpack
containing bomb-making materials from Tsarnaev’s dormitory room
three days after the attack to protect Tsarnaev, 20, from
authorities after his image was shown on television as a
suspect. At the time, he hadn’t been identified.  Phillipos was indicted Aug. 29 by a federal grand jury on
two charges of lying to investigators about why he visited
Tsarnaev’s room. Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov, both Kazakhstan
citizens living in Massachusetts on student visas, were indicted
Aug. 8 on charges of conspiracy to obstruct justice and impeding
a federal probe.  The double bombing near the marathon’s crowded finish line
killed an 8-year-old boy and two women and injured more than
260. Tsarnaev pleaded not guilty to a 30-count indictment
accusing him of masterminding the attack with his brother,
Tamerlan, who was killed during a police manhunt.  2011 Enrollment  Tsarnaev and the Kazakhs began attending the  University of
Massachusetts   at Dartmouth  at the same time in 2011, prosecutors
said.  According to the indictment, Kadyrbayev received a text
message from Tsarnaev on April 18 suggesting he go to Tsarnaev’s
room and “take what’s there.”  Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov also pleaded not guilty to the
earlier charges that they tried to block the hunt for Tsarnaev
and his brother. The plea today relates to a new indictment that
named all three men.  Robert Stahl, Kadyrbayev’s lawyer, said a trial will show
there was no criminal intent to obstruct justice or assist
Tsarnaev.  “My client was just as shocked and horrified as the rest
of us about what happened,” Stahl said today outside court.
“There was no context for him to put this in, because Dzhokhar
was not radical, not religious. He never expressed any of these
views.”  The obstruction case is U.S. v. Kadyrbayev, 13-cr-10238,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston). The
bombing case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-cr-10200, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in federal court in Boston
at   jlawrence62@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in New York
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 