-- Won Gains a Third Week as Growth Spurs Stock Inflows; Bonds Rise
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-09-13T02:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/won-gains-a-third-week-as-growth-spurs-stock-inflows-bonds-rise.html
South Korea ’s won headed for a
third weekly advance as a pickup in the economy prompted
overseas investors to add to their holdings of the nation’s
stocks.  Government bonds  gained.  Gross domestic product increased last quarter at the
fastest pace in a year and export growth accelerated in August,
reports showed this month. The finance ministry said today it
will focus on boosting jobs and investment to aid the recovery.
Global funds bought more local equities than they sold for a
16th straight day, the longest streak of net purchases since
December 2012, according to stock exchange data.  “We expect GDP to increase in the next two quarters and
there’s better earnings visibility now for Korean companies
compared with, say, in  Southeast Asia ,” said Huh Jae-Hwan, an
economist in Seoul at Daewoo Securities Co. “Korean equities
are cheap to foreign investors.”  The won appreciated 0.7 percent to 1,085.13 per dollar as
of 11:17 a.m. in Seoul from Sept. 6, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It reached 1,081.90 yesterday, the strongest level
since Feb. 28. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
88 basis points, or 0.88 percentage point, to 7.39 percent
during the five days.  The Kospi Index of shares climbed for a third week and
touched the highest level yesterday since March.  Bonds Rise  South Korea’s economy is showing a gradual recovery and the
government will focus on creating jobs and easing regulations to
boost investment, according to a  finance ministry  report
presented to parliament today.  Exports jumped 7.7 percent in August from a year earlier,
versus a 2.6 percent increase in July, while the economy, Asia’s
fourth-largest, expanded 2.3 percent in the second quarter,
official data show.  The  Bank of Korea  kept its seven-day repurchase rate at 2.5
percent yesterday, the lowest since 2010. The central bank isn’t
likely to raise borrowing costs before the third quarter of next
year, Huh said.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due June 2016 declined nine basis points to 2.92 percent for the
week, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. It fell one basis point
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  