-- WTI Oil Fluctuates as U.S., Russia Begin Talks on Syrian Weapons
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-09-13T00:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/wti-oil-fluctuates-as-u-s-russia-begin-talks-on-syrian-weapons.html
West Texas Intermediate oil swung
between gains and losses as the U.S. and Russia began talks on a
plan for Syria to surrender its chemical weapons to avert a
strike that has fanned concern of exports being disrupted.  Futures fluctuated in  New York  after rising a second day
yesterday. Russia is seeking a deal that would make a strike on
Syria unnecessary, Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said before a
meeting with Secretary of State  John Kerry . Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad said the U.S. must drop its military threats and
stop arming rebels. Libya declared force majeure on three more
oil-export terminals, according to a statement from state-owned
National Oil Corp.  WTI for October delivery was at $108.60 a barrel, unchanged
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
9:46 a.m. Sydney time. The contract rose 1 percent yesterday.
The volume of all futures traded was about 74 percent below the
100-day average. Prices are down 1.7 percent this week.  Brent for October settlement, which expires today, gained
$1.13, or 1 percent, to $112.63 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange yesterday. The more active November
future increased $1.34 to $111.53. The front-month European
benchmark crude ended the session at a premium of $4.03 to WTI.  Kerry and Lavrov’s talks are slated to run through today.
They will focus on the practicalities of securing, transporting,
destroying and monitoring  Syria ’s chemicals arsenal, a U.S.
official said. Negotiations won’t be about the text of a United
Nations resolution that could govern the enforcement of a plan,
the official told reporters on condition of anonymity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  