-- Obama Picks Zients as Director of Economic Council
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-09-13T14:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-13/zients-said-set-to-replace-sperling-at-white-house-economic-unit.html
Jeffrey Zients, former acting chief
of the White House budget office, was named by President   Barack Obama  as director of his National Economic Council, the panel
charged with coordinating policy.  Zients, who has held positions in the Obama administration
since 2009, will replace Gene Sperling, who plans to step down
from his post in January, according to a statement from Obama.  Zients, 46, best known for his organization and planning
skills, has served twice as acting director of the White House
Office of Management and Budget. The NEC position doesn’t
require Senate confirmation.  “Jeff has a sterling reputation as a business leader, and
he earned the admiration and respect of everyone he worked with
during his four years in leadership positions at the Office of
Management and Budget,” Obama said in the statement.  Jared Bernstein, former chief economist to Vice President
Joe Biden, described Zients as “organizationally savvy and
better than most at moving things along, which isn’t easy in
that setting,”  Zients’ most recent appointment was in January 2012 as
acting budget director, where he served until Sylvia Burwell was
nominated to the post earlier this year. Zients has also been
the agency’s deputy director as well as its chief performance
officer.  Zients, an entrepreneur who founded two business
consultancies, was on Fortune magazine’s 2004 list of the “40
Richest Under 40.” His net worth in 2011 was as much as  $210
million, according to his federal financial disclosure
statement.  Inner Circle  The departure of Sperling, who has played a role in
developing tax, trade and economic policies in the
administration, creates a vacancy in the White House inner
circle. The 54-year-old Michigan native became NEC director in
January 2011, working on a job-creation package in 2011, tax
cuts for the middle class, and the tax increases on wealthier
Americans that Obama won from Congress early this year.  Obama called him “one of my closest advisers and a close
friend.”  Sperling told Obama last December he wanted to leave for
personal reasons, with his wife working in Los Angeles. He
promised to stay through the first year of the second term to
continue the administration’s efforts to strike a budget deal,
according to officials.  The  New York  Times, which first reported the shift in
positions, said Sperling’s family recently moved to Los Angeles,
where his wife, Allison Abner, is a scriptwriter and producer
and is helping develop a new show for Fox television.  Budget Role  A negotiator during the 2011 budget talks, Sperling is
playing a role in current fiscal discussions to avert a
government shutdown by preparing various policy options at the
White House.  Besides acting budget director, Zients is best known for
his role as chief performance officer of the agency, and later,
as deputy director for management. Both posts gave him license
to lead administration efforts to tighten government programs,
eliminate waste and abolish outdated or irrelevant programs.  Zients now moves into a position to make sure Obama’s
economic agenda is followed within the administration and is
pressed in Congress, in areas including agriculture, commerce,
energy, financial markets, fiscal policy and health care.  “He has been an enormously valuable player on the
president’s economic team,” White House spokesman Jay Carney
said at a briefing on March 19, when the administration
announced Zients would be staying on as acting budget director
and that the position of U.S. Trade Representative would go to
another White House aide,  Michael Froman .  After Burwell took over as budget chief, Zients left the
administration, where he has been managing partner of Portfolio
Logic Management LLC, a Washington-based investment firm
specializing in investments in pediatric health care services
and business services companies, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  