-- ‘Double Down’ Relives 2012 Campaign With Tears, Insults
-- B y   D a n i e l   A k s t
-- 2013-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/-double-down-relives-2012-campaign-with-tears-insults.html
Mitt Romney  made fun of fat people.  Michele Bachmann , after one stinging setback, wept in a
car, calling herself a “loser.”  And  Barack Obama  feared he wasn’t good enough at debating
to match the Republican challenger. “I just don’t know if I can
do this,” he said.  “ Double Down ,” a breezy account of the 2012 presidential
campaign by Mark Halperin and John Heilemann, is full of gossipy
stuff like this. And despite a weakness for $2 words (clamant,
Ouroborosian, coriaceous) and an unfortunate fluency in
journalistic cliche (“economic headwinds,” “cogs of a well-oiled campaign”), it’s a fast, fun read.  But with apologies to Jean Renoir, “Double Down” might as
easily have been called “Grand Delusion.” That’s because the
bigger picture emerging from this sequel to “ Game Change ,” the
authors’ bestselling account of the more dramatic 2008 election,
is of a Republican Party unmoored from reality.  Readers endowed with the fortitude to relive the last
presidential election will be reminded once again of the parade
of far-fetched Republican primary candidates -- including
Bachmann,  Herman Cain  and  Newt Gingrich  -- who took turns
occupying center stage, each seeming to embody a party out of
touch with the larger electorate.  Tacking Right  When Romney finally secured the nomination by tacking
frantically to the right, the party’s effort to unseat a
vulnerable Democrat in an ailing economy was undermined by false
hopes, ineptitude and a candidate who seemed to have no idea how
he came across to the average voter.  Some party elders and key donors knew better; they begged
governors Chris Christie and Mitch Daniels (of New Jersey and
 Indiana , respectively) to enter the race late in the game, but
both declined.  Although not psychologically deep, “Double Down” succeeds
by sticking to its story and having the main characters --
Obama, Romney, Joe Biden and their key aides -- reveal
themselves through their actions. The result is a much more
coherent experience of the campaign than readers could get by
living through the contemporaneous news coverage.  By letting the story do the work, the authors show us a
lot, including the role of big money -- both sides spend
inordinate time sucking up to major donors -- and social media.
During Obama’s poor showing against Romney in their first
debate, the authors note, “there were 10.3 million tweets about
it.”  No Context  But despite the authors’ “more than five hundred full-length interviews with more than four hundred individuals,”
this is also an oddly shallow book focused entirely on the horse
race and its personalities.  It’s all but devoid of political, demographic or historical
context, and it has almost nothing to say about the mundane but
vital operations that can make or break a campaign -- such as
Team Obama’s sophisticated use of big data.  Nor does it tell us much about the candidates’ ideas for
the future of the country. Surely they had some, and surely a
voter or two cared. Did Romney’s fiscal proposals add up? Was
Obama’s agenda in accord with what polls tell us about the views
of the American people? To what extent did these things matter?
You’ll never know from this tome.  For Romney, the grand delusion somehow persisted to the
bitter end -- one that “Double Down” abets by seeing his many
disastrous comments as gaffes rather than, potentially, telling
expressions of who the candidate actually was.  In a postmortem with big donors shortly after his defeat,
Romney said the president’s successful strategy had been to
“focus on certain members of his base coalition, give them
extraordinary financial gifts from the government,” and then
get them to cast ballots. A much simpler explanation could be
found every morning in the bathroom mirror.  “Double Down: Game Change 2012” is published by Penguin
Press (499 pages, $29.95). To buy this book in North America,
click  here .  (Daniel Akst writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture
and Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night .  To contact the writer on the story:
Daniel Akst in New York at  danielakst@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 