-- H&M Grabs More Control of Factories Amid Bangladesh Unrest
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-11-13T09:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/h-m-grabs-more-control-of-asia-factories-amid-bangladesh-unrest.html
Three decades after it started doing
business with suppliers in  Bangladesh ,  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  is
seeking greater control of production in a nation where it is
among the largest purchasers of clothing.  H&M this year agreed to become the sole client of two
factories in Bangladesh and one in Cambodia, helping convince
building owners to offer satisfactory conditions and wages, Anna
Gedda, H&M’s social sustainability manager, said.  “We see these a little like test centers where we can try
out different things that we can then push out on a larger scale
in the entire supply chain,” Gedda said in an interview.  H&M, which normally shares factory space with other labels,
is seeking tighter control over production in countries like
Bangladesh, where thousands of workers held protests yesterday
to demand higher wages. The deaths of more than 1,000
Bangladeshis in April’s collapse of the Rana Plaza complex led
retailers including H&M and main European rival  Inditex SA (ITX)  to
commit to improving fire and building safety.  H&M is among global clothing retailers that have shifted
output toward Asia, using local contractors to reduce the cost
of production. The lowest wages in Asia after Myanmar have
helped spawn a $19 billion Bangladeshi manufacturing industry.  The three factories where H&M has taken full control of
production were chosen from among some of the retailer’s top
suppliers, Gedda said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters.  Controlling Output  H&M, which started buying from Bangladesh in 1982 and
Cambodia in 1998, has a long-term commitment to the plants, she
said, without disclosing their location or the length of the
exclusivity agreements.  “While this is undoubtedly a positive and innovative move,
H&M, like many competitors, still has a long way to go to
achieve the control over, and visibility into, its supply
chain,” said Bryan Roberts, an analyst at researcher Kantar
Retail.  H&M shares fell 0.5 percent to 266.40 kronor at 10:32 a.m.
in  Stockholm , trimming this year’s gain to 17 percent.  By fully controlling output, H&M is attempting to make
improvements to factory safety, boost the quality of products
being made for it and get them to stores more quickly, H&M
spokeswoman Elin Hallerby said by e-mail. The Swedish retailer
is seeking to end a history of  missing profit estimates  and in
September reported quarterly profit that topped analyst
predictions for the first time this fiscal year.  “These test factories provide supply-chain transparency
and greater control over working conditions,” Ashma Kunde, an
analyst at Euromonitor International, said by e-mail.  Long-Term Commitment  H&M has found that its business model works best when not
owning factories, according to Gedda.  “We see that it has helped strengthen the local industry
by giving ownership to local suppliers instead,” she said.  The initiative to take more control over production in far-flung parts of the world has the support of  Fair Trade Center , a
non-governmental organization which scrutinizes Swedish
companies’ trade with developing countries.  “We encourage H&M to be transparent about this initiative
so that unions, other non-governmental organizations and other
companies are able to monitor the project as well as to see how
they can learn from it,” Catrin Rosquist, a project leader at
Stockholm-based Fair Trade Center, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  