-- Abbott Popularity Slips as Australia Policy Challenges Arise
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-11-12T04:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/abbott-popularity-slips-as-australian-policy-challenges-emerge.html
Australian Prime Minister  Tony Abbott ’s popularity has slipped as the government lags on its
promise to stop asylum seekers arriving by boat, with  parliament 
resuming for the first time since the September election.  Satisfaction with Abbott has fallen to 45 percent from 47
percent, with dissatisfaction rising four percentage points to
38 percent, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper today. His Liberal-National coalition leads 53 percent
to Labor’s 47 percent on the two-party preferred measure, in
line with the election result.  Abbott is vowing to repeal Labor’s carbon-price mechanism
and resources profits tax, and lift the debt ceiling of the
world’s 12th-largest economy by 67 percent to A$500 billion
($468 billion). As lawmakers meet in Canberra, his agenda has
been clouded by weaker economic growth forecasts, confusion over
the make-up of the Senate and tensions with Indonesia, which
last week refused to process asylum seekers bound for  Australia .  “The challenges for the new government are already pretty
clear and defined,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst
and lecturer at  Melbourne ’s  Monash University . “Abbott went to
the electorate vowing sound economic management and to implement
his core promises, so he will need to be seen to be making
progress in those areas quite quickly.”  Slowing Growth  Abbott, 56, won power on a platform to better manage the
$1.5 trillion economy, after six years of Labor rule marred by
internal party infighting and policy back flips. Australia next
year will see below-trend growth and rising unemployment as
resource investment drops and renewed currency strength drags on
the economy, the central bank said on Nov. 8.  Some of Abbott’s main legislation may be stalled until at
least the middle of next year. While his coalition has a
majority in the lower house, it doesn’t control the Senate,
which has the power to block laws.  Since declaring the nation was again “open for business”
in his victory speech on Sept. 7, Abbott has said he aims to
complete free-trade deals within 12 months with nations such as
 China ,  Japan ,  India  and  Indonesia . Relations with the latter
have taken a turn for the worse after the Sydney Morning Herald
reported the government used embassies in locations such as
Jakarta to conduct electronic spying on Asian governments.  Indonesian hackers crashed the website of Australia’s
intelligence agency, the paper reported on its website Nov. 11,
having launched cyber attacks last week on a hospital, charities
and small businesses.  Indonesian Refusal  Immigration Minister Scott Morrison yesterday confirmed
Australia’s northern neighbor had rebuffed attempts to return to
Indonesia two vessels carrying asylum seekers, calling the
refusal “very frustrating.” Under the previous Labor
government’s watch, Australia experienced a surge in asylum
seekers from war-torn countries such as  Afghanistan , ferried by
Indonesian people smugglers on unseaworthy fishing vessels.  “The boats are stopping,” Abbott told reporters in
Canberra today, saying the arrival of vessels in the new
government’s first two months was 75 percent lower than in the
previous administration’s final two months. “There’s still a
long, long way to go.”  Abbott has vowed to abolish the carbon pricing mechanism
established by then-Labor Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , saying
it has driven up energy prices and deterred investment. Labor
leader  Bill Shorten  has said his party will seek to amend
Abbott’s repeal bill to be introduced in the lower house
tomorrow in order to keep a market-based emissions-trading
system.  Debt Ceiling  The government also wants to repeal Labor’s 30 percent tax
on  iron ore  and coal profits, and pass laws to raise the A$300
million debt ceiling, which is set to be reached next month.
Labor would laws that raise the ceiling to A$400 billion, not
A$500 billion as the government proposes, Shorten said today.  “They won the election, that’s fair,” Shorten told
reporters in Canberra today. “What they didn’t win in the
election was the right to run up debt like a drunken sailor.
We’ve offered a sensible compromise.”  New senators who won a spot in the upper house won’t take
their place until July 1, leaving the Greens currently holding
the balance of power in the chamber.  New Senate  The final make-up of the new Senate is in doubt after
initial counting pointed to the balance of power being held by
small, right-leaning parties, including mining magnate  Clive Palmer ’s Palmer United Party. While the  Australian Electoral
Commission  has declared the Senate result for  Western Australia ,
some candidates have vowed to appeal the result in the  High
Court  after a recount revealed 1,375 ballots had been lost.  Following today’s ceremonies initiating the new parliament,
Australia’s 44th, both houses will sit this week. The lower
 House of Representatives  sits Nov. 18-21, before both houses
convene for the year’s final sittings on Dec. 2-5 and Dec. 9-12.
The government has said it will release its Mid-Year Economic
and Fiscal Outlook, expected to show the budget position has
deteriorated since the election, before Christmas.  Bronwyn Bishop, 71, a minister under former Prime Minister
 John Howard , was today elected speaker of the lower house.  Today’s Newspoll, conducted Nov. 8-10 among 1,140 voters
and with a margin of error of 3 percentage points, shows Abbott
leads Shorten as preferred prime minister, 46 percent to 30
percent. The two-party preferred measure is designed to gauge
which party is likely to form a government at the next election,
due in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  