-- Abu Dhabi’s New Das Crude to Replace Two Grades From July
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-11-12T14:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/abu-dhabi-s-new-das-crude-to-replace-two-grades-from-july.html
Abu Dhabi , holding about 6 percent
of the world’s proven oil reserves, introduced a new crude
blend, Das, to improve shipping flexibility as the United Arab
Emirates sheikhdom seeks to boost production.  Das crude will go on sale in July and replace Abu Dhabi’s
Umm Shaif and Lower Zakum grades, two of the emirate’s four
crudes, state-owned Abu Dhabi Marine Operating Co. said today in
a statement. The new blend will consist 55 percent of Lower
Zakum crude, Ali R. Al-Jarwan, chief executive officer of the
offshore oil and natural gas producer known as ADMA-OPCO, said
at a news briefing in Abu Dhabi.  Das will sell at about the same price as Lower Zakum and at
a level set retroactively by a month, said Sultan Al Mehairi,
marketing and refining director at Abu Dhabi National Oil Co.,
or Adnoc, which owns 60 percent of ADMA-OPCO. Lower Zakum crude
is priced retroactively for October sales at $112.20 a barrel.  “We are targeting, of course, the Asian market,” Al
Mehairi told reporters. The new blend’s quality is similar to
that of  Saudi Arabia ’s Extra Light grade, which has a density of
37.8 degrees on the American Petroleum Institute scale and a
sulfur content of 1.1 percent, according to a  January survey  of
crude specifications published by the U.S. Energy
Administration. Das will have an API density of 39.2 degrees and
sulfur content of 1.3 percent, ADMA-OPCO’s Al-Jarwan said.  Minority Stakes  ADMA-OPCO is introducing Das as part of a plan to increase
output from the Das Island industrial complex, where Abu Dhabi
processes, stores and exports crude pumped at offshore fields.
The Das blend will later include oil from the Nasr field,
according to a video shown at the briefing. BP Plc,  Total SA (FP) ,
and Japan Oil Development Co. Ltd. have respective stakes in
ADMA-OPCO of 14.7 percent, 13.3 percent and 12 percent, the Abu
Dhabi-based company said on its website.  Abu Dhabi controls most of the oil in the U.A.E., which
produced 2.8 million barrels a day of crude in October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.A.E. ranked
fourth in production last month among the 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the data show.  Abu Dhabi plans to raise output capacity for crude to 3.5
million barrels a day in 2017 from about 3 million barrels a
day, to meet export demand and supply refineries including
Ruwais, its largest plant, which Adnoc is doubling in size.  Refinery Expansions  Das crude will “help keep supplies and exports up despite
the big refinery expansions going on in Abu Dhabi, which will
start taking more crude oil from August and September next
year,” said Tom James, managing director of consultant Navitas
Resources, speaking by phone from  Singapore .  The new blend will be produced at “specifications matching
international standards with the objective of increasing
flexibility and profitability,” ADMA-OPCO said in the
statement, citing Al-Jarwan.  “Loading one blend instead of two crudes will ensure more
time enhancement and flexibility to avoid keeping the  oil
tankers  beyond the time frame allowed for loading,” it said.  Das Island’s output of 600,000 barrels a day will reach
765,000 barrels in the “coming few years,” ADMA-OPCO said. The
company expects its total production to rise to 970,000 barrels
a day by 2020, supported by expansions at the Lower Zakum, Nasr
and Umm Shaif fields, it said.  Crude from two additional offshore fields, Umm al Lulu and
Zirku, may be combined to form a separate blend at an
unspecified future date, Al-Jarwan said, without giving details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  