-- Aereo Challenge to Cable to Be Aided by Senate Proposal
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-11-12T20:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/aereo-challenge-to-cable-to-be-aided-by-senate-proposal.html
U.S. Senator Jay Rockefeller
introduced a bill to help online video services and Aereo Inc.’s
antenna-based system challenge cable providers such as  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  and broadcasters including  CBS Corp. (CBS)   Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat who is chairman of
the Commerce Committee, said he wants consumers to benefit from
lower costs and increased choice.  The bill would “give consumers the ability to watch the
programming they want to watch, when they want to watch it, how
they want to watch it, and pay only for what they actually
watch,” Rockefeller said in an e-mailed statement today.  The legislation “is likely to face an uphill battle in
this Congress” amid opposition from broadcasters, cable
companies and satellite-television providers, Jeffrey Silva, a
Washington-based analyst with Medley Global Advisors, said in an
interview.  The measure would bar cable, satellite and broadcast
companies from engaging in anticompetitive practices against
online video distributors, according to a news release issued by
Rockefeller.  Antenna services that broadcast over the Internet wouldn’t
be obligated to pay fees to television stations for their
signals, according to a committee staff member who asked not to
be identified because the bill hasn’t been made public. The bill
doesn’t address questions about the legality of such services,
the staff member said.  Legal Challenge  Aereo, backed by  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI)  Chairman Barry Diller,
is under legal challenge by broadcasters. The New York-based
company uses thousands of small antennas to capture free over-the-air TV signals and transmit them to paying subscribers on
the Internet.  Aereo threatens $3 billion in fees that broadcast station
owners will receive this year from pay-TV systems to provide
signals to subscribers.  “We remain concerned about proposals that may legitimize
theft of copyrighted programming,” Gordon Smith, president of
the National Association of Broadcasters, said in an e-mailed
statement about Rockefeller’s bill. “Copyright theft poses a
very real threat to the revenue stream that supports local
television.”  The broadcasters say Aereo violates copyrights by capturing
their signals and sending them to customers without permission.
Aereo in court filings said its technology does the same thing
consumers are entitled to do such as capture broadcast signals
and make recordings for personal use.  “Efforts to increase choice, competition and transparency
for the consumer are a welcome step in the right direction,”
Chet Kanojia, chief executive officer of closely held Aereo,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Federal judges in  Boston  and New York have permitted Aereo
to operate during legal challenges, and broadcasters have asked
the U.S. Supreme Court to bar the service.  Joy Sims, a spokeswoman for the National Cable &
Telecommunications Association, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  