-- AMR, US Airways Must Divest Slots in U.S. Settlement
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-11-12T21:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/amr-us-airways-must-divest-slots-in-u-s-settlement.html
American Airlines  and  US Airways 
Group Inc. reached an agreement with the U.S.  Justice Department 
over the government’s bid to block their merger, clearing the
way to a tie-up that would create the world’s biggest carrier.  The airlines must give up 104 flight slots at  Washington 
Ronald Reagan National Airport and 34 at  New York ’s  LaGuardia
Airport , along with smaller divestitures at five other airports
under the proposed settlement filed today by the department’s
antitrust division in federal court in Washington.  The accord positions the carriers to complete their
combination in December, bringing American parent AMR Corp. out
of bankruptcy. While Attorney General Eric Holder said the
settlement would open up “a bigger foothold for low-cost
carriers,” the airlines said their goal of $1 billion in
savings and new revenue would remain intact.  The Justice Department “has lost the opportunity to claim
a settlement in favor of the merger as any kind of victory,”
 Vicki Bryan , an analyst at bond researcher  Gimme Credit , said in
a note to clients. “That treat rightfully will be shared by
AMR’s long-suffering employees and creditors in the resulting
combination under US Airways’ management.”  Absent from the settlement was any requirement to maintain
Advantage Fares, a US Airways discount offering that the Justice
Department said in its lawsuit would be at risk in the merger.  Shares Rise  AMR, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , jumped 26 percent to $12
in over-the-counter trading, while Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways rose 3.4 percent to $24.07 at the close in New York.
That pushed the year-to-date gain for the fifth-largest U.S.
airline to 78 percent.  “DOJ saw as they were going through that their case wasn’t
nearly as strong as they thought it was when they filed the
complaint,” US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said
today in an interview.  Parker, 52, will become CEO of the combined carrier while
AMR’s Tom Horton steps aside. The new airline will retain the
name and Fort Worth headquarters of American, the third-biggest
U.S. carrier.  US Airways’  Reagan National  dominance was among the
objections to the merger in the department’s Aug. 13 lawsuit to
block the tie-up. AMR and US Airways also agreed to surrender
two airport gates at Boston Logan, Los Angeles International,
Chicago O’Hare, Dallas Love Field and Miami International.  More Discounters  “This agreement has the potential to shift the landscape
of the  airline industry ,” Holder said in an e-mailed statement.
“By guaranteeing a bigger foothold for low-cost carriers at key
U.S. airports, this settlement ensures airline passengers will
see more competition on nonstop and connecting routes throughout
the country.”  The U.S. had said the tie-up would harm consumers by
damping competition, while the airlines said a merger was the
only way they could compete with United Continental Holdings
Inc. and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the industry’s biggest carriers.
The two sides faced a Nov. 25 trial date.  The concessions resolved regulators’ concern that the
merged airline would control too many flights at Reagan
National, where access is limited by federal law.  Consumer Boost  Making way for more low-cost carriers there and elsewhere
“improves on a problematic status quo,” Bill Baer, head of the
Justice Department’s antitrust division, said on a call with
reporters. “It provides more competition than exists today in
this industry and that is obviously good news for consumers all
across the country who stand to benefit from more choice and
more competitive airfares.”  With eight of American’s slot pairs at Reagan National
already leased to  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , the merged airline’s
net reduction in daily departures there will be 44 flights,
according to a US Airways statement. The combined carrier will
have about 250 daily departures at that airport on weekdays, US
Airways said.  The settlement affects less than 15 percent of daily
departures at Reagan National flown by its planes and
American’s, and less than 7 percent of departures at LaGuardia,
US Airways said.  As part of the agreement with the Transportation
Department, the combined carrier must maintain existing levels
of service between Reagan National and smaller and mid-sized
airports -- those not among the 29 largest in the U.S. by
departing passengers -- for the next five years.  Preserving Service  Preserving flights to those communities will help local
economies and preserve competition to those markets, according
to the agreement.  At least 75 percent of the airline’s commuter flights out
of Washington must be to small or non-hub airports, which
include Theodore Francis Green State Airport in Providence,
 Rhode Island , and  Arizona ’s Tucson International.  The remaining 25 percent of flights on commuter aircraft
may fly to medium-sized airports such as St. Louis’s Lambert
International and Houston’s Hobby.  The combined carrier won’t be allowed to use smaller
commuter planes, typically flown by a subsidiary or a partner
airline, on flights between Reagan National and any of the top
29 airports, according to the agreement.  American and US Airways announced plans to merge on Feb.
14, after US Airways convinced  AMR (AAMRQ) ’s bankruptcy creditors and
board that a combination would be stronger than an independent
American. The U.S. challenge was filed about two weeks before
the carriers had hoped to celebrate closing the merger in
September.  Judicial Review  AMR sought  bankruptcy protection  on Nov. 29, 2011, after
failing to secure union agreements that would help reduce its
industry-leading labor costs. The company was the final large
U.S. full-fare airline to seek court protection from creditors.  The judge overseeing AMR’s Chapter 11 case already endorsed
its restructuring plan, contingent on resolving the federal
antitrust suit.  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due in
October 2014 rose 8 cents to 142 cents on the dollar at 4:15
p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
service of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  That debt traded at 17.75 cents on the dollar on the day
AMR filed for bankruptcy, then rallied as investors bet that the
US Airways merger would succeed.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  