-- Land Securities First-Half Profit Rises on Property Sales
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-11-12T14:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/land-securities-first-half-profit-rises-on-london-developments.html
Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the
U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust, said first-half
earnings climbed 8.9 percent after it sold properties and
collected more rent in an improving economy.  Profit excluding changes in asset values and one-time items
rose to 156.5 million pounds ($250 million) from 143.7 million
pounds a year earlier, the London-based REIT said in a statement
today. Net rental income rose 9.4 percent to 295.4 million
pounds from 270.1 million pounds.  Land Securities has been selling real estate and investing
in development, betting that building and leasing new buildings
will offer better returns. Britain’s commercial property market
is improving as lenders become more willing to provide credit
and overseas real estate buyers look beyond the  London  area,
research firm Investment Property Databank Ltd. said in July.  “We made a big push into development right after the
downturn and we were the first developer to do that, so we got
construction costs at the lowest point,” Martin Greenslade,
chief financial officer of Land Securities, said by phone. The
company is now focusing on finding tenants and completing 680
million pounds worth of developments started during the past six
months, he said.  Development Spending  Adjusted earnings per share climbed 8.2 percent to 19.9
pence. Spending on development and refurbishment of properties
was 158.7 million pounds, most of which was invested in the U.K.
capital’s Victoria area and in the  City of London  financial
district.  “It is likely that sales of assets will exceed capital
expenditure and acquisitions in the second half,” Land
Securities Chief Executive Officer Robert Noel said in the
statement. “While this will strengthen our balance sheet
further, it is likely that revenue profit will be slightly lower
than in the first half as we lose income from sales.”  The company last month agreed to sell offices adjacent to
London’s Tate Modern art gallery on the south bank of the  River
Thames  to an M&G Group Plc unit for 315 million pounds. U.K.
commercial real estate values rose for the fifth straight month
in September, posting the biggest gain since April 2010,
according to IPD.  Land Securities fell 1 percent to 970 pence in London at
2:15 p.m. The shares have risen about 20 percent this year.  Walkie Talkie  Land Securities’ most recently completed office buildings -
- 123 Victoria Street and 62 Buckingham Gate -- had occupancy
rates of 86 percent and 57 percent, respectively, according to
the statement. Land Securities’ 37-story tower in the City of
London, nicknamed the Walkie Talkie, had tenants for 56 percent
of the space. Land Securities owns the skyscraper along with
Canary Wharf Group Plc.  Land Securities has been working to reduce a light beam
that was caused by the Walkie Talkie’s design and the sun’s
location. In September, it disrupted local businesses and melted
parts of a vehicle parked nearby. A black curtain has been
draped over the top third of a side of the building.  “We are close to resolving the issue and it will not delay
occupation nor inflate budgeted cost,” Noel said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  