-- AngloGold CEO Demands Promotion From Junk: South Africa Credit
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-11-12T08:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/anglogold-ceo-demands-promotion-from-junk-south-africa-credit.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ’s debt
deserves to be promoted from junk at  Standard & Poor’s  after the
company cut costs, boosted production and settled a strike,
Chief Executive Officer Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan said.  Bond markets suggest he’s right. Yields on AngloGold’s $700
million of bonds due in April 2020 have declined 279 basis
points to 6.28 percent since Aug. 7, when it announced a plan to
slash costs. That’s near a four-month low of 6.18 percent
reached on Nov. 7 and at levels last seen when the debt was
rated investment grade by S&P.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s $1 billion of
bonds due October 2020 have the same credit rating and a yield
that’s 135 basis points higher at 7.63 percent.  S&P cut AngloGold’s  credit rating  one step to BB+ from BBB-on July 17, saying the 23 percent decline in the price of the
metal this year will crimp  cash flow  given the company’s planned
capital expenditure. AngloGold has since announced plans to
slash capital and corporate spending and cut jobs, contributing
to an 11 percent drop in production costs to $1,155 an ounce in
the third quarter, 13 percent below the price of gold in the
period.  “Taking all of that into account, certainly we’d expect to
see some improvement” in the credit rating, Venkatakrishnan
said. “The debt in the secondary market is already trading like
investment-grade debt.”  Cost Plans  A month after being downgraded, AngloGold announced plans
to save almost $1 billion from corporate, exploration and
ongoing costs. The company also said it would reduce  capital
spending  after two new mines started producing gold ahead of
schedule in September.  “They were concerned we’d deliver the two projects on time
and on budget,” Venkatakrishnan said by phone on Nov. 6.
“We’ve ticked that box. They were concerned about wage
increases. We’ve ticked that box. They were concerned about
production improvements. We’ve ticked that box. They were
concerned about our all-in costs. We’ve started making inroads
into that.”  S&P doesn’t comment on future ratings changes, said London-based Elad Jelasko, the primary credit analyst who downgraded
AngloGold in July. Nevertheless, he is unmoved by the company’s
recent changes in strategy.  “We’ve seen nothing that’s going to materially change our
assumptions for $1.8 billion of Ebitda in 2014,” he said by
phone yesterday. “Our forecast already factored some elements
of cost-cutting, as well as wage negotiations and output from
the new mines of Tropicana and Kibali. The gold price will
continue to be the main driver.”  Rand Drop  Ebitda refers to earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization. Gold dropped 0.1 percent to
$1,281.09 an ounce at 10:16 a.m. in Johannesburg.  The rand declined 0.5 percent to 10.4114 per dollar,
extending the drop this year to 19 percent, the worst among 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on  South Africa ’s
$2 billion of bonds due in March 2020 climbed 167 basis points,
or 1.67 percentage points, in 2013 to 4.31 percent.  AngloGold, with other South African producers including
Gold Fields, agreed to raise entry-level underground workers’
wages by 8 percent in September, bringing an end to a two-day
strike. The  National Union of Mineworkers , which represents two-thirds of South African gold mining employees, had asked for a
60 percent increase.  ‘Take Time’  “The settlement was not materially better than our
expectations,” Jelasko said. “We need to be cautious here and
consider whether they are realistic or not and how much time it
will take to unlock” the benefits of cost cuts, he said.  Credit rating company Moody’s Investors Service Inc. is
more impressed with AngloGold’s strategic plans. Moody’s has a
Baa3 rating, the lowest investment grade, on the gold producer’s
debt, with a negative outlook.  “The key focus areas that we are tracking are trending in
the right direction,” Dion Bate, a Johannesburg-based credit
analyst at Moody’s, which doesn’t comment on future rating or
outlook changes, said by phone yesterday. “Wage negotiations,
cost cutting and the strengthening of the liquidity profile are
largely positive developments. But we must see these trends
bedded down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  