-- Lanxess Lowers Top-End of Profit Goal as Economies Struggle
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-12T07:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/lanxess-lowers-top-end-of-profit-goal-as-economies-struggle.html
Lanxess AG (LXS) , the second-worst
performer on  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index this year, lowered
the top end of its profit goal range and said it expects
“modest” economic momentum to persist in the fourth quarter.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items will probably be 710 million euros ($950
million) to 760 million euros this year, the Cologne, Germany-based company said today in a statement. Previously it predicted
700 million euros to 800 million euros.  Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann is cutting jobs and
bonuses to counter falling demand and selling prices in the
Americas region. The maker of synthetic rubber and agro-chemicals said  emerging markets  will provide only limited
impetus and it doesn’t yet see lasting stability in  Europe .  “Lanxess expects the environment to remain difficult,
especially in the tire and automotive industries,” the company
said in the statement.  Ebitda before special items dropped 26 percent to 187
million euros in the quarter, beating a 179 million-euro analyst
estimate, according to a Bloomberg survey. Sales fell 5 percent
to 2.05 billion euros, in line with estimates. Net income
plunged 88 percent to 11 million euros.  Lanxess shares have fallen 21 percent this year, cutting
the company’s market value to 4.4 billion euros. Only potash
producer K+S AG has dropped further, declining 40 percent.  The chemical maker, which generates about 40 percent of
sales from the auto and tire industries, suffered after European
car sales dropped to the lowest in more than 20 years. Lanxess
has said it will target acquisitions in the mid to long-term to
strengthen its chemical units and reduce dependence on rubber.  The manufacturer is exploring strategic options for units
that don’t belong to its main business, it said in September.
Divisions with about 500 million euros in combined sales and
1,000 workers may be sold or put into joint ventures, the CEO
has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  