-- Hapag-Lloyd’s Profit Falls on ‘Very Disappointing’ Freight Rates
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-11-12T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/hapag-lloyd-s-profit-falls-on-very-disappointing-freight-rates.html
Hapag-Lloyd AG said third-quarter
profit fell almost 64 percent as  Europe’s fourth-largest
container-shipping line  confronted low peak-season freight
rates.  Net income dropped to 16.6 million euros ($22.3 million)
from 45.6 million euros a year earlier, the Hamburg-based
company said in a statement. The average freight rate declined
more than 10 percent to $1,476 per standard container, or TEU,
in the quarter.  “The freight rate developments in the third quarter, the
peak season for the liner shipping industry, were very
disappointing,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Behrendt said
in the statement, adding that the pressure on rates continues.
“The irrational behavior in the industry, which once again
caused rates to drop drastically in October, is totally
incomprehensible,” Behrendt said.  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008 and the ensuing debt crisis in the euro area propelled the
shipping industry into a slump from which it has yet to recover,
damping demand for seaborne transport and generating a glut of
vessels.  Revenue at Hapag-Lloyd fell to 1.7 billion euros from 1.8
billion euros, while transport volume rose 8.6 percent to 1.4
million TEU, the company said. The company reiterated its
forecast for positive full-year operating earnings.  Hapag-Lloyd, which invested 588.5 million euros in the
first nine months, mostly in ships and containers, has announced
further price increases for several shipping routes in November
and December, the company said.  Market Share  Hapag-Lloyd has a 4.2 percent market share of the world’s
liner fleet,  according to Alphaliner . Industry champion  Maersk
Line , which has a 15 percent share, and its two closest rivals,
Mediterranean Shipping and CMA CGM SA, in the second quarter of
next year plan to create the largest container alliance in
history, called P3, to cut costs and end years of overcapacity.
Copenhagen-based Maersk is due to report third-quarter results
tomorrow.  Hapag-Lloyd  in March 2012  formed an alliance in Asia- Europe 
trade with APL,  Hyundai Merchant (011200)  Marine, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines,
 Nippon Yusen (9101)  Kaisha and  Orient Overseas (316)  Container Line, called
G6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  