-- APRA Reforms Will Likely Cut Asset Bond Costs, Threadneedle Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-11-12T07:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/apra-reforms-will-likely-cut-asset-bond-costs-threadneedle-says.html
Asset-backed bond reforms flagged by
 Australia ’s banking regulator will probably cut funding costs
for the nation’s issuers, according to Threadneedle Asset
Management Ltd.  The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority yesterday
detailed plans for new rules allowing lenders to offer notes
through so-called master trusts. Spreads “probably will
tighten” on debt sold using this structure versus existing
securitizations, Henry Cooke, a London-based investment manager
at Threadneedle, said at the Australian Securitisation Forum’s
annual conference in Sydney today.  Master trusts, common in the U.K., allow home-loan
providers to sell multiple issues of notes backed by the same
asset pool. These structures can cut swap costs for lenders
offering foreign-currency securities and make it easier to
create asset-backed notes with a scheduled maturity date,
thereby broadening their appeal to investors.  Pricing of the new notes “will be driven by the fact that
there are bigger, broader investors coming from overseas,” said
Cooke. “It’s easier for them to understand and there will be a
bigger investor base.”  U.K. lenders have sold the equivalent of about $100 billion
of residential mortgage-backed securities through master trusts
since 2010, according to Arun Sharma, head of European RMBS and
ABS at Barclays Plc.  Australian borrowers raised more than A$24 billion ($22.4
billion) from RMBS this year, the most since the financial
crisis, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore sales have
lagged behind, with newly issued U.S. dollar-denominated
offerings slumping 52 percent from the total volume of 2012.  Cash flows from other assets, such as credit cards, may
also be used to back debt sold via master trusts.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s largest bank,
would consider selling notes backed by credit cards to domestic
or U.S. investors, if pricing compared favorably to RMBS,
covered bonds or senior-unsecured debt, said Ed Freilikh,
executive manager of group funding in group treasury at the
lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  