-- Australia Promotes Bailey, Recalls Johnson for Cricket’s Ashes
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-11-12T06:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/australia-picks-bailey-recalls-johnson-for-ashes-cricket-opener.html
Australia elevated batsman George
Bailey to its Test cricket squad and recalled left-arm fast
bowler  Mitchell Johnson  for next week’s Ashes series opener
against England.  Bailey, the captain of Australia’s Twenty20 team, beat out
his fellow Tasmanian Alex Doolan for a place in the 12-man squad
named today in Brisbane, where the five-match series begins Nov.
21. England won 3-0 when it hosted Australia earlier this year
and is the even-money favorite with bookmaker  Tabcorp Holdings
Ltd. (TAH)  to win its fourth straight series against its oldest rival.  “George Bailey has been, as everybody is aware, in
fantastic form with the bat,” national selector John Inverarity
said at a news conference. “His confidence is riding high and
his performance in international one-day cricket has been quite
extraordinary, and he is very deserving of his opportunity.”  Bailey, 31, captained Australia in its recent one-day
series against India, where he top scored for the team with 478
runs at an average of 95.60. Regular skipper  Michael Clarke 
missed that tour to focus on his recovery from a back injury.  Bailey made 34 and 41 playing for Tasmania last week in
Australia’s long-form Sheffield Shield competition, where he
averaged just 18.28 the previous season. He said he’s confident
his success in limited-over international cricket will carry
over into elite five-day Tests.  “It’s just good form, so just hit the ball,” Bailey said
in televised comments. “It’s the same approach and I feel very
comfortable with where I’m at at the moment. I’m as excited as
anyone to find out how I measure up.”  Johnson Returns  Apart from the addition of Bailey, the only other change to
the team that played against England at the Oval in London in
August was the return of Johnson in place of injured left-arm
paceman Mitchell Starc.  Johnson, 32, returns for his third Ashes series after
missing the 3-0 loss in England and joins  Ryan Harris  and  Peter Siddle  in the home team’s pace bowling attack. Nathan Lyon was
chosen as the specialist spinner.  With allrounder Shane Watson being treated for a hamstring
injury sustained Nov. 2, James Faulkner was included in the
squad as his backup.  Inverarity said the hope is Watson is fit to bowl at
Brisbane’s Gabba stadium, where Australia is on a 24-match
unbeaten run going back to 1988.  “Shane is progressing well in regaining his fitness,” he
said. “We’re confident that he’ll be fit to play. We’re not
sure as yet to the extent to which he’ll be able to bowl.”  Back-to-Back  After winning eight straight Ashes contests between 1989
and 2003,  Australia  lost  four of the past five  and faces the
prospect of four consecutive series defeats against its
archrival for the first time since the late 1800s. England won
seven in a row between 1884 and 1890.  The teams are playing back-to-back series to avoid a rushed
turnaround between the Ashes and the 2015 Cricket World Cup,
which Australia will co-host with  New Zealand  early that year.  “It’s obviously a huge summer for us, there’s no doubt
about it,” Australia captain Clarke told reporters. “I think
it’s great for cricket that we have an opportunity to play
another Ashes series so quickly. We can’t wait for Thursday.”  AUSTRALIA SQUAD: Michael Clarke (captain),  David Warner ,
 Chris Rogers ,  Shane Watson ,  Steve Smith , George Bailey,  Brad
Haddin  (vice-captain), Mitchell Johnson, Peter Siddle, Ryan
Harris, James Faulkner, Nathan Lyon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  