-- Banco do Brasil Falls on Drop in Interest-Income Forecast
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-11-12T13:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/banco-do-brasil-falls-on-drop-in-interest-income-forecast.html
Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s
largest lender by assets, fell the most on the benchmark
Ibovespa index after the lender lowered its forecast for
interest income.  The shares  dropped  2.8 percent to 27.30 reais in Sao Paulo
at 11:25 a.m., the biggest decline on the 72-company Ibovespa,
which climbed 0.2 percent. Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Latin
America’s biggest bank by market value, rose 2.1 percent.  Higher interest rates prompted Banco do Brasil to lower its
forecast for 2013 net interest income, or the revenue from
interest earned on assets compared with payments to depositors,
Chief Financial Officer Ivan Monteiro told reporters in Sao
Paulo. The Brasilia-based lender expects an expansion between 2
percent and 5 percent this year, down from a previous estimate
of 4 percent to 7 percent, according to its earnings statement.  “Net interest margins were impacted by higher funding
costs as the central bank has been raising the Selic rate,”
Monteiro said, referring to policy makers’ benchmark rate.
 Brazil ’s central bank raised the Selic in each of the past five
monetary-policy meetings.  Net interest income increased 4.5 percent to 11.8 billion
reais ($5.1 billion) in the third quarter from a year earlier,
according to the statement. The company’s loan book expanded 23
percent to 652.3 billion reais at the end of the third quarter
from a year earlier, compared with a forecast for lending growth
of 17 percent to 21 percent.  “We consider the results weak,” Banco Bradesco SA
analysts including Carlos Firetti wrote in a report to clients
today, adding that net-interest-income growth was worse than
expected.  Adjusted net income, which excludes one-time charges,
dropped to 2.61 billion reais from 2.66 billion reais a year
earlier, the company said today in a filing. The results  topped 
the 2.51 billion-real estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  