-- Bangladesh Labor Protests on Wages Shut 100 Garment Factories
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-11-12T09:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/bangladesh-labor-protests-on-wages-shut-100-garment-factories.html
Thousands of  Bangladesh  workers
demanding higher wages held protests in an industrial zone on
the outskirts of the capital Dhaka, prompting clashes with the
police and forcing 100 garment factories to close.  The workers in the Anshulia industrial zone want a minimum
monthly wage of about 8,000 taka ($103), Chowdhury Ashiqul Alam,
a trade union spokesman said via phone today. The country’s
factory owners last week agreed to pay 4,500 taka.  The protests reflect the rising labor tensions in
Bangladesh, which has the second-lowest wages in  Asia  after
Myanmar and supplies retailers from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  with low-priced apparel. In September,
thousands of protestors demanding higher wages forced the
closure of 400 of the country’s 5,000 clothing factories.  “Some unruly workers threw stones at factories and police
in the morning,” Abdus Sattar Miah, an inspector of the
Industrial Police said via phone today. “The situation is now
under control.”  Cheap Labor  The South Asian nation’s $20 billion garment industry has
been marred by industrial accidents and fires, putting
international retailers under pressure to improve conditions. In
April, the collapse of the eight-story Rana Plaza factory
complex killed more than 1,000 people in the worst industrial
accident in the country’s history. An October fire at a garment
factory on the outskirts Dhaka killed at least seven people,
renewing concerns about safety.  Monthly manufacturing wages in Bangladesh average $74, only
higher than the $53 workers receive in Myanmar, according to an
annual Asia survey by the Japan External Trade Organization
released in December.  A government-appointed panel in November recommended a
minimum wage of 5,300 taka, up from the current 3,000 taka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in  Hong Kong  at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  