-- Bank Indonesia Surprises on Rates to Boost Rupiah Appeal
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-13T11:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/bank-indonesia-surprises-on-rates-in-credibility-boost-to-policy.html
Indonesia  raised  interest rates  to
the highest level since 2009 to sustain overseas demand for its
currency even as it risks hurting growth in  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest economy.  Bank Indonesia is seeking to maintain foreign interest in
its assets, which has helped fuel growth and overcome a lack of
structural reforms, said  Steve Hanke , professor of applied
economics at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore and an
adviser to former president Suharto during the Asian financial
crisis.  Governor  Agus Martowardojo , 57, has now mounted his fifth
surprise bump in borrowing costs since taking the central bank’s
helm in May, accepting  slower growth  as a price for reining in a
record current-account deficit. The rupiah, one of the worst-hit
currencies when capital flowed out of  emerging markets  earlier
this year, has fallen 17 percent in 2013.  “They’ve displayed some aggressiveness,” said Hanke, who
advised Suharto when the ex-general considered pegging the
rupiah to the dollar in 1998. “To some extent you can keep the
carry trade attractive, but pretty soon you’re going to end up
killing the domestic economy if you raise rates too much.”  In a so-called carry trade, investors make money by
borrowing in a country with low interest rates and converting
the funds into a currency where returns are higher.  Safeguard Rupiah  Bank Indonesia raised the  reference rate  by 25 basis points
to 7.5 percent, it said in Jakarta yesterday, surprising the 24
of 25 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  who predicted no
change. The rate move was aimed at easing the current-account
gap and meeting the  inflation (IDCPIY)  target, the central bank said.
Bank Indonesia said it will continue to safeguard the stability
of the currency.  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent against the dollar as of 5:30
p.m. in Jakarta, prices compiled by Bloomberg from local banks
show, making it the worst performer this year among 11 major
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “They want to keep the rupiah as stable as they can and
try to keep a little ahead of inflation and maybe make the
unwinding of the carry trade a little less attractive than it
would be otherwise,” said Hanke, who is director of the
Troubled Currencies Project at the  Cato Institute  in Washington.  Indonesian officials are grappling with a depreciated
 exchange rate , elevated inflation and diminished foreign capital
inflows, undermining President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s legacy
of economic stability before he steps down next year.  Fundamental Reforms  “They’ve been living off the gift of the carry trade,”
Hanke said. “It kind of glosses over the fact that fundamental
reforms really have never been implemented,” he said, referring
to fuel subsidies, infrastructure gaps and corruption.  Indonesia raised domestic fuel prices in June for the first
time since 2008 to cut subsidy costs. In a country where riots
spurred by soaring living costs helped oust dictator Suharto in
1998, protests derailed a plan by Yudhoyono to increase fuel
prices last year. The energy-producing nation is a net importer
of oil.  With yesterday’s move, the central bank has raised its key
rate by 1.75 percentage points since early June. Inflation
remained above 8 percent for a fourth month in October.  “The move is preemptive and they’re willing to live with
lower growth, lower credit growth, lower import growth so long
as the current account is at a more manageable magnitude,” said
Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of America Corp. in
 Singapore . “Nine months ago, there were some concerns that BI
was behind the curve. They’re also acting to restore their
credibility, to preempt further concerns.”  Deficit Priority  The current-account shortfall narrowed to $8.4 billion in
the third quarter, or 3.8 percent of gross domestic product,
 Bank Indonesia  said today. That compared to $9.9 billion or 4.4
percent of gross domestic product in the three months through
June. One-month rupiah forward prices extended gains to 0.9
percent after the announcement, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows.  Narrowing the deficit is the number one priority for
Indonesia, and the government is planning a policy package this
month to help the balance of payments, Finance Minister Chatib Basri said Nov. 7.  The central bank also raised the  deposit facility rate  to
5.75 percent from 5.5 percent yesterday.  “With the current-account deficit now essentially a
monetary policy target, further tightening to quell domestic
demand and stabilize the current-account deficit cannot be ruled
out,” said  Daniel Wilson , an economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “We view this out-of-consensus hike as an important step towards realigning the
markets’ view on BI rhetoric and adds further credibility to the
new governor’s more prudent approach to monetary policy.”  Growth Drag  GDP increased 5.6 percent in the three months ended Sept.
30 from a year earlier after climbing 5.8 percent in the second
quarter, the government said Nov. 6. Bank Indonesia predicts
2013 growth of between 5.5 percent and 5.9 percent, and
forecasts an expansion of 5.8 percent to 6.2 percent in 2014.  “The lagged impact of substantial rate increases in the
last few months will weigh heavily on growth in coming
quarters,” said Krystal Tan, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in Singapore. Barring further financial market turmoil,
yesterday’s move “is likely to be the last in the current
tightening cycle,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Rich Miller in  Washington  at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  