-- Beatles, Bowie Beat Timberlake, Eminem: Album Reviews
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-11-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/beatles-bowie-beat-timberlake-eminem-album-reviews.html
It took less than two minutes. With
that much time to fill in a  BBC  Radio show, the Beatles crashed
out a direct-to-air version of “I’m Talking About You.”  While they had no reason to think the song would be heard
again, they still gave it their all. The Chuck Berry cover was
one they ultimately didn’t perform for EMI during a recording
career of little more than six years. Now the impromptu,
energetic performance has at last made it to disc.  “On Air: Live at the BBC Volume 2” has 37 unreleased
performances from 1962 to 1965. It’s a sequel to the 1994 “Live
at the BBC,” which has now been remastered.  There are also 32 minutes of interviews, which are often
charming, childish and funny. While these vocal fragments give a
good idea of how the radio shows sounded, they would have been
much better at the end or replaced by other songs. Even so, the
result sounds fresh, rather than like the bottom of the barrel
being scraped. Rating: ****.  So while some of the best “new” music is actually 50
years old, fans of the Fab Four also have “New,” the 2013 CD
by  Paul McCartney . His best effort in some years has lots of
Beatlesque “oo-oo” harmonies. The collection works so much
better than the nostalgia of “Memory Almost Full” and “Kisses
on the Bottom.” Rating: ****.  David Bowie ’s new track “Love Is Lost,” mixed by James
Murphy of  LCD Soundsystem , starts with a round of applause. The
sporadic clapping, inspired by Steve Reich, gets more rhythmical
and forms a drumming backbeat.  This weird but wonderful 10-miute epic also reprises the
keyboards from Bowie’s “Ashes to Ashes” and is the centerpiece
of Bowie’s “The Next Day Extra.” The three-disc set is double
the length of his comeback “The Next Day.” Rating: *****.  Justin Timberlake  is the bestselling album artist of this
year, with two No. 1 discs called “The 20/20 Experience” that
show he’s keen to be taken seriously. That’s all great, of
course, but he’s stretching his range and the songs a little too
far at times. His retro-soul gets out-stuffed and garnished with
pomp-rock trimmings ready for Thanksgiving sales. Rating: **.  M.I.A. is making a career out of rebelliousness. Her
biggest claim to infamy came on live TV when she flipped her
middle finger during her Super Bowl appearance with Madonna.
Somehow, amid the arguments, activism and bad behavior, M.I.A.
has found time to make “Matangi.” The hit “Bad Girls” rocks
with attitude. Elsewhere the ideas are piled on so thickly that
the sound is an undisciplined mess. Rating: **.  Among other releases, Eminem’s “The Marshall Mathers LP
2” is better than early songs suggested. “Rap God” has a
messianic ambition to rival  Kanye West , asking “why be a king
when you can be a God?”  The duo in MGMT move to trance music from psychedelic pop
on their self-titled latest while Goldfrapp veers from
electronica to ambient on “Tales of Us.” Ratings: ***.  For a better take on hushed music, try Mazzy Star’s first
CD in 17 years, “Seasons of Your Day.” Rating: ****.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,
 Frederik Balfour  on Asian art,  James Russell  on architecture and
 Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 