-- Beaujolais Bath Marks Japan as Benchmark for New Vintage
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r ,   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-11-13T06:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/beaujolais-bath-marks-japan-as-benchmark-for-new-vintage-retail.html
Le Beaujolais Nouveau est arrive! Or
at least, the inaugural shipment of this year’s batch touched
down last week in  Japan , the biggest buyer of the fruity red
wine. It’s also the first market of note that will begin the
business of drinking the stuff in eight days’ time.  With Japan accounting for more than half of overseas sales,
the scale of post-party hangovers will be a barometer for the
central French region’s most famous vintage. While Japanese
imports gained 10 percent a year over the past three years,
volumes remain about a third off their 2004 peak, and a weaker
yen is creating headwinds for this year’s crop.  “We would be happy for the volume to gain 10 percent once
more, but at least, we expect sales to be stable,” said Aurelie
Vabre, a spokeswoman for Inter Beaujolais, a Villefranche-sur-Saone-based group representing producers.  The Japanese turned crazy for the vintage in the late
1980s, when  France  let bottles of the weeks-old and barely
fermented wine be shipped and stored overseas in advance of the
release date at midnight on the third Thursday of November. That
meant Japanese consumers were among the first to taste the new
vintage, sparking a craze that will see about 8 million bottles
quaffed this year in the country.  “Japanese people like new things,” said Akiharu Katsuta,
39, a  Tokyo  call-center employee who was first smitten with the
bug a decade ago. “We’re used to not aging sake and so many
people don’t age wine either. Beaujolais Nouveau fits into that
custom very well. It’s become like a festival here.”  Bathing in Red  Tasting sessions in a wine-infused hot spring, advance
orders at local 7-Eleven stores and advertisements for cork-popping parties are signals that Japan’s Beaujolais obsession is
far from dead.  Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. (2502)  and  Sapporo Holdings
Ltd. (2501) , Japanese beermakers that import and distribute the wine,
either increased or received better-than-expected orders.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Japan unit, Seiyu GK, is selling
750-milliliter bottles of the wine from 870 yen ($8.75), while
prices for a full bottle of Beaujolais Nouveau start at 1,800
yen from Sapporo Holdings Ltd., according to the Tokyo-based
company’s  website .  Still, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s use of a weak-yen policy
to stimulate economic growth is making French tipples more
expensive. Shuhan News, Japan’s biggest beverage magazine, says
volumes may drop 0.4 percent this year, according to its survey
of 41 leading importers.  While demand for Beaujolais is soaring in some  emerging
markets , volumes aren’t enough to offset declines in richer
countries. Exports to  China  of 296,600 bottles last year made it
the drink’s sixth-biggest market -- still barely 2 percent of
Japanese consumption.  Room to Grow  There’s ample room for Japan’s demand to grow. The 127
million people in the world’s third-biggest economy rank 30th
out of 34 for wine drinking in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development -- sipping only 1 bottle for every
11 sunk in France,  Wine Institute  data show. Yet demand soared
62 percent between 2008 and 2011, the fastest pace in the OECD
after tiny  Estonia ’s 72 percent. Consumption shrank in eight
developed markets.  Exactly how Japan converted to Beaujolais may never be
known, but one plausible version begins in November 1978 at
Tokyo’s New Otani Hotel. It was in the hotel’s top floor French
restaurant that Geoff Tudor, a British spokesman for  Japan
Airlines Co. (9201) , invited a small group of wine and food writers to
sample six cases he’d flown in.  “In Japan, we were looking for a new cargo to ship into
the country,” said Tudor, now retired. “There was a cargo
imbalance. We would ship out hi-tech, hi-value goods and there
wasn’t that much to ship back.”  Great Race  At the time, Beaujolais was released at midnight on Nov. 15
in central France, a practice that spawned races to rush the new
vintage by fast cars, motorbikes and planes to drinkers.
Bacchanalian breakfasts were all the rage in 1980s  London .  Tudor said he wanted to bring the same buzz to Japan.
Though with 6,200 miles to cover, Japanese drinkers would never
be the first in line. Then in 1985, the current  rules  were
brought in: five years later, Japan Airlines filled five Boeing
Co. 747 freighter flights with 900,000 bottles. JAL’s biggest
domestic rival,  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , got in on the boom and now
ships more of the wine, said Ryosei Nomura, a spokesman.  Shipments peaked at 12.5 million bottles in 2004.  Tudor reckons one reason the wine took off so quickly in
Japan was that critics and food writers had been primed by his
yearly parties.  Production of Beaujolais Nouveau, which is bottled after
just six or eight weeks to give it a fresh and fruity taste
that’s low in the tannins that can make wine bitter, has jumped
to an average of 32 million bottles annually in recent years,
Inter Beaujolais says. That’s up from about 2 million in 1954.  Prices Rising  Prices are rising in Japan after the yen weakened more than
20 percent against the euro in the past year. Suntory Holdings
Ltd. is raising the tag on its Beaujolais Nouveau by an average
of 7 percent this year, spokeswoman Hasumi Ozawa said.  Asahi, Japan’s biggest beermaker, increased orders by 3.7
percent to 36,930 cases, said Takuo Soga, a spokesman. Sapporo,
Japan’s fourth-biggest, received 50 percent more orders for
premium versions of the wine than it expected this year,
spokeswoman Kyoko Uchida said, without giving a figure.  Hakone, a hot-spring area about 80 kilometers (50 miles)
southwest of Tokyo, is luring visitors who want to  bathe  in the
new wine.  Hakone Kowakien Yunessun , owner of one of the area’s
largest spas, will open its Beaujolais bath from Nov. 21 for 10
days. The operator says its employees pour two or three bottles
of the wine into an outdoor pool several times a day.  The new grapes are good for the skin, and no, you won’t get
drunk, its website says.  Katsuta, the call center worker, hasn’t decided whether to
head home or meet friends after work on Nov. 21. What’s certain
is he’ll be having a glass or two of  Beaujolais Nouveau .  “Even people who don’t usually drink wine will buy a
reasonably priced bottle and celebrate,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  