-- Birmingham to Take Over Soccer Team’s Debt Owed to Carson Yeung
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-11-12T22:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/birmingham-to-take-over-soccer-team-s-debt-owed-to-carson-yeung.html
Birmingham International Holdings
Ltd. (2309) , owner of English soccer team Birmingham City, plans to
issue HK$190.1 million ($24.5 million) of bonds to Chairman
 Carson Yeung  in a deal to remove the club’s debt owed to him.  The company will assume the obligations of the 15.2
million-pound ($24 million) debt that the  soccer club  has to
Yeung, according to a filing to Hong Kong’s stock exchange
yesterday. It will then pay Yeung by issuing him two-year zero-coupon convertible bonds. The company also plans to sell HK$300
million of additional convertible bonds and 1.26 billion new
shares to help it repay debt.  The deal with Yeung is aimed at making Birmingham City more
attractive to potential buyers of a minority stake in the team
by shifting debt to the company, Birmingham International said
in the filing. A  Hong Kong  judge yesterday rejected a second
attempt by Yeung to have his money-laundering trial tossed out.  “Against the backdrop of Mr. Yeung’s ongoing court case in
Hong Kong, it has come to the attention of the board that some
potential buyers’ interest” in Birmingham City Plc and BCFC
“are deterred by the financial links between BCFC and Mr.
Yeung,” Birmingham International said in the statement.  The company, which holds a 96.6 percent stake in Birmingham
City Plc, owner of the club, said in February that it had been
approached by a sports management company representing a group
of investors interested in buying the team. Birmingham City was
relegated from the elite Premier League in May 2011, a month
before Yeung, its largest shareholder, was arrested in Hong Kong
on five counts of  money laundering . Yeung has pleaded not guilty
to the charges.  Former Director  Birmingham International will sell HK$50 million of zero-coupon convertible bonds to a company owned by Yung Yue Zhou, a
former director who resigned last year, according to yesterday’s
filing. Yung will buy a further HK$250 million of convertibles
in two equal batches.  The company will sell 1.26 billion new shares at 5 Hong
Kong cents each to multiple investors, raising a net HK$62
million to repay debt and for use as working capital.  Birmingham International said in September that it expects
to record a “significant” net loss for the year ended June 30.
The company has delayed publication of the annual earnings to no
later than Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  