-- Birmingham City’s Yeung Loses Bid to Halt Trial
-- B y   S h a i   O s t e r
-- 2013-11-12T02:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/birmingham-city-s-yeung-loses-bid-to-halt-money-launderin.html
A Hong Kong judge rejected
Birmingham City soccer boss  Carson Yeung ’s second appeal to have
his money laundering trial tossed out.  District Court Judge Douglas Yau today said Yeung wasn’t
prejudiced by new evidence submitted by the prosecution last
week after the trial - now in its 52nd day - was extended to
allow the businessman to take the stand.  Yeung, 53, first applied for a permanent stay in April,
arguing that records of his wealth from  stock trading  couldn’t
be obtained. He pleaded not guilty to five charges of laundering
HK$721.3 million ($93 million) of deposits from parties
including a Macau casino operator and securities firms over a
seven-year period to 2007.  Yeung testified last month after Yau allowed him to reopen
his defense to take the stand. Yeung said his own experts had
failed to accurately portray his finances and how he parlayed a
career as a high-priced celebrity hair stylist into stock
picking and gambling. Checks from casinos linked to suspected
triads were just returns on his investments, he testified.  Last week, the prosecution disclosed new documents during
Yeung’s cross examination linking him to Abba Chan Tat-chee, a
concert promoter convicted of embezzlement. The information came
to light as part of a separate investigation, prosecutors said.
Yeung’s lawyers said it was part of a pattern of late or
incomplete disclosures that hurt their client’s ability to
defend himself.  Premier League  Yeung was chairman of Grandtop International Holdings Ltd.,
which in 2007 bought a 29.9 percent stake in the West Midlands,
U.K.-based  soccer club  for 15 million pounds ($23 million).
Yeung bought the rest of the club in 2009, paying 81.5 million
pounds to David and Ralph Gold and  David Sullivan  and Grandtop
changed its name to  Birmingham International Holdings Ltd. (2309)   Police allege that the purchase was partly funded by money
connected to his laundering charges. His lawyers say he
earned that money from trading stocks.  Birmingham International has been struggling to pay its
bills and has held talks with potential buyers. The club was
relegated from the elite Premier League in 2011, a month before
Yeung, its largest shareholder, was arrested.  Earlier this month, the company said in a statement to the
Hong Kong Stock Exchange it was discussing ways to raise money
or restructure its debt. Shares could resume trading by the end
of the year, it said.  The case is  Hong Kong  Special Administrative Region and
Yeung Ka-sing Carson, DCCC860/2011 in the Hong Kong District
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shai Oster in Hong Kong at 
 soster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  