-- Fink Sees Equities Returning 7% as Dalio Expects 4% Gains
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-11-12T21:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/blackrock-s-ceo-fink-sees-potential-15-drop-for-equities.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink said stocks may decline as much as 15
percent because of political risks in China, Japan,  France  and
the U.S.  Stocks may still return more than 7 percent in the long-term, assuming the global economy expands at about 4 percent,
Fink said today at the DealBook conference in New York.  Ray Dalio , founder of Bridgewater Associates LP, said at the
conference earlier today that equity returns will slow to 4
percent annually in the next decade.  Fink, whose New York-based firm is the world’s largest
 money manager , with $4.1 trillion in assets, said last year he
would invest all of his personal wealth in equities. He’s
tempered that optimism this year following political stalemates,
saying in January he had lowered his expectations for the stock
market in the first quarter after being disappointed by the bill
U.S. lawmakers passed to avert spending cuts and tax increases.
Last month, he said the U.S. could have a lower equity market
following the political debate on the debt ceiling.  Today, Fink said if investors are already invested 100
percent in equities, they should keep their money there. He has
said in the past he’s bullish on the U.S. over the longer term,
citing a strong banking system, an improving housing market and
the nation’s large supply of natural gas.  U.S.  stocks  have gained about 25 percent annually,
including dividends, since reaching a 2009 low as the U.S.
Federal Reserve kept  interest rates  near zero and inflated asset
prices with a series of unprecedented bond purchases.  France Troubles  The Fed won’t be able to raise interest rates for a number
of years as the economy hasn’t strengthened sufficiently, Dalio
said today. Dalio, whose $150 billion hedge-fund firm is based
in Westport,  Connecticut , didn’t elaborate on his forecast for
equities.  Fink joined Dalio in pointing to France as a potential
trigger for problems in the euro region. Fink, who called France
“structurally uncompetitive” last year, said today that
country may be the cause for an eventual failure of the euro
currency.  Dalio said today the next major financial crisis will come
from France because of a rise in debt-service payments that will
have a “constrictive nature” on the economy. He said France’s
debt will be difficult to roll over, resulting in funding gaps
and wider credit spreads that will make the debt-service
payments more difficult.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  