-- Blackstone to Billionaires Boost Tanker Bets on U.S. Fuel
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2013-11-12T13:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/blackstone-to-billionaires-boost-ship-bets-on-u-s-fuel-freight.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest manager of alternative assets, as well as billionaires
 Wilbur Ross  and  John Fredriksen  are amassing tanker fleets to
tap America’s surging fuel exports.  Blackstone’s Tactical Opportunities Fund invested “several
hundred million dollars” of equity in ship assets in the past
two years, its New York-based Principal Jasvinder Khaira said by
phone on Oct. 31. The venture, which acquired stakes in nine
tankers hauling gasoline and other fuels last year, is also
financing an expansion by Eletson Gas, the second-largest owner
of midsize liquefied petroleum gas carriers. Separate Blackstone
funds own a company hauling fuel between U.S. ports.  The nation’s highest oil and gas production in more than
three decades is enticing investors to ships hauling processed
fuels because the U.S. bans most crude exports. Demand for the
carriers is accelerating at a time when the most of the maritime
industry is slumping. Fredriksen, the richest shipping investor,
is building his biggest-ever fleet. Ross, founder of WL Ross &
Co., acquired control of an LPG shipper in October 2012, about a
year after investing in product tankers.  “They have all seen that shipping has been dragged through
the mud,” said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic
Securities ASA in Oslo, whose recommendations returned 24
percent in the past year. “What’s going on in U.S. energy makes
companies that can export fuels, gas and even chemicals among
the industry’s more attractive investments.”  Scorpio Rising  Oil-product tankers earned $12,825 a day since the start of
January, 20 percent more than in 2012 and the most since 2008,
according to data from Clarkson Plc, the largest shipbroker.
Rates advanced to a record $49,273 in January 2006, spurring a
surge in orders for new vessels just before the global
recession. Returns fell to $3,491 by April 2009.  The boom in U.S. energy production is lowering feedstock
prices for refineries, allowing them to ramp up exports of
petroleum products to destinations including  China , Brazil,
 Venezuela  and  Nigeria .  Shares of the biggest publicly traded owner of oil-product
carriers, Monaco-based  Scorpio Tankers Inc. (STNG) , advanced 68 percent
to $11.95 in  New York  this year and will climb 6 percent in the
next 12 months, the average of 13 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg showed. Only one of 17 analysts whose ratings are
tracked by Bloomberg advises selling the stock.  BW Group, the world’s biggest operator of ships hauling
liquefied petroleum gas, will sell shares in its LPG shipping
unit in Oslo, with trading expected to start around Nov. 25. The
Singapore-based firm delisted from the same exchange about 4 1/2
years earlier.  Record Exports  The per-metric-ton charter cost for ships hauling LPGs such
as propane and butane averaged $59.15 since the start of
January, heading for the best year on record, according to the
 Baltic Exchange  in London. The gases are used for everything
from making petrochemicals to cooking.  American seaborne oil-product exports will advance 4.8
percent to 2.39 million barrels a day this year, the most since
at least 2000, Clarkson predicts. The nation’s shipments to
overseas buyers more than doubled in the past five years and now
represent 12 percent of global trade in the fuel.  “The sudden boom in U.S. product exports has been very
attractive to investors who have a lot of cash to invest and are
looking for assets that will give them returns,” said Nikhil
Jain, a shipping analyst at Drewry Shipping Consultants in  New
Delhi . “This is a market that is able to offer much better
prospects compared to other markets in shipping.”  European Economy  While U.S. fuel-cargo exports are accelerating, ship owners
also need  Europe ’s economy to return to growth. The continent
accounts for about 31 percent of all seaborne oil-product
imports, according to  Clarkson (CKN) , and the 20.8 million tons of LPG
shipments it will purchase this year equate to about 47 percent
of all cargoes.  The economy of the 17-nation euro area contracted for seven
consecutive quarters through September, official data and the
mean of 29 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed
before third-quarter figures due Nov. 14.  World economic growth will be weaker than previously
expected, the  International Monetary Fund  said Oct. 8, reducing
its 2014 forecast to 3.6 percent from 3.8 percent. That may curb
fuel-consumption and in turn limit ship demand.  Shipping companies tapping U.S. fuel suppliers’ surging
exports are overcoming that slump. The nation produced about 1.1
billion tons of oil and gas equivalent last year, the most in
more than three decades, according to data from BP Plc.  Navigator Holdings  Blackstone is a shareholder in Hafnia Tankers Ltd., a
Hellerup, Denmark-based shipowner that sold equity in a private
placement last month. Other investors include Barclays Natural
Resources and Tufton Oceanic, a hedge-fund group and private-equity firm. It also insured Citigroup Inc. last year against
initial losses on a $1.2 billion pool of shipping loans.
Separate Blackstone funds are the largest shareholders in
American Petroleum Tankers Parent LLC, a Jones Act ship owner.  Ross’s LPG-shipping company, Navigator Holdings Ltd., said
Oct. 17 it plans an initial share sale in New York. The
billionaire has also raised $100 million to buy as many as eight
vessels hauling iron ore and grains, he said Nov. 8.  “There are a lot of assumptions being made about future
U.S. oil and gas production, but these investments do look
pretty exciting,” said Nigel Prentis, the head of consultancy
at ship brokerage Hartland Shipping Services Ltd., who has
worked in shipping since 1981. “These fuels have got to be
exported.”  Brazil, China  Monthly shipments of oil products to  Brazil  averaged 5
million barrels so far this year from 4.7 million barrels in the
same period in 2012, according to Energy Department data to
August. Venezuela-bound fuels rose to 2.7 million barrels from
1.7 million, while deliveries to China also gained.  The surge in vessels to export U.S. fuels contrasts with
the slower recovery in other parts of the shipping industry. The
ClarkSea Index, a Clarkson measure of earnings for the entire
merchant fleet, averaged $9,662 a day this year, which would be
the second-lowest annual average on record after 2012.  The largest crude carriers earned $8,558 a day. Running
costs for the ships including crew and repairs were $10,350 last
year, according to Moore Stephens, a U.K. accountant that tracks
industry expenses.  “There are certain spots where demand has picked up faster
than GDP and the supply of ships is less onerous,” Blackstone’s
Khaira said. “Those are ones that are tied to shale gas, and
what’s happening with the U.S. energy complex specifically.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  