-- Blankfein Sees Goldman ROE Boost Without Wholesale Change
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-12T23:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/blankfein-sees-goldman-roe-boost-without-wholesale-change.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the U.S.
bank most reliant on trading, won’t make any “wholesale
strategic change” to help improve returns, Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein said.  “While we have generated good relative returns in the last
five years, they are hardly aspirational,” Blankfein, 59, said
today at an investor conference in New York. “We are committed
to improving them regardless of the challenges presented in the
current environment.”  Goldman Sachs has earned a return on equity of 10 percent
so far this year, compared with 11 percent in 2012 and more than
30 percent before the financial crisis. The shares trade at 1.06
times book value, indicating that investors estimate the firm’s
cost of equity at around 10 percent, a figure that Blankfein
said the company is focused on.  “People throw out that number, 10 percent, I happen to
think that’s a pretty high number given that the risk-free rate
of return is zero,” Blankfein said at a separate conference in
 New York  today. “But the market seems to have focused on that,
so we’ve kind of focused on that number. Not for the long-term,
but for this part of the cycle, I think that looks OK.”  Goldman Sachs, which before the financial crisis targeted a
long-term ROE of 20 percent, has declined to set a goal since
then, saying it wanted to see the effects of new rules. Recent
international regulations have required banks to hold more
equity capital, pushing down ROE.  Won’t Sacrifice  Blankfein, speaking at the annual meeting of the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association in New York, said his
firm is focused on earning higher returns when the global
economy improves and activity increases. It won’t sacrifice that
chance in order to earn 10 percent this year, he said.  “We’re not killing ourselves to get there,” he said. “If
we’re so far under it that we put our franchise at risk trying
to get there, we don’t want to do that.”  Goldman Sachs, whose shares have gained 93 percent since
the end of 2008, reduced risk-weighted assets in its fixed-income trading business by $70 billion in the past five
quarters, Blankfein said. It also sold stakes in two insurance
companies and Chinese lender  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  to free up capital and boost returns.  Blankfein said the firm would increase ROE -- a measure of
how well a company uses reinvested earnings to generate
additional profit -- by making “incremental improvements” in
revenue, expenses and  capital management . He said the current
environment offered a “third-quartile opportunity set.”  ‘Golden Age’  “We may look back and say this is the golden age, but I’ve
been doing this for over 30 years and it doesn’t feel like the
golden age,” he said. “It doesn’t feel like the top.”  Goldman Sachs is committed to all of its fixed-income units
as well as its activities in the Investing & Lending segment,
even as those businesses encounter regulatory change, Blankfein
said. The New York-based firm may benefit from some rivals’
decisions to exit or de-emphasize fixed-income, he said.  “Difficult operating environments might lead management
teams to overreact,” he said. “However, when you have a strong
franchise and a track record of superior returns, overreacting
may be the most dangerous thing that you can do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  