-- Bond Exodus at Broad Funds Hits Pimco, JPMorgan: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-11-12T18:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/bond-exodus-at-broad-funds-hits-pimco-jpmorgan-credit-markets.html
In a year of record withdrawals from
taxable bond funds, no category has been harder hit than the
biggest broad market strategies managed by firms from  Pacific
Investment Management Co. (PTTRX)  to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Investors yanked $61.8 billion from intermediate-maturity
debt funds in the first nine months of the year, while pouring
$46.2 billion into bonds maturing in less than three years,
according to data compiled by Morningstar Inc. Buyers are
showing a preference for shorter-maturity and high-yield bonds
that are less sensitive to rising benchmark borrowing costs as
the  Federal Reserve  weighs curtailing the pace of its
unprecedented stimulus that’s bolstered credit markets.  Concern is mounting that a general basket of bonds won’t
preserve income and generate returns for investors who reaped
average annual gains of 6.3 percent from the start of 2009
through last year. As the central bank prepares to start slowing
its bond buying, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Broad
Market Index is on pace for its first annual decline since 1999.  “People aren’t getting enough income from their bond
portfolios as they need,” Michael Rawson, a fund analyst at
Morningstar in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “You’re
going to see money come out of intermediate bond funds and into
these more income producing bond categories.”  Pimco, JPMorgan  Investors withdrew $28.1 billion from Pimco’s $247.9
billion Total Return Fund in the first nine months of the year,
the most among all intermediate bond strategies, Morningstar
data show. JPMorgan’s $24.6 billion Core Bond Fund had the third
biggest outflow with $4.6 billion of redemptions, while American
Funds’ $28.2 billion Bond Fund of America reported $4.8 billion
of withdrawals.  In the same period, non-traditional bond funds that give
managers more flexibility in how they invest received $45
billion of deposits, Morningstar data show.  “While core bond categories have experienced outflows
industry-wide, we have continued to see inflows into our
absolute return and unconstrained strategies,”  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco, said in an e-mailed statement.  JPMorgan’s Core Bond Fund, which was started on Dec. 31,
1983, and focuses on investment-grade notes with medium-term
maturities, reported a $2.3 billion withdrawal on Oct. 28,
spurring the biggest weekly outflow from U.S. investment-grade
debt funds since June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  High Yield  While there have been some withdrawals from JPMorgan’s core
bond strategies, “most of the outflows have come from clients
aiming to diversify their fixed-income portfolios,” with many
of the same clients depositing money into flexible debt funds,
Gregory Roth, a spokesman for the New York-based firm, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The withdrawal last month reflected a client moving assets
from the Core Bond fund into a different vehicle managed by the
firm and not a rotation of money out of investment-grade debt,
Roth said.  Buyers pulled $2.2 billion from broader bond strategies in
the U.S. during the week ended Oct. 30, the biggest outflow in
more than three years, data compiled by Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc show. Funds focused on high-yield bonds reported
$752.7 million of deposits in the period.  Speculative-grade debt, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , is
less sensitive to rising interest rates because of the bigger
premium it pays over benchmarks.  Notes Underperform  Pimco’s Total Return Fund, started in 1987 and managed by
 Bill Gross , has shrunk by an estimated $37.5 billion since the
start of this year, ending October with about $248 billion in
assets, according to data provided by Pimco and compiled by
Bloomberg. It ceded its title as the world’s largest mutual fund
to Vanguard Total Stock Market Index Fund, which ended October
with $251 billion.  Medium-term notes are poised to under-perform shorter-term
ones for the first year since 2008, when the Fed embarked on an
unprecedented quantitative easing program to jump start the
world’s biggest economy from the depths of the financial crisis.  Corporate bonds maturing in five to seven years have
declined 0.01 percent this year compared with a 1.6 percent gain
for notes maturing in one to three years, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Treasury Yields  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Broad Market Index
has lost 2.01 percent this year after posting a 2.45 percent
decline in the three months ended June 30, its biggest quarterly
loss since the start of 1994. The index gained 4.53 percent in
2012.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  rattled fixed-income markets
in May by telling Congress that the central bank may reduce the
pace of its $85 billion of monthly purchases of Treasuries and
mortgage bonds if the economy showed sustained improvement.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries  rose  as high as 3.01 percent
on Sept. 6, up from 1.76 percent at the end of December, as
speculation mounted that the Fed would change the pace of its
bond buying at its September meeting.  While policy makers surprised forecasters by maintaining
the level of stimulus,  yields  reached a seven-week high of 2.75
percent at the end of last week as reports showed the economy
expanded in the third quarter beyond projections and added more
jobs in October than forecast.  ‘Overriding Factor’  “We’re in an environment where the likelihood is that
 interest rates  are going to move higher and that hasn’t been the
case for 30 years,” Gregory Kamford, a credit analyst at RBS in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.  Since the end of May, investors have removed $14 billion
from U.S. intermediate-maturity corporate bond funds while
putting $11.6 billion into funds focused on one-to-three year
corporates and $12.9 billion into notes due in more than 10
years, RBS data show.    Fidelity Investments , which manages $1.9 trillion globally,
started three funds that focus on short-term bonds to address
investor concern over rising interest rates, the Boston-based
firm said today in a statement.  “The only logic to follow at the moment is whether the
central banks continue to supply the  capital market  with more
liquidity,” Arthur Tetyevsky, a credit strategist at Imperial
Capital LLC, said in a telephone interview. “That seems to be
the overriding factor.”  Shell Bonds  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose, with the Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increasing 1.3 basis points from Nov. 8 to a mid-price of 73
basis points as of 1:09 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond markets in the U.S. were closed yesterday for the
Veterans Day holiday.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc plans to sell dollar-denominated
bonds in a four-part offering of notes due in five years or
fewer after  Europe ’s biggest oil company borrowed $3.75 billion
of longer-term debt three months ago. Its  Shell International
Finance (RDSA)  unit intends to sell two portions of floating-rate bonds
due in two and three years and fixed-coupon notes that mature in
three and five years, according to a person with knowledge of
the offering.  Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 3.6 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The New
York-based telephone carrier raised $49 billion on Sept. 11 in
the largest corporate  bond issue  ever.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  