-- Brazil Gives Fossil Fuels Advantage Over Wind in Power Auction
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-11-12T20:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/brazil-gives-fossil-fuels-advantage-over-wind-in-power-auction.html
Brazil  will allow developers of
power projects that use natural gas and other fossil fuels to
sell their output at higher prices than wind farms next month.  Builders of small hydroelectric dams and thermoelectric
plants that run on coal, gas or biomass will have to sell power
below 144 reais ($61.72) at a Dec. 13 auction, the Brasilia-based electricity regulator Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica
said today on its  website . In contrast, wind developers must bid
below 122 reais.  Developers of wind farms have won 55 percent of contracts
in auctions since 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The higher top rate for some gas projects will make them viable
if supplies of the fuel are available, Thais Prandini, executive
director of Sao Paulo-based research company Thymos Energia,
said today in a telephone interview.  “The government’s obviously concerned there should be more
fossil-fuel  power plants  available to provide back-up power,”
Prandini said.  The average price of  wind energy  fell 26 percent to 110.51
reais a megawatt hour in an August auction from 2009. In
Brazil’s power auctions, regulators set a ceiling rate and
developers bid down the amount at which they are willing to sell
power. The lowest bids win contracts.  While Brazil always sets different ceiling prices for large
hydroelectric plants, the maximum rate is normally the same for
other energy technologies, Prandini said. The last time this
happened was in 2010 when developers of wind energy, at the time
a nascent industry in Brazil, were allowed to sell at a higher
rate than other power sources.  Too Low  Solar-plant developers were granted the same ceiling price
as wind farms in December’s auction and probably won’t sign
contracts because the rate is too low to make projects viable,
Prandini said.  The ceiling price for four large hydroelectric plants known
as Sao Manuel, Itacoara I, Ribeiro Goncalves and Cachoeira vary
from 107 to 139 reais, according to the statement.  Developers that win contracts in the so-called A-5 auction
will have to start producing power from May 2018, the regulator
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  