-- Brazil Says Camargo Correa Targets Ghana Power Plans
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-11-12T16:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/brazil-says-camargo-correa-targets-ghana-power-plans.html
Camargo Correa SA,  Brazil ’s third-largest construction company, will consider bidding on hydro-power projects in  Ghana , where the government plans to spend
$4.5 billion to double power capacity, Brazilian Ambassador
Irene Vida Gala said.  The Sao Paulo-based company, the biggest generator of
hydroelectric power in Brazil, will be the fifth construction
company from  Latin America ’s largest economy to operate in
Ghana, Vida Gala said in an interview yesterday in Accra.
Brazilian companies plan to invest more than $600 million in
Ghana infrastructure projects, according to embassy data.
Camargo Correa didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail and phone
call seeking comment yesterday.  “They are already in talks to come and establish a company
and offices here. It’s preliminary talks but they will come,”
she said. “They are going very much into what they are good in:
electric generation of hydroelectric power.”  Ghana will add 2,500 megawatts of power in the next 10
years to halt outages and meet domestic demand estimated to grow
10 percent annually, Ebenezer Tagoe, finance director of the
state-owned Volta River Authority, said last month in an
interview. Power outages are curbing economic growth in West
 Africa ’s second-largest economy, which the government says will
expand 7.2 percent this year. Ghana gets about half of its
electricity from thermal energy and uses imported oil to fuel
the plants because of a natural-gas shortfall.  Africa Expansion  Brazilian companies from plane maker Embraer SA, to the
nation’s largest builder ,Odebrecht SA, are turning to African
nations that weren’t former Portuguese colonies to capture
spending on infrastructure fueled by the discovery of oil, gas
and other commodities. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta met with
representatives from Brazilian companies in July. Only Angola
and  Mozambique  have more Brazilian builders operating
domestically than Ghana, Vida Gala said.  Queiroz Galvao SA is expanding an airport in northern Ghana
as part of a $100 million project, while Odebrecht is in a joint
venture with Andrade Gutierrez SA to work on a $240 million
highway connecting Ghana to its eastern neighbors, according to
embassy data.  Embassy Expansion  Brazil more than doubled the number of its embassies in
Africa to 37 in the past decade as part of a strategy under
former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  to strengthen
political and commercial ties with the continent, Vida Gala
said.  Ghana and Brazil have been discussing a possible $1 billion
credit facility for Ghana since 2011, she said, declining to
give any more details. Trade with Ghana was $400 million last
year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  