-- Brazil to Boost Oil Exports as Output Triples, IEA Says
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-11-12T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/brazil-to-boost-oil-exports-as-output-triples-iea-says.html
Brazil  will triple  oil  production by
2035 and become a major exporter as it develops the Americas’
largest discoveries in almost four decades, the  International
Energy Agency  said.  Latin America’s largest economy will produce 6 million
barrels a day in 2035 and account for one-third of the increase
in global crude output, the Paris-based agency said. The IEA
forecasts that Brazil will be the world’s sixth-largest
producer, up from 12th now.  The new production will come mostly from deposits trapped
under a layer of salt more than two miles beneath the Atlantic
Ocean’s floor, the so-called pre-salt fields. Deep-water fields
including Libra and Lula, the largest oil discoveries in the
Western Hemisphere since  Mexico ’s Cantarell field in 1976, have
attracted investments from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA. (FP)   “The increase in oil and gas production is dependent on
highly complex and capital-intensive deepwater developments,
requiring levels of upstream development beyond those of either
the  Middle East  or  Russia ,” the IEA said.  Most oil exploration in Brazil is carried out by  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the country’s state-controlled oil company.
Petrobras, as the company is known, plans to invest $237 billion
over five years to develop fields, build refineries and boost
output.  Brazilian Rules  The development of the fields must satisfy local content
rules that require companies to buy goods and services locally
as part of a government policy to spur economic growth.  “Commitments made to source goods and services locally
within Brazil add tension to a tightly stretched supply chain,”
the IEA said.  The requirement lured equipment suppliers including  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  to build plants in
Brazil as they seek to tap demand for drillers, platforms and
ship engines.  Natural gas production is set to expand more than fivefold,
the IEA said. The increase will be enough to cover Brazil’s
needs for the next two decades.  Energy consumption in Brazil has increased as a swelling
middle-income class buys cars, TVs and air conditioners. The
country added 35 million people to its middle class in the past
decade, according to research company Datapopular. The  jobless 
rate has declined to 5.4 percent this year from more than 10
percent in 2007.  Middle Class  “Meeting this demand requires substantial and timely
investment throughout the energy system,” the IEA said,
estimating the amount at $90 billion a year on average. “The
development of a well-functioning gas market, attractive to new
entrants, can likewise help spur investment and improve the
competitive position of Brazilian industry.”  The agency also said that a policy focused on  energy
efficiency  would help reduce the potential strains. Electricity
demand is set to double by 2035.  Brazil’s output of renewable energy is expected to almost
double by 2035. Renewables including hydropower account for 43
percent of Brazil’s energy, and the IEA predicted that
percentage will hold in 2035. Production of biofuels including
ethanol is expected to more than triple without encroaching on
environmentally sensitive areas like the Amazon region.  The country will also further diversify its sources of
power by expanding wind farms, boosting natural gas production
and using electricity generated from renewable sources like
sugarcane waste.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Houston at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  