-- British Banks Face Possible Mortgage Trading Probe, UKFI Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-11-12T13:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/british-banks-face-possible-mortgage-trading-probe-ukfi-says.html
Mortgage trading could be the next
scandal facing some British banks after Libor and foreign-exchange rate manipulation, UK Financial Investments Ltd.
Chairman Robin Budenberg said.  The manager of taxpayer-owned shares in U.K. lenders
including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  asked the two banks where they may face “exposures,”
Budenberg told a Treasury Committee today.  “Clearly there are a range of regulatory issues pending,”
he said. “Mortgage trading has been identified as a potential
issue and we’ve seen at JPMorgan that that’s been a significant
potential liability.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co., led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , is trying to complete a $13 billion settlement into its
mortgage-securities sales practices. Edinburgh-based RBS was
fined $612 million in February for manipulating benchmark
 interest rates . The bank last week said it would pay $153.7
million to resolve U.S. regulatory claims that a brokerage unit
misled investors about the quality of a 2007 financial product
backed by subprime mortgages.  Separately, Budenberg said he had in the past persuaded
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  against deeper cuts
in bankers’ compensation. In addition, he advised against an
early sale of RBS’s U.S. Citizens unit in order to obtain a
better price.  “He accepted our arguments and we ended up with outcomes,
broadly speaking, where the banks would continue to operate on a
commercial basis and the remuneration results were sustainable
externally,” he said. “Our view has always been that we need
to give Citizens time to recover in terms of its financial
performance and in terms of the market environment.”  -- Editor: Jon Menon  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  