-- Canada Lowers Deficit Outlook Before Surplus in 2015-16
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-11-12T21:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/canada-lowers-deficit-outlook-before-surplus-in-2015-16.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the federal government will step up spending
restraint, helping it swing to a larger-than-forecast surplus
within two years.  The government will post a surplus of C$3.7 billion ($3.5
billion) in the year starting April 2015, up from the C$800
million projected in Flaherty’s March 21 fiscal plan, the
Department of Finance  said  today.  While slower growth will reduce the government’s projected
revenue by C$10.4 billion over the next five years, it now plans
to spend C$14.4 billion less over the same period than earlier
forecast. Freezing government operating budgets from April 1
will save a further C$5.2 billion over five years.  Flaherty, who told reporters today he intends to run in the
2015 election, said he’d like to use the larger surplus to pay
down the nation’s debt. “My preference is to pay down public
debt, because I don’t believe in public debt,” he said at a
question-and-answer session in  Edmonton , Alberta with
Conservative lawmaker James Rajotte.  The government expects to raise C$2.0 billion over the next
two years from selling the Ridley Terminals coal facility in
British Columbia and land in B.C. known as the Dominion Coal
Blocks. Sales of General Motors Co. shares announced in
September will boost revenue this year by C$700 million.  ‘Broad Contours’  The government expects the Canadian  economy  will grow 1.7
percent this year and 2.4 percent in 2014, unchanged from
projections released in June.  Today’s fiscal update leaves the “broad contours of the
road to a balanced budget” unchanged, said  David Tulk , chief
 Canada  macro strategist in Toronto at TD Securities Inc. “The
update looks to be fairly modest, with the focus on expenditure
reduction, in the spirit of under-promise and over-deliver,”
Tulk said in an e-mail.  Flaherty’s fiscal update caused little reaction in
financial markets. The Canadian currency depreciated 0.2 percent
to C$1.0493 at 4:41 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
95.31 U.S. cents. Yields on benchmark two-year
 government bonds  rose one basis point to 1.13 percent.  Flaherty, 63, wants to safeguard Canada’s status as the
only Group of Seven country with a stable AAA credit rating as
he closes the C$56 billion gap incurred in 2009-2010 amid the
depths of the financial crisis.  Canada will run a deficit of C$17.9 billion in the year
started April 1, down from the C$18.7 billion shortfall
projected in March, according to the fiscal update.  Shrinking Deficit  The deficit will shrink to C$5.5 billion next year, down
from the C$6.6 billion forecast in March. The government’s
projections include an adjustment for risks that reduces the
budget balance by C$1.5 billion this fiscal year and C$3.0
billion every year for the following five years.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government is trying to
reassert itself as a responsible steward of the country’s
finances amid an expenses scandal implicating four senators,
including three Conservatives that Harper appointed.  Most damaging have been revelations that Harper’s former
chief of staff, Nigel Wright, helped one senator repay disputed
expense claims. The controversy has dominated parliamentary
debate as opposition parties accuse the government of a cover-up, erasing a lead in opinion polls the Conservatives have held
for most of the past eight years.  A return to surplus would allow the government to enact tax
breaks that Harper promised during the 2011 federal election,
including the ability of families to split their incomes for tax
purposes.  ‘Selling the Furniture’  Harper has said the Conservatives would follow through on
such promises once the budget is balanced.  Liberal Party lawmaker  Scott Brison , the spokesman for
finance issues, said the government is “desperate to create the
illusion of a real surplus before the next election.” He called
the plan to sell assets “like selling the furniture to pay for
the groceries,” by phone from  Nova Scotia .  The government said it will pay C$2.9 billion this fiscal
year to help victims of flooding in Alberta and a train crash in
Lac-Megantic,  Quebec  in July, according to the document.  The Finance Department said last month Canada had an C$18.9
billion deficit for the fiscal year that ended March 31, C$7.0
billion less than projected seven months earlier. Flaherty told
reporters Oct. 28 that the surplus in 2015-6 won’t be “tiny.”
“There’ll be no doubt that we’re balanced in 2015,” he said.  Projected Growth  In June, the Department of Finance  said  the average
projection of private sector economists for economic growth this
year was 1.7 percent. That compares with 1.6 percent in the
March budget. The June survey projected growth of 2.4 percent
next year, lower than the 2.5 percent in the budget.  The Canadian economy will grow 1.7 percent this year and
2.3 percent in 2014, according to the median of a Bloomberg
surveys.  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz surprised investors
last month by dropping language about the need to raise  interest
rates , citing a delay in a pickup in exports and business
spending. The central bank left its benchmark interest rate at 1
percent for the 25th consecutive meeting on Oct. 23.  Flaherty said that he will keep a “sharp eye” on Canada’s
housing market and would intervene again if he thought it
necessary. The budget update document said the main domestic
risk to Canada’s economy “continues to be the high levels of
debt held by Canadian households,” and said the “recent pick-up in housing market activity” could lead to more debt
accumulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Welsch in Edmonton,  Alberta  at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  