-- Canadian Currency Falls to Two-Month Low Amid Speculation on Fed
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-12T22:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/canadian-dollar-touches-two-month-low-on-added-fed-taper-bets.html
Canada ’s dollar reached the weakest
in more than two months on speculation a strengthening U.S.
economy will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to reduce stimulus
measures that have helped to bolster growth worldwide.  A measure of the currency’s volatility rose to a one-month
high, while crude oil, Canada’s largest export, dropped to the
lowest level since June. The  U.S. dollar  rose against the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers after reports last week
showed American payrolls and gross domestic product grew more
than forecast. The U.S. is Canada’s biggest trade partner.  “The market is still digesting the implication of the
strong U.S. jobs report from Friday, and also we don’t have a
lot of data this week,” Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said by telephone
from Toronto. “The focus is definitely on the U.S. right now,”
and the greenback will dominate the direction of the  currency
pair , Moore said.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is nicknamed for the
image of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.2 percent
to C$1.0495 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0509 per U.S. dollar, the weakest level since Sept. 5. One
Canadian dollar purchases 95.30 U.S. cents.  The Canadian currency was the third-worst performer in the
past six months among the 10-developed nation currencies tracked
by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The loonie lost 3.8
percent, trailing the Australian dollar and the Norwegian krone.
The U.S. dollar gained 0.4 percent.  Bonds Drop  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing yields on  10-year
debt (GCAN10YR)  to the highest in almost four weeks. The benchmark yields
increased as much as five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 2.66 percent, the highest since Oct. 16, before
trading at 2.64 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 dropped 30 cents to C$90.40.  Thirty-year bond yields increased as much as five basis
points to 3.21 percent, also the highest level since Oct. 16,
before trading at 3.2 percent. The Bank of Canada will auction
C$1.4 billion ($1.3 billion) of 3.5 percent securities tomorrow
maturing in December 2045.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the federal
government will record a budget surplus of C$3.7 billion in the
year starting April 2015, up from the C$800 million projected in
March, as it moves more quickly to reduce program spending.  U.S. 10-year (USGG10YR)  note yields increased as much as four basis
points to 2.79 percent, the highest since Sept. 18, as signs
America’s economy is gaining momentum fueled bets the Fed will
start slowing its asset purchases.  Fed Stimulus  The U.S. central bank  buys  $85 billion per month in bonds
to depress long-term interest rates and stimulate economic
growth. The purchases tend to debase the greenback while
increasing investor risk appetite.  “The Fed is going to start tapering this year and
hopefully finish it up by the end of next year, so I think we’ve
seen the dollar regain some ground today, especially against the
Canadian dollar,” said Eimear Daly, a currency-market analyst
at Monex Europe Ltd., by phone from  London . “We’ve seen a
backup in  interest rates  in the U.S., and that really backs up
the Fed going in and cutting.”  Employers in the U.S. added 204,000 jobs last month, the
Labor Department said Nov. 8, versus a Bloomberg survey’s
forecast of 120,000. American GDP expanded 2.8 percent in the
third quarter, beating a Bloomberg poll’s forecast of 2 percent,
a report on Nov. 7 showed.  Implied Volatility  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
currency against the loonie reached 6.15 percent, the highest
intraday level since Oct. 11. The measure is used to set option
prices and gauge the expected pace of currency swings. The
average for this year is 6.71 percent.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian
currency versus its U.S. peer rose to the highest almost four
weeks. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate
reached 1.37 percent, the most since Oct. 16. Risk reversals
measure the premium on options contracts to sell Canadian
dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  The  Bank of Canada  last month cut its growth projections
for the next two years and removed language about the need for
higher interest rates that had been included in every policy
statement for a year.  The central bank, which has held its  key rate  at 1 percent
since 2010, said the export pick-up that underpins its growth
projections is taking longer than expected to materialize.  Crude oil snapped a two-day winning streak today. Crude for
December delivery tumbled as much as 2.4 percent to $92.86 a
barrel in New York, the lowest intraday level since June 24.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of raw materials fell 0.8
percent in its first decline in three days, and the S&P 500
Index of U.S. stocks declined 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in  New York  at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  