-- Cano, Granderson to Test MLB Free Agency After Declining Offers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-12T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/cano-granderson-to-test-mlb-free-agency-after-declining-offers.html
Second baseman  Robinson Cano  and
outfielders  Curtis Granderson  and Jacoby Ellsbury were among 13
Major League Baseball players who turned down $14.1 million
qualifying offers from their teams, clearing them to negotiate
with other clubs on the free-agent market.  Cano, Granderson and pitcher Hiroki Kuroda declined offers
from the New York Yankees ahead of yesterday’s deadline, while
Ellsbury, shortstop Stephen Drew and first baseman  Mike Napoli 
rejected one-year deals from the Boston Red Sox. The $14.1
million figure is the average of the sport’s 125 richest player
contracts.  “When we made the qualifying offers, we did not expect
anyone to accept,” Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  was
quoted as saying by MLB.com. “We would have been happy if any
of them did. So now we enter the remaining part of the process,
stay engaged and try to re-sign our players.”  Outfielders  Carlos Beltran , Shin-soo Choo and  Nelson Cruz 
also declined qualifying offers, according to the MLB Players
Association, as did pitchers Ubaldo Jimenez and Ervin Santana,
catcher Brian McCann and first baseman Kendrys Morales.  All 13 players can still negotiate new contracts with their
current clubs. If they sign with another organization, their
previous team would get a compensation pick following the first
round of the MLB draft.  Cano, 31, and Ellsbury, 30, will probably be the most
coveted free agents available this offseason, commanding long-term contracts worth more than $100 million.  Cano is a six-time All-Star who has hit at least 25 home
runs each of the past five seasons. Ellsbury is two years
removed from a season in which he finished second in voting for
the American League Most Valuable Player award after hitting
.321 with 32 homers, 105 runs batted in and 39 stolen bases.  “He has earned the right to be a free agent and he’s a
premier player,” Cashman said of Cano yesterday at MLB’s
general managers’ meetings in Orlando, Florida. “Given that
status that he carries, those types of players dictate the dance
steps. We’ll do the dance as long as we can, but at some point
you can’t do that forever. We’re in the very front end of this
thing. The music hasn’t even started yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  