-- Chegg Slides After Textbook Renter IPO Raises $187.5 Million
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-11-13T21:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/chegg-raises-187-5-million-in-textbook-renter-s-public-offering.html
Chegg Inc. (CHGG) , which rents textbooks
and provides digital homework help to college students, tumbled
23 percent in its stock market debut.  The shares fell $2.82 to $9.68 at the close in  New York .
Chegg, based in  Santa Clara ,  California , and co-founder Aayush Phumbhra sold 15 million shares at $12.50 yesterday, above the
offering range, to raise $187.5 million.  “I can’t control what the market is doing or the tape on a
daily basis,” Dan Rosensweig, chief executive officer of Chegg,
said in an interview today. “We’ll just keep focusing on
creating long-term value.”  Chegg, which rented or sold more than 5.5 million digital
and hard-copy textbooks in the year through September, has yet
to turn a profit. While sales rose 23 percent to $178.5 million
in the first nine months of 2013 from a year earlier, the
company reported a loss of $50.4 million for the same period.  The IPO is the first of a technology or Internet company
since Twitter Inc. debuted Nov. 7. The microblogging service has
climbed 64 percent from its IPO price. Companies have raised
$6.9 billion in technology and Internet IPOs in the U.S. this
year, with shares of the issuers up an average of 56 percent
through yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rosensweig, a former  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  executive, joined Chegg in
2010 and shifted the company to digital products, acquiring
startups focused on e-textbooks, online homework help and
question-and-answer forums.  Improving Margin  Chegg’s digital business accounted for about 21 percent of
revenue in the nine months ended Sept. 30. The gross margin, or
profit left after costs of goods sold, is 80 percent in the
digital products, Rosensweig said. For the company as a whole,
the margin is closer to 30 percent. As digital sales accelerate,
Chegg’s profitability will improve, he said.  “We’re leveraging the base we built with textbooks to grow
these new businesses,” he said.  The company plans to use most of the funds raised in the
IPO for debt repayments and investments, while 1 percent of the
proceeds will fund the Chegg Foundation, which benefits
education-related activities, the prospectus shows.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank of America Corp. managed the
sale. Chegg is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol CHGG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  