-- Chelsea May Bid $95 Million for Falcao, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-11-12T12:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/chelsea-may-bid-95-million-for-falcao-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Chelsea Swoop?  Chelsea has renewed its interest in Radamel Falcao and may
make a 60 million-pound ($95 million) bid for the Colombia
striker, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Coach Jose Mourinho is set to watch Falcao play for his
country against  Belgium  in two days before deciding whether to
make an offer for the player, the newspaper said.  The Blues have monitored Falcao’s performances for  Monaco 
but there’s concern at Chelsea that it’s difficult to judge him
in the French league as it’s not physically demanding enough,
the Mirror added.  Belgium’s “big, strong side” will present a challenge
more similar to the Premier League, the paper said.  Meyer Wanted  Mourinho is interested in Schalke midfielder Max Meyer,  the
Daily Star  said.  The 18-year-old played against the Blues in the  Champions
League  last week, and has started the domestic season well with
three goals in the Bundesliga, the newspaper added.  United Target  Manchester United  may bid for Borussia Dortmund midfielder
Marco Reus, The Times reported.  The deal could lead to Shinji Kagawa returning to the
German club, the newspaper said. He’s struggled for playing time
and goals following his 17.6 million-pound move to Old Trafford
last year, it added.  Benzema for Arsenal?  Arsenal has stepped up the chase for Real Madrid striker
Karim Benzema as it strives to boost its attacking options, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Gunners coach  Arsene Wenger  is “desperate” to recruit
another front man in the January transfer window, the newspaper
said.  Benzema may now be more ready to move to Arsenal after
snubbing the club’s interest in the offseason, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  