-- Chicago’s Grace Awarded Two Michelin Stars; Next Snubbed Again
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-11-12T20:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/chicago-s-grace-awarded-two-michelin-stars-next-snubbed-again.html
Curtis Duffy, an ex-chef de cuisine
at Alinea,  Chicago ’s only three-Michelin-starred restaurant, was
awarded two stars today for Grace, his year-old tasting menu
spot, the Red Guide announced.  Grace, in Chicago’s West Loop, charges $185 for about nine
courses of “flora” or “fauna.” The restaurant’s website
describes the fare as “micro-seasonal” and “thoughtfully
progressive.”  Sixteen, helmed by Joel Robuchon protege Thomas Lents, was
the only other Second City restaurant to enter the two-star
category. Promoted from one star, Sixteen serves set dinner
menus from $98-$210. Richard Melman’s L20 and Graham Elliot’s
eponymous restaurant kept their two-star honors, though Elliot
will close at the year’s end.  Elizabeth Restaurant, which uses the online ticketing
system developed by  Grant Achatz ’s  Alinea  and Next, earned a
star just a year after opening. The award adds Iliana Regan to
the small but growing ranks of Michelin-starred female chefs in
the U.S.  “We love giving stars. We love giving stars to women
especially because it creates role models for other women,”
said Michael Ellis, international director of the guides, in a
telephone interview.  Elizabeth serves “New Gatherer” cuisine, focusing on
“nose-to-tail, root-to-branch, and farm-to-table Midwestern
bounty,” per its website. And like at  Next , guests pay for
their meals in full at the time of booking, including optional
wine pairings, tax and service charge.  Pre-Paid  The 17-to-20-course dinners at Elizabeth range from $75-$165, with prices being lower midweek than during weekend slots.  Achatz’s Next, a restaurant so popular that tickets for
dinner can sometimes fetch multiple times their face value in
secondary markets, failed to receive a star again.  “We went there a number of times,” Ellis said when asked
about Next. “Some things worked really great, and some things
didn’t work. We certainly found some wonderful food, but it
wasn’t consistently starred, and it has to be consistent if
we’re going to give them a star.”  Other new members of the one-star ranks include EL Ideas, a
BYOB restaurant; The Lobby, a somewhat mundanely named
restaurant at the Peninsula Hotel; North Pond in  Lincoln Park ;
and Senza in Lakeview.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie is  Europe ’s largest tire maker. It produced
its first guide in August 1900, distributed free (until 1920)
and intended for chauffeurs.  The “Michelin Guide Chicago 2014” goes on sale Wednesday
for $18.99.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News .)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Daniel
Akst  on books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Sutton in  New York  at 
 rsutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  