-- China to Charge Resource Users More to Protect the Environment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-12T16:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/china-to-charge-resource-users-more-to-protect-the-environment.html
China  will do more to make industry
pay for rights to use natural resources and to compensate the
community for environmental costs, the nation’s leaders said at
the conclusion of a Communist Party meeting yesterday.  Changes flagged for the commodities industry came in a
communique after President  Xi Jinping , Premier Li Keqiang and
the party’s  Central Committee  gathered for a four-day meeting
known as the third plenum to determine policy shifts for the
coming decade.  The pollution and environmental damage accompanying China’s
economic growth featured in government and media commentary in
the lead up to the meeting. Overcapacity in industries ranging
from steel making and aluminum smelting to cement production
were also debated before the plenum.  “China will push through changes in the resources and
commodities sector that will help balance the environment and
the economic growth,” said  Helen Lau , an analyst at UOB Kay
Hian Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “While the full results may take months
or years to become clear, they’ve laid out the principals which
will be hallmarks of the Xi administration in the next decade.”  Detailed policies such as aiming to increase  energy
efficiency , rein in overcapacity and ease carbon emissions may
be released in the future, Lau said.  ’Environment Protection’  “China should facilitate a management system to oversee
the ownership and use of natural resources by setting a cost of
environment protection,” the official Xinhua News Agency
reported, citing the communique. China will also give markets a
“decisive” role in allocating resources in the economy, it
said.  Iron-making capacity will be cut by a further 15 million
tons by 2015, steel-making capacity by another 15 million tons
and cement capacity by an additional 100 million tons, according
to a State Council statement posted on the central government
website on Oct. 15.  Aluminum overcapacity in China will worsen, Julian Zhu, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said on Sept. 12. China is
expected to add 11.8 million tons per year of capacity in
2013-2014, lifting total capacity to 38.8 million tons a year,
Zhu said.  China won’t give new land quotas to industries with
overcapacity including steel, cement, aluminum, flat glass and
shipbuilding, the Ministry of Land and Resources said on its
website on Nov. 11.  Premier  Li Keqiang  promised to clean up pollution as part
of his top priorities in a briefing in March. The environment
shouldn’t be sacrificed for the sake of growth, Li said at that
time, after record smog blanketed Beijing in January.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  