-- China Swaps Fall From Four-Month High as PBOC Adds Funds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-12T03:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/china-swaps-fall-from-four-month-high-as-pboc-adds-funds.html
China ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
retreated from the highest level since June, falling for the
first time in seven days, as the central bank injected funds
into the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China added 9 billion  yuan  ($1.48
billion) by issuing seven-day reverse-repurchase contracts at
4.1 percent today, according to a statement on its website. The
PBOC said yesterday it rolled over 10 billion yuan of maturing
three-year notes at 3.5 percent. China is expected to announce
policy reforms, including interest-rate liberalization, after a
four-day Communist Party meeting ends today, according to
Societe Generale SA.  The cost of one-year  swaps , the fixed payment needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.35 percent as of 10:33
a.m. in  Shanghai , data compiled by Bloomberg show. It climbed to
4.44 percent yesterday, the highest level since June.  “The fund injection helped to calm the jitters,” said
Zhang Guoyu, an analyst at Orient Futures Co. in Shanghai. “The
PBOC wants to act before things turn really bad. The IRS and
 government bonds  were driven earlier in the week by the
expectation that relaxing controls over  interest rates  will
inevitably lead to higher borrowing costs, not because the
market is really short of cash.”  The yield on the 4.08 percent government notes due August
2023 was unchanged from yesterday at 4.45 percent, according to
data from the Interbank Funding Center. The  benchmark  10-year
rate to 4.41 percent yesterday, the highest since August 2008.
according to ChinaBond data.  Credit Slowdown  China’s aggregate financing, the broadest measure of new
credit, was 856.4 billion yuan in October, below all nine
projections in a Bloomberg News survey. New local-currency loans
of 506.1 billion yuan compared with the 580 billion yuan median
estimate of analysts. M2, the broadest measure of  money supply ,
rose 14.3 percent from a year earlier, according to central bank
data released yesterday.  “The significant slowdown in aggregate financing reflects
a tightening of liquidity conditions entering the fourth
quarter,” analysts at Barclays Plc including Hong Kong-based
Chang Jian wrote in a research report yesterday. “We continue
to expect the government to shift its policy focus from
‘stabilizing growth’ to ‘adjusting the economy’s structure and
promoting reform’ in 2014.”  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of financing availability
in the banking system, fell 28 basis points to 3.54 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  