-- China Pledges Decisive Role for Markets at Party Summit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-12T12:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/china-pledges-decisive-role-for-markets-after-policy-summit.html
China  elevated the role of markets
in the nation’s economic strategy after President Xi Jinping
oversaw a gathering of Communist Party leaders while stopping
short for now of unveiling detailed policy shifts.  China will give markets a “decisive” role in allocating
resources, the official Xinhua News Agency reported today,
citing a communique from the third full meeting, or plenum, of
the party’s 18th  Central Committee . The document didn’t discuss
specific issues including local-government debt,  interest rates 
or the one-child policy while referring generally to giving
farmers more property rights.  Today’s statement leaves investors waiting for concrete
steps after leaders pledged in March to reduce the state’s role
in the economy to fuel  growth . Swelling local-government debt
and a residence-registration system that limits labor mobility
highlight hurdles for plans to urbanize hundreds of millions of
people and sustain 7 percent annual expansion this decade.  “China clearly seems to be heading towards a much greater
role for markets in the economy, which points to more
deregulation and opening up of financial markets,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which oversees more than $125 billion.  “The plenum was only ever going to set the broad direction,
which it looks to have done, but with the details to follow,”
Oliver said. “So this runs the risk of disappointing some who
were hoping for more details straight away.”  Prior Definition  China had previously defined markets as having a “basic”
role in allocating resources since the country decided to build
a “socialist market economy” in 1992, Xinhua reported. That
wording had been repeated as recently as last month, when Xi
said in a  speech  that China would “let the market play its
basic role in allocating resources to a greater degree and in a
wider scope.”  “Economic reform is key, and the core solution is the
proper relationship between the government and the market,”
Xinhua said today, citing the communique.  The communique also said land in cities and the countryside,
which can be used for construction, will be pooled in one market,
and the party will “create fair open and transparent” market
rules, according to Xinhua.  China is targeting “decisive” results on reforms in key
sectors by 2020, Xinhua reported, citing the statement.  Market Forces  When Li took office in March, he pledged to open the
economy to market forces and strip power from the government,
saying at the time that the process would be “very painful and
even feel like cutting one’s wrist.”  Gross domestic product  expanded  7.8 percent in July-to-September from a year earlier, from a 7.5 percent gain in the
previous period, bolstering Li’s chances of meeting the
government’s 7.5 percent full-year growth target.  State media had heralded the meeting as a “watershed” for
reform, putting it in the same category as 1978’s third plenum.
That’s when former paramount leader  Deng Xiaoping  broke with
three decades of Maoism and introduced pro-market policies that
paved the way for  growth  averaging 10 percent a year.  “What we have seen from the plenary’s communique is broad
principles,” said Ramin Toloui, Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s co-head of emerging-markets portfolio management in
 Singapore . “The devil will be in the implementation -- how
those principles are translated into specifics and a timetable
for action.”  The report came after the close of Chinese markets. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.8 percent today, the
biggest gain this month, while the  yuan  was little changed at
6.0919 per dollar.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  