-- China to Take Iron Ore Pricing Power From Miners, Banga Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-11-12T03:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/china-to-take-iron-ore-pricing-control-from-miners-banga-says.html
China  will take control of iron ore
pricing in the next two years as rising supplies of the
steelmaking commodity return bargaining power to buyers, former
Noble Group Ltd. Vice Chairman Harry Banga said.  Prices of the second-biggest seaborne commodity will drop
to $95 to $110 a metric ton, said Banga, who in May started The
Caravel Group Ltd. Iron ore traded at $135.90 a ton at the
Chinese port of Tianjin yesterday.  Mine expansions by producers including Rio Tinto Group and
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  will push the market into a surplus next year,
and the 82 million-ton glut will be the most since at least
2008, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in August. The shift in
bargaining power may also spur an expansion of the  iron ore 
securities market in  Asia , Banga said,  “Buyers will be calling the shots,” 63-year-old Banga,
who has traded iron ore for almost 20 years, said in an
interview in Hong Kong. “It will change very quickly over the
next two years and the Chinese will then control more of the
pricing.”  Banga, who left Noble in January after stepping down from
an executive role at Asia’s largest commodity trader in 2010,
started Caravel with his sons Angad and Guneet. Other than iron
ore and shipping, the company plans to expand into trading of
commodities including coal, manganese, and nickel, he said.  Securities Market  Contract volumes for iron ore securities traded may
potentially reach twice the size of the almost 1.2 billion ton
physical market as a new generation of overseas-educated
managers at Chinese steelmakers will be more willing to use the
contracts to hedge risks, Banga said.  Contracts traded on exchanges including the Singapore
Exchange Ltd. and Dalian Commodity Exchange will account for
about 130 million tons to 150 million tons this year, he
estimated.  “The growth in the last three years itself is tremendous
and it’s just the tip of the iceberg,” he said of the
contracts.  Record iron imports by China, the biggest steelmaking
nation, in September and gains in October don’t represent a
reversal of the trend of slowing demand, Banga said. Mills are
just stocking up ahead of the Chinese New Year holidays in
January when trains will shift to moving passengers instead of
cargo, he said.  Price Rally  The commodity has rallied 23 percent from this year’s low
on May 31 and is up 57 percent from September last year when
prices touched an almost-three-year low. Iron ore entered a  bull
market  in July as  China’s economy  accelerated, spurring Standard
Bank Group Ltd. and  Australia ’s Bureau of Resources and Energy
Economics to increase price estimates in the past few weeks.  Caravel, which has traded 1 million tons of iron ore in the
past month, is seeking volumes of 15 million tons in its first
year of operations, Banga said. It wants to double trades to 30
million tons a year in three years’ time, or about 3 percent of
China’s purchases, he said.  The group has hired more than 20 people for its iron ore
team, he said. Banga, who raised as much as S$252 million ($202
million) by selling shares in Noble last November, no longer
owns any stock of his former company, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  