-- Cholesterol Guideline Changes Double Number on Treatments
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/cholesterol-guideline-changes-double-number-on-treatments.html
The first U.S. overhaul of
 guidelines  for controlling cholesterol released in a decade may
double the number of people on drug therapy while limiting the
types of medicine they’re prescribed.  The recommendations are based on studies showing treatment
with statins, a class of drugs that includes  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s
Crestor and Pfizer Inc.’s Lipitor, and a heart-healthy lifestyle
help many patients regardless of their cholesterol count. Drugs
that work differently than statins, including  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s
Vytorin and Zetia, aren’t recommended.  The guidelines from the  American Heart Association  and the
 American College of Cardiology  announced yesterday are supposed
to make it easier to control cholesterol, a risk factor for
heart attack and stroke. The biggest change may be a move away
from treating patients to a preset goal,  optimally  under 100
milligrams per deciliter for LDL cholesterol and less than 70
mg/dl for those with heart disease. Now it’s advised that
patients stay on statins no matter what their levels.  “This is kind of fire and forget,” said Steven Nissen,
chairman of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic in  Ohio . “You
decide whether to treat or not, pick a dose and stick with it.”  Statins will be recommended for almost 33 million
Americans, about twice the number under previous guidelines.
Since treatment is no longer tied to hitting target cholesterol
levels, they also eliminate the need for repeat blood tests.  Annual Sales  AstraZeneca’s Crestor, the only statin with patent
protection, was the third-biggest  selling  drug in the U.S. last
year, generating $5.1 billion for the London-based drugmaker,
according to the research firm IMS Health Inc. Sales of
atorvastatin, the chemical name for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor and
its generic competitors, remain strong with $2.3 billion in U.S.
sales in 2012, IMS Health reported.  Merck’s Zetia, which isn’t recommended under the new
guidelines,  generated  $2.6 billion worldwide in 2012, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The drug works by limiting
cholesterol absorption in the small intestine. Vytorin, a
combination of a statin and Zetia, had global sales of $1.7
billion for the Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based drugmaker.  The goal is to identify people most likely to benefit from
treatment and stop trying to hit arbitrary targets that haven’t
been proven to improve health, said  Neil Stone , professor
medicine at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine
and chairman of the panel that wrote the cholesterol guidelines.
It may be difficult for some doctors and patients to adjust.  Questions Abound  “Millions of people, including doctors, are going to be
scratching their heads,” said  Harlan Krumholz , a cardiologist
at Yale University in New Haven,  Connecticut . “They have been
taught since medical school they are supposed to lower those
patients as much as possible, by whatever method they can.”  Heart disease is the No. 1 killer worldwide, and high
cholesterol levels add to the risk. LDL or bad cholesterol can
form into fatty plaque that builds up in the arteries, blocking
blood flow to the heart, brain and other parts of the body.  More than 600,000 Americans die from heart disease every
year, accounting for 1 in 4 deaths, according to the  U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Strokes occur in
795,000 Americans, and  kill  137,000 annually.  The guidelines identify four groups of patients who may
benefit from moderate to intense treatment with statins:
patients who already have heart disease; all Type 2 diabetics
ages 40 to 75; people with LDL cholesterol of 190 or greater,
which is often genetic; and anyone ages 40 to 75 who has a 7.5
percent or greater  risk  of developing heart disease in the next
decade. Under the new framework, about 31 percent of Americans
may get treatment, an increase from 16 percent previously.  ‘Smarter’ Approach  “With the new equations and the new approach, we are
actually a lot smarter about identifying people who will benefit
from risk reduction therapies,” said  Donald Lloyd-Jones ,
chairman of preventive medicine at Northwestern, who helped lead
the working group for assessing cardiovascular risk.  Treating patients until they hit their goal led to a surge
in demand for drugs like Zetia, and Niaspan and TriLipix from
North Chicago, Illinois-based  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  These medicines aren’t
being recommended because there’s no evidence they help the
heart enough to overcome potential side effects, according to
the guidelines.  The drugs work differently than statins to lower
cholesterol and are often added to get levels to a preset goal.
No studies proved they reduced the risk of death, heart attack
or stroke, and a string of failures suggested some, like niacin,
may cause harm. The writers of the guidelines said the
treatments could be considered for some high-risk patients,
though there was no evidence to suggest they should be used
routinely.  ‘Chasing Targets’  “These drugs are really going to have to prove they
improve outcomes,” Krumholz said in a telephone interview.
“We’re not chasing targets anymore.”  Merck agrees that cholesterol treatment should begin with a
healthy lifestyle and statin therapy, said Pamela Eisele, a
company spokeswoman. Zetia, Vytorin and Liptruzet remain
important options for appropriate patients because of the
additional LDL lowering benefit they provide, she said in a
statement.  The focus on getting patients to a target may have actually
caused harm, Northwestern’s Stone said. Some patients, such as
diabetics, may not have had high enough cholesterol levels to
get statins under the old rules. Others took three or four
different medicines without ever reaching their target levels,
setting them up to feel like failures.  Simpler, Safer  The new guidelines are simpler and safer, said John
Rumsfeld, national director for cardiology at the U.S. Veterans
Health Administration in Denver. The VA, which once paid doctors
to get patients to target levels, has been implementing an
approach that avoids the “unfortunate incentive” to overtreat,
he said in a telephone interview.  “This is more patient-centered,” he said. “It’s about
treating people who are most likely to benefit from taking a
chronic medicine. It reduces patient burden. There is no need
for repeat blood tests and other unproven medications just to
reach an arbitrary numerical target.”  The reduction in blood tests and unnecessary medication has
also cut costs, Rumsfeld said. It also avoids side effects that
stem from taking ever-higher doses of multiple drugs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  