-- City Developments Third-Quarter Profit Falls 10% on Lower Sales
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-11-12T10:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/city-developments-third-quarter-profit-falls-10-on-lower-sales.html
City Developments Ltd. (CIT) ,  Singapore ’s
second-largest developer, said third-quarter profit fell 10
percent on lower sales after the government introduced new
property curbs.  Net income declined to S$120.6 million ($96 million) in the
three months ended Sept. 30, from S$134.5 million a year
earlier, it said in a Singapore exchange statement today. Sales
shrunk 1.2 percent to S$822.7 million.  City Developments joins CapitaLand Ltd. in posting
declining profits as  home prices  in the island-state had the
slowest growth in six quarters in the three months ended Sept.
30 after the government took additional steps to cool prices in
June. The city’s home sales also fell 52 percent in September
from a year ago, signaling that the curbs are working.  “The impacts of the accumulated property cooling measures
are beginning to show its true colors and bite,” the company
said in the statement today.  Developers are beginning to cut prices in existing and new
projects and take lower profit margins, the company said.  “Land prices continue to escalate due to limited  land
bank ,” it said. “The group continues to be selective and
strategic in its land replenishment strategy. It has remained
more conservative in tendering for land this year, preferring to
err on caution.”  City Developments sold 376 residential units of its 380
apartment Lush Acres executive condominium project in the
northeast of the island-state, the developer said today.  D’Nest, a 912-unit condominium located at Pasir Ris Grove
is 93 percent, sold while Bartley Ridge, an 868-unit joint
venture development located at Bartley Road, was 85 percent
sold, the company said  More Curbs  The company’s  shares  rose 0.1 percent to S$10.08 at the
close of trading in Singapore today, before the results were
released. The stock has declined about 21 percent this year,
making it the worst performer on the  Singapore property index .  Record home prices amid low  interest rates  raised concerns
of a housing bubble and prompted the Singapore government to
widen a campaign that started in 2009 to curb speculation in the
 property market . The city unveiled new rules in June governing
how financial institutions grant property loans to individuals,
in addition to previous curbs including new taxes and higher
down-payments.  Last month, CapitaLand,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest developer,
reported third-quarter profit fell 8.7 percent to S$135.5
million from a year earlier on lower gains from investment
property sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  