-- Compounding Pharmacy Bill Clears Senate Procedural Hurdle
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-11-12T23:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/compounding-pharmacy-bill-clears-senate-procedural-hurdle.html
Legislation that would broaden
federal regulation of compounding pharmacies like the one linked
to last year’s meningitis deaths cleared a procedural hurdle in
the  U.S. Senate  and could be on the desk of President  Barack
Obama  within days.  The Senate voted 97-1 to advance H.R. 3204, removing an
obstacle to eventual passage of the measure that would subject
large compounding pharmacies to Food and Drug Administration
oversight. The House has already passed the bill.  “This legislation is truly a matter of life and death,”
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said on the
Senate floor.  The measure would bar large compounding pharmacies from
copying drugs approved by the FDA and marketed by other
pharmaceutical companies.  That provision may help boost sales of drugs made by
 Regeneron Pharmaceutical Inc. (REGN)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , which make
macular degeneration drugs that face competition from medicines
made by compounders, according to an Oct. 2 report by Bloomberg
Government analyst Brian Rye.  In addition, the bill would establish an electronic “track
and trace” system to protect the safety of the nation’s
pharmaceutical supply chain.  Meningitis Outbreak  The compounding-pharmacy language was drafted in response
to a fatal outbreak of  fungal meningitis  that was traced to
contaminated vials of an injectable painkilling steroid. The
outbreak, which killed 64 people and infected more than 750 in
20 states, forced the steroid’s manufacturer, New England
Compounding Pharmacy Inc. in Framingham,  Massachusetts , to
close.  The FDA was criticized for not acting quickly enough to
close New England Compounding Pharmacy; once the outbreak
subsided, the agency asked Congress to clarify its authority
over compounding pharmacies.  The legislation will subject larger companies, known as
“outsourcing facilities,” to FDA oversight if they agree to be
inspected. Supporters said they were counting on market forces
to prod these companies to submit to FDA regulation.  Small compounders that mix ingredients for individual
prescriptions will continue to be regulated by states.  At a Nov. 5 Bloomberg Government conference, FDA
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  called the bill “a step in the
right direction,” adding, “I don’t think it’s going to be as
comprehensive as we had hoped.”  Vitter Amendment  Today’s Senate vote removed a roadblock to passage posed by
an objection from Senator  David Vitter , who tried to force a
vote on an amendment related to the 2010 health-care law.  The Louisiana Republican, who was the only senator to
oppose advancing the bill, is seeking to force lawmakers to
disclose which staff members are identified as working in their
“official office.” Under the law, as of Jan. 1 the only health
insurance those employees can get through the federal government
is through the newly created insurance exchanges in each state.
Congressional staff members not listed as working in the
“official office” can continue to purchase insurance through
the federal employees’ benefits program. The law failed to
define “official office,” and an Obama administration ruling
left that determination up to individual lawmakers.  Vitter had rejected an offer by Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, for a vote on his amendment if he
promised not to try to attach the proposal to other legislation.
Vitter has said he would offer it as an amendment when the
Senate debates the $625 billion defense authorization bill, S.
1197, possibly as early as tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  