-- Congress Approval Sinks to Record Low 9 Percent in Survey
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-11-13T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/congress-approval-sinks-to-record-low-9-percent-in-survey.html
Congress’s job-approval rating fell
to a 39-year low as a result of the budget standoff that closed
the federal government for 16 days, underscoring the hurdle
lawmakers face in next year’s re-election races.  The 9 percent approval in a Nov. 7-10 survey eclipsed the
previous low of 10 percent, registered twice last year,
according to a Gallup  poll  released yesterday.  “Incumbents have to watch everything in this political
environment,” said Guy Harrison, a former executive director of
the  National Republican Congressional Committee . “You’re in an
environment where if you get a cut, it can turn septic very
quickly.”  Senate Democrats and  House Republicans  are trying to
protect their narrow majorities next year, while quelling intra-party turmoil. Several Senate Democrats seeking re-election in
states that President  Barack Obama  lost in 2012 are pushing for
revisions to his signature Affordable Care Act. Business
interests, such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the
limited-government  Tea Party  movement are battling for the
future of the  Republican Party  in several primary races.  The public dissatisfaction has clipped Obama, too. A  poll 
from  Quinnipiac University  released yesterday shows U.S. voters
disapproved of his performance, 54 percent to 39 percent.  Obama’s slide in the poll follows the troubled rollout of
his health-care law and the president’s  apology  over some
individuals seeing their insurance plans canceled after he had
promised they could keep them.  Across Groups  Voters in every income and age group disapproved of Obama’s
job, as did men, women and Hispanics. Obama, the nation’s first
black president, maintained a positive approval rating among
black voters, according to the Quinnipiac poll.  The Quinnipiac poll included telephone interviews with
2,545 registered voters nationwide from Nov. 6-11. It has a
margin of error of 1.9 percentage points.  Flaws with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,
known as Obamacare, may also be hurting Congress. Approval of
Congress was 11 percent in October during the partial government
shutdown, according to Gallup. Confidence then slipped as
lawmakers and the administration reached a deal to end the
stalemate, and attention shifted to health care.  “I’m surprised it’s 9 percent,” said Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, suggesting support should be
lower. “I guess that’s our family or something.”  The poll showed 9 percent of Republicans, 8 percent of
independents and 10 percent of Democrats approved of Congress’s
job.  Congressional ‘Mess’  “Spot on,” Senator Jeff Flake, an  Arizona  Republican,
said in an interview at the Capitol. “I don’t know how they’d
have any other opinion given the mess that’s going on. We have
to do better.”  In the Senate, Republicans are seeking to pick up six seats
in congressional elections next year to regain the majority,
which they lost in 2006. House Democrats are trying to capture
the majority they lost in 2010. Republicans have 231 members in
the House, compared with 200 for Democrats.  The Gallup poll included telephone interviews with 1,039
adults. It has a margin of error of 4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  