-- Congo Government Refuses to Sign Peace Deal With M23 Rebels
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-11-12T14:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/congo-s-government-refuses-to-sign-peace-accord-with-m23-rebels.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
government said it refuses to sign a peace accord with the M23
rebel group and will only agree to a document that sets out the
fighters’ reintegration into society or their prosecution.  A ceremony at Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni ’s residence
at Entebbe was abandoned yesterday after the Congolese
government delegation refused to enter the room where the peace
agreement was to be signed, according to the Ugandan presidency.
Uganda mediated talks that began in December to end the conflict
between M23 and the army in eastern Congo.  Congo won’t sign a document titled “peace accord” because
the rebel group no longer exists after its forces were defeated
last week, Congolese Media Minister  Lambert Mende  said in an
interview today from Kinshasa, the capital. The government wants
a document that discusses “their reinsertion into society or
the way in which they will face justice.”  M23 ended its 20-month rebellion in eastern Congo on Nov. 5
after Congo’s army seized key positions, including the rebel
stronghold of Bunagana, with support from a new United Nations
intervention brigade. Dozens of Congolese and foreign armed
groups operate in the region, which is rich in tin ore, gold and
coltan, an ore used in smartphones and laptops.  Mende accused Uganda, as facilitator of the talks with M23,
of “causing the Congolese government some difficulties.”
Museveni is “behaving like a party in the conflict,” he said,
without elaborating.  ‘Long Time’  Uganda ’s presidency said yesterday’s ceremony was called
off after Congo’s government “took quite a long time” studying
the draft accord. M23 leader Bertrand Bisimwa and Congolese
Foreign Minister Raymond Tshibanda were at State House
yesterday, along with diplomats from the U.S., U.K.,  France ,
 Norway  and  Belgium  and officials from the UN and African Union.  “The understanding is that both delegations will be in
contact with the facilitator, Uganda’s Defence Minister Crispus Kiyonga and the observers, and if and when they are ready to
move forward, the facilitator will give a new date for the
signing ceremony,” the presidency said in an e-mailed statement
today.  There were no differences between the government and rebels
on the substance of the accord, only disagreement on the
document’s format, according to a joint statement from
representatives of the UN, U.S., European Union and  African
Union  monitoring the peace talks.  Political Conclusion  “Despite a change in the military situation, it is
important that there be a political conclusion to the
dialogue,” according to the statement e-mailed today.  The government’s demand to change the title of the document
was “inadmissible” because debate on the agreement had
finished, M23 said in an e-mailed statement today. The text
“had already been approved by the two delegations in the
presence of the special envoys since Nov. 4,” it said.  M23 rebels began deserting Congo’s army in March 2012,
after accusing the government of failing to respect a 2009 peace
agreement under which they were integrated into the armed
forces. The fighters seized the eastern trading hub of Goma for
11 days last November before withdrawing under international
pressure to begin peace talks.  The M23 was the most recent incarnation of a series of
rebellions backed by  Rwanda , according to Congo’s government.
Rwanda denies supporting the insurgents, who, like Rwanda’s
government, are mainly led by ethnic-Tutsis.  Congo’s government now plans to target the Democratic
Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, or FDLR, a group of mainly
ethnic-Hutu rebels that opposes the Rwandan government. Rwanda
says some FDLR members were involved in the 1994 genocide, in
which an estimated 800,000 people died. The eradication of the
FDLR was one of M23’s main demands.  The group also sought the return of tens of thousands of
Congolese Tutsi refugees who’ve been living in camps in Rwanda
for more than a decade. Other demands included more protection
for minority groups, decentralization of political power to the
provinces, and an economic development program for the east.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Lubumbashi at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  