-- Cooper Seeks Apollo Buyout Ruling in Appeal by Dec. 31
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-11-12T23:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/cooper-seeks-apollo-buyout-ruling-in-appeal-by-dec-31.html
Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. asked the
 Delaware  Supreme Court to rule on its delayed $35-a-share
takeover by  Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY)  by Dec. 31.  A judge ruled Nov. 8 that all the contract conditions
hadn’t been met, and that Cooper wasn’t yet entitled to force
Apollo to complete the $2.5 billion buyout. Cooper today
appealed to Delaware’s highest court seeking an expedited
hearing.  If the ruling that Apollo hasn’t materially breached the
parties’ agreement is allowed to stand, “Apollo will likely
seek to terminate its merger,” Cooper lawyers said in the
filing.  Unless the ruling by Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock III is reversed, “it threatens not just this
$2.5 billion merger, and the expectation interests of Cooper’s
shareholders, but the broader corporate community’s settled
expectations regarding the requirement to use ‘reasonable best
efforts’ to consummate a merger,” the company’s lawyers added.  Talks to complete the largest acquisition by an Indian
company in North America soured in October amid opposition from
U.S. and Chinese workers. Apollo, based in Gurgaon,  India ,
sought to cut its price, citing the labor issues. Findlay, Ohio-based Cooper sued Oct. 4 alleging Apollo officials were
suffering from buyer’s remorse and intentionally delaying the
transaction’s completion.  China Unit  Glasscock concluded last week that Apollo wasn’t dragging
its feet in negotiating with U.S. steelworkers and that means
the Indian company hadn’t violated the merger agreement as
Cooper alleged.  The judge left undecided whether problems at the company’s
China unit, which left the tiremaker unable to provide some
financial information to Apollo, allowed the Indian company to
walk away from the deal. Glasscock allowed Cooper officials to
appeal his ruling on the steelworkers’ talks to the Delaware
Supreme Court.  Glasscock’s ruling “misconstrues the contract between
Cooper and Apollo,” Cooper said in an e-mailed statement. The
fourth-largest U.S. tiremaker said it will continue to seek to
complete “the transaction that both parties agreed to.”  Apollo executives countered that Cooper’s push to appeal
Glasscock’s ruling showed the tiremaker is avoiding
responsibility for the situation at its Chinese unit, where
workers have stopped making Cooper-brand tires and are barring
the parent company’s officials from entering the facilities.  Financial Results  Cooper officials have acknowledged that because Chinese
managers are no longer putting financial information on the
company’s computer system, Cooper may have difficulty providing
consolidated third-quarter financial results.  “We do not agree with Cooper that its lack of control over
its largest subsidiary was caused by the proposed merger,”
Apollo officials said in an e-mailed statement. The company said
it looks forward to “seeing Cooper’s updated financials when
available.”  Cooper shares fell 1 percent to $24.07 in  New York  trading.
Apollo fell 5.8 percent to 70.20 rupees in Mumbai.  The case is  Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)  v. Apollo (Mauritius)
Holdings Pvt, CA8980, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  