-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; Goldman Sachs Sells Five-Year Notes
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-11-12T21:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/corporate-swaps-in-u-s-rise-goldman-sachs-plans-benchmark-sale.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose as signs of an improving economy fueled speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus sooner than estimated.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  sold $1 billion of floating-rate bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.5 basis points from Nov. 8 to 73.3 basis points as of 4:24
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Bond markets were closed yesterday in the U.S. for the Veterans
Day holiday.  Treasury yields have climbed to an eight-week high since
the Labor Department’s better-than-forecast jobs report last
week stoked speculation that the central bank would accelerate
its timetable for slowing the pace of its $85 billion in monthly
purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds. The central bank’s
program is becoming riskier by the day, Dallas Fed President
 Richard Fisher  said in a speech in  Australia .  “Given the sell-off in Treasuries that started on Friday
and has continued to some extent today, the markets are a little
on edge on when tapering will take place,” Marc Pinto, the head
of corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna International Group
LLP, said in a telephone interview from New York.  The swaps index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘Tipping Point’  American employers added 204,000 workers in October,
topping the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg poll of
economists, Labor Department figures showed on Nov. 8. The
median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a gain of 120,000 jobs, with estimates ranging from
increases of 50,000 to 175,000.  The U.S. 10-year  yield  climbed 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.77 percent as of 4:24 p.m. in New York
from the close on Nov. 8.  The Fed will start cutting its bond buying in March,
according to the median estimate of 32 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey conducted Nov. 8.  “There’s a tipping point where monetary accommodation
comes to be viewed not as the pleasant stimulus that levitates
bond and stock and housing markets all over the world,” Fisher
said today at an event in  Melbourne . “None of us really know
where that tipping point is.”  Goldman Bonds  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, sold
the five-year, senior unsecured notes to yield 110 basis points
more than the three-month London interbank offered rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt is expected to
be rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 6.1 basis points from Nov. 8 to 356.7 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries increased 1.4 basis points to 129.2
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 5.5 basis points to 540.6.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  