-- DBS Sells Remaining Philippine Bank Stake for $681 Million
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-11-12T06:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/dbs-sells-philippine-bank-stake-for-681-million-to-gic-ayala.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast
Asia’s largest lender, agreed to sell its remaining stake in
 Bank of the Philippine Islands  for S$850 million ($681 million)
to focus on key markets including Singapore and Hong Kong.  The transaction, to be completed in two phases ending in
March, will generate a gain of about S$447 million over the
carrying value, DBS said in a statement yesterday. The 9.9
percent stake will be acquired by GIC Pte, Singapore’s sovereign
wealth fund, and  Ayala Corp. (AC) , the Philippine company that is
already BPI’s biggest stakeholder. The divestment is DBS’s
largest to date, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  DBS began exiting its 14-year investment in BPI, the
largest lender by market value in the  Philippines , in October
2012 as Chief Executive Officer Piyush Gupta sought to bolster
capital buffers. Growth in the Philippine economy, which has
expanded by more than 7 percent for four quarters, may slow in
the remainder of this year after Typhoon Haiyan devastated some
provinces.  “In the last two years, the Philippines became a very hot
market,” Kenneth Ng, a Singapore-based analyst at CIMB-GK
Securities Pte, said by telephone. “One of the reasons why they
sold was that the rising Philippine market gave them the
opportunity to do so.”  The benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  has rallied
46 percent in the past two years as improved economic propects
helped the nation win its first investment-grade debt ratings.  ‘Growth Driver’  Shares of  BPI (BPI)  rose 0.1 percent to 90.60 pesos as of 2:21
p.m. Manila time, halting three days of declines. The stock has
gained 6 percent in the past year. Ayala fell 2.8 percent to 560
pesos, while DBS gained 0.2 percent to S$16.97.  GIC will buy 5.6 percent of the Philippine bank and Ayala
will purchase 4.3 percent, lifting its stake to 48.3 percent,
Ayala said in a statement today.  “This acquisition is both a value and earnings accretive
investment for Ayala,” Ayala President and Chief Operating
Officer Fernando Zobel de Ayala said in the statement. “BPI has
been a significant growth driver for Ayala over the years and we
believe its earnings growth momentum will continue in step with
the expansion of the Philippine economy.”  The nation’s  gross domestic product  rose 7.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, matching  China ’s pace and
higher than the government target at the time of 6 percent to 7
percent for the year. GDP growth this year may be as much as
half a percentage point lower than a previous estimate of 7.3
percent to 7.5 percent following Typhoon Haiyan, according to
Jun Trinidad, a Manila-based economist at Citigroup Inc.  State Investments  The acquisition adds to GIC’s holdings of financial assets,
which, including real estate, make up the biggest share of its
listed holdings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
sovereign wealth fund owns a 3.7 percent stake in  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , valued at $5.6 billion.  GIC also owns 6.4 percent of UBS AG, an investment worth
about $4.47 billion. The  Singapore  fund has a 0.4 percent stake
in HSBC Holdings Plc and a 0.4 percent stake in Barclays Plc.  DBS’s sale of its BPI shares follows its divestment in
October last year of a 10.4 percent holding in the Philippine
lender to Ayala for S$757.3 million. The bank booked a gain of
S$450 million from that sale in the fourth quarter of 2012,
according to a statement on Feb. 6, when DBS reported its
fourth-quarter earnings.  Main Markets  The Singaporean lender held 20.3 percent of the Philippine
bank prior to the 2012 sale. It acquired a  19.7 percent  stake
for about S$1.2 billion from “several investors” in 1999, a
purchase that followed the 1997 Asian financial crisis. The
Philippine benchmark stock  index  fell 41 percent that year.  DBS, which has been trying to increase the share of its
earnings from overseas markets, will focus on its core markets
of Singapore, Hong Kong, China,  Taiwan ,  India  and  Indonesia , it
said in yesterday’s statement.  Standard Chartered Plc, the U.K. bank that makes three-quarters of its earnings in Asia, will review its business to
cut back or withdraw from less-profitable markets, Chief
Executive Officer Peter Sands said in  London  yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  