-- MDC Partners Soars Selling Burgers on Facebook
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-11-12T21:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/mdc-partners-soars-selling-burgers-on-facebook.html
 MDC Partners Inc., the New York
advertising holding company run by Canadian Miles Nadal, has
soared 240 percent in the past year by helping clients like
Burger King sell more hamburgers using Facebook and other social
media.  “We’re always trying new things to improve the
effectiveness of the advertising we do,” Nadal, chief executive
officer of MDC, said in a phone interview from Toronto. “That
is a competitive advantage, being aggressive in new
technologies.”  MDC’s focus on digital media is paying off as advertising
revenue climbs at companies such as Facebook Inc. and  Twitter
Inc. (TWTR)  Facebook, the world’s biggest social network, reported Oct.
30 revenue rose 60 percent to $2.02 billion in the third
quarter. The social-media advertising market is projected to
surge to $11 billion in the U.S. by 2017 from $4.7 billion last
year, according to researcher BIA/Kelsey.  In the 2009 campaign for Burger King Worldwide Inc., one of
MDC’s advertising agencies asked people to delete 10 friends
from their Facebook pages in exchange for a free hamburger.
After customers deleted more than 233,000 friends in 10 days,
Facebook asked Burger King to shut the ad down, according to a
video from Miami-based agency Crispin Porter & Bogusky, the MDC
unit that created the campaign.  Elisabeth Diana, a Facebook spokeswoman, declined to
comment yesterday and phone calls to representatives of Burger
King weren’t returned.  Buy American  “These are guys that really get it,” said Rich Tullo,
director of research with Albert Fried & Co. LLC in New York.
Nadal “realized the print business would be obsolete.  It’s
acquiring critical businesses that integrate well with the
collective they have.”  Nadal’s past ventures included Canadian money manager First
Asset Management Inc., which was  sold  to Affiliated Managers
Group Inc. in 2005, as well as Peerage Capital Inc., a private
equity firm, and Peerage Realty Partners, which operates in the
residential real estate industry. Nadal owns about 20 percent of
MDC, which has a market value of C$1.05 billion ($990 million),
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Nadal, 55, attributes his success with MDC to a “10-year
bet on America,” made during the financial crisis in 2008
similar to the “Buy American” strategy advocated by investor
 Warren Buffett . MDC spent C$341.7 million from 2010 to 2012
buying stakes in more than a dozen advertising agencies, company
filings  show .  Alexandra Delanghe Ewing, a spokeswoman with MDC, said the
company owns more than 50 firms, including sub-brands within
some agencies.  U.S. Focus  MDC is the ninth-largest agency holding company in the
world, Daniel Salmon, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets, said
in a Oct. 29 note.  MDC generates about 85 percent of its business in the U.S.,
where it has about 2.5 percent market share, Nadal said. It’s
“realistic” to push that to about 5 percent in the next five
years, he said.  MDC rose 1.1 percent to C$33.42 at 4 p.m. in Toronto today
after saying it will add $100 million to an offering of senior
notes due in 2020. The company will use the cash raised for
general corporate purposes. The company climbed to a record
C$33.97 on Oct. 29, a day after reporting record results in its
third quarter. The company also boosted 2013 full-year guidance,
announced a three-for-two stock split and raised its dividend 41
percent.  Nadal’s company posted third-quarter  earnings  before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $39.4 million,
ahead of analysts’ forecasts for $38.1 million, data show. In a
statement, MDC revised its guidance for 2013 Ebitda to $158
million to $160 million, from $152 million to $157 million.  Run Course  Gains in advertising firms such as MDC may have run their
course, said Philip Petursson, director of institutional
equities with Manulife Asset Management Ltd. in a phone
interview from Toronto.  “The risk is the big moves in these stocks have happened
already,” Petursson said on Nov. 7. He doesn’t own any MDC
shares.  A big part of MDC’s future business will be in mobile,
Nadal said.  “How you deliver messages and the message itself go hand-in-hand,” Nadal said. “We’ve been on the leading edge of
really innovative marketing activities through both the
technology and distribution channels, in addition to the
creativity itself.”  Mobile Twitter  About three-fourths of Twitter’s more than 231.7 million
monthly active users accessed the microblogging website via
mobile devices in the three months ended in September, compared
with 69 percent in the year-earlier period, according to the San
Francisco-based company’s  filings . Twitter’s stock soared 73
percent in its trading debut on Nov. 7 for the biggest one-day
increase for an initial offering of more than $1 billion since
2007.  By contrast, “advertising continues to present challenges
for newspapers,” said Geetha Ranganathan, a media analyst with
Bloomberg Industries, in a Nov. 5 report. Advertising revenue
among local newspaper publishers including New York Times Co.,
McClatchy Co. and Gannett Co. U.S. has declined for eight
straight years.  MDC’s roster of ad agencies includes New York-based
Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal + Partners, which created a 2012 ad for
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
premium cars, which attracted almost 409,000 viewers on YouTube.  KBS+ used digital cameras and projection screens to
replace, in real-time, all the cars on a busy New York street
with BMW’s concept electric cars.  The best years are still ahead for MDC, Nadal said.  “We’re just hitting our stride,” he said. “I don’t think
you’ll see our stock triple next year, but we have a three-year
plan and we could see our stock increase 75 percent to 100
percent,” Nadal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  