-- Detroit Mayor-Elect Duggan Sees Key Role Amid Bankruptcy
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/detroit-mayor-elect-duggan-sees-key-role-amid-bankruptcy.html
Detroit  Mayor-elect Mike Duggan
rescued a county, a bus system and a 14,000-worker hospital
network, served as a prosecutor, plotted Democratic campaigns
and coached his four children’s soccer teams.  Now, Duggan, 55, is back-seat driver of a city under state
control and seeking to become the largest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy. He wants to take the wheel sooner rather than later.  “The only authority I’m going to have is the authority I
can convince the governor and emergency manager to assign me,”
Duggan, a Democrat, said last week by telephone. “I’m
attempting to persuade them. We’ll see.”  With plans to combat blight, crime and population losses,
Duggan must remake a dysfunctional government that’s in the
hands of Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr, a former classmate at the
University of Michigan law school. Orr can be ousted by
Detroit’s City Council -- with the mayor’s approval -- as early
as September 2014, though Duggan said he hopes to manage
operations well enough to take control even sooner.  Duggan will be sworn in Jan. 1 with the city under the
cloud of more than $18 billion of obligations, understaffed
police and fire departments and a cityscape scarred by blight
and more than 70,000 vacant buildings. The home of  General
Motors Co. (GM)  had 1.8 million residents in the 1950s, a figure that
has dwindled to 700,000 scattered across 139 square miles (360
square kilometers).  Transformative Figure  Duggan brings energy and experience, and Orr should let him
improve city operations, said Doug Rothwell, president of
Business Leaders for Michigan, an organization of executives.  “We’ll see more change than we’ve seen, with Mike there,”
Rothwell said. “For the first time, it feels like maybe this
really is turning the corner.”  Duggan was elected mayor Nov. 5 in a nonpartisan race to
succeed Dave Bing, a Democrat, and will become Detroit’s first
white leader in 40 years -- a label that he says irks him. He
beat Wayne County Sheriff Benny Napoleon, who labeled Duggan an
outsider who moved to Detroit in 2012 from suburban Livonia
solely to run. Duggan won with 55 percent of the vote.  More white suburbanites than black Detroiters expressed
doubts he could be elected in a community that’s 83 percent
African-American, Duggan said.  “People in the city are tired of living in the dark,
they’re tired of living in fear because police don’t come,”
Duggan said. “They’re tired of living in blight because the
city can’t get rid of abandoned houses.”  “Most people think I can do something about those
things.”  Local Operator  Private by nature, Duggan brings corporate and political
savvy to an office that’s been wracked by racial discord,
scandal and ensnared by city bureaucracies. He’s been managing
facets of the area’s affairs since 1987.  Duggan’s support was evident in the August primary, when he
was forced to run as a write-in candidate because he didn’t meet
residency requirements. He still beat all other candidates by
more than 20,000 votes.  He was backed by business leaders in and out of Detroit,
and the $1.7 million his campaign raised was more than twice
what Sheriff Napoleon took in. His election-night victory
celebration drew a racially mixed crowd of hundreds, entertained
by a 16-piece band.  Duggan said he attended 250 house parties in Detroit during
the campaign. Though a recently returned resident, he has spent
his entire career in  Michigan ’s largest city, which lost a
quarter of its population from 2000 to 2010.  Moving Out  He lived in the Motor City until age 5, when his family
moved to Livonia, a mostly white suburb with a median household
income of $69,887, compared with Detroit’s $27,862, according to
the 2010 U.S. Census. Duggan said his first taste of politics
was at age 7 handing out fliers for his father’s campaign to
become a local judge. His father, Patrick Duggan, a U.S.
district judge in Detroit, was appointed to that job by
President Ronald Reagan.  Mike Duggan first worked in Detroit at a law firm in 1981,
and went on to work for the Wayne County prosecutor.  He was right-hand man to County Executive Ed McNamara,
riding herd on a political apparatus that eliminated a $130
million deficit, built a $1 billion airport terminal and helped
craft deals for two professional sports stadiums in Detroit.
McNamara was Livonia mayor when Duggan managed his election
campaign for county executive in 1986. McNamara took office the
next year and Duggan became his chief deputy at 29.  Civic Institutions  He swiftly became influential. In the 1990s, he stepped in
as general manager to turn around a regional bus system that had
a $12 million budget deficit and was cutting services.  An authority Duggan led built and financed Comerica Park,
home of Major League Baseball’s Detroit Tigers. The agency also
developed Ford Field to house the National Football League’s
Detroit Lions.  Duggan was elected Wayne County prosecutor in 2000, a post
he held before becoming chief executive officer of the Detroit
Medical Center in 2004.  He said he transformed the eight-hospital nonprofit health-care provider from a money-loser into a cash-generating,
customer-friendly system that Nashville, Tennessee-based
Vanguard Health Systems bought for more than $365 million in
2010. Tenet Healthcare Corp. acquired Vanguard last month.  The hospital network serves a city where 36 percent of
residents live below the federal poverty level, and is Detroit’s
largest employer, Duggan said. The statewide poverty rate is
about 16 percent, Census figures show. As the hospital’s CEO, he
guaranteed emergency-room waits of 29 minutes or less or
patients would receive free tickets to Tigers games.  Everyone Knows  “We treat 300,000 patients a year in the emergency room,”
Duggan said. “In a city of 700,000, virtually everyone has a
first-hand opinion of how the DMC operated before I got there.
They remember when the average wait in the emergency room was
three hours.”  Duggan is a tenacious, impatient, shrewd manager who can
build coalitions and instill loyalty, said former Michigan
Governor Jennifer Granholm, a Democrat.  “Mike won’t take no for an answer,” Granholm said by
telephone from  California , where she teaches law and public
policy at the University of California at Berkeley. “He’s
determined. He’s going to make things happen.”  Granholm owes her political ascent in part to Duggan, who
provided the strategy for her 1998 election as attorney general.
Four years later, Granholm became the first woman to win the
governor’s office.  She said Duggan had a reputation as a pugnacious manager,
though he has a whimsical side. Duggan’s dog won a local
“stupid pet tricks” contest in 1986 by retrieving beer from a
refrigerator.  Rethought City  Before moving back to Detroit, Duggan and his wife of 27
years, Lori Maher, lived in the same four-bedroom Livonia house
for 18 years. Duggan said his 2010 Ford Taurus turned 150,000
miles (241,000 kilometers) last week, and acknowledged getting
10 speeding tickets in the past five years.  “The car moves pretty good,” he said.  Among his goals: A city-run auto insurer to bring down
rates that he says drive people out. He also wants to attract
residents from less-populated areas to more robust
neighborhoods, and make seizing abandoned buildings easier.  Duggan told reporters this is the last elected job he’ll
hold, dismissing speculation that he’ll run for governor
someday. He said his election accomplished something an
emergency manager can’t.  “The politics of racial divisiveness in Detroit is
probably over,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  