-- Deutsche Post Profit Misses Estimates on Euro’s Increase
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-11-12T11:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/deutsche-post-misses-estimates-as-currency-effects-slow-growth.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s third-quarter
profit rose as Europe’s largest postal company focused on
expanding its express-package and cargo businesses.  Earnings before interest and taxes rose 7 percent to 646
million euros ($865 million), the Bonn-based company said today.
That compares with the average analyst estimate of 649.6 million
euros  compiled  by Bloomberg News. Sales fell 2.5 percent to 13.5
billion euros, while analysts had expected 14.2 billion euros.
Without currency swings, sales would have grown 3.4 percent, the
company said.  Deutsche Post reported profit growth at the express
subsidiary that was more than double the gain at the letter-delivery division, where Chief Executive Officer Frank Appel has
sought to stabilize earnings and avoid most of the effects of
recessions in Europe that have left freight companies struggling
to maintain earnings.  “It will be a tough ride until the end of the year,”Appel said in a video posted on the company’s website. “We have
the right measures in place, but nevertheless, since we don’t
expect any upside from the economy, it will be challenging.”  Deutsche Post rose 2.8 percent to 25.5 euros at 12:26 p.m.
in  Frankfurt . That brings the gain for the year to 52 percent,
the third-best performance on the 26-stock Bloomberg Europe
Transportation Index, valuing the company at 30.5 billion euros.  The euro is the best performer among a basket of 10
developed-market currencies this year, meaning sales outside the
region are lower when converted into the currency.  Parcel Operations  Third-quarter Ebit at the letter-delivery division rose 6.1
percent to 261 million euros, Deutsche Post said. Ebit at the
express unit rose 14 percent. Profit at the supply-chain
business fell 9.1 percent, while rising 4.1 percent at the
global forwarding and freight businesses.  Parcel volume in  Germany  rose 8.7 percent to 238 million
units. To expand parcels operations abroad, the company will
move the respective businesses in  Belgium , the Netherlands,
Luxembourg, the Czech Republic and  Poland  from the express into
the mail unit.  Deutsche Post profit by 2015 will amount to 3.35 billion
euros to 3.55 billion euros, the company reiterated. Analysts
expect the measure to climb to 3.52 billion euros then,
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. This year, profit will
amount to as much as 3 billion euros, the company reiterated.  Europe Tough  The express-package, freight-handling and forwarding
operations that use the DHL brand posted a third-quarter sales
decline of 4.8 percent in the Americas and 1.8 percent in the
Asia-Pacific region.  Time-definite express shipments handled daily rose by an
average 8 percent, while advancing 9.9 percent in the Asia
Pacific region and 10.4 percent in the Middle East and  Africa ,
the Bonn-based company said. Air freight volumes declined 5.3
percent and ocean freight slid 2.4 percent. Global freight and
forwarding revenue fell 7.6 percent.  Clients continue to switch some shipments from air to
cheaper sea routes, while the company suffered from weak demand
by multinational customers in the engineering, manufacturing and
technology industries.  Appel said he was “carefully optimistic” for the
Christmas season, in which daily parcel shipments may climb to
as many as 8 million pieces per day. The executive said the
company’s board will soon decide on potentially raising prices
after winning leeway from regulators  Deutsche Post today lowered its  forecast  for capital
expenditures by 100 million euros to 1.7 billion euros this
year. Appel said there was no change in investment policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  