-- Deutsche Wohnen Profit Increases 65% on Apartment Purchases
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-11-12T11:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/deutsche-wohnen-increases-earnings-after-acquiring-apartments.html
Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) , Germany’s
second-largest residential landlord by market value, said nine-month profit rose 65 percent after the company earned more rent
from newly acquired properties.  Funds from operations excluding divestments, a measure of a
property company’s ability to generate cash, climbed to 86.3
million euros ($116 million) from 52.4 million euros a year
earlier, Deutsche Wohnen said in a statement today. The Berlin-based company repeated an FFO forecast of 110 million euros for
this year.  Deutsche Wohnen owns about 90,000 apartments in German
cities including Berlin and  Frankfurt , after almost doubling its
holdings in the past two years. The company is on track to
complete the acquisition of competitor  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  this
year, raising its portfolio to 150,000 apartments and making it
 Germany ’s second-largest apartment owner after Deutsche
Annington Immobilien SE.  “We are on the home straight and assume that we will be
able to close the transaction at the beginning of December --
much earlier than we expected,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Zahn said in the statement.  Cost Savings  Deutsche Wohnen doesn’t plan any other major acquisitions
in the next two years while it focuses on integrating GSW, Zahn
said on a call with reporters today. Adding GSW will generate
annual cost savings of about 25 million euros starting in about
two years.  The company has been buying apartments to take advantage of
rising German rents and its ability to raise capital on the
stock market at favorable terms.  Deutsche Wohnen didn’t report FFO for the third quarter.
 Net income  for the three months through September increased to
16.3 million euros, or 10 cents a share, from 13.8 million
euros, or 7 cents, a year earlier. Profit from Deutsche Wohnen’s
main business of renting apartments climbed to about 69 million
euros from 48.8 million euros.  The company plans to pay a 2013  dividend  of 50 percent of
FFO, and a 2014 dividend of about 60 percent of FFO, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  