-- Developers Double Sales as Xi Allows Property Boom: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-12T03:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/developers-double-sales-as-xi-allows-property-boom-china-credit.html
Chinese developers’ sales of dollar
bonds more than doubled this year, reflecting confidence the
government will tolerate a sustained property boom as home
prices climb at the fastest pace since January 2011.  The companies sold $17.88 billion of the notes as of Oct.
20, up from about $8 billion for the whole of 2012, according to
a report by Moody’s Investors Service. The average yield on
Chinese issuers’ dollar debt was 4.42 percent in 2013, less than
the 5.51 percent in the previous five years, the HSBC Asian US
Dollar Bond Index shows. That compares with an average of 6.03
percent for yuan-denominated corporate bonds included in the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch  China  Corporate Index.  Billionaire Hui Ka Yan’sEvergrande Real Estate Group Ltd.,
China’s biggest homebuilder by sales, was among issuers this
month as the Federal Reserve considers cutting stimulus that
drove down U.S. borrowing costs. Appetite is being backed by
Moody’s rating upgrades and data showing housing prices in the
four biggest cities climbed by at least 16 percent in September.
President Xi Jinping refrained from criticizing the rally in
Oct. 29 comments on housing policy before a four-day Communist
Party leadership meeting which ends today.  “Going into November and December, we expect fundraising
activities by rated developers to continue,” Kaven Tsang, a
Hong Kong-based senior analyst at Moody’s, said in a Nov. 6
phone interview. “Contracted sales improved, as reflected in
their interim results, so bond investors have become more
interested.”  Sales Jump  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the nation’s biggest listed developer by
market value, said in a Nov. 4 filing that sales in the first 10
months of this year totaled 145.85 billion  yuan  ($24 billion),
exceeding its 2012 full-year revenue of 141.2 billion yuan.
 Evergrande (3333) ’s contract sales in the January-October period
climbed 25 percent to 91.3 billion yuan.  Evergrande, rated B1 by Moody’s, issued $500 million of
bonds at 8.75 percent due 2018 on Nov. 6 to refinance existing
debt, after selling $1 billion of five-year securities at the
same rate on Oct. 30.  Greenland Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (337)  last
month sold $700 million of notes due 2016 at 4.75 percent to
refinance current borrowings and fund projects.  Greenland was one of seven property firms which received an
upgrade from Moody’s this year. That compares with four in 2012
and is the most since at least 2008.  Cheaper Rates  China has restricted developers from issuing domestic bonds
since 2010 as part of efforts to curb property price gains,
while the central bank reported a measure of new onshore credit
yesterday that fell short of estimates. At least $21 billion of
notes and loans are estimated to mature before the end of 2014,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s difficult to get government approval for selling
local bonds, except for affordable home projects,” said Dai Fang, a property analyst at Zheshang Securities Co. in  Shanghai .
The cost of issuing dollar bonds is also often cheaper than yuan
loans, he added.  A gauge of investments in China’s residential property
development and land purchases rose 18.9 percent in the first 10
months of 2013 to 4.72 trillion yuan, according to data from the
statistics bureau, from 10.8 percent growth a year earlier.
Residential land supply in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and
Shenzhen have been either close to or exceeded the five-year
average in the first three quarters of 2013, according to a
 statement  on the Ministry of Land and Resources website.  Vanke bought 3.4 million square meters (37 million square
feet) of land in the first half of 2013, almost five times the
amount it purchased a year earlier, according to company
filings. The average cost of land for new projects jumped 23
percent.  Party Plenum  “It’s a good time to buy land,” said Dai at Zheshang.
“If policies coming from the third Communist Party plenum are
positive to the property market, then they’ve got the land
reserves at hand. If it’s the opposite, then they’ve improved
their financial status.”  The Plenary Session will usher in “unprecedented”
economic reforms, Yu Zhengsheng, who ranks fourth in the seven-member Politburo Standing Committee, said last month. The
official Xinhua News Agency said Nov. 4 the meeting would be a
watershed as drastic economic policies will be unveiled,
including giving more scope to market forces.  President Xi, in a study session of the decision-making
Politburo in October, talked about a system under which the
government would cover basic social housing while “multiple
levels” of other accommodation needs are met mainly by the
market. The remarks, which had no mention of curbing home
prices, sent developers’ stocks soaring by the most in more than
a month.  Two Tiers  “The government has a clear mindset about a ‘two-tier’
property market - private and public, with social housing having
priority but with a growing segment being more market-oriented
and supply-focused,” Oscar Choi and Marco Sze, analysts with
Citigroup Inc., wrote in a Nov. 5 report. “Investor sentiment
should improve on continuing evidence that the government is
committed to a stable property sector as a key plank in its
growth-driven policy reforms.”  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.8 percent in the
three months through September, after a two-quarter slowdown, as
Premier Li Keqiang looks to restructure the economy to cut its
dependence on exports. The yield on  10-year sovereign bonds 
climbed 41 basis points since the end of September to 4.41
percent yesterday, the highest since 2008. The rate on similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries rose 14 basis points to 2.75 percent.
The yuan, which has gained 2.3 percent this year, was little
changed at 6.0918 per dollar in Shanghai today.  New Credit  China’s broadest measure of new credit fell by more than
estimated in October, suggesting authorities are trying to keep
shadow-finance risks in check. Aggregate financing was 856.4
billion yuan, the People’s Bank of China said yesterday in
Beijing, below all nine projections in a Bloomberg News survey.
New local-currency loans of 506.1 billion yuan compared with the
580 billion yuan median estimate of analysts. M2, the broadest
measure of money supply, rose 14.3 percent from a year earlier.  New home prices excluding government-sponsored social
housing jumped 21 percent in Beijing in September from a year
earlier, as the national government refrained from introducing
more property curbs that would hinder economic growth. The
Chinese capital raised down payments for second homes to 70
percent in March, while Shanghai did the same this month.  “If there’re any policies at the plenum, it’s more likely
to be on the supply side, such as increasing new home
supplies,” said Moody’s Tsang. “This is positive, looking at
the long-term developments, as it will help control the current
surge.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  