-- Dhanin’s CP Pledges 880.2 Million Ping An Shares to UBS
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-12T16:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/dhanin-s-cp-pledges-880-2-million-ping-an-shares-to-ubs.html
Charoen Pokphand Group Co., the
largest stockholder in  Ping An Insurance Group Co. (2318) , pledged
about 880.2 million Hong Kong-listed shares in  China ’s second-largest insurer to  UBS AG (UBSN)  to back financing.  CP Group’s  ownership  in Ping An through units dropped to 14
percent of total share capital as of Nov. 12 from 17 percent on
Nov. 7, Shenzhen-based Ping An said in a filing to the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange yesterday.  The adjustment and financing arrangements are “simply a
tactic of CP Group in view of its overall financial plan and the
future business opportunities,” CP said in a notice to Ping An
that was included in the insurer’s filing.  CP Group, based in Bangkok and controlled by Thai
billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont, completed purchase of a $9.4
billion stake in Ping An from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  this year amid
speculation that the company may not have the resources to
finance the deal.  The company is seeking more acquisitions to tap growth in
China, Dhanin said in April. When asked about a Financial Times
report that UBS had provided a $5.5 billion loan to fund the
Thai company’s purchase of the Ping An stake, Dhanin said the
funds came from the group itself, declining to elaborate.  CP Group has no intention to reduce its stake in Ping An
and is committed to the long-term investment in the insurer as
its largest shareholder, it said in the notice published by Ping
An.  Shares of Ping An have declined 4.1 percent in Hong Kong
this year, compared with a 1.1 percent gain in the city’s
benchmark Hang Seng Index. The stock fell less than 1 percent to
close at HK$62.25 yesterday, before the announcement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  