-- Dish Profit Beats Estimates on Rebound in Pay-TV Subscribers
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-11-12T21:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/dish-profit-beats-estimates-after-rebound-in-pay-tv-subscribers.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider, reported third-quarter profit that exceeded estimates after luring more
customers away from cable companies.  Net income was $315 million, or 68 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $158 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier, the
Englewood, Colorado-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts had projected earnings of about 43 cents, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 2.3 percent to $3.6
billion, compared with the average estimate of $3.59 billion.
Dish added 35,000 pay-TV customers in the quarter, compared with
a loss of about 19,000 a year earlier.  Dish and its satellite rival DirecTV are benefiting from an
influx of TV viewers from cable providers. DirecTV added 139,000
subscribers in the third quarter, while cable companies Comcast
Corp., Time Warner Cable Inc. and Cablevision Systems Corp. lost
a combined 460,000 customers. The total U.S. pay-TV market has
become saturated, meaning competitors have to grow by taking
customers away from one another.  “It was actually a decent quarter operationally,” said
 Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries in New York.
The most notable achievement was the lowered customer defection
rate, Sweeney said. This so-called churn decreased to almost 1.7
percent from 1.8 percent a year ago.  Higher Prices  Dish gained 6 percent to $50.35 at the close in New York.
It was the biggest one-day gain since December 2011. The stock
has climbed 38 percent this year.  Dish also got a boost from a price increase. Average
revenue per pay-TV subscriber was $81.05, compared with $76.99 a
year earlier.  Last week, Dish said it was closing the remaining 300
Blockbuster LLC stores it owned in the U.S. and ending the
business’s DVD-by-mail service. With the shutdown, about 2,800
jobs will be cut.  Acquiring Blockbuster was a poor decision because Dish
couldn’t make the video-rental business fit in its wireless
strategy, Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said on a earnings
conference call with analysts. In contrast, the decision to
acquire more airwaves gives the company many more options, Ergen
said.  Among the possibilities is an acquisition of  T-Mobile US
Inc. (TMUS) , one of the last wireless carriers available that would
help Dish deliver video over a national network. A T-Mobile
deal, which had been a subject of speculation earlier this year,
is still “on the table,” Ergen said on the call.  Still, with all the top carriers building faster, long-term
evolution, or LTE networks, Dish may be missing a crucial
upgrade cycle.  “His options are quickly running out,” Sweeney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  