-- Dollar-Funding Pressures Ease, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-11-12T13:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/dollar-funding-pressures-ease-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled little change in short-term dollar funding conditions.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, was
 unchanged  at 0.23925 percent, close to the record low of 0.23585
percent on Oct. 28, according to the British Bankers’
Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance
to lend, was little changed at 15 basis points.  Three-month dollar Libor, which has fallen 0.305 percent at
the start of this year and 0.583 percent a year before that, may
be close to “its bottom”, according to Andrew Hollenhorst,
fixed-income strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  For Libor, “further sustained declines are unlikely,”
Hollenhorst wrote in a note today. “Three-month financial
commercial paper rates, which directly measure three-month
unsecured bank borrowing costs, have moved sideways since
September. Since prime money market mutual funds actively
evaluate the relative value between lending through  repurchase
agreements  or commercial paper, commercial paper rates may
resist moving lower. The very stable relationship between 3-month Libor, and 3-month commercial paper would then imply that
Libor will remain close to current levels.”  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
what the Federal Reserve’s effective funds rate will average for
the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Forward Market  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, was little changed at 16.5 basis points, and
down a high over the past two months of 23.3 on Oct. 8,
according to the second rolling three month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed 0.44 basis points to 11.3 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking-sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $11.2 billion to $1.07 trillion in the week ended Nov. 6,
according to Fed data.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market held steady and near its lowest January
2008. The three-month cross-currency basis swap was 3.4 basis
points below Euribor, after touched 2.7 basis points below on
Nov. 8, the lowest since Jan. 24, 2008.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps was little
changed. The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another
was 10.6 basis points.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.10 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.097 percent yesterday,
according to a GCF repo index provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.08 percent yesterday. The rate opened
today at 0.08 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 liedtka@bloomberg.net  