-- Dolphins Lose to 0-8 Bucs in First Game Since NFL Bully Scandal
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-12T05:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/dolphins-lose-to-0-8-bucs-in-first-game-since-nfl-bully-scandal.html
The  Miami Dolphins  lost in their
first National Football League game since becoming embroiled in
a bullying scandal, falling 22-19 to the previously winless
 Tampa Bay Buccaneers .  Bobby Rainey’s one-yard touchdown run 4 1/2 minutes into
the fourth quarter put the Buccaneers ahead for good after they
blew a 15-0 first-half lead last night in Tampa,  Florida . The
Buccaneers had entered the game as the NFL’s lone winless team
at 0-8, their worst start since opening 0-9 in 1985.  The Dolphins fell to 4-5 and the loss was the latest
setback for a franchise beset by controversy after offensive
lineman Jonathan Martin left the team and said he was harassed
by teammates throughout his 1 1/2 seasons in Miami. The Dolphins
suspended fellow offensive lineman Richie Incognito for conduct
detrimental to the team after an expletive-filled voice message
he sent to Martin became public, while the NFL has opened an
investigation into the situation.  “I thought our concentration was good,” Dolphins coach
Joe Philbin said at his postgame news conference. “I don’t
think we came out there and were very, very sloppy. Our tempo
wasn’t very good at the beginning of the game, but I don’t think
it was because of our preparation.”  Without two of their offensive line starters, Dolphins
quarterback Ryan Tannehill was sacked twice for a loss of 18
yards on the team’s final drive. The Buccaneers clinched the win
when Tannehill’s desperation pass on a 4th-and-28 play with one
minute, 35 seconds left was intercepted.  “Yes, we faced a lot of distractions, but before the game,
leading up to this game the past couple of days, I’d had a good
feeling the guys were ready to play,” Tannehill said.  ‘Appalled’  The Dolphins held a news conference before the game in
which owner Stephen Ross said he was “appalled” by the
voicemail message Incognito left for Martin that contained
racist and sexual slurs along with threats of violence. Ross
also said he plans to meet with Martin tomorrow.  Miami struggled in the first half last night, falling
behind 15-0 midway through the second quarter as Buccaneers
offensive tackle Donald Penn scored on a one-yard reception and
Rian Lindell kicked two field goals. The Dolphins had no rushing
yards at halftime and the Buccaneers got a safety when they
tackled running back Daniel Thomas in the end zone.  “They played better than us out of the gate,” Philbin
said. “You don’t want to go on the road and dig yourself in a
15-0 hole.”  Matthews Touchdowns  Tannehill threw a six-yard touchdown pass to Rishard
Matthews with 32 seconds left in the first half and then helped
Miami score 12 straight points in the third quarter to take a
19-15 lead. Matthews also had a 19-yard touchdown reception.  The Buccaneers, who in their previous game blew a 21-0
first-half lead against the  Seattle Seahawks  and lost 27-24 in
overtime, answered by driving 80 yards in nine plays for the go-ahead touchdown. Rainey, signed on Oct. 21, had a  31-yard run
to the Miami one-yard line to set up the winning score.  “We had lost quite a few close games coming down to the
end -- some field goals, penalties, turnovers late in the games
kept us from winning,” Buccaneers receiver Vincent Jackson said
in a televised interview. “Tonight, we wanted to play four
quarters of complete football.”  The Dolphins, who have lost five of six games after a 3-0
start, totaled a franchise-low two rushing yards to 140 for the
Buccaneers. It was the lowest rushing total by an NFL team since
2007, according to the NFL Network.  “Not everyone deals with a situation like this, but you
have to be able to face it,” Tannehill said. “The old adage,
‘As many times as a horse knocks you off, you get back on,’
that’s the mentality I have, that’s the mentality this team has.
We just have to keep going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  