-- Dolphins Owner to Seek Answers in Meeting With Jonathan Martin
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-12T05:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/dolphins-owner-to-meet-with-martin-about-nfl-harassment-claims.html
Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross
said he plans to meet with Jonathan Martin tomorrow to discuss
claims of harassment by teammates that led the second-year
offensive lineman to walk away from the organization.  Ross, speaking at a news conference before last night’s 22-19 loss to the previously winless  Tampa Bay Buccaneers , wouldn’t
disclose the location of the meeting. Ross said he exchanged
 text messages  with Martin over the weekend, yet wanted to meet
with him in person to “see how he’s doing and listen to his
concerns.”  “I’m going there with an open mind,” Ross said. “I want
to hear the facts and then from the facts I can say, ‘Were we
right? Were we wrong?’ You can’t just deal in speculation.”  Martin, 24, left the team on Oct. 28. Seven days later, the
Dolphins indefinitely suspended offensive lineman Richie Incognito for conduct detrimental to the team after an
expletive-filled voice message he sent to Martin became public.  Martin endured harassment “far beyond the traditional
locker room hazing” for the entire 1 1/2 seasons he spent with
the Dolphins and was physically assaulted by a teammate, his
lawyer, David Cornwell of Gordon and Rees LLP in Atlanta, said
Nov. 6. The  National Football League  is investigating the
situation at the Dolphins’ behest.  “We want to know the truth,” Dolphins president Tom Garfinkel said yesterday. “Everyone in our organization has
been instructed to cooperate fully with the NFL investigation.
We simply want to know the facts and when we do I can assure you
we will respond accordingly.”  Ross ‘Appalled’  Incognito said in an interview with Fox two days ago that
the voice message he left for Martin containing racist and
sexual slurs, along with threats of violence, was characteristic
of the vulgar way the two communicated.  Ross said he was “appalled” when he read the transcript
of the voicemail left by Incognito.  “Anybody would be appalled when they read that,” Ross
said. “I didn’t realize that people would talk, text or speak
that way to people, but we need to hear all the facts in the
story.”  The Dolphins began an internal review of policies and
procedures last week and Ross said yesterday that the team has
also created an independent advisory group to review the
organization’s conduct and make recommendations on areas for
improvement. Former Dolphins coach Don Shula is a member of the
group, along with ex-Indianapolis Colts coach  Tony Dungy  and
former players  Dan Marino ,  Curtis Martin  and  Jason Taylor .  Dolphins coach Joe Philbin and current players will also be
part of the process, which Ross said is an effort to improve the
team and not “a blueprint” for other NFL franchises. The group
will begin its review after the season.  “The NFL locker room is a special place, no doubt, but
that does not mean that different rules of decency and respect
should be in play,” Ross said. “Winning championships is what
we are all about, but we cannot do so if any of our family
members are challenged from reaching their potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  