-- Dovish Fed to Damp Dollar in Surprise to Market, BNY Says
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2013-11-12T08:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/dovish-fed-to-sap-dollar-in-surprise-to-market-bny-mellon-says.html
The  dollar  will reverse recent gains
versus the euro and the yen in coming months as the Federal
Reserve pares monetary stimulus at a slower pace than the market
expects, Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. said.  The greenback, which touched eight-week highs this month
against its two most-traded peers, will test $1.38 per euro in
three months, and $1.45 over 12 months,  Simon Derrick , the
London-based chief currency strategist at  BNY Mellon , said at a
roundtable discussion in Tokyo today. The U.S. currency could
weaken to as low as 93 yen within five months, he said.  “If the U.S. is to deal with its fiscal problems over the
next two to three years, then it also means that there’s going
to have to be a cushion of easy monetary policy,” Derrick said.
“In the short term as well, I think that U.S. monetary policy
is likely to remain on the far more accommodative side than
perhaps people are giving it credit for this year.”  The dollar will strengthen to $1.28 per euro and 110 yen by
the end of 2014, according to median analyst forecasts in
compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. currency rose 0.1 percent to
$1.3387 per euro and 0.5 percent to 99.70 yen as of 4:59 p.m. in
 Tokyo  from yesterday. It reached 99.73 yen today, the most since
Sept. 13, and $1.3296 per euro on Nov. 7, the strongest level
since Sept. 16.  Tapering Bets  The  dollar  has rallied 1.5 percent since Nov. 6 against a
basket of developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes as reports showed an unexpected
acceleration in U.S. economic growth and job creation.  Derrick predicts the Fed will begin tapering its $85
billion of monthly debt purchases at the central bank’s March
18-19 meeting, matching the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg on Nov. 8.  He expects policy makers to refrain from raising the
federal funds rate target from near zero until “well into
2015.” Traders see 21 percent odds the Fed will increase the
benchmark to 0.5 percent or more by January 2015, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg from futures contracts on Nov. 11.  The euro will remain resilient, buoyed by central bank
buying, even as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
hinted at further policy easing after an unexpected  interest
rate cut  last week, according to Derrick.  “The euro still represents the largest alternative reserve
currency to the dollar,” he said. “The existential risk to the
euro, I think, is no longer there.”  Worst Performer  Japan ’s currency has also failed to sustain declines beyond
100 per dollar this year following a 20 percent drop in the past
12 months that is the worst among major currencies.  The Bank of Japan is trying to encourage investors to shift
money into riskier assets, including those overseas, by holding
down interest rates with monthly purchases of more than 7
trillion yen ($70.2 billion) of government bonds. Ministry of
Finance  data  shows that exodus of capital has yet to
materialize.  “In the absence of domestic money pushing overseas, I’m
cautious about looking for a massive weaking of the yen for
now,” Derrick said. “If anything, I think the surprise to this
market could be a sudden strengthening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  