-- Drill-Rig Shortage May Delay Total’s Caspian Natural-Gas Project
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-11-12T13:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/drill-rig-shortage-may-delay-total-s-caspian-natural-gas-project.html
Total SA (FP)  needs drilling rigs by 2017
to meet its development targets at the Caspian Sea natural-gas
field of Absheron, the company’s regional manager said.  Europe ’s third-biggest energy company had to stop drilling
at the field 100 kilometers (60 miles) off  Azerbaijan  in
September last year because of a shortage of drill rigs amid
increasing Caspian exploration.  “It’s a bit of constraint,” Christian Giudicelli, general
manager of Total E&P Azerbaijan, said today in Baku, the
capital. “The challenge here is that we cannot drill, therefore
there is some uncertainty.”  The European Union is looking to Absheron, Shah Deniz and
other deposits in the Caspian to ease dependence on Russian
supplies, which meet a quarter of European demand. Absheron,
discovered in 2011, may contain 300 billion cubic meters of gas
and 45 million metric tons of condensate, or light oil,
according to State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan, or Socar.  Total is the operator of the project with a 40 percent
stake. Socar holds 40 percent and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  has 20 percent.  Giudicelli said Total would need at least one rig to
restart drilling at Absheron in early 2017 and start production
at the end of 2020.  “Access to two rigs would be even better,” he said. “We
are waiting for rigs to be available for both appraisal and
development.”  Absheron is expected to produce 3 billion cubic meters to 5
billion cubic meters of gas a year in the initial phase, he
said.  More Rigs  The shortage of drilling rigs in the Caspian led Socar to
sign an agreement with Singapore-based Keppel Corp. in June to
build a rig. Construction will take three years and cost more
than $1 billion, Socar President Rovnaq Abdullayev said at the
time. The partners were in talks on a second rig, he said.  German utility RWE AG will also need a rig to start
exploration at the Nakhchivan structure in the Caspian while
Socar needs more for its own Caspian developments including Umid
and Babak.  Giudicelli said Total, which also holds a stake in the BP
Plc-led Shah Deniz project, is interested in new offshore
developments in Azerbaijan’s section of the  Caspian Sea .  “We bring a competence in deepwater exploration and
production,” he said. “We are ready to look at any opportunity
and made this known to Socar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  