-- Health Gains in U.S. Slow Even as Costs Rise, Study Finds
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-11-12T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/health-gains-in-u-s-slow-even-as-costs-rise-study-finds.html
The $2.7 trillion U.S. health-care
system lags behind other nations in improving its citizens’
health even as spending has doubled, increasing faster than any
other industry over the past decade, researchers said.  The rise in costs have been driven primarily by the price
of services, drugs and devices rather than higher demand from an
aging population, according to a report today on U.S. spending
trends in the  Journal of the American Medical Association . The
analysis also found that two-thirds of spending is for people
younger than 65 with chronic illness, though most of the focus
on cutting costs has been centered on the elderly.  Health-care expenditures have doubled since 1980,
accounting for 18 percent of U.S. gross domestic product and
leading to financial success for drugmakers, device companies,
hospitals, insurers and other providers, the authors said. Yet
patients haven’t seen the same gains.  “Everyone whether a patient or a policy maker or a health-care executive needs to ask the question, are we getting the
best value for the money?” said Hamilton Moses, an author of
the study and founder of consulting firm  Alerion Advisers LLC  in
North Garden, Virginia. “Are we getting the returns and results
commensurate for spending 18 percent of GDP? No, we are not. We
are falling short in mortality, we are trailing in the rate of
life extension and that change began in the 1980s.”  In the U.S. life expectancy is 79 years compared with 81
years in the U.K. and  Canada  and 82 years in Spain and  Italy ,
according to the  World Bank .  Lagging Improvements  Improvements in the  U.S. mortality rate  started to lag
behind those of its peer countries in the 1980s for men and
1990s for women. The gap is likely due to a number of reasons,
including rising obesity, lack of insurance coverage, poorly
coordinated care and preference for newer technology that can
carry higher risks, according to the report.  The report dispelled a number of myths about spending in
the U.S. health-care system, including the belief that
expenditures are growing out of control and that the elderly are
the main reason for that rise, said Moses, a former chief
operating officer of Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.  “There were a number of misconceptions about the cost
outcomes and tensions,” he said. “The discussion in this
country needs to be informed by the best available data.”  The researchers found that spending has slowed as a
percentage of gross domestic product during the past decade and
that percentage would have leveled off had it not been for an
slowdown in total GDP from the recession, said Moses.  Government Costs  The analysis was conducted by researchers from  Johns
Hopkins University , The  Boston Consulting Group , Alerion, and
the  University of Rochester  and drew from publicly available
data from the U.S. Department of Labor and  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services.  Over the 31 years of data analyzed, researchers found the
government is picking up a bigger share of the cost with 42
percent of spending by state and federal health programs in 2011
compared with 31 percent in 1980. While many people are paying
more than ever for health care because of higher costs, the
percent of individual expenditure has declined with personal
out-of-pocket spending on insurance premiums and co-payments
dropping to 11 percent from 23 percent in 1980.  “As a percentage, out-of-pocket spending by individuals
has fallen consistently since 1980,” Moses said. “That isn’t
to say individual spending hasn’t increased, it has because of
inflation.”  The price of professional services, drugs, devices and
administrative costs accounted for 91 percent of cost increases
since 2000, the report found. Illnesses costing the country the
most are  heart disease  followed by trauma injuries, cancer and
mental disorders.  “The  United States  pays a penalty for its extreme
fragmentation, financial incentives that favor procedures over
comprehensive longitudinal care, and absence of organizational
strategy at the individual system level,” wrote the authors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  