-- EDF’s Slower Price Rise Anticipates Cut in U.K. Energy Subsidies
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-11-12T11:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/edf-s-slower-price-rise-anticipates-cut-in-u-k-energy-subsidies.html
EDF Energy Plc raised U.K. prices at
a slower pace than its peers in anticipation the government will
reduce social and environmental subsidies that add to bills.  At the same time, the U.K. unit of  Electricite de France SA (EDF) 
warned that it may need to review tariffs again should such cuts
fail to go ahead as expected, it said today in a statement.  The company’s prices will rise 3.9 percent from Jan. 3, the
fifth increase by the so-called Big Six suppliers that dominate
the U.K. market after  Scottish Power  Ltd. on Oct. 24. Scottish
Power, owned by Iberdrola SA, said it would push up its  gas
prices  by 8.5 percent and power by an average of 9 percent.  EDF Energy’s slower increase makes it harder for its home
supply business to be profitable next year, the company said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is seeking to cut
bills that have surged 30 percent in real terms since 2007. He’s
ordered a review of green levies in household utility bills to
try to regain the political initiative after the opposition
 Labour Party  promised to freeze power prices if elected in 2015.  EDF Energy said today that it would pass on any savings
from bigger-than-expected changes in the government-run Energy
Company Obligation program to its customers.  “I support the ambitions behind these social and
environmental programs,” Chief Executive Officer Vincent de Rivaz said. “We are ahead on the ECO scheme and our experience
has been positive but we must also challenge the cost and
affordability of this and other schemes.”  While EDF said that the parts of the program aimed at
helping “vulnerable” customers shouldn’t be changed, a 50
percent cut in the target for hard-to-heat homes would mean
“significant savings,” according to today’s statement.  EDF’s average standard variable price from Jan. 3 will be
1,300 pounds ($2,065), up 49 pounds a year, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  