-- Mediaset’s Quarterly Loss Narrows as Ad Market Stabilizes
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-11-12T18:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/mediaset-s-quarterly-loss-narrows-as-ad-market-stabilizes.html
Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcaster owned
by former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , reported a
narrower third-quarter loss as the country’s advertising market
stabilized and the company reduced costs.  The third-quarter net loss was 57.4 million euros ($77.1
million) compared with a loss of 88.6 million euros a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement. That compares
with the average estimate of seven analysts compiled by
Bloomberg for a net loss of 61.2 million euros on sales of 640
million euros. Sales fell to 653.1 million euros from 656.6
million euros a year earlier.  The Milan-based company said it expects a full-year
“consolidated result” that’s an improvement from the first
nine months. Advertising sales in the January-October period
confirms the “stabilization” trend that emerged in the second
half, Mediaset Chief Financial Officer Marco Giordani said on a
conference call with analysts.  Italian advertising sales in the first nine months fell to
1.43 billion euros, down from 1.66 billion euros in the year-ago
period.  Mediaset, which sold 375 million euros of five-year bonds
last month, has been hurt by the weak Italian television
advertising market, which fell 13.1 percent to 2.48 billion
euros in the first nine months, according to a report today by
market research firm Nielsen.  Digital Plus  Giordani said Mediaset’s Spanish subsidiary is reviewing
options for its 22 percent stake in Digital Plus, the pay-TV
unit of media company  Promotora de Informaciones SA , or Prisa.
In addition, Mediaset “for now” isn’t discussing an eventual
purchase of  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s towers, he said.  Still, the executive said Mediaset unit  EI Towers SpA (EIT)  will
join the consolidation of  Italy ’s towers market.  Mediaset said cost reductions during the first nine months
and last year mean the company will reach the 450 million-euro
target outlined in its 2013-2014 plan a year ahead of schedule.  In March the broadcaster reported the first annual loss in
its history because of the slumping Italian ad market and
impairment charges.  Mediaset shares gained 0.2 percent to 3.78 euros in Milan,
giving the company a market value of 4.47 billion euros. The
figures were released after the market’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  