-- Telefonica Said to Seek Partner in Mexico to Challenge Slim
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-11-13T15:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/telefonica-is-said-to-seek-partner-in-mexico-to-challenge-slim.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  has approached
potential acquisition targets and partners in Mexico, where it’s
seeking to challenge billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s dominance,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  Spain’s biggest telecommunications operator has held
discussions with companies including Grupo Iusacell SA, a
smaller rival co-owned by  Ricardo Salinas  and pay-TV provider
Grupo Televisa SAB, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the deliberations are private.  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  are working
with Madrid-based Telefonica, another person said.  Other potential partners being evaluated include Televisa
itself and Megacable Holdings SAB, although a transaction with
those companies is less likely because their owners are
unwilling to cede control of the assets, the people said.  “It makes perfect sense for Telefonica to boost its
presence in Mexico, a market which has great growth potential,”
said Alberto Espelosin, who helps manage about 1.3 billion euros
($1.8 billion), including Telefonica shares, at Abante Asesores
in  Madrid . “The company hasn’t done a great job there so far as
it’s proved to be a highly competitive market.”  Shares of Telefonica, which gets  annual sales  of about 1.6
billion euros from Mexico, rose 0.2 percent to 12.30 euros as of
3:53 p.m. in Madrid.  Televisa (TLEVICPO)  fell 0.8 percent to 76.68 pesos at
8:47 a.m. in Mexico City trading.  New Regulations  As Telefonica ponders its next steps, it’s watching for
regulatory changes in Mexico, which passed landmark
telecommunications legislation earlier this year. Secondary
laws, or supplemental rules to the legislation, are set to be
announced early next month. The measures, meant to rein in phone
and broadcasting monopolies, could regulate how much the
companies can charge for interconnection rates or force them to
divest assets.  “We are all expecting the details of the constitutional
reform,” Santiago Fernandez Valbuena, Telefonica’s top Latin
American executive, said in a call with analysts last week.
“This is going to be substantial for the future developments of
the Mexican market.”  Mexico ’s Federal Telecommunications Institute will publicly
notify the companies it considers as dominant this month, the
regulator’s President Gabriel Contreras said earlier this week.  Playing Catch-Up  Telefonica, which entered Mexico in 2001, has more than 20
million mobile-phone customers in the country. A linkup with a
wireless rival or a cable company would narrow its gap behind
America Movil SAB, the Slim-owned company that controls about 70
percent of the country’s wireless market and about 80 percent of
its landlines.  Representatives at Telefonica and Iusacell declined to
comment. Press officials at Televisa and Megacable did not
respond to requests for comment. Representatives at Santander
and BBVA also declined to comment.  Telefonica has about 20 percent of the wireless market, and
Iusacell less than 10 percent. Televisa, the world’s largest
Spanish-language broadcaster, agreed in August to acquire
control of Cablecom in a $745 million transaction to strengthen
its grip in Mexico’s growing pay-TV market. Megacable is the
nation’s largest cable company.  Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is moving
his focus to Mexico after finding a merger partner for
Telefonica in  Germany , increasing the company’s indirect stake
in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , and shedding assets in Ireland and the
 Czech Republic .  Telefonica’s third-quarter revenue in Mexico slid 6.4
percent to 373 million euros, while operating income before
depreciation and amortization slumped 41 percent to 67 million
euros. The profit margin, at 18 percent, was the narrowest in
any of the markets where Telefonica operates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Laya in Mexico City at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  