-- Emerging Stocks Slump for Ninth Day as Petrobras Tumbles
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-12T21:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/emerging-technology-shares-advance-as-phone-companies-decline.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
ninth day, capping the longest slide since 2006, as Petroleo
Brasileiro SA joined a slump in energy producers. India’s rupee
sank to an eight-week low to lead declines in currencies.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped 0.2 percent to
991.45. Petrobras, as the Brazilian state-run  oil company  is
known, drove the Ibovespa to the biggest loss among the major
equity indexes in the Americas.  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks fell for a sixth
day as the rupee weakened before a report that economists
forecast will show inflation accelerated last month. The iShares
China Large-Cap ETF slipped in New York as a Communist Party
meeting failed to unveil detailed policy shifts.  Energy shares joined a slump in crude oil amid forecasts
that U.S. inventories rose to the most since June. Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  told  Bloomberg
Radio  that a reduction in central bank bond purchases “could
very well take place” next month. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  at a March 18-19 meeting will probably taper its bond
buying to $70 billion, according to the median of 32 economist
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey Nov. 8.  “The market is feeling vulnerable towards a taper, not if,
but when,”  Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for Newark, New
Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc., which oversees more than
$1 trillion of assets, said in a telephone interview today.
“That when could be sooner than consensus estimates, even
though March is the consensus.”  Eight of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
dropped today, led by commodity shares. The broad measure trades
at 10.6 times projected earnings, compared with the  valuation  of
14.3 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund declined 0.5 percent to $40.73. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
retreated 0.1 percent to 23.45.  Brazil’s Ibovespa retreated 1.6 percent as Petrobras
dropped to the lowest level since Oct. 25.  Banco do Brasil SA 
tumbled after cutting its estimate for interest earnings. OSX
Brasil SA, the shipbuilding and oil services company controlled
by former billionaire  Eike Batista , surged after saying it would
seek to sell assets under  bankruptcy protection .  Russian stocks  increased the most in three weeks as OAO
Sberbank, the nation’s biggest lender, rallied on plans to
double profit in the next five years. OAO Gazprom climbed from a
one-month low as JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised Russia’s natural
gas export monopoly to the equivalent of buy, citing prospects
for a Chinese deal and dividends.  India, China  India’s S&P BSE Sensex lost 1 percent as  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,
owner of Jaguar Land Rover, declined to a one-month low.  ICICI
Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  fell 2.4 percent. The rupee retreated 0.7 percent to
63.6950 per dollar, the weakest level since Sept. 10.  China’s stocks  rose the most in almost two weeks, led by
consumer staples and financial shares, before the conclusion of
a four-day Communist Party meeting.  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519) , China’s
biggest liquor maker, climbed 3.8 percent after it announced
plans to buy property in France to expand its business.  Cosco
Shipping Co. (600428)  paced gains for shippers.  The iShares China Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 0.9 percent to $36.90.
China elevated the role of markets in the nation’s economic
strategy while stopping short for now of unveiling detailed
policy shifts, after President Xi Jinping oversaw a gathering of
Communist Party leaders in Beijing.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 330 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  