-- Emirates Fleet Growth Spurs Profit as Order Splurge Looms
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-11-12T11:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/emirates-first-half-profit-climbs-as-rising-fuel-cost-clips-gain.html
Emirates, the Gulf carrier said to
be planning the biggest-ever jet deal at next week’s Dubai air
show, boosted first-half profit 4 percent after adding 10 wide-body planes from its existing order book.  Net income at the group, based in the sheikdom that hosts a
biennial aviation expo starting Nov. 17, reached 2.2 billion
dirhams ($599 million) in the six months to Sept. 30 as sales
advanced 13 percent to 42.3 billion dirhams, it said today.  Already the world’s biggest international carrier, Emirates
is likely to dominate at the Dubai show with what President  Tim Clark  has said could be an “enormous” order for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
new 777X model, together with follow-on contracts for the A380
superjumbo. Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, the company’s
chairman, said today that high fuel prices, a sluggish global
economy and currency changes that have weighed on earnings won’t
deflect it from the industry’s most ambitious growth strategy.  “While we keep a close watch on managing our immediate
business targets, we never lose sight of our long-term goals,
and that is why we continue to invest to build the business,”
Sheikh Ahmed said in a statement.  Emirates took delivery of six Airbus SAS double-decker
A380s and three of Boeing’s current-generation 777s in the six
months, adding more than 4,000 seats, plus a sole 777 freighter,
swelling what were already the biggest fleets of the two models.  Stockholm, Boston  The passenger total rose 15 percent to 21.5 million, while
the  load factor  -- a measure of seat occupancy -- was barely
changed at 79.2 percent.  The Gulf carrier, which has exploited Dubai’s geographical
position to turn its home base into a hub for intercontinental
travel linking Europe and the Americas with the Asia-Pacific and
Africa, is scheduled to take delivery of a further 15 aircraft
before the end of its financial year next March.  Emirates added five destinations in the first half -- Tokyo
Haneda,  Stockholm , Clark airport in the  Philippines , Conakry in
Guinea and Sialkot in  Pakistan  -- and plans to open up routes
including Kiev, Taipei, Kabul and  Boston  in the current period.
As of September, the carrier served 133 cities with 205 planes.  Earnings at the main airline unit rose 2 percent to 1.75
billion dirhams amid what  Sheikh Ahmed  said is a “challenging”
global business environment. Fuel costs remain high, accounting
for 39 percent of spending, and unfavorable exchange rates
“continue to eat into our profits,” he said. Ground-handling
unit Dnata boosted earnings 13 percent to 458 million dirhams.  The results are positive given the pace at which Emirates
is adding routes, which take time to reach maturity,  John Strickland , director of London-based aviation advisory JLS
Consulting Ltd., said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  