-- Emulex Chairman to Leave Board in Deal With Shareholders
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-12T21:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/emulex-says-chairman-to-leave-board-in-deal-with-shareholders.html
Emulex Corp. (ELX) , facing pressure from
activist shareholders over its board makeup and financial
discipline, said it will buy back about 30 percent of its stock
and Executive Chairman James McCluney will step down.  McCluney, a former Emulex chief executive officer, will
remain with the company through Feb. 6 and won’t seek re-election, the company said in a statement yesterday. Emulex is
also interviewing candidates to fill three independent seats on
the board, which will be reduced to 11 from 12 members. The
company didn’t say which current directors would be replaced.  A $200 million share buyback will begin immediately, and
Emulex said it’s planning to cut $30 million in annual expenses
by fiscal 2015 by reducing its number of products and
eliminating “lower return on investment programs,” without
providing details. Separately, the company announced plans to
offer as much as $125 million in convertible senior notes.  Emulex, based in  Costa Mesa , California, sells chips that
help computer servers and storage networks transfer data. It
hasn’t reported an  annual profit  since 2010. Activist investment
companies Starboard Value LP and Elliott Management Corp. have
taken stakes in Emulex and criticized its management in recent
months, lobbying for changes to the board and a new strategy.  “I think that we’re taking the right steps,” CEO Jeff Benck, who succeeded McCluney in July and has been with the
company since 2008, said in an interview. “I didn’t want to run
the same playbook that we’d been running.”  Emulex shares  rose  3.1 percent to $7.77 at the close in  New
York . The stock has gained 6.4 percent this year.  ‘Positive Steps’  “The meaningful cost reduction initiatives, the plan to
return significant capital to shareholders and the board
transformation at Emulex are all positive steps,” Jesse Cohn, a
 fund manager  at Elliott Management, said in yesterday’s
statement. The  investment company  reviewed the plans announced
yesterday before they were made public, Cohn said.  In September, the company said Chief Financial Officer
Michael J. Rockenbach would leave at year’s end. In 2009, Emulex
rejected an $11-a-share bid from  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , saying the
offer undervalued the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  