-- Tendulkar Wax Statue to Gold Coin Mark Cricket Retirement
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-11-12T22:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/tendulkar-wax-statue-to-gold-coin-mark-cricket-retirement.html
Arup Dey traveled more than 800
miles to Kolkata, stood in line from 4 a.m. for a ticket and
watched his cricket idol Sachin Tendulkar lose his wicket early
in the second-last match of his record 24-year career.  “I’d have loved to see him bat all day, like in the old
days,” said Dey, a garment-store owner from Silchar in
northeast  India . “I’m still happy to be here and I’ve seen him
bat, field and take a wicket. For me, he’s like a god.”  With one match to go before Tendulkar, 40, retires from
cricket, the country of 1.2 billion people is getting ready to
bid farewell to a player whose rise to the top of his sport
coincided with India’s economic emergence as one of the BRIC
nations. The nation’s economy has expanded six-fold since
Tendulkar first broke into the national team at the age of 16.  “Sachin showed India can compete with the best in the
world, and beat them,” Madhukar Sabnavis, vice-chairman of
Ogilvy & Mather India, said in an interview. “His career
mirrored India’s economy, aspiration and confidence. Sachin has
been that important part of how we measure India’s growth in the
past 20 years.”  A day before his penultimate Test, Tendulkar was gifted a
life-size wax statue of himself by a sculptor, while the local
cricket association presented him with a silver tree with 199
leaves, signifying the number of Test matches he has played. For
the Kolkata match, a specially minted gold coin with an embossed
image of him was used for the toss. Ball boys had his picture on
their white T-shirts and No. 199 on the back.  ‘Little Master’  The five-day clash with West Indies starting in  Mumbai 
tomorrow will be his 200th long-format game at the same Wankhede
Stadium where he retrieved balls on the boundary during a 1987
Cricket World Cup semifinal. The website selling tickets crashed
within five minutes of the sale opening.  Nicknamed “ Little Master ” and “Master Blaster,” the 5-foot-5 Tendulkar enters his final match in his hometown holding
almost all of cricket’s major run-getting records, including the
most runs and centuries in elite Test and one-day matches. In
2011, he helped India win its first World Cup title since 1983.  Last year, when just one month shy of his 39th birthday, he
became the first player to score 100 international centuries.  The year Tendulkar made his debut, India’s gross domestic
product was $301 billion. It’s now expanded to $1.8 trillion,
making it Asia’s third-biggest economy.  Net Worth  During that time, Tendulkar’s talents and appeal have
enabled him to accumulate a net worth of  $160 million  from
endorsements, property and cricket earnings, Singapore-based
Wealth-X said in an Oct. 30 report, making him India’s richest
sportsman.  His appeal to sponsors may not immediately dim with
retirement. Luminous Power Technologies Pvt., a unit of French
company  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , started selling new power backup
systems in India this month. Tendulkar endorses Luminous’s
products and the company plans to continue the association when
he quits, Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Malhotra said Nov. 5.  “How many people do you get who have been on the top of
their game for so many years?” Malhotra said in a phone
interview. “That goes well with what people expect of us:
consistent performance.”  From expectations that he should set up a cricket academy
to calls for a greater role in politics, local media has
speculated on Tendulkar’s next move. He was sworn in as a member
of India’s upper house of parliament 17 months ago after being
nominated by the ruling Congress party.  ‘Something Back’  He’s been present two days in the house of elders since his
nomination. After vowing to uphold his duties as a lawmaker, he
said at the time that cricket would remain his focus and that he
would see how he could help “when there is time.”  After the accolades, Indians will look to Tendulkar to give
something back, Ogilvy & Mather’s Sabnavis said.  “For 24 years he’s concentrated a hell of a lot on
cricket,” he said. “Now I wish he gives something back to
society, because this country really needs it. That he gives
back to the society that cherished him, this is the one hope I
have.”  Tendulkar said cricket has always been his priority.  “All I do is enjoy the game as much as I can,” he told
reporters at an Oct. 23 event in Mumbai. “And I’ve played the
game to the best of my ability always.”  Record Runmaker  Tendulkar made his Test debut against  Pakistan  in November
1989 and registered his first three-figure score the following
year against England. In 2008, he passed West Indian batsman
Brian Lara as the top scorer in elite five-day matches. Another
153 runs in his finale would lift his  record tally  to 16,000.  Subhankar Halda and his brother-in-law Biswaraj Roy took
the day off from work to watch Tendulkar a final time at
Kolkata’s Eden Gardens last week. A half-empty stadium on Nov. 6
greeted the first day of the right-hander’s farewell series as
West Indies batted first.  “It’ll fill up tomorrow, when Sachin actually comes in to
bat,” said Halda, a chartered accountant, as he glanced around
the 67,000-seat  stadium . “I’ve come here after 15 years just to
see the master bat for a final time.”  The following day, the more than 30,000 people at the
stadium cheered their loudest when Tendulkar walked out to the
middle. He lasted just 24 balls in making 10 runs, departing to
cheers that matched the noise that accompanied his arrival.  “Sachin Tendulkar’s story is quite phenomenal,” former
 England  captain Andrew Strauss said in an Oct. 11 interview in
 London . “To be as successful as he was, to carry the hopes of a
nation on his shoulders every time he batted, is just an
absolutely mind-blowing achievement. He deserves to go out and
get every accolade he does get.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  