-- Merkel Forced to Confront EU Bank-Aid Pledge in Coalition Talks
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-11-12T15:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/merkel-forced-to-confront-eu-bank-aid-pledge-in-coalition-talks.html
Parties seeking to form Germany’s
next government deadlocked on aid for failing European banks,
forcing Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to revisit a pledge she made
last year.  The  Social Democratic Party  opposes direct recapitalization
of banks from the European Stability Mechanism firewall fund,
saying it equates to pooling debt across the euro area. Second-tier negotiators for the SPD and Merkel’s  Christian Democratic
Union  disagreed on the issue and decided to send it up for party
leaders to discuss in coalition talks.  “The SPD doesn’t want direct banking recapitalization
through the ESM,” Johannes Kahrs, an SPD lawmaker and coalition
negotiator, said by telephone today. “‘This would be as bad as
euro bonds. We don’t have a common position yet. We have to find
common ground with the CDU.”  Pressure from Merkel’s prospective junior partner increases
the probability that Germany will backtrack on the  agreement  she
endorsed in June 2012 to allow the ESM directly to recapitalize
banks. It may strengthen Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s
hand as he seeks to shield German taxpayers in  Europe ’s emerging
banking union, the same aim the SPD says it is pursuing with its
position.  The dispute means German domestic politics is clouding the
euro-area agreement on bank aid, reached as the sovereign-debt
crisis peaked last year before the  European Central Bank  pledged
unlimited bond-buying to defend the euro.  Coalition Talks  Merkel, SPD head  Sigmar Gabriel  and  Horst Seehofer , who
heads Merkel’s Bavaria-based CSU affiliate, are scheduled to
resume coalition talks tomorrow. Talks began on Oct. 23 with the
goal of sealing Merkel’s third-term coalition by Christmas.  Merkel, whose victory in national elections on Sept. 22 was
the biggest since German reunification in 1990, campaigned
against joint euro-area debt and for extending her policy of aid
to struggling countries in return for economic overhauls.  She hasn’t renounced the June 29, 2012,  statement  by euro-area leaders that opened the door to direct aid to banks by the
ESM. The 500 billion-euro ($672 billion) fund, set up to bail
out euro-area governments, would gain that power when ECB
oversight of euro-area banks is deemed “effective,” according
to that statement.  As the ECB presses European governments for a joint system
to rescue or wind down failing lenders,  Germany  is objecting to
cross-border backstops and has been looking at alternatives that
rely on national resources instead of the ESM.  A sequence of liability that imposes losses on bank
shareholders and creditors before putting taxpayers on the hook
for rescues is a “prerequisite” for any central EU bank
resolution system, German Deputy Finance Minister Thomas Steffen
said on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  