-- Tesla CEO Says There ‘Definitely’ Won’t Be Model S Recall
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-11-12T22:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/tesla-ceo-says-there-definitely-won-t-be-model-s-recall.html
Elon Musk,  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s
outspoken co-founder, said “there’s definitely not going to be
a recall” of the company’s Model S as the electric-car maker
waits to see if U.S. regulators investigate crash-related fires
involving the sedan.  “We’re about five times less likely to have a fire than an
average gasoline car,” Chief Executive Officer Musk said today
at the  New York  Times’ DealBook conference in New York, which
was webcast and telecast on CNBC.  Reaction to the fires
reported by some media was “extremely inaccurate and
unreasonable,” Musk said.  Tesla has fallen 22 percent through today’s close since the
Palo Alto, California-based company posted third-quarter results
last week that disappointed some investors and reports of a Nov.
6 accident in Tennessee that sparked a battery pack-related fire
in a Model S. It was the third such incident in five weeks.  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  has said
it’s in contact with local authorities in Tennessee who are
investigating the accident. The agency decided not to
investigate a previous Model S fire last month in Washington
state, which happened after the driver struck a metal object.  “There are 200,000 gasoline car fires per year in the
 United States , 200,000,” said Musk, 42, who is also Tesla’s
 biggest shareholder . “There are on average 250 to 300
automotive fire deaths in the U.S. How many times have you read
about that?”  Stock Price  In last week’s incident, a Tesla driver in Murfreesboro,
Tennessee, hit a metal tow hitch that had fallen onto a freeway.  A Model S blaze also broke out after a crash near Merida,
 Mexico , in mid-October. NHTSA said on Oct. 24 that it found no
evidence the Washington fire, which happened on the first day of
a government shutdown, resulted from defects or violations of
U.S. safety standards.  The agency said it was aware of the Mexico incident and
would monitor the performance of Tesla vehicles.  Tesla plans to deliver 21,500 units of the Model S, priced
from $70,000 to more than $100,000, this year. The car, which
received top scores from NHTSA for crash safety, is currently
sold in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Europe , with sales in  China  to
begin in early 2014.  Tesla rose 2.2 percent to $140.90 at 5:18 p.m. New York
time after the close of regular trading. The  shares , even with
recent declines, have surged more than fourfold this year. Tesla
reached a record closing price of $193.37 on Sept. 30.  “I actually think the high stock price is somewhat
distracting,” Musk said today. “I think the stock is a pretty
good deal where it is right now. It was probably a little high
before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  