-- Essar Billionaires Cut Exports on Refiner Glut: Corporate India
-- B y   D e b j i t   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-11-13T05:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/essar-billionaires-cut-exports-on-refiner-glut-corporate-india.html
Billionaire brothers Shashikant and
Ravikant Ruia, who run  India ’s second-biggest oil refinery, will
increase fuel sales at home as capacity additions in  China  and
the Middle East shrink export margins.  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL)  will reduce overseas sales from its 400,000-barrel-a-day plant as it predicts local demand for gasoline and
diesel will rise in the year ending March 31, Managing Director
Lalit Kumar Gupta said in an interview. The end of an above-normal monsoon in India will help revive diesel demand in  Asia ’s
second-biggest energy consumer, he said.  “Domestic sales will rise and protect margins,” Gupta,
53, said by phone from New Delhi. “Demand in India will
increase, and local refineries will be needed.”  New processing capacities in China and the Middle East are
set to increase supplies of petroleum products to Asia and erode
earnings of export-focused refineries including Essar Oil and
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , controlled by tycoon  Mukesh Ambani .
The coming jump in output has forced Asian  oil companies 
including  Japan ’s  JX Holdings Inc. (5020)  and South Korea’s  SK
Innovation Corp. (096770)  to also cut their profit estimates.  “Huge capacity additions coming in Asia over the next one
year will weigh on global margins,” Vinay Nair, an analyst at
Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. said from Mumbai. “Although Essar Oil
is focusing on the domestic market, it isn’t immune to global
margin risks.” He doesn’t rate Essar shares.  Each of the Ruia brothers has a net worth of $4.1 billion,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Market Rate  Mumbai-based Essar Oil primarily sells fuels to state-run
Indian refiners at market rate. Those refiners in turn sell
below cost to help curb inflation.  Essar Oil has  slumped  26 percent this year, compared with a
4.6 percent gain in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)  The shares
gained as much as 1.5 percent to 53 rupees and traded at 52.25
rupees as of 10:57 a.m. in Mumbai.  This year, India received the biggest monsoon rain since
2007, according to the  India Meteorological Department . More
rain means farmers don’t have to depend on diesel generator sets
to irrigate fields. India is the world’s second-biggest grower
of rice and wheat.  Demand for fuels in the country in the year ending March 31
is estimated to increase 4.1 percent to 162.1 million tons from
a year earlier, according to the Oil Ministry. Diesel demand may
rise 6.3 percent to 74.5 million tons and gasoline consumption
4.5 percent to 16.5 million tons. By the end of the decade,
demand for diesel may rise to 97.9 million tons and gasoline to
28.8 million tons, according to the ministry.  “There will be a rise in diesel demand because more rains
also mean a rise in agricultural activity and use of tractors,”
Gupta said.  China Additions  China is tripling refinery capacity amid predictions its
economic growth will to slow to the weakest in 14 years, while
new processing units mainly in  Saudi Arabia  are triggering a
glut. Profit from processing oil will drop by an average of 11
percent in 2014, according to the median of eight trader,
refiner and analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg in October.  “China and the  Middle East  will start catering to Asian
demand, and there will be enough supply in a scenario where
economic growth is still slow,” said Dhaval Joshi, a Mumbai-based analyst at Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd.  Profit from turning Dubai crude into diesel in  Singapore ,
an Asian benchmark, has dropped to an average $16.91 a barrel
this quarter, according to data from London-based broker PVM Oil
Associates Ltd. The average earnings in the full quarter a year
earlier was $18.54 and in the preceding three months $17.68.  Following three consecutive years of  losses , Essar Oil must
boost its refinery earnings to return to profitability. Reliance
Industries, coping with a three-year decline in natural gas
output, needs higher earnings from the world’s biggest refining
complex to resuscitate operating margins from the lowest since
at least 1992.  Supply, Demand  Refinery capacity in China, the biggest oil consumer after
the U.S., will grow 7.3 percent to about 660 million metric tons
a year in 2014, state-owned China National Petroleum Corp.
estimates. That’s the equivalent of about 13.3 million barrels a
day. By contrast, the country’s oil demand will increase by
about 3.9 percent to 10.6 million barrels a day, according to
the  International Energy Agency  in Paris.  Companies including  PetroChina Co. (857) ,  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (386)  and Sinochem Group will start about 1 million
barrels a day of new refining capacity next year, compared with
340,000 barrels a day in 2013, according to China International
Capital Corp. That will cause a supply glut, spur exports and
diminish Asian refining margins, Guo Chaohui, an oil analyst at
the Beijing-based bank, said in an Oct. 22 report.  ‘Margin Pressure’  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s biggest oil company,
started its 400,000 barrel-a-day Satorp refinery in Jubail in
July at reduced rates. The state-owned company known as  Saudi
Aramco  plans to operate the plant at full capacity by the end of
this year. Aramco will begin operations at another 400,000
barrel-a-day plant in Yanbu next year, followed by the 400,000
barrels-a-day Jazan refinery in 2016.  “If all of the new refineries come immediately, obviously
there will be some pressure on margins, but my sense is that
they will all come gradually,” Essar’s Gupta said. “That may
match with the incremental demand for fuels.”  Essar Oil earned $6.93 a barrel from crude oil processing
in the quarter ended Sept. 30, compared with $7.86 a year
earlier. Reliance Industries earned $7.70 for every barrel of
crude it processed in the latest quarter, compared with $9.50 a
year earlier and $8.40 in the preceding three months.  “The strategy to increase local sales can help shield
against any major margin erosion,” Nair said. “This is
probably the one strategy that will work in this market for the
time being.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debjit Chakraborty in  New Delhi  at 
 dchakrabor10@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  