-- Esurance Shuns Auto Insurer Drag Race With Geico
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-11-12T13:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/esurance-shuns-auto-insurer-drag-race-with-geico.html
Esurance, the online car-insurance
seller owned by  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , is betting that bundling auto
and home policies will help it compete with  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico unit and  Progressive Corp. (PGR)   Esurance started underwriting homeowners coverage in
 Wisconsin  and plans to expand the offering to other states,
Chief Executive Officer Gary Tolman said in an interview in  San
Francisco  last week. The strategy can distinguish the company as
car-insurance competitors sell home policies from other carriers
and don’t offer the same discounts, he said.  “We need to provide a better value proposition than Geico
or Progressive,” said Tolman, 62. “To get into a drag race
with them in the auto market, we’re not going to win.”  Progressive and Geico have flooded the airwaves with ads to
emphasize the convenience of shopping online and trumpet cost
savings. Geico alone spent more than  $1 billion  on marketing
last year. That’s helped win customers in the $178 billion U.S.
auto-insurance market.  The gains have come at the expense of competitors. Sales
have been stagnant for U.S. auto insurers for a decade and more
than half the advertising outlay has come from carriers that
didn’t increase their share, consulting firm McKinsey & Co.
wrote in a report this year.  Berkshire and Progressive were the third- and fourth-largest auto insurers in the U.S. by policy sales last year,
according to A.M. Best data compiled by Bloomberg. Allstate’s
lead as the No. 2 underwriter of the coverage has narrowed in
the past five years, while State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. remains the largest.  Restoring Growth  Allstate had been losing customers for its namesake brand
of auto policies when Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson 
bought Esurance in 2011. The acquisition gave the Northbrook,
Illinois-based insurer access to an expanding business as it
sought to restore growth in its unit that distribute policies
through agents.  Being able to sell home coverage through Esurance is a
competitive advantage for Allstate, said Jim Shanahan, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co., in response to comments Wilson
made last month about the online unit’s strategy. Shanahan
recommends buying the stock.  “It’s powerful to have the ability to underwrite in-house,” Shanahan said in a phone interview. “Progressive,
Geico -- they have to go outside the organization to identify
homeowners partners.”  Esurance is offering average discounts of 10 percent on
homeowners policies if paired with auto coverage. By bundling
the products, the company expects to increase the percentage of
customers who stick with the insurer, Tolman said.  Underwriting Losses  Esurance has posted underwriting losses since the
acquisition. It spent $1.17 for every premium dollar collected
in the three months ended Sept. 30, compared with $1.19 a year
earlier, according to  data  on Allstate’s website.  Those figures can mislead, Tolman said. Though insurers
book the costs of winning customers up front, a new policyholder
can contribute to profit for years.  “We’re paying money to acquire an auto person, and it’s
expensive,” he said. “If you get additional revenue, it helps
spread the cost.”  Adding homeowners policies could hurt return on equity.
Claims from the business can be volatile, so carriers often hold
a higher ratio of capital to premiums in home insurance than
with auto coverage.  Residential policies had been a drag on  Allstate’s results 
until last year, when the business posted its first annual
underwriting profit since 2007. Severe weather in the past
decade boosted claims costs and led the insurer to exit some
markets, buy reinsurance and raise rates.  Those actions were part of the reason that policy count
fell for Allstate-brand car coverage, Wilson has said. With the
homeowners business mostly fixed, the number of auto policies in
force has climbed for two straight quarters, the insurer said
last month.  Esurance’s new policies won’t initially be sold in Florida
and  California , where disaster risks are higher, Tolman said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  