-- Etsy Tops $1 Billion in 2013 Product Sales on Mobile Lift
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-11-12T17:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/etsy-tops-1-billion-in-2013-product-sales-on-mobile-lift.html
Etsy Inc., a website for handmade
and vintage goods, has already sold more than $1 billion in
merchandise this year as customers increasingly view products on
mobile devices.  The New York  startup , which had $895 million in gross
merchandise sales for all of last year, passed the $1 billion
milestone in October, setting the company up for another year of
growth, Chief Executive Officer Chad Dickerson said in an
interview.  The company’s biggest quarter tends to be the holiday
season, during which Dickerson expects customers to start coming
to the site mostly via mobile phones. Etsy has updated its
applications for Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Google Inc.’s Android
in anticipation of the trend, with a design emphasizing product
images.  “This will be the holiday of mobile,” Dickerson said.
“Customers will start visiting the site mostly via mobile
sometime during the holiday season, or definitely by early
2014.”  Etsy, which is profitable though has not disclosed its
revenue, takes a 3.5 percent cut of all merchandise sold on its
site, plus 20 cents for listing products. It also makes money
via advertising.  The company expects a new revenue line to come out of its
business putting Etsy sellers’ products in brick and mortar
stores, like Nordstrom Inc., but hasn’t yet figured out that
business model, Dickerson said.  Last month, the company loosened rules for sellers on its
platform to allow them to use outside manufacturers and hire
employees. The change allowed vendors that had cultivated their
businesses on Etsy to keep expanding on the site while still
qualifying as “handmade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  