-- EU, Japan to Lose Third of High-Energy Goods Share, IEA Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-11-12T14:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/eu-japan-may-lose-third-of-high-energy-goods-market-iea-says.html
Japan  and the European Union may
lose a third of their combined export market share of energy-intensive goods partly because of their high natural gas, coal
and electricity costs, the  International Energy Agency  said.  The U.S., whose factory power costs are less than half
those in the EU and Japan, may get a “slight increase” in the
share of exports from industries including chemicals, aluminum
and cement, according to the  IEA ’s World Energy Outlook 2013.
That’s the “clearest indication” of the link between low
energy prices and the outlook for industry, the IEA said.  Energy-intensive industries  account for about a quarter of
industrial employment and 70 percent of industrial energy use,
the Paris-based adviser to 28 nations said in the report.
Disparities in regional energy prices will influence investment
decisions and company strategies, according to the IEA.  “Unlike crude  oil prices , which are relatively uniform
worldwide, prices of other fuels have become subject to
significant regional variations,” the IEA said. “Although gas
price differentials have come down from the extraordinary levels
seen in mid-2012, natural gas in the U.S. still trades at one-third of import prices to Europe and one-fifth of those to
Japan.”  Exports from  Asia  will advance as demand and consumption
surges in that region, according to the IEA. Chinese
manufacturers pay almost twice as much as U.S. factories for
power, the agency said.  Supply Contracts  Europe can respond to the risk of losing exports by
boosting  energy efficiency , increasing domestic gas output and
ensuring its energy subsidies aren’t too generous,  Fatih Birol ,
the chief economist at the IEA, told reporters today at a press
conference in  London .  Gas-supply contracts linked to oil can also be renegotiated
to cut costs as suppliers will probably have decreasing
influence over prices, Birol said. It’s becoming a “market for
buyers,” he said.  A wave of new liquefied natural gas supply in the early
2020s may “strengthen the hand of buyers during contract
negotiations, precipitating a shift in the pricing paradigm,”
according to the IEA report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  