-- EU Withdraws Report That Criticized Spanish Budget Data
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-11-13T10:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/eu-withdraws-report-that-criticized-spain-budget-data-efforts.html
Eurostat, the European Union’s
statistics agency, withdrew a report criticizing Spain’s
processes for reporting budget data after consultations with the
country’s government.  EU statisticians, who had said Spain lacked “initiative”
in addressing flaws in its budget figures, removed the report,
published in April, from their website in order to revise their
comments, Tim Allen, a spokesman for Luxembourg-based Eurostat,
said by e-mail.  “Further exchanges with the Spanish authorities have shown
that a few statements in the report were too general,” Allen
said yesterday. “The report has been temporarily withdrawn for
amendment.”  The move marks a retreat for Eurostat after the agency sent
an extraordinary mission to Spain in September to follow up
urgent concerns stemming from regional officials’ failure to
report all their unpaid bills in 2011. Spain has missed EU
budget targets since its deficit surpassed 3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2009.  Local and regional administrations in Spain need to make
“substantial improvements to public accounting and statistical
reporting,” the agency said in its April report on the
September 2012 visit. “Eurostat notes the lack of initiative
and preparedness to follow up the recommendations.”  Increasing Scrutiny  “There are no more bills in the drawers,” Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro said Nov. 7. Even so, local administrations
continue to hire companies for jobs, without having the budget,
telling suppliers they will be paid when the administration has
the funds, he said.  A spokeswoman for the Spanish Budget Ministry declined to
comment on the move.  Last week, Bloomberg News reported Eurostat was ratcheting
up its scrutiny of Spanish budget procedures on concern that
regional officials weren’t responding to EU recommendations to
improve their reporting. Expansion, the Spanish business
newspaper, yesterday cited the April report as evidence Eurostat
was pushing for the Spanish statistics office to be given more
power to supervise government data.  Eurostat’s pullback came as Spanish and European officials
clashed over a possible reduction in subsidies for Spanish
students.  ‘That’s Rubbish’  The European Commission’s education spokesman, Dennis
Abbott, dismissed analysis from the Spanish Education Ministry
suggesting grants for Spanish students to study abroad may be
cut by 50 percent from next year.  “I don’t know how to put this any more diplomatically but
that’s rubbish,” Abbott said in a televised press conference
yesterday. The Spanish figures were “completely wrong,” he
added.  EU subsidies of 115 euros ($154) per Spanish student under
the Erasmus program, which allows Europeans to study in other
member states, may be cut in half from 2014 under a new funding
formula,  El Pais  newspaper reported yesterday, citing Education
Ministry analysis. The EU budget for Spanish students studying
abroad will be increased by more than 4 percent, Abbott said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  