-- European Stocks Decline; Norsk Hydro Falls on Stake Sale
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-11-12T16:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/european-stock-futures-little-changed-vodafone-may-move.html
European  stocks  declined from a
five-year high as investors weighed corporate earnings and
 China ’s pledge to boost the role of markets in economic growth.  Norsk Hydro ASA dropped the most since 2011 after Vale SA
sold a stake in the aluminum maker. Infineon Technologies AG
lost 5.6 percent as  Europe ’s second-largest semiconductor maker
predicted a decline in profitability for its first quarter.
Swiss Life Holding AG rallied to a five-year high after naming a
new chief executive officer.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.6 percent to 321.68. The
gauge has rallied for five straight weeks as the  European
Central Bank  lowered its key  interest rate  and the  Federal
Reserve  maintained bond purchases. .  “It’s fair to say that for the next wave of growth, China
and  emerging markets  as a whole will have to carry out
structural reforms,”  Manish Singh , who helps oversee $2 billion
as head of investments at Crossbridge Capital in  London , said.
“In Europe, market participants are still digesting last week’s
ECB news, which is starting to cause some uncertainty regarding
deflationary signs, which would be a pivot point for Europe.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 16 of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 lost 0.6 percent and  Germany ’s
DAX slid 0.3 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped less than 0.1
percent.  Market’s Role  China’s top policy makers affirmed that markets must play a
decisive role in the allocation of economic resources, as the
central committee of the  Communist Party of China  concluded its
first plenary session under the presidency of Xi Jinping, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Today’s comments build on China’s pledge to reduce the role
of the State in economic activity and boost private
participation as the world’s second-largest economy tries to
replace debt-driven growth with consumption-led expansion.  Xinhua said last week that the plenum would be a
“watershed as drastic economic policies will be unveiled,”
including giving more scope to market forces and an overhaul of
the household registration system that limits labor mobility.  Norsk Hydro (NHY)  retreated 5.5 percent to 25.49 kroner. Vale,
the world’s biggest iron-ore exporter, sold its stake in the
company for $1.8 billion. Vale sold 407.1 million shares for 25
kroner each. If an over-allotment option of 40.7 million shares
is exercised in full, Vale will have disposed of its entire 22
percent stake for 11.2 billion kroner ($1.82 billion).  Commodity Producers  A gauge of mining companies posted the worst performance of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. Anglo American Plc slid
2.3 percent to 1,440.5 pence and Fresnillo Plc declined 3.9
percent to 915.5 pence. Polymetal International Plc slid 5.5
percent to 536.5 pence.  Infineon Technologies lost 5.6 percent to 6.88 euros, the
biggest slide since June, after forecasting a slide in
profitability for its first quarter because of a revenue drop at
its power-management chip division. Earnings before interest and
taxes will amount to 8 percent to 10 percent of sales in the
three months through December, the company said.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc slipped 0.8 percent to 1,637.5 pence,
for the largest drag on the Stoxx 600, after the U.K.’s biggest
drugmaker said its darapladib drug for chronic coronary  heart
disease  failed to meet its primary goal in a trial.  Pandora A/S (PNDORA) , the Danish maker of charm bracelets, fell 4.5
percent to 246.50 kroner on concern that the company’s biggest
shareholder may seek to further reduce its stake after today’s
third-quarter earnings that beat analyst forecasts.  Private-equity fund Axcel, which owns about 26 percent, has
a window of four weeks after each quarterly results statement in
which it is able to sell shares, according to Pandora spokesman
Jakob Risom Langelund. Pandora rallied 107 percent this year
through yesterday.  New CEO  Swiss Life gained 5.1 percent to 189 Swiss francs as the
country’s biggest life insurer said CEO Bruno Pfister will
resign. Chief Investment Officer Patrick Frost will succeed
Pfister on July 1. The company also said third-quarter premium
income rose 8 percent to 3.29 billion francs ($3.57 billion).  “Frost is known to the investors’ community,” Daniel Bischof, an analyst at Helvea AG, wrote in a note to clients
today. “He has built a strong track record as CIO and head of
asset management at Swiss Life and should ensure a high degree
of continuity, which is positive.”  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc rallied 10 percent to 275.40
pence. The British broadband provider that split from Carphone
Warehouse Group Plc raised its revenue growth target to at least
3 percent from a previous goal of 2 percent.  Osram Licht AG gained 4.7 percent to 40 euros, the highest
price for the world’s second-biggest lighting company since it
was spun off from Siemens AG in July. Osram increased its target
for cost savings to 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) and the
goal for job cuts to 8,700.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  