-- Euro Skeptics in Finland Drop Exit Talk as Debt Crisis Eases
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-11-13T08:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/euro-skeptics-in-finland-tone-down-antagonism-as-exit-talk-ends.html
The political group that tripled its
support in  Finland ’s latest election on an anti-euro platform
says the northernmost member of the currency bloc can’t exit
monetary union on its own.  The Finns, a party that rivals Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s National Coalition in commanding support from almost
a fifth of Finnish voters, says it’s no longer “realistic” to
abandon the currency bloc it blames for the region’s woes.  “I’m not committed to the euro,” party leader  Timo Soini 
said in an interview in Helsinki. “It’s a practical thing to
us.” While it was a “bad mistake” to join in the first place,
“we can’t leave alone,” he said.  Soini catapulted to popularity in Finland’s 2011 election
after lambasting the euro area’s use of bailouts to address
imbalances he said were the product of a single currency
stretched across disparate economies. Now, amid signs the debt
crisis that once threatened to end  Europe ’s monetary union is
easing, one of the region’s most outspoken antagonists is
tempering his criticism.  Soini, who in 2011 refused to join Katainen’s six-party
coalition even after his voter backing rose threefold, said he
no longer opposes maturity extensions on existing bailouts. His
party would still vote against new rescue loans, he said.  The Trick  “Now, if somebody would offer me 10 million euros and give
me 100 years to pay it back with an interest rate of 0.1
percent, I would take it,” Soini said. “I think this is more
or less how the trick is going to be done.”  The comments come as Finland, the highest-rated euro
member, shows signs of buckling under the weight of its own
fiscal fetters. The government has said it risks breaching the
European Union’s requirement that members limit public debt to
60 percent of gross domestic product as Finland struggles to
emerge from its second recession since the crisis hit.  Two in three Finns plan to protest against the EU’s  crisis-management  policies in May, when the European Parliament holds
elections, according to a survey published today by newspaper
 Helsingin Sanomat .  Soini describes the policy decisions made in order to
defend the monetary union as a “sin” and the time Europe
spends “in purgatory will be long,” he said.  Joining Government  Soini’s efforts to adopt a more moderate tone toward Europe
come as his party plots a path out of opposition and into
government in 2015 elections.  “We’re willing and ready to join government,” Soini said.
“That’s the goal. If I come to the government, we don’t support
the bailouts.”  Even while in opposition, Soini has influenced European
crisis management. His anti-bailout campaign in the 2011
elections won so much popularity that Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen, a  Social Democrat , insisted Finland become the first
nation to receive collateral in exchange for backing  Greece ’s
second bailout. Similar terms applied to  Spain ’s subsequent bank
rescue.  Still, Soini says the aid should never have been granted in
the first place. “The bailouts are against the EU’s own
rules,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  