-- Europe Seen Nearing Insurance Rules Accord After 13 Years
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-11-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/europe-seen-nearing-insurance-rules-accord-after-13-years.html
Europe  may be nearing an agreement 
on rules that aim to make  insurance companies  safer after 13 
years of wrangling between politicians, companies and regulators.  Insurers and European Union officials are working out a 
compromise on the capital they need to ensure they can make good 
on long-term products such as annuities, according to Ralph Koijen, professor of Finance at the  London Business School , 
citing recent draft accords he has studied.  Insurers from countries including  Germany , the U.K. and 
 France  have criticized the so-called Solvency II proposal, saying 
the rules could make savings products excessively costly as more 
capital would be required to cover risks for longer-term 
investments.  ``The rules for discounting insurers’ long-term liabilities
seem to have been watered down, allowing calculation on the
basis of a risk-free rate with a  liquidity premium , rather than
actual marked to market valuation,'' Koijen said in a telephone
interview from  London  yesterday.  Representatives from the European Commission, European
Parliament and Council of the European Union convene for talks
starting in Brussels today that firms including  Allianz SE (ALV) , the
continent’s biggest insurer, say could bring an accord for
implementing Solvency II.  Insurers are Europe’s biggest institutional investors with 
8.4 trillion euros ($11.3 trillion) under management. They are
lagging behind banks in adopting a framework to help them 
withstand losses in any repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.
 Aegon NV (AGN) , the owner of U.S. insurance firm Transamerica Corp., 
and reinsurance company  Swiss Re (SREN)  were among firms that received 
financial support after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and the U.S. bailout of AIG.  ‘Half-Implemented’  Solvency II, intended to harmonize the way firms allocate
capital against risk, was scheduled to come into force last
year. Its introduction was delayed several times over issues
such as calculating capital needed for liabilities for products 
with long-term guarantees such as annuities and investments 
such as  government bonds . Insurers and regulators now plan to 
implement the rules on Jan. 1, 2016 with a transitional period, 
should an agreement be reached in time.  “I very much hope that a compromise can be reached now --
we can’t keep this project in a half-implemented state,” Dieter Wemmer, chief financial officer at Allianz, said on a call with
journalists last week. “We now either get it right or we should
leave it. It has been in the works for too many years and it has
cost too many billions of euros.”  Deals reached in so-called trilogue meetings such as
today’s talks on Solvency II require approval by parliament and
the council, which represents the EU’s 28 member states. Further
meetings are often held at short notice before draft agreements
are reached.  Capital Compromise  Solvency II is important for Europe’s financial stability
as insurers such as Allianz, with 1.81 trillion euros under
management, control more than half of all institutional
investments on the continent. Pension funds follow with a 24
percent share, according to Insurance Europe, a federation of 34
national insurance associations.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the world’s biggest
manager of money for the rich, manages 1.4 trillion euros at its
wealth unit.  As Europe continues to debate Solvency II, global
regulators are developing a  common framework  for supervising
internationally active insurance groups. The International
Association of Insurance Supervisors, or IAIS, is creating a
risk-based global insurance capital standard to be introduced by
the end of 2016, with full implementation scheduled for 2019.  Agreement Near  “We are not quite there yet but we are very close to an
agreement,”  Chantal Hughes , spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial services chief, said by telephone from Brussels.
“We’ve made a lot of progress, and are urging all sides to work
together in a spirit of compromise to take this over the finish
line.”  The IAIS’s discussions “are probably also putting a bit
more pressure now on the European institutions to come to an
agreement,” Aegon Chief Executive Officer Alex Wynaendts said
in a call with analysts last week. That would “make the 
discussions in the context of a global framework easier.”  Regulatory Uncertainty  Last year, speculation increased that the regulations would
be sidelined by some EU countries as they prepared to introduce
some of the rules piecemeal.  National regulators, who are developing Solvency II led by
the Frankfurt-based European Insurance and Occupational Pensions
Authority, or Eiopa, are urging politicians to complete the
accord now.  “An agreement on the final shape and on the date of
implementation of Solvency II is urgently needed to enhance
consumer protection, increase financial stability and avoid
market fragmentation,” Gabriel Bernardino, Eiopa’s chairman,
said. “We cannot continue with the current regulatory
uncertainty.”  Policy makers intend Solvency II to be for Europe’s
insurers what the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s
global capital rules are for the continent’s banks -- a common
set of rules applied across the EU. They will replace
regulations  developed in the 1970s  that had been superseded by a
patchwork of national laws. Current Solvency I rules concentrate
mainly on insurance risks, while Solvency II also takes account
of investment risks.  Bonds Lead  Insurers invest 42 percent of their money in bonds and
other fixed income securities, 30 percent in shares and other
variable-yield securities and 11 percent in loans, according to
Insurance Europe. To cope with low  interest rates  that are
pushing down returns, insurers have increased their exposure to
higher-yielding real estate and infrastructure projects such as
renewable energy plants.  Like Basel III, the levels of capital reserves required
under Solvency II can either be determined by the regulator’s
so-called standard model or a firm’s internal model, which must
be approved by the regulator. Nearly all of the biggest EU-based
insurers have opted for internal models.  The new rules are made up of three key parts, or pillars:
 capital requirements  for individual companies, a regulatory
assessment of a particular firm’s risk, as well as principles
for the regulators’ broader supervision of the marketplace.  Seventy-eight percent of German insurers expect they will
need to make further “significant investments” to comply with
new reporting standards including the so-called Own Risk and
Solvency Assessment, which requires each insurer to calculate
its own risk capital needs based on individual stress tests,
according to a  survey  by consulting firm Steria Mummert.  ‘More Optimistic’  Europe’s 40  largest insurers  spent as much as 4.9 billion
euros last year complying with new regulations, according to
estimates by Deloitte. The consulting firm said that the total
cost of compliance from 2010 to 2012 may be as much as 9 billion
euros, with the average cost for each insurer exceeding 200
million euros.  “I’m more optimistic now about the date of Jan. 1, 2016,”
Aegon’s Wynaendts said. “Everybody now knows that if by the end
of November there is no agreement, then the target date becomes
really impossible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich  at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  