-- Lewandowski Says He Isn’t Seeking Polish Finance Minister Post
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-11-12T13:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/lewandowski-says-he-isn-t-seeking-polish-finance-minister-post.html
European Union Budget Commissioner
Janusz Lewandowski said he isn’t seeking to become  Poland ’s
finance minister, amid speculation he may join the government as
it’s reorganized this month.  “For the time being, I have my responsibilities in
Brussels,” Lewandowski told TVN CNBC news channel today. “I’m
not thinking about any domestic role.”  Prime Minister Donald Tusk “hopes” that Lewandowski will
agree to replace Jacek Rostowski as finance minister, Warsaw-based news magazine Wprost reported today, without saying where
it got the information. If Lewandowski declines the offer, the
situation will become “difficult” as there are no other
candidates for the job, Wprost said.  While Tusk said last week that he plans to shuffle his
Cabinet before the end of this year, he’s also denied reports
that Rostowski will be fired. The prime minister is seeking a
“fresh start” for his cabinet as his Civic Platform party
trails the opposition in opinion polls.  Rostowski is the second-least popular member of Tusk’s
Cabinet after Sports Minister Joanna Mucha, according to an Oct.
3-9 survey of 1,066 Poles. The poll showed 26 percent of voters
favored “serious” changes in the cabinet and 37 percent wanted
the whole government replaced, the polling company CBOS said.  Mucha, Education Minister Krystyna Szumilas, Environment
Minister Marcin Korolec and Administration and Digitalization
Minister  Michal Boni  “top the list” of those who may be
replaced during the shuffle, according to Wprost, which didn’t
say where it got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  