-- Ex-GoldenTree Asset’s Wagner Joins Trilogy as President
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-11-12T22:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/ex-goldentree-asset-s-wagner-joins-trilogy-as-president.html
Leon Wagner, the retired chairman of
GoldenTree Asset Management LP, joined Greenwich, Connecticut-based credit hedge-fund firm Trilogy Capital LLC, according to a
letter to investors.  Wagner’s credit-focused investment firm LWPartners LP will
merge with Trilogy and become a partner in the hedge-fund
manager, according to the Nov. 8 letter, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News. Wagner will be president of the
combined firm, which is being renamed TrilogyLWP LLC.  The firm, which is headed by Jonathan Rosenstein and has
about $450 million in assets, created a fund this month using
capital from its principals to invest in distressed assets, it
said in the letter. The fund, TFP II, will focus on aviation,
shipping, power generation, natural resources, real estate and
other industries in which investments are trading at low prices
because of the supply-demand balance or operating challenges.  “We expect that these investments will offer attractive
returns, though they will have limited liquidity,” the firm
wrote. “In some cases, it is likely that a restructuring and/or
an exit may take several years.”  Since starting in 2001, Trilogy Financial Partners, the
firm’s original long-short credit fund, has posted a 9.8 percent
annualized return, according to the letter.  Rosenstein, who founded Trilogy 12 years ago, will remain
chairman, chief executive officer and portfolio manager at
TrilogyLWP, according to the letter. Barry Kupferberg will stay
director of research and Jeremy Garber will still be chief
operating officer. Wagner will be responsible for business
strategy and development.  Wagner, 60, co-founded New York-based GoldenTree and worked
there for 10 years before leaving in December 2010.  Bill Mendel, a spokesman for TrilogyLWP, declined to
comment beyond the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  