-- Texas Reproductive Health Cuts Deny Women Access to Care
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-11-13T01:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/texas-reproductive-health-cuts-deny-access-to-care-report-says.html
About a quarter of state-funded
family-planning clinics in Texas’s Lower Rio Grande Valley
closed after funding was cut in 2011, forcing women to forgo
breast exams, Pap smears and contraception, according to a
report by an advocacy group.  The spending reductions, which came before lawmakers
approved new restrictions on abortion this year, have been
especially deep in counties on the southeastern border with
 Mexico , one of the poorest regions in the U.S., according to the
report today by the Center for Reproductive Rights and National
Latina Institute for Reproductive Health.  “Latinas in Texas are forced to live with lumps in their
breasts, pain in their uterus and undiagnosed and untreated
cancer,” Jessica Gonzalez-Rojas, executive director of the New
York-based institute, said at a news briefing in Austin.  The legislature cut family-planning funds by about two-thirds to $37.9 million for the 2011-2013 budget, according to
the report. Over the next two years the state plans to spend
$143 million, expanding primary-care services to an additional
170,000 women.  Nine of 32 family-planning clinics in the Lower Rio Grande
Valley closed, leaving fewer options for women, according to the
report. Others scaled back hours or raised prices. Health
concerns that aren’t diagnosed early can become more serious,
resulting in the need for more costly care.  ‘Distorted’ Picture  Abortion-rights supporters “are milking this issue and
they’ve painted a very distorted picture of the situation facing
low-income women,” said Joe Pojman, executive director of the
 Texas  Alliance for Life, which opposes abortion. “There are
more family-planning dollars available than in any time in the
recent past.”  A government-run website, TexasWomensHealth.org, cites 66
doctors and other providers within 30 miles of Brownsville,
Pojman said. Brownsville is a border city at the state’s
southeast tip.  Those providers often are too expensive and inconvenient
for many women, said Kristine Hopkins, an investigator with the
Texas Policy Evaluation Project, an affiliate of the  University
of Texas  at Austin that studies state legislation.  Fiery Argument  Texas became a center of the abortion debate this year
after Republicans passed a law requiring clinics to meet
structural standards similar to those for hospitals, along with
other restrictions.  Women’s clinics in at least five Texas cities stopped
offering abortions after a U.S. appeals court on Oct. 31
temporarily let the state enforce a rule that requires doctors
who perform the procedure to be able to admit patients to nearby
hospitals.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , in a June 27 speech to anti-abortion activists, said, “The ideal world, of course, is a
world without abortion.”  While abortion clinics have closed, Texas has other
alternatives for women, including pregnancy resource centers,
faith-based adoption agencies and thousands of Texas Women’s
Health Program providers, said Josh Havens, a Perry spokesman.  The report by the Latina and Reproductive Rights groups was
based on interviews with 188 women in four counties, where more
than a third of the female population lives in poverty and more
than 90 percent are Hispanic, U.S. Census Bureau figures show.  Test Choice  When she meets with Rio Grande Valley women to discuss
health issues, fewer than a third have had Pap smears aimed at
detecting cancer, said Paula Saldana, 36, a volunteer health-care educator from Brownsville who was at the news briefing.  “I had the privilege to decide how many children I would
have and I want other women to have that same choice,” Saldana
said in an interview.  Last year, Texas’s Health and Human Services Commission
estimated that during 2014 and 2015, poor women would have
almost 24,000 more babies as a result of the state funding cuts.  There were 66,098 abortions in Texas in 2012, an 8.6
percent decline from 2011, according to state figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  