-- Fantex Postpones Arian Foster Share Sale Because of Back Surgery
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-13T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/fantex-postpones-arian-foster-share-sale-because-of-back-surgery.html
Fantex, Inc. postponed plans to
offer public shares on Arian Foster with the Houston Texans
running back set to undergo season-ending back surgery.  San Francisco-based Fantex last month filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to raise $10.6 million in an
initial public offering priced at $10 a share for Foster, who
pledged 20 percent of his on- and off-field earnings to the
company in exchange for most of the proceeds of the IPO. It was
to be the first public offering for a professional athlete.  “After consideration, we have made the decision to
postpone the offering for Fantex Arian Foster,” Fantex Chief
Executive Buck French said yesterday in a statement. “We feel
this is a prudent course of action under the current
circumstances.”  Foster and San Francisco 49ers tight end  Vernon Davis  are
the only National Football League players who have agreements
with Fantex, which has said it plans similar partnerships with
other professional athletes. Fantex on Oct. 31 agreed to buy 10
percent of Davis’s future earnings for $4 million in advance of
selling shares to the public.  The Texans yesterday placed Foster, 27, on the season-ending injured reserve list.  The fifth-year running back from the University of
 Tennessee  rushed for 542 yards and one touchdown in eight games
for the Texans this season. He had rushed for at least 1,200
yards and 10 scores each of the previous three seasons, while
making three straight Pro Bowl appearances.  “We continue to support Arian and his brand, and we wish
him well in his recovery,” French said. “We will continue to
work with him through his recovery and intend to continue with
this offering at an appropriate time in the future based on an
assessment of these events.”  $23.5 Million  Foster is in the second year of a five-year contract with
the Texans and is eligible to receive a salary of as much as
$23.5 million through the 2016 season.  Foster has endorsement contracts with companies such as
 Under Armour Inc. (UA)  and  Kroger Co. (KR)  He also recently acquired an
undisclosed stake in Health Warrior Inc., the closely held
nutrition company known for its chia bars.  Fantex hasn’t said when it will offer public shares for
Davis, who had been the NFL’s highest-paid tight end when he
signed a five-year, $23 million contract with the 49ers in 2010.  Fantex Brokerage Services LLC is managing the NFL player
offerings along with Stifel Financial Corp. No investor will be
allowed to purchase or hold more than 1 percent of any series of
common stock issued by the company, the filing shows. Orders for
the stock will be posted and executed by Fantex’s brokerage’s
alternative trading system, and the shares won’t be listed on
the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  or the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  