-- Fed’s Lockhart Wants to See Higher Inflation Before Taper
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-12T20:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/fed-s-lockhart-wants-to-see-higher-inflation-before-qe-tapering.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President Dennis Lockhart, who has backed record stimulus, said
he wants to see inflation accelerate toward the Fed’s 2 percent
goal before the central bank reduces $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases.  “I’d like to see some movement toward the target” before
tapering, Lockhart said today in a Bloomberg Radio interview
with Kathleen Hays. Inflation is “stable but too low” and a
move up would “give me some confidence we are not dealing with
some downside scenario that might develop,” said Lockhart, who
doesn’t vote on policy this year.  The  Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR)  at a March 18-19 meeting
will probably dial down its bond buying to $70 billion,
according to the median of 32 economist estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey Nov. 8. Their forecast followed a government report
that employers last month increased payrolls by 204,000 workers,
more than expected.  An assessment of whether to reduce bond purchases should
“focus mostly on employment and inflation, both of which are
pretty far from the mandate-consistent levels we are seeking,”
Lockhart said in Montgomery, Alabama.  Price gains as measured by the Fed’s preferred gauge, the
personal consumption expenditures index, rose 0.9 percent in
September from a year earlier, below policy makers’ 2 percent
target.  Policy makers on Oct. 30 decided not to pare bond purchases
aimed at stoking growth and combating 7.3 percent unemployment,
saying they need more evidence of sustained gains in the
economy.  ‘Strong Stimulus’  The central bank wants economic growth to speed up to 3
percent or more, a pace faster than its long-term trend,
Lockhart said. He called in the speech for “continued strong
stimulus,” predicting the economy next year will grow from 2.5
percent to 3 percent.  “To achieve a faster pace of growth, it’s my opinion that
we’ll need to see” greater consumer spending and a decline in
“fiscal drag,” he said at a conference hosted by Auburn
University at Montgomery.  Reducing bond purchases “ought to be on the table at
upcoming meetings” by the FOMC, including Dec. 17-18, Lockhart
said to reporters after his speech.  While inflation will be an important consideration, a
decision to taper won’t be based on “a single development,” he
said, adding that the labor market has made “significant
progress” since the central bank began its third round of asset
purchases more than a year ago.  ‘Forward Guidance’  The Fed should make clear to investors that it will sustain
stimulus even as it reduces bond buying, Lockhart said. That may
mean changing its communication of “forward guidance” on
interest rates at the same meeting, he said.  “I would be supportive of consideration of that,” he
said. “We might enhance the forward guidance to convince the
public and the market that the environment is not going to
change much” after a reduction in bond buying.  U.S. Treasury 10-year yields reached the highest level in
eight weeks amid signs the economy may be gaining momentum,
climbing three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.77
percent at 3:23 p.m. in New York from the close on Nov. 8. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,767.52.  The FOMC began its third round of quantitative easing in
September 2012 with monthly purchases of $40 billion in
mortgage-backed securities, adding $45 billion in Treasury
purchases in December.  A former Georgetown University professor, Lockhart has led
the Atlanta Fed since 2007. His district includes  Alabama ,
 Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of Louisiana,  Mississippi , and
 Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  