-- Fortescue to Repay Early $2 Billion in Bonds to Cut Debt
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2013-11-13T06:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/fortescue-metals-to-repay-early-2-billion-in-bonds-to-cut-debt.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , the
most indebted junk-rated mining company, is accelerating
repayment of $2.04 billion in bonds to help cut debt and lower
interest payments.  The company,  Australia ’s third-biggest  iron ore  exporter,
will repay $1 billion of the senior note due to mature in 2015
on Dec. 20, Perth-based Fortescue said today in a statement. The
remainder will be paid in coming months, subject to market
conditions, it said.  “We will be at investment grade metrics within 18
months,” Chairman  Andrew Forrest  told reporters in Perth after
the company’s annual meeting today. “We were looking a little
more conservative six months ago and we were talking about only
hundreds of millions but production is coming up, the plant
construction capital is coming right down and the iron ore price
has held.”  Fortescue this week refinanced a $4.95 billion loan to
reduce the  interest rate  by 1 percent to 3.25 percent. The
company wants to cut its  debt  after iron ore prices gained this
year, and before a predicted four-year slide in the price of its
sole product.  Fortescue rose 2.9 percent to A$5.77 in Sydney, taking this
year’s gain to 24 percent.  Pay-down Priority  “We have announced we have over $3 billion cash in the
bank and the company has plenty of options and paying down debt
is high priority,” Forrest said.  Standard & Poor’s this week boosted the miner’s credit
 rating  to BB, or two levels below investment-grade, citing a
continued increase in production scale and cost reduction. S&P
said its outlook is “positive.” The upgrade and early debt
repayments follow higher-than-expected iron ore prices this year
after a plunge forced the company to negotiate $5 billion in new
loans in September last year.  BlackRock Inc., which runs the $8.1 billion World Mining
Fund, boosted its  stake  in Fortescue to 5.2 percent, Fortescue
said today in a statement.  Iron ore , Australia’s biggest export by value, entered a
 bull market  in July as  China  replenished stockpiles that shrank
in March to the lowest level since 2009. Prices have rallied 23
percent from this year’s low on May 31 to $135.90 a metric ton
yesterday, according to The Steel Index Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  