-- France Won’t Shut Any More Atomic Reactors, Minister Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-11-12T11:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/france-won-t-shut-down-any-more-nuclear-reactors-minister-says.html
The French government won’t shut any
more of  Electricite de France SA ’s nuclear reactors after the
country’s oldest plant closes in three years, Industry Minister
 Arnaud Montebourg  said.  “My answer is no, my answer is clear,” Montebourg said in
an interview in Paris. “It’s not our strategy.”  The pledge undercuts President  Francois Hollande ’s promise,
made in last year’s election campaign, to trim France’s atomic
output to half of total energy production by about 2025 from 75
percent now. Montebourg’s comments will also be a boon to state-controlled EDF, which with 58 French reactors and another under
construction is the biggest nuclear operator in the world.  “Nuclear offers a competitive advantage for the
performance of France’s industrial base,” the minister said.
“Our nuclear investment allows us to have competitive energy
costs, less than elsewhere.”  Montebourg’s insistence that no more reactors will close
goes further than Hollande’s September commitment to keep
atomic-energy output capacity “capped at the current level.”  Hollande has ordered the permanent halt of EDF’s two 900-megawatt nuclear units at its Fessenheim plant in eastern  France 
by the end of 2016. That same year, the utility plans to start
operating what will be the country’s single-biggest atomic
generator at Flamanville in Normandy.  Rising Bills  The decision to keep all remaining reactors open will
benefit not only EDF but its customers, according to UBS AG.  “Consumer bills are set to rise substantially in any case,
and forced nuclear closures would further accelerate this
trend,” said Patrick Hummel, a utilities analyst at UBS in
Zurich.  EDF has climbed 84 percent this year in Paris trading, and
was down 0.4 percent today at 25.78 euros as of 12:09 p.m. local
time. German competitors EON SE and RWE AG, contending with a
phaseout of nuclear energy in their home market, have both
declined this year in  Frankfurt .  “The Germans who have abandoned nuclear are now forced to
reopen coal plants,” Montebourg said. “They are now the
biggest polluters of  Europe .”  France’s nuclear program was begun under President  Charles de Gaulle  in a bid to make the country self-sufficient in
electricity. Until the most recent presidential election
campaign, support for atomic energy was unanimous among the main
political parties.  Safety Concerns  Hollande broke with tradition following the 2011 Fukushima
disaster in  Japan , ordering the shutdown of Fessenheim as
concerns rose that the plant, opened in 1978, had a concrete
base that was too thin.  The Socialist campaign pledge to reduce France’s dependence
on atomic power emerged from a political accord with the anti-nuclear Greens and has provoked objections from trade unions.  Labor groups representing nuclear workers have aligned with
industry leaders in calling on Hollande to keep France’s atomic
heritage intact to ensure development of a leading technology
and maintain relatively cheap electricity for factories. Paris-based EDF is seeking to extend reactor lives to six decades.  French factories compete with output from plants in the
U.S., which benefit from lower energy costs following the shale-gas boom. Hollande has vowed to keep a domestic ban on hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, the drilling technique needed to
extract underground reserves thought to lie beneath parts of the
French countryside.  Promoting Renewables  The Greens, who have two ministers in the government and
help move legislation comfortably through parliament, are
pushing subsidy-dependent renewables and energy savings.
Hollande has said these measures, along with less reliance on
fossil fuels and nuclear, will cost an estimated 20 billion
euros ($27 billion) a year.  A long-awaited energy law will be passed by the end of
2014, he said in September. That’s more than a year behind the
original schedule. Meanwhile, Montebourg said the government is
focusing on lowering labor, capital and energy costs for
industry after France lost 50,000 industrial jobs in a decade.  “We are working extremely methodically and precisely on
overseeing our production costs,” he said. “We need results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  