-- France’s EPR Nuclear Reactor to Get Chinese Debut, Minister Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-11-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/france-s-epr-nuclear-reactor-to-get-chinese-debut-minister-says.html
The latest-generation French nuclear
reactor known as the EPR will be tested for the first time in
 China  in 2014, according to Trade Minister Nicole Bricq.  “The Chinese have said this, they have promised me,”
Bricq said in an interview in Paris. “The Chinese have told us
that it’s their ambition.”  Areva SA (AREVA)  and  Electricite de France SA  are developing EPRs
in China at Taishan,  Finland ,  France  and under the latest plan
in the U.K. following a deal last month to build a $26 billion
plant at Hinkley Point in  England . The projects at Flamanville
in Normandy and Finland for the as-yet unproven EPR reactor have
been plagued by delays and billions in budget overruns.  Bricq made her comments on the Chinese project yesterday
following a press conference to publicize a nuclear trade fair
next October in Paris as well as the importance of the atomic
industry for French exports and jobs.  EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  declined to give
a date for when the EPR at Taishan will be completed, saying
that it’s China’s role to name the time.  “Taishan is progressing well,” he said.  The first EPR project in Finland, led by Areva, the French
company that designed the technology, is seven years behind
schedule and won’t be completed until 2016. The second, an EDF
project at Flamanville in northwest France, will cost more than
twice as much as expected.  EDF has said the lessons learned in these countries as well
as China mean Hinkley Point will go more smoothly.  Delayed Start  The Taishan plant, built in partnership with China General
Nuclear Power Corp., will start commercial operation in 2015,
EDF said last month. That’s about a year later than originally
planned. China General and China National Nuclear Corp. will
hold minority stakes in the U.K. project.  At Flamanville in Normandy, EDF has pushed back the
commercial start of the generator numerous times and revised
cost estimates three years in a row. In December, the state-controlled utility raised the estimate to 8.5 billion euros
($11.4 billion).  Key milestones for developing the EPR were reached two
years faster in China than in Finland, according to Areva.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  