-- Freddie Mac Turns to Reinsurer to Increase Risk-Sharing Efforts
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-11-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/freddie-mac-turns-to-reinsurer-to-increase-risk-sharing-efforts.html
Freddie Mac  bought insurance
covering a portion of losses on a pool of home loans from  Arch
Capital Group Ltd. (ACGL) ’s Arch Reinsurance Ltd. unit, expanding risk-sharing efforts by the government-backed company.  The policy will cover as much as $77.4 million of losses on
a pool of mortgages funded in the third quarter of last year,
McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac said today in an e-mailed
statement. The loans are the same ones it shared some risk on
through a new type of securities sold earlier this year, Kevin Palmer, a vice president of strategic credit costing and
structuring, said in a telephone interview. The pool then
included 96,000 of mortgages with $22.5 billion of balances.  Freddie Mac, which already relies on U.S. mortgage insurers
to bear losses on loans with less than 20 percent down payments,
stands to benefit by turning to global reinsurers for bulk
policies because their diversified exposures will make them
stronger counterparties during any future housing crisis, said
Donna Corley, senior vice president of pricing and costing.  “It’s groundbreaking,” she said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a huge source of capital and a different source of
capital.”  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  ordered Freddie Mac and
Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  to engage in risk-sharing
transactions to gain insight into how the private sector prices
for potential losses and to reduce taxpayers’ dangers. Deals
were sought on at least $30 billion of loans each this year,
according to the  goals  set by FHFA for executives at the firms,
which back about two thirds of new U.S. mortgages.  New Securities  Freddie Mac sold $630 million of notes this month that
share its risks on $35.3 billion of loans to about 50 investors,
after placing $500 million in its inaugural July deal.  The company will pay 2.35 percent annually to Arch
Reinsurance for protection equivalent to the safer slice of the
first bond deal, Palmer said. It will pay 5.35 percent for
protection similar to the riskier class, he said.  Fannie Mae  sold $675 million of risk-sharing securities
last month and earlier this year obtained insurance on a pool of
about $5 billion of mortgages from  NMI Holdings Inc. (NMIH) ’s
Emeryville, California-based National  Mortgage Insurance  Corp.  Arch Capital, a Bermuda-based insurer, announced plans in
February to enter the U.S. market for mortgage insurance by
adding assets from bankrupt insurer PMI Group Inc. in a $300
million deal. This month, rival  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  accused Arch
Capital in a lawsuit of inducing a former account manager to
quit and take confidential information with her to gain a
competitive edge when it enters the business.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which were seized by the
government and bailed out during the 2008 financial crisis, are
set to return $39 billion to the U.S Treasury after reporting
third-quarter profits, bringing their total payments to within
about $2 billion of the cash aid they got after the credit
crisis. Freddie Mac’s latest dividend will leave taxpayers ahead
by $9 million, according to a statement last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  