-- Gene-Altered Food Fight Rages On as Oregon Takes Lead
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-11-12T06:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/gene-altered-food-fight-rages-on-as-oregon-takes-lead.html
The battle over genetically modified
food labeling that’s drawn almost $85 million in campaign
donations in little more than a year is moving to  Oregon  after
industry opponents defeated drives in California and all but
certainly in Washington state.  Oregon advocates are pushing ahead with a pair of labeling
initiatives for the 2014 general election despite the two
consecutive failures in which opponents funded by the  food
industry , including  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  DuPont Co. (DD) , makers of
bioengineered crop seeds, exponentially outspent supporters.  “I don’t see any reason at all to change strategy,” said
George Kimbrell, a senior attorney in the Portland office of the
Center for  Food Safety , which supports labeling. “The only
thing that is causing us to narrowly lose these initiatives is
the tidal wave of money that the chemical companies are
spending.”  Besides Oregon, lawmakers from New York to Hawaii may be
next to offer  bills  on genetically modified organisms, or GMOs.
Similar measures were weighed in about half of U.S. states this
year. Only Connecticut and  Maine  approved labeling, and their
legislation won’t take effect until other states do the same.  “We expect to see legislative proposals around the
country, and we will continue to work to educate and engage with
legislators,” said Louis Finkel, executive vice president for
government affairs at the  Grocery Manufacturers Association , a
Washington, D.C.-based trade group. The organization says a
national standard should be set by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.  Legal Challenge  In Oregon, a Salem-based group called Oregonians for Food
and Shelter has sued the state, challenging the ballot title of
one of the initiatives and the constitutionality of the other
measure. The question of the ballot title has delayed gathering
of signatures needed to get on the ballot, Scott Dahlman,
executive director of the group, said by telephone.  “What we’re trying to do is make sure that if this measure
does move forward, that the ballot title reflects what’s in
it,” Dahlman said.  The organization describes its focus as “protecting those
who responsibly use pest-management products, soil nutrients and
biotechnology from government over-regulation,” according to
its website. Its board includes representatives of Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont and St. Louis-based Monsanto.  Proponents Learning  “We’re trying to learn from Washington and  California ,”
said Scott Bates, director of GMO Free Oregon, a group backing
labeling. “At the moment, I’m thinking we’re not going to be
alone in November. There will be other states doing it besides
us.”  His goal is to gather 130,000 signatures to put the issue
before voters, Bates said. A similar  measure  failed in 2002
after only 30 percent supported it.  In Washington state, where the vote was conducted by mail-in ballot, the labeling initiative trailed 48 percent to 52
percent as of Nov. 9, according to unofficial results posted on
the secretary of state’s website. The count is expected to be
completed by Nov. 26.  Opponents collected $22 million in donations to defeat the
Washington measure, compared with $7.7 million from advocates,
according to MapLight, a nonpartisan research organization based
in Berkeley, California.  Washington’s industry-backed opponents spent their funds
effectively on advertising that increased opposition, said
Stuart Elway, president of Seattle-based polling company Elway
Research Inc.  ‘Case Study’  “It’s kind of a classic case study,” Elway said. “The
advertising and the money it takes to put the advertising on was
working.”  In September, support for the referendum was ahead of
opposition, 66 percent to 21 percent. After advertising on the
issue began, support fell to 46 percent, with opposition rising
to 42 percent, according to an Oct. 21 Elway Poll.  “The people voting no said it’s not needed, food costs
will rise, it’s poorly written -- all of which were points that
the opposition TV ads were driving home,” Elway said. “The
‘no’ voters were repeating back to us the talking points from
the opposition TV ads.”  Todd Myers, environmental director at the Washington Policy
Center in  Seattle , said the outcome in Oregon will be similar to
Washington state, where voters in urban areas supported labeling
and those in rural areas opposed it.  Political Repeat  “So you’re going to see that mix repeated,” Myers said.
“People like to focus on Monsanto and ignore the fact that
family farmers were pretty heavily opposed to this from the
beginning because it’s easier to demonize Monsanto than family
farmers.”  The outcome was similar in California last year, where
opponents got $46 million in campaign donations, compared with
$9.2 million from supporters of the initiative, according to
MapLight. The proposal lost 51 percent to 49 percent, according
to California’s secretary of state.  Lawmakers in states such as  Vermont , New York,  Hawaii  and
California will probably offer labeling proposals in coming
legislative sessions, said Kimbrell, of the Center for Food
Safety. Still, their potential for victory is no better than at
the ballot box, he said.  “The big food and big industrial agriculture lobby has a
lot of sway and a lot of pull with state representatives, so
that creates its own challenges,” Kimbrell said.  “This is not going away,” Kimbrell said. “We are going
to have genetically engineered food be labeled. It’s not a
question of if it will, it’s just when it will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 