-- German Industry Calls for Power-Subsidy Waivers Amid Planned Cut
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-11-12T11:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/german-industry-calls-for-power-subsidy-waivers-amid-planned-cut.html
Germany  risks losing jobs and
investment if  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s third-term government
scraps exemptions for companies from the rising cost of clean-energy subsidies, industry groups said.  Merkel’s Christian Democrat bloc and the  Social Democrats 
over the weekend agreed to “review” some exemptions for large
energy users from a renewable subsidy fee that has quintupled
since 2009. The aid is valued at about 4 billion euros ($5.3
billion) this year, according to Environment Ministry  data .  “The exemptions are essential as energy costs are already
very high in Germany,” Roland Schmied, a spokesman for VIK, a
group of industrial energy users, said today by telephone from
Essen. “If Germany wants to keep its industry with the current
value chain, then there has to be a regulation also in the
future that secures competitive energy prices.”  Germany is granting aid to its companies as the U.S. shale-gas revolution widens the European Union’s energy cost gap with
its largest trading partner. While Merkel has said the waivers
to companies ranging from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  to HeidelbergCement AG are
vital for the German economy’s competitiveness, she’s under
pressure to cut power costs for household consumers and answer
EU concerns that the support may be illegal.  Germany has granted power-fee waivers to 1,716 companies or
units at 2,295 locations, according to data from the federal
export agency. The number of exemptions may have to be “more
than halved” to ensure the aid doesn’t violate EU competition
rules, Heiko Maas, a lawmaker with the Social Democrats who took
part in the coalition talks on energy, said yesterday.  Dow, BASF  Germany’s chemical industry is “existentially dependent”
on the aid, Manfred Ritz, a spokesman for the VCI chemical
lobby, said today by phone. Large plants run by companies
including Dow Chemical Co. in northern Germany,  BASF SE (BAS)  in
Ludwighshafen and Wacker Chemie AG in Munich “sustain a large
number of jobs and are dependent on the exemptions,” he said.  Merkel said in July that Germany would “fight resolutely”
in Brussels for the waivers, which free companies from paying
the full fee to support the country’s clean-energy expansion.
Negotiators from the parties over the weekend agreed they want
to “further develop the aid to make it fit for the future,”
according to a document from the coalition talks. They haven’t
yet said how many exemptions they want to cut.  Both Schmied and Ritz said they’re “optimistic” that a
new government will keep protecting companies to safeguard
 Europe ’s biggest economy.  “The German energy switch is to strengthen industry and
that’s not possible without the exemptions,” Ritz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  