-- Gilbert Beebower, Key Researcher on Asset Allocation, Dies at 79
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-11-12T18:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/gilbert-beebower-key-researcher-on-asset-allocation-dies-at-79.html
Gilbert Beebower, co-author of a
1986  paper  demonstrating that investors should focus on
allocating money among equities, bonds and cash, rather than
pick stocks or bet on market turns, has died. He was 79.  He died on Oct. 25, according to a death notice in the  New
York  Times. Known as Gil, he was a longtime resident of New York
City and was associated with Oaks, Pennsylvania-based  SEI
Investments Co. (SEIC)  from 1975 until his death.  With Gary Brinson and L. Randolph Hood, Beebower wrote
“Determinants of Portfolio Performance,” published in the
July-August 1986 edition of Financial Analysts Journal. The
paper weighed the relative importance of investment policy,
market timing and stock selection on the returns of 91 U.S.
corporate pension plans over a 10-year period.  “The results are striking,” the authors wrote. They found
that allocation of assets “dominates” market timing and stock
selection, “explaining on average 93.6 percent of the variation
in total plan return.”  That finding “may well be the seminal citation on the
subject of asset allocation,” John Bogle, the founder of
Vanguard Group Inc., wrote in his “Common Sense on Mutual
Funds” (1999). “It is surely the most quoted.”  Vanguard, based in Valley Forge,  Pennsylvania ,  cited  the
study to back up one of the nine foundations of its investment
philosophy: “An investor’s most important decision is selecting
the mix of assets to be held in a portfolio, not selecting the
individual investments themselves.”  Second Study  The study looked at market performance from 1974 to 1983.
Beebower and Brinson followed up with a 1991 paper, with  Brian
D. Singer , looking at results over a 10-year period ending
December 1987. It reached a similar conclusion: asset allocation
was responsible for 91.5 percent of the variation in quarterly
total returns.  By focusing on what causes variation in a fund’s returns --
not on what explains the returns themselves -- the studies
prompted some confusion and a backlash.  They “are often misinterpreted and the results applied to
questions that the studies never intended to answer,” Roger Ibbotson, a Yale University finance professor and former
chairman of Ibbotson Associates, and Paul Kaplan, director of
the Morningstar Center for Quantitative Research, wrote in a
2000 paper, also for Financial Analysts Journal. Ibbotson
Associates is now part of Morningstar’s Investment Management
division.  Ibbotson and Kaplan concluded that while asset allocation
does determine about 90 percent of the variability of a single
fund’s return over time, it explains “only about 40 percent of
the variation of returns among funds.”  Taking ‘Liberties’  William Jahnke, in a 1997 paper titled “ The Asset
Allocation Hoax ,” said financial-services companies had “taken
liberties with the BHB study to market a wide range of
investment products” that “rarely relate directly to the
client’s long-term financial planning goals.”  Jahnke, a former head of Wells Fargo Investment Advisors,
later wrote, “Where Brinson, Hood and Beebower go wrong is in
choosing to analyze the variability of quarterly returns. They
are analyzing how bumpy the ride is, not where the ride is
going.”  Brinson, in an interview yesterday, said the early 1980s
were marked by “an excessive preoccupation at looking at the
micro-characteristics of a portfolio,” such as whether General
Motors Corp. or Ford Motor Co. was a better investment.  Thirty years later, “I think everybody agrees that the
formulation and thinking about asset allocation remains a very
paramount and important notion, and that’s all that we were
trying to say back in the 1980s,” Brinson said.  Three Quants  Brinson back then was president of First  Chicago  Investment
Advisors, formerly the money-management arm of First National
Bank of Chicago, and Hood worked there as an assistant vice
president. Beebower was a senior vice president at SEI.  The men would see each other at conferences on quantitative
analysis of investment portfolios.  To their discussions Beebower brought, crucially, access to
SEI’s database of institutional clients.  “His job was basically to go out and drum up business and
consult, and he had the best returns-and-holdings database on
major corporate pension plans in the country,” Hood said
yesterday in an interview.  Brinson recalled of Beebower: “He had a very inquisitive
mind. He’d always ask good questions, and you couldn’t just give
him a bland, banal answer.”  Brinson’s Foundation  Brinson founded Brinson Partners Inc., which he sold for
$750 million to Swiss Bank Corp., part of what today is Zurich-based UBS AG, Switzerland’s largest bank. He is now chairman of
the  Brinson Foundation , established in Chicago in 2001. Hood is
chief investment officer for U.S. Employee Benefit Plans at
Prudential Financial Inc. in  Newark , New Jersey.  Gilbert Lawrence Beebower was born on Jan. 20, 1934, in
Upland,  California , according to the death notice. He was the
son of Laurence and Alice Beebower, according to ancestry.com
records.  He graduated from California Institute of Technology in
 Pasadena , California, with a bachelor’s degree in applied
chemistry in 1955, then served two years in the U.S. Air Force.  Before joining SEI, where he rose to executive vice
president, he worked as a principal of O’Brien Associates,
director of analytical services for James H. Oliphant Co. and
senior associate with the Planning Research Corp., according to
a 1990s biography provided by SEI.  Moving to investment banking, he joined the funds
evaluation group of A.G. Becker & Co. In 1983, SEI bought A.G.
Becker’s consulting division.  Beebower served on the Presidential Task Force on Market
Mechanisms, known as the  Brady Commission  for its chairman,
Nicholas Brady, which investigated the causes of the 1987 stock
market crash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  