-- Glasenberg Says Glencore Has Edge From Mining-Trader Mix
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-11-13T17:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/glencore-s-diversity-to-draw-jse-investors-investec-says.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the global
mining and commodities group that started trading in
Johannesburg today, has an edge over rivals through its mix of
businesses, its chief executive officer said.  Combining mining and trading “gives us a very big
advantage,” Ivan Glasenberg told reporters in the city. “We
see and understand the performance of markets sooner than anyone
else because we’re dealing. If you take coal, we deal with the
Russians, we deal with the Indonesians, we deal with the
Colombians, we deal with the Americans,” he said. “We see
things before any other mining companies.”  Glencore has become the third-biggest company on the
 Johannesburg Stock Exchange , while keeping its primary listing
in  London  and a further secondary one in Hong Kong. Glasenberg,
56, won approval from Xstrata Plc investors in a November 2012
vote to create the fourth-largest mining group, with operations
in more than 50 countries, including South African coal, chrome
and platinum assets.  The stock closed at 53.87 rand, 2.1 percent below its
opening level. It was the most active share by volume and value.
Glencore dropped 2 percent to 324.9 pence by the close in
London, valuing the company at about $69 billion.  South African investors are able to buy Glencore’s
Johannesburg stock without it counting toward foreign ownership
limits imposed by local authorities.  ‘Unique Offer’  “In terms of diversification, it offers something pretty
unique,” said Hanre Rossouw, Investec Asset Management’s head
of commodities for frontier and  emerging markets . With
Glencore’s copper mining and marketing business, “you’ve got
two-thirds exposure to something you don’t really get in the
South African market,” he said.  Glencore’s South African assets include the Goedgevonden
thermal-coal complex in the Mpumalanga province, the Helena
underground chrome mine on the eastern limb of the Bushveld
Complex, the Wonderkop ferrochrome plant in the North West
Province and the Eland platinum mine near  Pretoria .  The JSE listing “not only deepens our relationship with
 South Africa , it highlights our confidence in  Africa  as a place
to invest,” Glasenberg said in a statement today.  Glencore is the most diversified among the biggest mining
“majors,” the Baar, Switzerland-based company said in a Nov.
11 presentation. While  iron ore  accounted for 89 percent of
first-half earnings before interest and taxation at Rio Tinto
Group, 52 percent at BHP Billiton Ltd. and 48 percent at  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) , Glencore’s biggest-single contributor was copper
at 30 percent, the presentation shows.  Investor Switch  “We anticipate healthy demand” for Glencore stock from
South African fund managers,  Jeff Largey , an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in London, said in e-mailed comments
yesterday.  The JSE listing may have a negative impact on shares of
Anglo American, which also trades in the city, Largey said.
Local investors may switch to Glencore to further dilute their
“South Africa risk,” given the mining and commodities-trading
group’s lower overall reliance on the African country. South
Africa accounts for about 45 percent of Anglo’s revenue.  Glencore would consider further diversification, looking at
potential opportunities in iron ore, where it has a marketing
business, Glasenberg said. The company still plans to divest the
24.5 percent stake in platinum producer  Lonmin Plc (LON)  it gained in
the Xstrata takeover.  “We’ve always said at some stage we’ll dispose of our
stake in Lonmin,” Glasenberg said today. “We’ve just got to
decide when is the right time.”  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , is a non-executive director of Glencore Xstrata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  