-- Global Soybean Production Seen Bigger Than Expected by Oil World
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-11-12T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/global-soybean-production-seen-bigger-than-expected-by-oil-world.html
Global production of soybeans may be
bigger than previously estimated as prospects improve for crops
in  South America , Oil World said.  World soybean output may be 4 million to 5 million metric
tons larger than previously expected, the Hamburg-based
researcher said in an e-mailed report, without providing a
specific production forecast. The company pegged the 2013-14
global harvest at 281.3 million tons in its last monthly report
released Oct. 22, 5.4 percent larger than a year earlier. Oil
World raised its production forecast for  Paraguay  and said
recent rainfall in  Argentina  means farmers will boost planting.  “Record-breaking world supply fundamentals are bearish,”
Oil World said. “World production of soybeans is likely to turn
out sizably above our estimate a month ago, creating a larger-than-expected production surplus, despite strong demand.”  Soybean futures slid 7.4 percent this year on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the global benchmark, amid an outlook for larger
supplies. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  raised its forecast
for world output on Nov. 8 to a record 283.54 million tons from
a forecast of 281.66 million tons in September.  Planting in  Argentina , the world’s third-biggest exporter,
may cover at least 20.5 million hectares (50.7 million acres),
4.6 percent more than a year earlier, Oil World said. Paraguay’s
harvest may be a record 9.3 million tons, and “excellent
weather” means some private analysts peg production as large as
9.6 million tons, it said.  Brazil Progresses  Brazil , the top exporter, has made “very good progress”
in planting this year, and some farmers are considering planting
quick-maturing varieties of the oilseed as a secondary crop in
January instead of corn, Oil World said. Some crops are at risk
of damage from a new type of ear-worm that has emerged in Mato
Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul and Goias states, where farmers have
increased use of insecticides.  Demand for the oilseed also is increasing, with  China 
purchasing a record 21.1 million tons of U.S. supplies for
shipment this year, as of Oct. 31, compared with 16 million tons
a year earlier, Oil World said. China, the world’s biggest
buyer, may import about 69 million tons in the 2013-14 season
that began Oct. 1, 9 million tons more than the prior year,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  