-- Global Banks Could Face $100 Billion in Accords, KBW Says
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-11-12T19:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/global-banks-could-face-100-billion-in-accords-kbw-says.html
Global investment banks could face
almost $100 billion in civil settlements from investigations
into interest-rate and foreign-exchange manipulations, analysts
at Stifel Financial Corp.’s KBW unit said.  Probes of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
could cost $46 billion and currency trading inquiries could
trigger another $26 billion, analysts led by  Andrew Stimpson 
said today in a note. That’s in addition to settling claims over
faulty mortgages with the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which
could be $24 billion, the analysts wrote.  While mounting litigation costs at firms including Deutsche
Bank AG and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  may not require capital raises,
financial firms might delay boosting dividends or buying back
stock, especially in the U.S., the analysts wrote. Lenders have
spent $44 billion on legal matters since last year’s first
quarter, the analysts said.  “Litigation costs are here to stay and are part of the
fabric of investment banking costs,” the analysts wrote in the
note, adding that the total could be driven even higher by other
claims tied to the U.S.  mortgage market  and  Bernard Madoff ’s
Ponzi scheme. “Banks have so far been keen to reach a
settlement with regulators or governments quickly, but the more
numerous civil cases are potentially more financially
damaging,” they wrote.  U.S. Bills  As of midyear, the six biggest U.S. banks had already piled
up $103 billion in legal costs since the financial  crisis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Traders at some banks may have pooled information about
their positions and used client orders to move benchmarks in the
$5.3 trillion-a-day  currency market , Bloomberg News reported in
June. Regulators are also investigating whether financial firms
colluded to rig Libor, which banks use to gauge rates on loans
to each other and as a baseline to determine what they’ll charge
other borrowers.  The analysts said they favor Paris-based  Societe Generale
SA (GLE) , and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the New York-based lender beset by
criminal and civil probes. “The balance sheet is more than
strong enough to take it,” they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  