-- Gol Operations Gains Offset by Declining Real: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-11-12T21:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/gol-operations-gains-offset-by-declining-real-corporate-brazil.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOL) ,
the most indebted airline in the Americas, is facing its seventh
quarterly  loss  as a decline in the Brazilian real overshadows
operational improvements.  The real’s 12 percent drop against the U.S. currency in the
past year is squeezing  Brazil ’s second-largest carrier because
77 percent of its debt is denominated in dollars, while Gol gets
most of its  revenue  from within the country, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Jet fuel, Gol’s biggest expense, is priced in
dollars as well.  Gol’s struggles are repeated across the Brazilian industry
because of the real’s slump and a drop in traffic amid a slowing
economy.  Latam Airlines Group SA (LAN)  and  Azul Linhas Aereas
Brasileiras SA  also have seen operating expenses more than
double, and  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg forecast Gol will
extend its loss streak when it reports earnings later today.  “The problem is Gol is hyper-indebted, and the dollar
hurts them,” said Bianca Faiwichow, an analyst at GBM Brasil
Dtvm in  Sao Paulo . “I wouldn’t put my hand in the fire for any
airline, for better or worse, because it’s really hard to know.
They depend a lot on fuel.”  Representatives of Gol declined via e-mail to comment on
the company’s performance ahead of today’s results. The adjusted
net loss for the quarter is projected to narrow to 142.7 million
reais ($61.2 million) from 309.4 million reais a year earlier,
according to the average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cutting Costs  Chief Executive Officer Paulo Sergio Kakinoff has been
cutting flights to reduce costs and boost revenue from each seat
flown a kilometer, an industry benchmark. Sao Paulo-based Gol
has posted monthly gains of as much as 24 percent this year on
that basis, compared with a 2012 high of 7 percent, regulatory
filings show.  Gol’s challenge is that those increases should begin to
subside this month because of tougher year-earlier comparisons,
according to Victor Mizusaki, an equity analyst at UBS AG in Sao
Paulo. His buy rating is the equivalent of Faiwichow’s market
outperform.  The  stock  remains under pressure, falling 23 percent this
year, while the benchmark Ibovespa index was down 15 percent.
The shares  slid  4.3 percent to 9.97 reais today in Sao Paulo,
its sixth straight day of declines. The real was little changed
at 2.3321 per dollar.  Gol is trying to return to profit with  jet fuel  accounting
for 41 percent of operating expenses in the second quarter, the
most among 16 carriers in the Americas with at least 100 planes,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jet Fuel  Jet kerosene has increased more than 40 percent since
November 2009, while the drop in Brazil’s currency is the
biggest among major Latin American dollar counterparts this
year.  As costs rise, industrywide demand is slowing in Brazil.
The number of domestic passengers rose 6.8 percent after annual
gains of 16 percent in 2011 and 25 percent in 2010, according to
the Brazilian aviation regulator, known as Anac.  About 77 percent of Gol’s 5.6 billion reais in debt was in
U.S. dollars at the end of the second quarter compared with 70
percent a year earlier, according to filings. To boost sales in
foreign currency, Gol began partnerships to share booking codes
with  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and Alitalia SpA and is in talks with
 Air France-KLM  and Deutsche Lufthansa AG for similar accords.  Margin Forecast  Gol has projected a 2013 margin of earnings before interest
and taxes of 1 percent to 3 percent and wants to reach a
“double-digit” tally, Chief Financial Officer Edmar Lopes said
on a conference call last month, without specifying a timeframe.  “We will not be able to get there in 2014,” Lopes said.
“But we will for sure be in better shape, we will see some
improvements down the road. How much is still unclear, because
it depends on macro environment, it depends on FX, it depends on
supply, it depends on competition.”  The market is “confident that Gol will be able to meet its
ebit margin guidance of 1 to 3 percent for 2013,” said UBS’s
Mizusaki. “Next year, with this capacity discipline in the
sector, if there is an improvement in the economy, flights will
be fuller and ebit margins can expand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  