-- Greenpeace Satisfied by Eskom Action Over Spying Allegations
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-11-12T13:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/greenpeace-satisfied-by-eskom-action-over-spying-allegations.html
Greenpeace said it’s “satisfied”
with steps taken by  South Africa ’s Eskom Holdings Ltd. after a
security company hired by the state-owned power company spied on
environmental groups.  “Eskom has taken the matter seriously and investigated it
fully, has publicly apologized to the organizations involved,”
Melita Steele, an energy campaigner for Greenpeace Africa, said
in an e-mailed response to questions today. “Greenpeace is
concerned that the organizations were actually infiltrated, and
that this information was gathered in the first place.”  Security management at Eskom’s Medupi power plant
construction site had entered into a contract with Swartberg, an
intelligence support services company, “to ensure protection of
the site and to better anticipate threats to personnel and
property following civil unrest,” the Johannesburg-based
company, said in a statement yesterday.  Eskom supplies most of
South Africa’s power.  Eskom suspended construction of Medupi, set to be the
world’s fourth-largest coal-fired power plant, for a week
following a violent protest by about 500 of 9,000 workers in May
2011.  The utility apologized to groundWork, Earthlife Africa and
Greenpeace, and disclosed the results of its investigation of
Swartberg, Eskom said.  “There was infiltration of the three environmental
organizations, and this was combined with intelligence
gathering, sometimes of information of a personal nature,”
Steele said. “This infiltration largely involved attending
meetings/trainings with the organizations, although some
personal interviews also happened. What is clear is that
Swartberg did exceed their mandate.”  There was concern about the way in which the contract was
managed and the risks for Eskom in contracting such services,
the utility said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  