-- Ibovespa Declines as Banco do Brasil Tumbles on Earnings Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-11-12T20:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/ibovespa-futures-fall-as-metals-decline-dims-producer-outlook.html
The Ibovespa sank to a two-month low
as  Banco do Brasil SA  tumbled after cutting its estimate for
interest earnings and Brazilian commodity producers fell amid
concern the  Federal Reserve  will trim U.S. monetary stimulus.  Steelmaker  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3)  was the worst
performer among material stocks as iron-ore producer Vale SA
followed metals lower. Plane builder  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  advanced after
Citigroup Inc. raised its recommendation to the equivalent of
hold from sell.  The Ibovespa slipped 1.6 percent to 51,804.33 today in Sao
Paulo, the lowest close since Sept. 4. The real lost less than
0.1 percent to 2.3335 per  U.S. dollar  at 5:25 p.m. local time.
Banco do Brasil sank 5.3 percent after the state-controlled
lender cut its 2013 estimate for growth in net interest income,
the gap between revenue from loans and the cost of paying
interest on deposits, to no more than 5 percent from as high as
7 percent.  “Banco do Brasil’s forecast cut signals that the outlook
for profits is not so positive,”  Pedro Galdi , the head
strategist at SLW Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s also some growing concern that the Fed may
start reducing stimulus sooner than expected, which is affecting
demand for equities.”  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , who has said he
wouldn’t rule out backing a reduction in bond buying by March,
said at an event in  Melbourne  today that monetary accommodation
“becomes riskier by the day.” The median estimate of 32
economists surveyed by Bloomberg is that policy makers will
reduce the monthly pace of bond buying to $70 billion at their
March 18-19 meeting. The group next meets Dec. 17-18.  CSN, Vale  Fifty-two of the Ibovespa’s member stocks declined today
while 18 advanced. CSN, as Cia. Siderurgica is known, lost 3.6
percent to 12.40 reais. Vale fell 2.5 percent to 32.43 reais.
The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index sank 0.5
percent.  MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA retreated 2 percent to
8.73 reais after earlier rising as much as 3.1 percent. The
company posted third-quarter adjusted net income of 130.9
million reais, which compares with an average analysts’  estimate 
of 120.6 million reais, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Twenty-four of the 45 companies on the Ibovespa that have
 reported  third-quarter figures exceeded analysts’ estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Embraer Scenario  Embraer added 1.9 percent to 18.10 reais, paring a decline
over the past month to 5 percent.  The recent pullback in the shares has “created a somewhat
more balanced risk-reward scenario” for Embraer’s shares,
Citigroup analysts including Stephen Trent wrote in a research
note.  Brazil’s main equity index entered a  bull market  Sept. 9
after rising 20 percent from this year’s low on July 3 through
that day. The gauge is still down 25 percent in dollar terms
this year, compared with a decline of 6.2 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 7.39 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.61 billion reais this year
through Oct. 22, according to the latest data available from the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  