-- IMF Says One-Million Jobs Gap in GCC Risks More Unemployment
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-11-12T09:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/imf-says-one-million-jobs-gap-in-gcc-risks-more-unemployment.html
One million nationals of oil-rich
Gulf Arabs states may be jobless or seeking careers in a bloated
public sector by 2018 unless measures are taken to create more
private sector jobs, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Private companies in the six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council are expected to generate 600,000 jobs, one million less
than the number of nationals likely to come into the labor
market,  Masood Ahmed , head of the  Middle East  and Central Asia
department at the IMF, told a news conference in Dubai today.  “Most countries know now that the model of simply
employing nationals in the GCC in the public sector is not a
model that’s sustainable, because the public sector is running
out of jobs to provide, because it’s not improving
productivity,” he said. “It’s just a measure of the challenge
going forward.”  His remarks comes amid a crackdown on undocumented foreign
workers in  Saudi Arabia  as the biggest Arab economy seeks to
enforce laws that require companies to provide more jobs to
nationals. Clashes between Saudi police and foreign nationals
during the weekend in  Riyadh  killed two people, including a
Saudi citizen.  The jobless rate for Saudi workers is about 12 percent,
according to official figures. Non-oil economic growth is
forecast to stay little changed this year at 4.8 percent, IMF
estimates show.  Almost 70 percent of private-sector jobs in the GCC, which
also include the United Arab Emirates,  Kuwait , Oman, Qatar and
Bahrain, go to expatriates, according to an IMF report presented
today in Dubai. By contrast, nationals occupy 88 percent of
government jobs.  “One element of expanding opportunities in the private
sector is to limit public sector wage and job growth,” Ahmed
said. “All the evidence shows that when you increase public-sector employment, you actually don’t reduce unemployment so
much as you reduce private-sector employment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  