-- India to Invite Bids for 1-Gigawatt Solar Plant by March
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-11-12T09:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/india-to-invite-bids-for-1-gigawatt-solar-plant-by-march.html
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) ,
 India ’s largest power-equipment maker, plans to invite bids by
March to build a 1-gigawatt solar plant as the government seeks
to cut the cost of the technology by promoting large projects.  State-owned Bharat Heavy, leading a six-company joint
venture, intends to auction a contract for the design and
construction work in the next four months, said Tarun Kapoor,
joint secretary at the Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy .  India, which suffers from peak-hour power shortages of as
much as 25 percent in some states, is starting a program of
large-scale renewable projects to diversify its energy mix and
reduce a current-account deficit exacerbated by fuel imports.  The country has proposed to build five so-called ultra-mega
renewable parks comprising as much as 18 gigawatts in capacity
over about 10 years, according to a ministry presentation
obtained by  Bloomberg News . That would expand India’s installed
solar capacity ninefold.  “The main objective is to bring down the price of solar
power,” Kapoor said at the Intersolar conference in Mumbai 
yesterday. “We want to bring it to about 5.5 rupees (8.6 cents) 
a kilowatt-hour so that it’s competitive with any other source 
of power.”  Bharat Heavy’s planned tender will award a contract for the
first gigawatt of a proposed 4-gigawatt solar park at Sambhar,
Rajasthan state. The remaining capacity will later be auctioned
in 500-megawatt batches to non-state developers, Kapoor said.  Planned Parks  Separately, a 4.7-gigawatt renewable park is planned in
Kharaghoda, Gujarat state, that would include 700 megawatts of
wind power. Land for both parks has already been obtained from
state-run Hindustan Salts Ltd., Kapoor said.  Other government plans include solar farms in northern
Jammu and Kashmir state, and a solar park in Bhadla near Jodhpur
in Rajasthan.  The target tariff of 5.5 rupees a kilowatt-hour for ultra-mega projects is 27 percent below the average cost of solar
power in India today, according to Kapoor. It’s 32 percent below
the global average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The new  Solar Energy Corp. of India  will be the sole buyer
of electricity from the projects, according to the joint
secretary. The state-run corporation  applied to  regulators last
month for a license to trade power, which would allow it to buy
and sell solar output across the nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in  Mumbai  at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  