-- Indonesia Unexpectedly Raises Key Rate to Highest Since 2009
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-11-12T07:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/indonesia-unexpectedly-raises-key-rate-to-highest-since-2009.html
Indonesia ’s central bank
unexpectedly raised its benchmark interest rate as policy makers
intensify efforts to narrow a current-account deficit that has
weighed on the rupiah.  Governor Agus Martowardojo and his board increased the
reference rate by 25 basis points to 7.5 percent, the central
bank said in Jakarta today. Only one out of 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted a 25-basis point increase,
with the rest expecting no change. The  deposit facility rate  was
raised to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent.  Indonesian officials are grappling with a depreciated
exchange rate, elevated inflation and diminished foreign capital
inflows undermining President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s legacy
of economic stability before he steps down next year. With
today’s move, the central bank has raised its key rate by 1.75
percentage points since early June to shore up the rupiah and
stem price gains, while the government predicts growth next year
will be slower as it reins in spending to narrow a record
current-account gap.  “Recent trade data shows that the improvement of the
current-account may not be very swift,”  Helmi Arman , a Jakarta-based economist at Citigroup Inc., said before the decision.
“Stabilization or tightening policies are still warranted.”  The rupiah was little changed at 11,559 as of 2:48 p.m. in
Jakarta, prices compiled by Bloomberg from local banks show. It
has declined more than 17 percent this year, the worst
performance among 11 major Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Slowing Growth  GDP increased 5.62 percent in the three months ended Sept.
30 from a year earlier, after climbing 5.83 percent in the
second quarter, the government said Nov. 6. Bank Indonesia cut
its 2013 economic growth forecast last month to between 5.5
percent and 5.9 percent, from as much as 6.2 percent earlier.  Inflation remained above 8 percent for a fourth month in
October.  The current-account shortfall was a record 4.4 percent of
GDP in the three months through June, and Martowardojo has said
it may have narrowed to about 3.3 percent to 3.5 percent of GDP
last quarter. Bank Indonesia will release the third-quarter
figures tomorrow.  Narrowing the deficit is the number one priority for
Indonesia, and the government is planning a policy package this
month to help the balance of payments, Finance Minister Chatib Basri said Nov. 7.  “Policy tightening is needed to control inflation and
solve the current-account deficit problem,” Nouriel Roubini, a
professor of economics at  New York  University, said in Jakarta
yesterday. “Currency depreciation is necessary to curb the
external deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  