-- Indonesia Unexpectedly Raises Key Rate
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-11-12T09:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/indonesia-unexpectedly-raises-key-rate.html
Indonesia’s central bank
unexpectedly raised its benchmark  interest rate , stepping up its
campaign to contain  inflation (IDCPIY)  and shore up the rupiah.  Governor Agus Martowardojo and his board increased the
 reference rate  by 25 basis points to 7.5 percent, the central
bank said in Jakarta today. Only one out of 25 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted the move.  This is the fifth unexpected rate increase since
Martowardojo took office in May, as he seeks to bolster the
policy credibility of a nation that was among the worst hit in
recent months as capital flowed out of  emerging markets  and the
current-account deficit widened to a record. The rupiah, which
has tumbled 16 percent since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  raised the prospect in May of tapering bond purchases,
pared declines after today’s announcement.  “The move is preemptive and they’re willing to live with
lower growth, lower credit growth, lower import growth so long
as the current account is at a more manageable magnitude,” said
Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of America Corp. in Singapore.
“Nine months ago, there were some concerns that BI was behind
the curve. They’re also acting to restore their credibility, to
preempt further concerns.”  The rupiah was little changed at 11,600 per dollar as of
3:38 p.m. in Jakarta, after losing as much as 0.8 percent
earlier, prices compiled by Bloomberg from local banks show. The
currency is the worst performer this year among 11 major Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Policy Dilemma  Indonesian officials are grappling with a depreciated
 exchange rate , elevated inflation and diminished foreign capital
inflows undermining President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s legacy
of economic stability before he steps down next year.  With today’s move, the central bank has raised its key rate
by 1.75 percentage points since early June to shore up the
rupiah and stem price gains. Inflation remained above 8 percent
for a fourth month in October.  The current-account shortfall was 4.4 percent of GDP in the
three months through June.  Bank Indonesia  will release the
third-quarter figures tomorrow.  Narrowing the deficit is the number one priority for
Indonesia, and the government is planning a policy package this
month to help the balance of payments, Finance Minister Chatib Basri said Nov. 7.  Clear Objective  “Earlier in the year, we sensed that BI was tolerant of
growing external imbalances as long as capital flows were still
coming and deemed sufficient as a counterbalance,” said  Helmi Arman , a Jakarta-based economist at Citigroup Inc. and the only
analyst in the Bloomberg survey to predict the outcome. “Now BI
has a clear objective of bringing down the current account
deficit. Hence even though bond market capital flows recover, BI
can tighten monetary policy if data outcomes do not point to a
current-account  deficit reduction  that meets expectations.”  The central bank today also raised the  deposit facility
rate  to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent.  GDP increased 5.62 percent in the three months ended Sept.
30 from a year earlier, after climbing 5.83 percent in the
second quarter, the government said Nov. 6. Bank Indonesia cut
its 2013 economic growth forecast last month to between 5.5
percent and 5.9 percent, from as much as 6.2 percent earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  