-- Rupiah Weakens as Rate Rise Signals No Current-Account Relief
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-11-13T05:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/indonesia-rate-rise-signals-no-current-account-relief-for-rupiah.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah and stocks fell
for a fourth day after yesterday’s surprise interest-rate rise
fueled speculation current-account data today will show little
improvement from the second quarter’s record deficit.  The currency weakened 0.4 percent to 11,644 per dollar as
of 12:11 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks.
It touched 11,675 earlier, just shy of the four-year low of
11,680 on Sept. 30. The rupiah has tumbled 6.1 percent since
trading at a seven-week high on Oct. 25. The  Jakarta Composite (JCI) 
index of shares fell 2 percent, taking its decline this week to
4.1 percent. The yield on 10-year  government bonds  rose four
basis points to 8.46 percent, the highest since September.  “We think the current-account improvement will be
disappointing,” said Mika Martumpal, head of treasury research
and strategy at PT Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta. “It’s too soon
to expect a significant improvement as there is a lag in the
impact of policy moves on the real economy.”  In a move that was predicted by only one of 25 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg,  Bank Indonesia  raised the  reference rate 
to a four-year high of 7.5 percent yesterday. Foreign funds
pulled $264 million from Indonesian stocks in November as the
improving U.S. economic outlook spurred speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will reduce stimulus as soon as this year.  ‘Quite Disappointing’  Bank Indonesia, which has raised its key rate by 1.75
percentage points in the past five months, said yesterday’s
increase is aimed at narrowing the current-account gap. The
shortfall will be 3.7 percent to 3.8 percent of gross domestic
product in the third quarter, from a record 4.4 percent in the
previous three months, it estimated yesterday.  “The main concern is how much the currency has weakened
over a short span of time,” Ho Woei Chen, a Singapore-based
economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd., the city-state’s third-largest lender, said in an interview yesterday. The rate
increase indicates today’s figures will be “quite
disappointing,” she said.  UOB says the rupiah will decline to 11,700 per dollar by
year-end.  Barclays, (BARC)  the most-accurate rupiah forecaster over the
past four quarters, says it will drop to 11,750.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , the third most-accurate rupiah forecaster,
sees the current-account deficit easing to $9.2 billion last
quarter, compared with Bank Indonesia’s estimate for $8.4
billion and the all-time high of $9.8 billion in the previous
three months. Barclays sees the broadest measure of trade
narrowing to $7.7 billion before widening again in the fourth
quarter. Only a shortfall of less than $5 billion would be
positive for the currency, UOB’s Ho said.  Tightening Cycle  The country unexpectedly posted a trade deficit in
September, following a surplus the previous month, a government
report showed Nov. 1. That data indicates there will be “little
change” in the third-quarter current account from the previous
period,  Tim Condon , ING Groep NV’s Singapore-based head of  Asia 
research, wrote in a research note today.  Bank Indonesia has embarked on its most aggressive
tightening cycle to address the balance-of-payments deficit
since it introduced the reference rate in 2005. The central bank
will “claw back most” of this year’s rate increases in 2014,
ING’s Condon wrote in the note.  “We think the relatively slow improvement of the current-account deficit in the third quarter helped shape the
decision,”  Helmi Arman , Jakarta-based economist at Citigroup
Inc., the only analyst to have predicted the rate increase,
wrote in a report yesterday. “The central bank, as a guardian
of last resort for the current-account deficit, has demonstrated
its stronger commitment to tackling this deficit.”  Reduce Imports  The rupiah’s current level is needed to reduce imports,
Perry Warjiyo, deputy governor at the central bank, said Nov. 8,
when the  exchange rate  was 11,410 per dollar. The currency at
9,400 to 9,500 is not suitable for a country with a current-account shortfall, Senior Deputy Governor Mirza Adityaswara said
this week. The rupiah has fallen 17 percent this year, the most
in Asia.  “The key thing is that the current account will narrow,”
said Leo Rinaldy, a Jakarta-based economist at PT Mandiri
Sekuritas, a unit of the nation’s largest lender by assets,
which forecasts a third-quarter gap of 3.7 percent of GDP. “The
rupiah is now more reflective of market forces and it will be
helpful in fixing the external imbalance.”  PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia (TLKM)  was the biggest drag on the
Jakarta share index today, falling 4.6 percent. PT Bank Mandiri
slid 3.9 percent and property developer PT Lippo Karawaci
retreated 3.1 percent.  Challenging Fundamentals  One-month implied volatility in the rupiah, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 15.02 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. One-month non-deliverable
forwards were steady at 11,618 per dollar, 0.2 percent stronger
than the spot rate. A fixing used to settle the contracts was
set at 11,473 by the Association of Banks in  Singapore  today,
from 11,427 yesterday.  Monetary tightening contributed to the nation’s growth
slowing for a fifth straight quarter in the three months through
September. The economy expanded  5.62 percent  last quarter, the
least since 2009, data showed this month.  “We believe the rate hike will provide near-term support
to the rupiah, but it’s likely to be short-lived,”  Prakriti
Sofat , a Singapore-based economist at Barclays, said in an
interview yesterday. The “increased credibility of the central
bank is a positive for the currency, however fundamentals remain
challenging,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  