-- Miner to Pay in Bitcoins for Work at Tungsten Project
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-11-12T21:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/miner-to-pay-in-bitcoins-for-work-at-tungsten-project.html
A Canadian mining company agreed to
pay a contractor in Bitcoins for exploration work to be carried
out at a property that contains tungsten.  Alix Resources Corp. (AIX)  said today in a statement it will pay
Ridge Resources Ltd. for the work at its Windy property about 15
kilometers (9 miles) north of Cassiar, British Columbia.  As Ridge completes the work, it will quote payment in
Canadian dollars and Vancouver-based Alix will convert the price
into the digital currency, Alix Chief Executive Officer Michael England, 50, said in a phone interview.  “We are a mining exploration company so yes, this is a bit
different,” he said. “There’s a lot of expectations that
Bitcoins are going higher, so why not start accumulating?”  The shares rose 33 percent to 4 Canadian cents in Toronto
on trading volume 17 times the three-month average, giving Alix
a market value of C$2 million ($1.9 million).  “I’m surprised someone’s willing to take payment through
Bitcoins,” Brian Huen, managing partner with Red Sky Capital
Management Ltd. in Toronto, which manages about C$220 million,
said by phone. “I certainly personally wouldn’t take that
currency for services I’m rendering.”  Alix has also teamed up with a software vendor to operate a
Bitcoin exchange. Depending on the success of the venture, Alix
may shift its focus to Bitcoins entirely,  England  said.  “We want to take advantage of this niche, this explosive
sector,” he said.  Bitcoin has surged this year. It opened today at $343.63
and traded as high as $357 on  BitStamp , an online exchange. The
virtual currency was introduced four years ago and exists as
software that’s designed to be untraceable, making it an
attractive tender for those seeking to trade anonymously via the
Internet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  