-- Intellectual Ventures, Canonical: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/intellectual-ventures-canonical-intellectual-property.html
Intellectual Ventures  Inc., the
company started by former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  chief technology
officer  Nathan Myhrvold , wants to shift its image from patent
troll to innovation facilitator, the Puget Sound Business
Journal  reported .  Myhrvold told the publication that people “misunderstand
our business and how we do it.”  The company, based in Bellevue,  Washington , has begun a
partnership with a Seattle-based startup incubator  SURF  to
educate and mentor the region’s startup companies, according to
Puget Sound Business Journal.  SURF director Neil Bergquist said the partnership will give
Intellectual Ventures a chance to “get beyond what’s in the
headlines” about its patent litigation and acquisitions and
“frank discussions” with inventors, the publication reported.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Canonical’s Shuttleworth Apologizes for Trademark Complaint  Mark Shuttleworth, the South African who paid the Russian
Space Agency $20 million for a visit to the orbiting Soyuz space
station, has apologized for sending a  cease-and-desist letter  to
the operators of a website that criticized the Ubuntu computer
operating system.  His Canonical Ltd. distributes the Ubuntu system, and
Shuttleworth said in a blog post that someone at his company
“made a mistake in sending the wrong response to a trademark
issue out of the range of the responses we usually take.”  The cease-and-desist notice was sent to operators of
 FixUbuntu.com . When news of the notice leaked out, Suttleworth
said that among other things “the Internet went wild,” and
Wired magazine “picked a headline accusing Canonical of a
campaign to suppress critics.”  Canonical’s trademark policy, Shuttleworth said, “allows
community members to use the marks (good) and allows for satire
and sucks sites even in jurisdictions where the local law does
not (great!).”  After the  criticisms  began to mount, Shuttleworth said
company officials reviewed the decision, corrected the action
and addressed the matter publicly. He compared the error in
sending the notice to a bug in a line of code.  He also apologized for referring to what he called the
“vocal non-technical critics of work that Canonical does,” as
members of the “open source  tea party .” He said this was
equally offensive to members of the real Tea Party and “the
people with vocal non-technical criticism of work that Canonical
does.”  Homeland Security Seizes Money, Domain Name, PayPal Account  A Durango,  Colorado , resident is under investigation by the
U.S. Department of  Homeland Security  over the alleged sale of
counterfeit soccer jerseys, the Durango Herald  reported .  The government agency obtained a federal warrant to seize
more than $107,000, the Internet domain name and a PayPal
account associated with the sale of the fake jerseys, according
to the Herald.  An agent with  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection bought two
of the fake jerseys in a financial transaction operated through
a pizza restaurant in Hermosa, Colorado, that shared a
storefront with the retail outlet operated by the Durango
resident, according to the newspaper.  A Homeland Security agent bought three jerseys through the
website belonging to the accused seller of fake items, the
Herald reported.  Sears Canada Sued Over Parkas Canada Goose Claims Are Knockoffs  Sears Canada Inc. (SCC)  was sued for trademark infringement by
Toronto-based  Canada Goose Inc. , a manufacturer of outdoor
clothing, the Edmonton Journal  reported .  Canada  Goose has claimed that Sears is selling knockoffs of
one of its parkas, and that the public is confused as to the
source of the parkas they are buying at Sears, according to the
Journal.  A Sears spokesman told the Herald the suit is without merit
and that there could be no confusion between its parkas and
those made by Canada Goose.  Canada Goose said in its court papers that it has sold $225
million of its products in Canada since 2005, and that its goods
have “enormous consumer recognition” both in Canada and
outside the country, the Herald reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Premier League Drops Copyright Case Against Google, YouTube  The Football Association Premier League Ltd. has settled
its copyright suit against  Google Inc. (GOOG) , and the search engine’s
YouTube video-sharing unit.  Google’s YouTube was sued in May 2007 in federal court in
 New York  for allegedly permitting postings of copyrighted
material from the Premier League without permission.  YouTube and Google have said their actions were permitted
under U.S. copyright law, which allows “fair use” of protected
material. They had also argued that the Premier League hasn’t
done enough on its own to limit illegal postings.  In July 2009, Google won dismissal of some of the claims
for money damages. U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton rejected
the soccer group’s claim for punitive damages under U.S.
copyright law, and also dismissed most of the a claims for
statutory damages, with an exception for live broadcasts.  “There is no circumstance in which punitive damages are
available under the Copyright Act of 1976,” Stanton said in
that ruling. Statutory damages were dismissed with respect to
most “foreign” works that weren’t registered in the U.S.  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ,  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   and IAC/Interactive
Corp.  had all submitted friend-of-the-court briefs on Google’s
behalf.  Other than the fact that all parties were to bear their own
litigation and attorney fee costs, no details of the dismissal
were revealed in the court filing.  The case is Football Association Premier League Ltd. v.
YouTube Inc., 1:07-cv-03582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  WilmerHale Hires Weil Gotshal’s Jason Kipnis for IP Practice  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dore LLP hired Jason Kipnis
for its IP practice group, the Washington-based firm said in a
 statement .  Kipnis , who does both litigation and transactional work,
joins from New York’s Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP.  He has represented clients in the  computer hardware ,
software, networking, consumer electronics, Internet, and
semiconductor processing industries.  Before he was a lawyer, he worked as a consultant at  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)   Kipnis has an undergraduate degree and a master’s degree
from the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and a law degree
from  Stanford University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  