-- Iran’s Full Return to Oil Market Remains Perilous, Barclays Says
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-11-12T11:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/iran-s-full-return-to-oil-market-remains-perilous-barclays-says.html
The breakdown of negotiations
between the U.S. and world powers highlights how difficult it
will be for  Iran  to make a full return as an oil exporter in the
near future, according to Barclays Plc.  The six-nation negotiating group in Geneva didn’t agree
during Nov. 9 talks with Iran on alterations to its nuclear
program that would allow financial sanctions to be eased. Even
had the talks been more successful, the  U.S. Congress  has little
appetite to lift measures banning imports of Iranian crude and
is considered proposals to tighten sanctions further, Miswin Mahesh, a London-based commodities analyst at Barclays, said
today in an e-mailed report.  “Given the constellation of forces that could stymie a
grand bargain, we contend that the path to Iran’s full return to
the oil market remains quite perilous,” Mahesh said.  The failure of the talks prompted December Brent crude
futures to climb 1.2 percent yesterday to $106.40 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. Iranian crude exports
were estimated at 1.17 million barrels a day in September,
according to a report by the  International Energy Agency  on Oct.
11.  Israel  and  Saudi Arabia  have also expressed concern of any
weakening of the deal while Iran has warned against any deal
that surrenders its core strategic interests, Mahesh said.  The news also coincides with a recent switch in Brent
crude’s structure whereby the December front month is now
trading at a premium to later months, a situation known as
backwardation. Barclays expects this situation to continue.  The group of six western nations known as the P5+1 that
held talks with Iran consists of the U.S., U.K., France, Russia
and China -- the five permanent members of the UN Security
Council -- plus Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in  London  at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  