-- IRS Seeks ZKB Client Records From Citigroup, BNY Mellon
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-11-12T23:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/irs-seeks-zkb-client-records-from-citigroup-bny-mellon.html
The U.S. won court permission to ask
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  for records of
U.S. clients of Zuercher Kantonalbank to determine whether they
evaded taxes, records show.  ZKB, the biggest of  Switzerland ’s publicly owned regional
banks, “conspired with U.S. taxpayers to help them conceal
their foreign accounts,” according to a lawsuit filed Nov. 6 by
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan .  U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood in Manhattan signed an order
Nov. 7 allowing the  Internal Revenue Service  to serve summonses
on Citibank and BNY Mellon. The banks allowed ZKB to get access
to the U.S. banking system through correspondent accounts,
according to Bharara’s suit, filed on behalf of the IRS.  The IRS concluded that “ZKB has used the Citibank and  BNY
Mellon  correspondent accounts to provide offshore banking
services to U.S. taxpayers, who in turn have failed to report
the existence of their ZKB accounts to the IRS, as well as the
income earned on those accounts,” according to the complaint.  The complaint, known as a John Doe summons, comes amid a
U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion . Last December, three
current or former ZKB employees were indicted on charges of
helping U.S. clients hide more than $420 million from the IRS.  Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for Citigroup, and Kevin Heine,
a spokesman for BNY Mellon, declined to comment on the court
order in e-mails. Both banks are New York-based. A spokesman for
Zurich-based ZKB couldn’t be reached for comment.  Butterfield Order  U.S. District Judge Richard Berman in  New York  signed an
order today authorizing the IRS to issue summonses requiring
five banks to produce information about undisclosed accounts at
The Bank of N.T. Butterfield & Son Ltd. The order also covers
affiliates in the Bahamas, Barbados,  Cayman Islands , Guernsey,
 Hong Kong , Malta, Switzerland, and the U.K., Bharara said in
statement.  Taxpayers made 81 voluntary disclosures about accounts at
Hamilton, Bermuda-based Butterfield.  “These John Does summonses will provide information about
individuals using financial institutions from Switzerland to the
Cayman Islands to Hong Kong to avoid their U.S. tax
obligations,” Assistant Attorney General Kathryn Keneally said
in a statement.  “U.S. taxpayers still holding accounts who have not come
clean should come forward and do the right thing before it’s too
late,” she said.  An e-mail sent to Butterfield after hours wasn’t
immediately returned.  371 Disclosures  Since 2009, 38,000 U.S. taxpayers avoided prosecution by
voluntarily disclosing offshore accounts to the IRS, and 371
were ZKB clients, according to the complaint.  The U.S. charged  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank, which
avoided prosecution by paying a penalty, admitting it fostered
tax evasion, and handing over records. The government obtained a
guilty plea by Wegelin & Co., Switzerland’s oldest private bank,
and is conducting criminal probes of 14 Swiss banks.  The U.S. also charged about 70 American taxpayers and 30 of
their enablers. Stephan Fellmann, Otto Huppi and Christof Reist
were charged in December with a single count each of conspiracy
and accused of helping at least 180 U.S. taxpayers maintain
undeclared accounts at ZKB. They haven’t responded in court to
the charges.  The ZKB complaint, citing the indictment and “other
information obtained by the IRS,” said ZKB conspired from 2003
to 2009 to help hide assets from the IRS.  Clients Discouraged  “ZKB employees discouraged U.S. clients from disclosing
the existence of their ZKB accounts to U.S. authorities,”
according to the complaint.  The bank advised American clients not to maintain account
records in the U.S. The clients “called ZKB employees collect
or used prepaid calling cards to avoid having the calls appear
on their phone records,” according to the complaint. ZKB also
allowed U.S. clients to use code names and sham entities to
conceal their ownership of accounts.  ZKB told clients it was a safer bank to hold undisclosed
accounts than UBS because it had no offices in the U.S., saying
the U.S. government couldn’t apply the same pressure to turn
over foreign accounts, according to the complaint.  ZKB also offered correspondent services to other Swiss
banks that also held undeclared accounts for U.S. taxpayers,
according to the complaint.  The case is In the Matter of the Tax Liabilities of  John
Does , 13-Misc-378, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  