-- Israel to Exclude Strategic West Bank Area From Settlement Plans
-- B y   A m y   T e i b e l
-- 2013-11-12T19:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/israel-to-exclude-strategic-west-bank-area-from-settlement-plans.html
Israel will exclude a strategic area
just outside  Jerusalem  from plans for settlement building
because of its political sensitivity, a government official
said.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  ordered a freeze on even
preliminary preparations for new homes in a  West Bank  project
known as E1, according to an official in his office, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because of the issue’s delicacy.  Peace Now, an Israeli anti-settlement group, said in a
report today that the government has plans to erect almost
24,000 new settler homes in the West Bank and east Jerusalem.
That includes 1,200 in the E1 project, which would develop a
corridor linking east Jerusalem and the nearby Maaleh Adumim
settlement. Palestinians say E1 would drive a wedge between the
West Bank’s northern and southern flanks, making it difficult
for them to create a viable state.  “The important headline is that Netanyahu is not stopping
settlements, said Wasel Abu Youssef, a senior Palestinian
official. He called the freezing of plans for E1 a ‘‘game.’’  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  last week faulted Israel
for pursuing settlement plans in the West Bank and east
Jerusalem while negotiating peace with the Palestinians, who say
such building should be frozen. The two sides resumed talks in
July after a three-year breakdown, and accuse each other of
negotiating in bad faith.  The U.S., which along with most other countries considers
the territories to be occupied and opposes settlement
construction, has applied pressure to prevent development of the
E1 project, which has been held up for years.  The U.S. is seeking further clarification from Israel,
about settlement plans, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki
said at a briefing in  Washington .  Permanent Control  About 550,000 Israelis live on the territories, which were
captured in 1967, and the Palestinians say their growing numbers
are cementing  Israel ’s hold. In recent weeks, Israeli officials
have announced plans for thousands of new apartments.  The official in Netanyahu’s office said the building
proposals highlighted by Peace Now are a yearly bureaucratic
exercise in long-term planning that is not about actual
construction.  The activist group acknowledged that no construction is
imminent. It said in today’s report that the plans still
undermine peace talks, because they reveal ‘‘a government that
is actively engaged in long-term planning that assumes permanent
Israeli control of areas that Israel cannot seriously expect to
retain in any negotiated agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Teibel in Jerusalem at 
 ateibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  