-- J&J Said to Reach $4 Billion Deal to Settle Hip Lawsuits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-11-13T20:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/j-j-said-to-reach-4-billion-deal-to-settle-hip-lawsuits.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  will pay more than
$4 billion to resolve thousands of lawsuits over its recalled
hip implants in the largest settlement of U.S. legal claims for
a medical device, three people familiar with the deal said.  The accord will resolve more than 7,500 lawsuits in federal
and state courts against J&J’s  DePuy  unit, said the people, who
requested anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly about the settlement. Patients who have had hips
replaced claimed in the cases that the implants were defective.  The company will pay an average of $300,000 or more for
each of those surgeries, the people said. The agreement doesn’t
bar patients whose artificial hips fail in the future from
seeking compensation from J&J, they said. That means the
settlement is uncapped in terms of its total value, according to
the people. The settlement is expected to be announced next week
in  federal court  in Toledo,  Ohio .  The agreement “resolves a lot of litigation that could
have dragged on for years and cost J&J much more money in the
long run,” said  Carl Tobias , who teaches product-liability law
at the  University of Richmond  in  Virginia .  The settlement will be the second multibillion-dollar
agreement this month for J&J, the world’s largest seller of
health-care products. J&J, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey,
agreed Nov. 4 to pay $2.2 billion to resolve criminal and civil
probes into the marketing of Risperdal and other medicines.  Recall Costs  Mindy Tinsley , a spokeswoman for DePuy, declined yesterday
to comment on the accord. J&J has spent about $993 million on
medical costs and informing patients and surgeons about the
recall, Lorie Gawreluk, another DePuy spokeswoman, said earlier
this year. J&J set aside an undisclosed amount for litigation,
which it increased before June 30, she said.  J&J fell 47 cents to $93.09 at 3:21 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading.  On Oct. 15, J&J reported third-quarter net income of
$2.98 billion, or $1.04 a share, compared to $2.97 billion, or
$1.05, a year earlier. Revenue increased to $17.6 billion from
$17.1 billion a year earlier, the 11th straight quarter of
growth.  Under the accord, 94 percent of eligible claimants must
sign up for the settlement or J&J can withdraw from the deal,
according to the people. The pact covers only U.S. cases. J&J
faces cases in countries including in  England , Ireland and
 Australia .  ‘Grievous Injuries’  “It’s certainly a lot of money, but there are whole bunch
of people who contend these hips caused grievous injuries,”
Tobias said. “So some of them may feel like this isn’t enough
compensation for what they’ve gone through.”  The company recalled 93,000 ASR hip implants worldwide in
August 2010, saying 12 percent failed within five years.
Internal J&J documents show 37 percent of ASR hips failed after
4.6 years. Last year, the failure rate in Australia climbed to
44 percent within seven years.  J&J had touted the metal-on-metal implants, first sold in
the U.S. in 2005, as a new design that would last 20 years and
offer greater range of motion. As failures mounted, patients
complained in lawsuits that the metal-on-metal implant caused
dislocations, pain and follow-up surgeries known as revisions.
They claimed that debris from the chromium and cobalt device
caused tissue death and increased metal ions in the bloodstream.  The company is facing about 12,000 suits filed in federal
court and state courts in  California , New Jersey and  Illinois .
U.S. District Judge  David Katz  in Toledo is coordinating federal
litigation and the settlement will need his approval.  Revisions Feared   Claims in the remaining cases, filed by patients who fear
they will need revisions in the future, would be handled in a
second round of settlements, the people said.  The $4 billion settlement will provide compensation to hip
patients based on factors including age, extent of injuries and
whether they had one or more surgeries to replace defective
implants, according to the people.  The accord also provides more compensation to hip
recipients who suffered “extreme injuries” from the device’s
failure, or endured long hospital stays after removal surgeries.  J&J also has agreed to set aside funds to reimburse
Medicare and other insurers for claims paid on behalf of hip-implant patients, which could add hundreds of millions of
dollars to the value of the settlement, the people said.  The six-member executive committee of plaintiffs’ lawyers
leading the litigation said it will honor a court order on the
confidentiality of negotiations.  “Any comment relating to settlement that does not come
from leadership, the court, or from the company itself, remains
speculative,” according to a statement by the committee.  Sulzer Settlement  The J&J hip settlement dwarfs a 2001 accord  Sulzer (SUN)  AG
reached with patients who claimed that company’s hip and knee
implants were defective. Sulzer, based in Winterthur,
 Switzerland , agreed to pay $1 billion to resolve those suits.  J&J lost one trial over the ASR hips, won a second, and had
scheduled seven more.  In the first trial, a California state court jury awarded
$8.3 million in compensatory damages in March to a retired
Montana prison guard. The panel ruled that the device was
defectively designed and DePuy was negligent. It also held that
DePuy properly warned of the risks and that the company didn’t
owe punitive damages. DePuy said it would appeal.  Lawyers for plaintiff Loren Kransky argued DePuy failed to
test the device adequately before selling it in the U.S., buried
surgeon complaints of mounting failures, and studied a redesign
of the ASR before scrapping that effort in 2008.  Chicago Jury  On April 17, a state court jury in  Chicago  sided with
DePuy, rejecting a defective-design claim by an Illinois nurse.  The J&J hips came in two related models -- the ASR XL
Acetabular System and the ASR Hip Resurfacing System. In
announcing its recall, J&J cited unpublished data from the U.K.
showing that within five years, 13 percent of ASR XL hips failed
and needed revisions, and 12 percent of the ASR Hip Resurfacing
System failed.  The first federal trial was set for  Cleveland  in September.
J&J settled that case and another set for trial in state court
in California in October for undisclosed amounts, the people
said.  The consolidated federal case is In re DePuy Orthopedics
Inc., ASR Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Ohio (Toledo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey , at  dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  