-- Abe Mentor Koizumi Reignites Post-Fukushima Nuclear Debate
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-11-12T07:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/japan-ex-premier-koizumi-to-speak-against-abe-s-nuclear-policy.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe faces
another prominent opponent to his plans to return to nuclear
power after the Fukushima disaster, as a former political mentor
called for  Japan  to immediately abandon its reactors.  Former Liberal  Democratic Party  Premier  Junichiro Koizumi 
spoke out against atomic power today in his highest profile
speech since retiring from politics in 2009. He joins three
other former leaders who have turned against the industry that
once provided more than a quarter of Japan’s electricity, with
all of Japan’s 50 nuclear reactors now off-line.  Abe has said he plans to restart reactors that are declared
safe by the nuclear regulator, while leading a push to sell
Japanese nuclear technology overseas. Surveys published in the
Asahi and Mainichi newspapers today found 60 percent and 54
percent of respondents respectively agreed with Koizumi that
Japan should aim to go nuclear-free.  “I think we should go to zero now,” Koizumi told
reporters. “If we re-start the reactors, all that will result
is more nuclear waste.”  The Fukushima atomic station in March 2011 became the site
of the worst nuclear accident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster
in Ukraine and in recent months the crippled plant has been hit
by weekly reports of radioactive water leaks and accidents.  Nuclear Opponents  Last year, former Democratic Party of Japan prime minister
 Yukio Hatoyama  joined a demonstration by anti-nuclear activists
outside the residence of then-prime minister  Yoshihiko Noda .
 Naoto Kan , a DPJ premier when the earthquake and tsunami hit in
2011, has photographs of  wind turbines  on his website
accompanied by the slogan “Realizing a Japan and a world that
can progress without nuclear power.” A fourth former premier,
Morihiro Hosokawa, said in an interview published in the Tokyo
Shimbun newspaper today that Abe’s nuclear energy policy was a
“crime” and that he was willing to campaign against it.  “It’s the government’s responsibility to ensure a stable
and inexpensive supply of energy,” Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga told reporters today. “There is no change to our
policy of keeping nuclear power to a minimum.”  Anti-nuclear demonstrations in Tokyo that attracted tens of
thousands of people have faded since Abe took office in
December. He has stuck with his strategy of retaining nuclear
power amid Japan’s record 15 months of trade deficits, which
have been caused in part by the need to import more fossil fuel.  Party Cohesion  “The question is whether Koizumi is going to work with
anyone outside the  Liberal Democratic Party ,” said Steven Reed,
a professor of political science at Chuo University in Tokyo.
“The biggest danger to Abe is a breakdown in the cohesion of
the LDP.”  Koizumi, who has spoken out against nuclear reactors in
previous, lower-profile speeches, said Abe’s main ruling party
was already divided over nuclear power. Abe served as Koizumi’s
chief cabinet secretary starting in October 2005 until September
2006 when he was elected to his short-lived first term in
September of that year.  “I think it’s divided half-and-half between those who want
to get rid of it and those who think it’s necessary,” he said.
“If Prime Minister Abe decided we should abolish it, no one
could oppose that.”  Koizumi battled for reforms such as privatizing the post
office during his 2001-2006 term in office, and has rarely
appeared in public since his son Shinjiro took over his seat in
parliament in 2009. Abe appointed Shinjiro a parliamentary
secretary for Fukushima reconstruction in September.  The Asahi newspaper polled 1,751 people by phone on Nov.
9-10, the same days the Mainichi polled 966 people by phone.
Neither newspaper gave a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  