-- Japan Consumer Sentiment Falls Most Since Quake in Hit to Abe
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-11-12T07:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/japan-consumer-sentiment-falls-most-since-quake-in-hit-to-abe.html
Japan  consumer confidence  dropped in
October the most since a record earthquake in 2011, showing the
challenges Prime Minister Shinzo Abe faces in sustaining a
recovery in the world’s third-biggest economy.  A  sentiment index  unexpectedly fell 4.2 points to 41.2,
with gauges of views of livelihoods, employment, and incomes
declining, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo. A typhoon in
mid-October around the time the survey was conducted may have
lowered the consumer mood.  Abe needs to maintain economic momentum so far driven by
fiscal and monetary stimulus ahead of an April increase in the
sales tax that he announced on Oct. 1. Growth is forecast to
slow to an annualized 1.7 percent in the third quarter from 3.8
percent in the previous three months, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey.  “The decision to raise the  sales tax  has hurt consumer
sentiment,” said Shuichi Obata, senior economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in Tokyo.  The sentiment index was forecast to rise to 45.5, according
to a survey of five economists by  Bloomberg News .  Abe is balancing the need to improve the fiscal health of a
country with the heaviest debt burden in the world against a
goal of ending 15 years of deflation and boosting growth. His
reflationary policies pushed down the yen, lifting profits of
Japanese exporters while also boosting consumer prices even as
wages continue to stagnate.  The Topix index of Japanese stocks has gained 1 percent
this month after advancing less than 0.1 percent in October, the
worst performer among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Abe’s approval rating rose 2 percentage points from October
to 60 percent, state broadcaster NHK said on its website
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  