-- Jolie Stunt Double’s Phone Hacked While in U.S., Prosecutor Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-12T13:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/jolie-stunt-double-s-phone-hacked-while-in-u-s-prosecutor-says.html
The phone of Angelina Jolie’s stunt
double was hacked by a private investigator at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K.
unit while she was living with the actress in Los Angeles,
prosecutors said during the third week of a London trial.  Eunice Huthart, a British citizen, had her voice-mail
messages intercepted in 2005 by the detective who worked for the
News of the World tabloid while she filmed “Mr. and Mrs.
Smith,” prosecutors told jurors today.  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of the
U.K. unit, and Andy Coulson, a former editor of the now-defunct
News of the World, are among eight people on trial over phone
hacking and bribes to public officials. News Corp. Chairman
 Rupert Murdoch  closed the tabloid in 2011 to defuse a scandal
over revelations that journalists had hacked the phone of a
missing teenager, who was later found murdered.  Huthart was the first person to file a U.S. lawsuit against
News Corp. over phone hacking. A separate U.S. inquiry was begun
into whether bribes paid to U.K. police officers violated the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which bars overseas
corruption by U.S. companies.  Glenn Mulcaire , the private investigator who prosecutors
said hacked Huthart’s phone, has already pleaded guilty in the
case.  Andrew Edis, the lead prosecutor, told the jury today that
the Duchess of Cambridge, then known as Kate Middleton before
she married Prince William, was on a list of 18 “target” names
in Mulcaire’s notebooks. Other people on the list included  Boris
Johnson , who is now the mayor of London, and celebrity publicist
 Max Clifford .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  