-- Kerry Seeking Pause in New Iran Sanctions While Talks Continue
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2013-11-12T22:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/kerry-seeking-pause-in-new-iran-sanctions-while-talks-continue.html
The Obama administration pressed
Congress to give diplomacy a chance, parrying attacks from
 Capitol Hill ,  Israel  and Iran over talks that broke up last week
without a deal to curb  Iran’s nuclear program .  Secretary of State  John Kerry  will meet tomorrow with the
Senate Banking Committee to urge lawmakers to hold off, at least
temporarily, on proposals to increase economic pressure on Iran
by imposing additional sanctions.  “This is not about being for or against sanctions,” White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters today in a briefing.
“This is a decision to support diplomacy and a possible
peaceful resolution to this issue.”  Lawmakers from both parties in Congress and Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  have criticized negotiations in
Geneva last week toward a first-step agreement on limiting
Iran’s nuclear program that would ease some existing sanctions
without first ensuring an end to Iran’s  uranium enrichment .  The talks in Geneva broke up last weekend without an
initial agreement and are scheduled to resume Nov. 20. Iran is
negotiating with a group known as the P5+1, made up of the five
permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the U.S., U.K.,
 France ,  Russia  and China -- plus  Germany .  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  Robert Menendez , a leading advocate for heightened sanctions, said he
will await a briefing by Kerry tomorrow before deciding on a
course of action.  ‘Insurance Policy’  Additional sanctions would send a message to Iran that “we
are serious of purpose” and “would be an insurance policy for
the  United States  and the West if Iran doesn’t ultimately strike
a deal,” Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, said in an interview
on CNN.  Even if Congress acts, legislation would take “anywhere
between six months and a year” to implement, Menendez said.
“They always take time to kick into effect.”  New sanctions legislation should come from the banking
panel, Menendez told reporters. The senator had said previously
that he might attempt to attach sanctions language to the fiscal
2014 defense authorization bill the chamber is preparing to
debate.  Senator  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican on the Banking
Committee, said in an e-mail that sanctions “remain the best
way to avoid a war and prevent a future of Iranian nuclear
weapons.”  Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker , the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee and a member of the banking panel,
said he wants to hear what Kerry has to say about the Geneva
negotiations before deciding how to proceed.  Keeping Leverage  “We’re just worried that they’re dealing away our
leverage,” Corker said in an interview. “What we’re far more
concerned about in our office is the administration dealing away
the sanctions that we now have in place.”  Kerry will tell lawmakers that “putting new sanctions in
place would be a mistake while we are still determining if
there’s a diplomatic path forward,” State Department
spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters today. “This is about
ensuring that our legislative strategy and our negotiating
strategy are running hand-in-hand.”  The agreement that was considered during talks in Geneva
would have offered  Iran  a temporary easing of existing sanctions
on petrochemicals, gold and auto trade and some access to frozen
assets, according to diplomats who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to comment.  Netanyahu, who has said Geneva negotiators were working
toward a “bad and dangerous” deal, said today that Iran stands
to gain billions of dollars if sanctions are eased in the
proposal being discussed in Geneva.  ‘Tremendous Break’  “It gives Iran a tremendous break, a hole -- not a tiny
hole, but a big hole -- in sanctions,” Netanyahu said at the
Bloomberg Fuel Choices Summit in  Tel Aviv .  The U.S. and Israel say uranium enrichment in Iran and
construction of a reactor capable of producing plutonium would
help the Islamic Republic develop the capability to produce
nuclear weapons. Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful
medical and energy uses.  Kerry and other administration officials, including Vice
President  Joe Biden  and Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, have been
urging Congress for weeks to hold off on sanctions legislation
during talks toward an agreement with an Iranian government
that’s expressed greater willingness to negotiate over its
nuclear program under new President Hassan Rouhani.  Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif aired his own
complaints with Kerry, after the top U.S. diplomat said
yesterday that the Geneva negotiations ended without a deal
because Iran wasn’t ready to agree to a proposal from the six
world powers.  No Blame  “No amount of spinning can change what happened” in
Geneva, Zarif said in a Twitter Inc. posting yesterday. “But it
can further erode confidence.”  Psaki said Kerry was “stating the facts of why we didn’t
come to an agreement” and wasn’t trying to place blame on Iran.  “It’s not about blame,” she said. “We came out of Geneva
having made more progress and closer to an agreement than when
we came in.”  With “very complicated” issues, it’s “only natural that
they would have to go back and discuss” the proposal’s terms in
Tehran, Psaki said. “We are focused on continuing to narrow the
gaps and on the negotiations continuing next week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  