-- N.Z. Tribunal Says Maori Have Claims on Genesis Energy Asset
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-11-12T04:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/n-z-tribunal-says-maori-have-claims-on-genesis-energy-asset.html
New Zealand ’s Waitangi Tribunal said
Maori tribes retain rights over rivers and lakes utilized by a
North Island hydro power scheme that is part of the government’s
asset-sales program.  The tribes never relinquished ownership and control of
waterways associated with the Tongariro power scheme, and they
retain residual proprietary rights over them, the tribunal said
in a statement on its  website  today. The canals, lakes and
generators are owned and operated by state-owned power company
Genesis Energy Ltd., which the government plans to sell up to 49
percent of in an initial public offering next year.  While the tribunal’s ruling isn’t binding, it may give
Maori tribes scope to mount a legal challenge to the Genesis
share sale, similar to a court case in 2012 that delayed the
government’s offer of Mighty River Power Ltd. shares. Finance
Minister  Bill English  said the tribunal’s finding won’t change
the government’s plans.  The planned Genesis IPO is the third in a series of asset
sales that Prime Minister John Key is conducting to build new
infrastructure and reduce debt.  The tribunal is a commission that makes recommendations on
claims of breaches of the Treaty of Waitangi, New Zealand’s
founding document that gave Maori rights to their land and
natural resources.  ‘Significant Compensation’  When the government was planning the Tongariro project in
the 1970s, it denied local Maori any commercial benefits and
hasn’t provided any subsequent compensation for the detrimental
impacts of the scheme on water quality, food and fish, the
tribunal said. That amounts to a breach of the treaty, and the
government should make “significant compensation to remedy
these breaches,” it concluded.  “We have the prospect of more court action or large
compensation payouts hanging over the Genesis sale,” Clayton Cosgrove, state-owned enterprises spokesman for the opposition
 Labour Party , said in an e-mailed statement.  Last year, Maori tribes claimed rights over the Waikato
River on which Mighty River has several plants. The government
delayed its planned offer to consult before recommitting to its
original plan. Subsequently, the court ruled that the partial
share sale didn’t invalidate the Maori claims, and allowed the
sale to proceed.  “The Crown’s position is pretty clear, no one owns the
water,” English told reporters today, according to TV3. “This
won’t have an impact on the Genesis sale.”  The government aims to raise about NZ$5 billion ($4.1
billion) from the asset-sales program and has so far generated
NZ$3.7 billion from the divestment of 48 percent of Mighty River
and 49 percent of Meridian Energy Ltd. It also plans to reduce
its stake in Air New Zealand Ltd. to 51 percent from 73 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  