-- Natural Gas Futures Gain for Sixth Day on Cold Weather View
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-11-12T20:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/natural-gas-futures-gain-for-sixth-day-on-cold-weather-view.html
Natural gas futures climbed for a
sixth day in New York, capping the longest bullish streak in
more than a year, as meteorologists predicted colder-than-normal
weather that would stoke heating-fuel demand.  Gas gained 1.2 percent as MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , forecast below normal temperatures in
the eastern half of the U.S. through Nov. 16, followed by
cooler-than-average readings in the Midwest through Nov. 21. The
low in Chicago on Nov. 19 may be 18 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 8
Celsius), 15 below normal, according to  AccuWeather Inc.   “Temperatures are starting to drop across the Midwest and
East,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The forecast for the second
part of November has shifted a little bit colder and the market
is trying to keep the rally going.”  Natural gas for December delivery rose 4.3 cents to $3.617
per million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , capping the longest string of gains since the six days
ended Oct. 2, 2012. The settlement price was the highest since
Oct. 30. Trading volume was 3.1 percent above the 100-day
average at 2:39 p.m. Prices have climbed 7.9 percent this year.  The discount of December to January futures was unchanged
at 4.9 cents. March gas traded 1.1 cents  above  the April
contract, unchanged from yesterday.  December $3.95 calls were the most active options in
electronic trading. They were 0.1 cent higher at 0.9 cent per
million Btu on volume of 607 at 2:39 p.m. Calls accounted for 53
percent of trading volume.  Below Normal  The low in  Minneapolis  on Nov. 19 may be 11 degrees
Fahrenheit, 13 less than usual, AccuWeather data show. About 49
percent of U.S. households use gas for heating, according to the
Energy Information Administration, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  The U.S. may have 1.3 percent more heating-degree days, a
measure of weather-driven energy demand, from November to March
compared with the same period last year, Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda, Maryland, said today in an updated seasonal
outlook.  “There is snow in a lot of places this morning, as a
Canadian arctic blast heads south and east from the Great White
North,”  Mike Fitzpatrick , editor of The Energy OverView
newsletter in New York, wrote today. “Temperatures are expected
to moderate almost as quickly as they became harsh, but that is
not the focus of value investors, who are determined not to miss
out.”  Inventory Report  The EIA’s weekly natural gas stockpile report, due Nov. 14
in  Washington , may show inventories rose by 25 billion cubic
feet in the seven days ended Nov. 8, according to the median of
three analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year
average increase for the period is 19 billion. Supplies fell by
12 billion in the same week last year.  Gas inventories totaled 3.814 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended Nov. 1, EIA data show. Supplies were 1.5 percent
above the five-year average and 2.9 percent below year-earlier
stockpiles.  Natural gas production from the Marcellus shale formation
in the U.S. Northeast may increase 3.3 percent in December to
12.9 billion cubic feet a day from an estimated 12.5 billion in
November, the EIA said today in its monthly  Drilling
Productivity Report .  The number of rigs drilling for natural gas in the U.S.
climbed by five last week to 365, Baker Hughes Inc. in Houston
said Nov. 8. The total is down 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  