-- Netanyahu Says Iran Stands to Gain Billions in Relief
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-11-12T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/netanyahu-says-iran-stands-to-gain-billions-in-relief.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said  Iran  would reap billions of dollars under a deal
to ease economic sanctions that negotiators almost reached at
nuclear talks in Geneva last week.  “It gives Iran a tremendous break, a hole -- not a tiny
hole, but a big hole -- in sanctions,” Netanyahu said late
yesterday in a speech to the Bloomberg Fuel Choices Summit in
Tel Aviv. It would gain “several billion dollars’ worth that is
augmented to much more.”  Netanyahu has urged President  Barack Obama  and other world
leaders to reject any deal with Iran that doesn’t dismantle its
nuclear program, and opposed the accord that was offered to Iran
by world powers in Geneva last week.  The Geneva talks broke up Nov. 9 without agreement on an
offer to ease some economic sanctions on the Islamic republic in
return for limited restrictions on its nuclear program.
Negotiations are due to resume on Nov. 20.  The Israeli leader’s skepticism about the Iran deal has
drawn barbs from U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , who
returned from Geneva to face critics in Congress who want to
impose tougher sanctions. Like Netanyahu, they say further
penalties would force Iran to curtail its nuclear ambitions.
Kerry is due to brief lawmakers about the Geneva talks today.  Discussing the need to develop alternative fuels to reduce
dependence on oil, Netanyahu said Israel is spending “one half
of one percent of our oil import bill on this project.” He said
oil is “a source of tremendous international instability.”  Gas Discoveries  The government has set a goal of cutting 60 percent from
oil use in transportation by 2025 and has earmarked $420 million
over 10 years to encourage research and investment. It says
switching from oil will contribute more than 1 percentage point
to  gross domestic product  by 2025.  Israel ’s discovery in recent years of about 29 trillion
cubic feet of natural gas in deep-water wells off its
Mediterranean coast has eased the nation’s reliance on imported
energy. Energy Minister Silvan Shalom says gas production will
save Israel as much as $1 billion a month by 2015.  Israel has increased tax rates on gas and oil production
and created a sovereign wealth fund that it says will help avert
an appreciation in the shekel because of the new revenue.  Until the gas discoveries, Israel depended almost entirely
on energy imports. Because its oil-rich Arab neighbors won’t
sell it fuel, Israel has had to haul crude from countries as far
away as  Mexico . It now buys most of its fuel from the former
 Soviet Union , according to a government website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  