-- New Look Focuses on Four International Markets to Boost Sales
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-11-12T11:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/new-look-focuses-on-four-international-markets-to-boost-sales.html
New Look Group Ltd., Britain’s
second-biggest women’s budget-fashion retailer, said three
international markets have the potential to overtake the U.K. in
terms of importance as it expands beyond home.  Germany , Russia and  China  “can be as big as the U.K., or
significantly bigger,” Anders Kristiansen, chief executive
officer of the closely-held company, said on a conference call
after New Look reported an increase in first-half earnings.  New Look, whose owners include private-equity firms Permira
Advisers LLP and Apax Partners Worldwide LLP, is setting its
sights on expansion after selling bonds in May to refinance net
debt of 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7 billion). Poland will form a
fourth prong of the chain’s international growth, the CEO said.  In China, the retailer plans to open its first store in
spring and to have 20 by the end of the year, clustered around
Shanghai and Beijing, Kristiansen said. It already has 21 stores
in  Russia , where it is seeking a joint venture partner. In
Germany, New Look wants to open standalone stores to add to the
10 concessions it has in department stores.  Kristiansen drew comparisons with Hennes & Mauritz AB,
saying that where H&M does well “we do well.”  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 19 percent to 103.7 million pounds ($164.5
million) in the 26 weeks to Sept. 28 on lower levels of
discounting and tighter inventory control, New Look said today.  U.K. same-store sales rose 2.6 percent, while group same-store sales gained 1.9 percent.  “In line with the rest of the sector, current trading is
more challenging and as yet we are not seeing any benefits of
economic recovery feed through to our customers’ pockets,”
Kristiansen said.  When asked about whether the company is considering a share
sale, the CEO said New Look is unlikely to consider an initial
public offering in the next 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  