-- Nissan CEO Sees 2016 Mexico Output Jumping to 1 Million
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-11-13T04:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/nissan-ceo-sees-2016-mexico-output-jumping-to-1-million.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  is accelerating
operations in Mexico to allow the production of 1 million
vehicles annually within three years, putting the country on par
with Japan as an export hub for the carmaker.  About 700,000 of that total will be exported to such
markets as the U.S.,  Canada  and  South America , Nissan Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said.  “Seven hundred thousand exported from one country is going
to probably make Mexico as important as Japan in terms of export
of cars for Nissan,” Ghosn told reporters yesterday. “Mexico
is a very competitive country.”  Nissan, already the biggest automaker in Mexico, yesterday
opened a $2 billion plant that will be its third in the Latin
American nation. Ghosn this month announced an overhaul of the
company’s management as he aims for an 8 percent operating
profit margin by the year ending March 2017, after the GT-R and
Maxima maker cut its annual profit forecast by 15 percent.  The new factory, in Aguascalientes, will initially produce
Sentra small cars and is designed to build as many as four
different models per assembly line. Nissan declined to say what
else will be built there.  Japan ’s second-biggest automaker also operates another
plant in Aguascalientes, which is about 300 miles northwest of
Mexico City, and one in Cuernavaca, about 40 miles south of the
capital.  Ghosn’s Offensive  Under Ghosn, Nissan’s production capacity in Mexico has
surged to supply the domestic market as well as take advantage
of lower costs and trade agreements to export vehicles.  The company is the country’s domestic sales leader,
according to the Mexican Automobile Industry Association. It
built 584,880 vehicles in Mexico in the first 10 months of the
year, 23 percent of the nation’s automobile production and more
than any other manufacturer, according to the auto industry
group known as AMIA. Nissan’s output in  Mexico  last year totaled
683,520.  “By the end of 2016, the plan is 1 million cars out of
Mexico,” Ghosn said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “This
new plant will allow us to continue our offensive on the Mexican
market, and to be able to support the U.S. operation.”  Nissan rose as much as 1.8 percent to 922 yen in Tokyo
trading, before  changing hands  at 915 yen as of 12:51 p.m local
time. The stock has gained 13 percent this year,  trailing  the 47
percent gain for the Topix Transportation Equipment Index.  Expansion Spending  The maker of Pathfinder SUVs and Leaf electric cars this
month cut its full-year profit forecast on slower sales in some
 emerging markets  and a recall of 910,000 vehicles.  Nissan has said it’s spending more than  $5 billion  to
expand capacity in the U.S., Mexico and  Brazil . The new
Aguascalientes plant employs 3,000 people and has initial
capacity to make 175,000 vehicles a year, Nissan said. That will
bring the company’s total Mexican capacity to about 850,000.  The owner of the Infiniti and Datsun brands built the new
Aguascalientes plant in 19 months. It has also attracted
suppliers to the Mexican city, where billboards advertise
upscale homes in Japanese and Spanish.  The new factory has stamping, body, paint, injection and
bumper-paint, as well as assembly operations. It’s situated on
1,137 acres (460 hectares), 2.5 times the land are of Nissan’s
first factory in Aguascalientes, according to the company.
Nissan could expand into empty land around the plant.  ‘Important Strengths’  The Nissan plant helps “consolidate us as a country that
has important strengths in the automobile sector,” Mexican
President Enrique Pena Nieto said in a speech at the factory
opening. “We’re making the necessary adjustments for more
investment to come to our country, both domestic and foreign.”  Mexico may become the world’s seventh-largest auto producer
in the coming years from its current rank as eighth as more
companies make new investments, Pena Nieto said.  The nation’s auto output climbed to 2.51 million vehicles
during the first 10 months of the year, up 3 percent from the
same period a year earlier, according to AMIA. Production
climbed 13 percent year last year.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  are building plants
in central Mexico that will open next year, followed by a
factory of Volkswagen AG’s Audi unit that will open in 2016.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Aguascalientes, Mexico at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  