-- NQ Profit Beats Estimates as CEOs Plan Stock Purchase
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-12T23:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/nq-mobile-beats-estimates-on-rising-game-security-sales.html
NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , the Chinese mobile-services provider that Muddy Waters LLC accused of inflating
revenue, posted profit that beat estimates as sales of game
software rose and said that management will buy $3 million worth
of shares.  Net income  more than doubled to $17.4 million in the third
quarter, from $8.13 million a year earlier, NQ Mobile said in a
statement yesterday. That beat the $16.2 million average of five
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. NQ Mobile also said that its
senior management, including co-Chief Executive Officer Omar Khan, will purchase shares with personal funds in the next six
months. NQ Mobile fell 6 percent to $13.45 in New York as of
5:52 pm after closing at $14.31.  NQ Mobile has plunged about 40 percent since Oct. 24 when
Muddy Waters, the research firm founded by short seller  Carson Block , initiated coverage of the company with a strong sell
rating, saying it  inflated sales and misrepresented cash 
balances. NQ Mobile, which has headquarters in Beijing and
 Dallas , has denied the allegations and on Nov. 6 said it
completed the transfer of $103 million in cash to an account at
Standard Chartered Bank to demonstrate its reserves.  “Strong earnings, strong revenue, strong outlook,
management buying stock,”  Tim Ghriskey , chief investment
officer at Solaris Group LLC, which manages over $1.5 billion in
Bedford Hills, New York, said by phone. “You could see quite a
short squeeze in the shares in a situation like this, but
clearly it is volatile.”  Sales Climb  Sales in the third quarter rose 110 percent to $54.2
million, NQ Mobile said. That compares with an average $50.98
million estimate of five analysts in the Bloomberg survey. NQ
Mobile  forecast revenue  for the fourth quarter of as much as $63
million, more than the mean $61.2 million estimate of five
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. That would bring sales for 2013
to as much as $192 million, the company said, the most on
record.  “The reality is that NQ is showing tremendous momentum in
all of its strategically important areas,” Adam Bhaijee, a
portfolio manager at Toro Investment Partners LP in San
Francisco, said in an e-mail. His firm owns 5 percent of NQ
shares, according to a Nov. 8 regulatory filing. “We think
management purchasing $3 million of shares for a second time
since the company’s IPO is an even stronger signal.”  Purchase Reaction  NQ Mobile’s management completed the last purchase plan for
$2 million of American depositary shares on Dec. 6, 2012, the
company said in a statement. The stock fell 14 percent during
the purchase period, while rallying 130 percent since then.  Block said he won’t make any comment until after the
conference call, according to an e-mail to Bloomberg News. The
company is scheduled to host an earnings call with analysts at 8
p.m. New York time.  NQ Mobile’s  30-day volatility  jumped to a record 256.17
yesterday from 60.29 on Sept. 26, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares rallied 30 percent in the last three days
to trade 43 percent below a record of $24.92 reached on Oct. 18.  Average monthly active user accounts increased to 133
million during the quarter, from 84.5 million a year earlier,
the company said. The average monthly premium user accounts,
which generate sales either through direct payment or indirect
payment from third parties, rose to 14.8 million in the quarter,
the company said.  ‘Various Allegations’  Piper Jaffray Cos., the investment bank that was the lead
manager of NQ Mobile’s initial public offering in May 2011,
suspended the equivalent of a buy rating on the stock on Nov. 5.
The bank said it needed to more deeply investigate “various
allegations against the company made by third parties.”  The first sentence of the 81-page report by Muddy Waters
declared: “NQ Mobile is a massive fraud.” At least 72 percent
of NQ’s purported 2012 China security revenue is fictitious, the
report said. The report also alleged that Tianjin Yidatong
Technology Development Co., NQ Mobile’s largest trade debtor, is
controlled by NQ Mobile and not an independent company.  Yidatong’s owner Xu Rong said in an interview the Muddy
Waters report is not accurate, and that her company has no
relationship with NQ Mobile besides a contract to process online
payments from mobile subscribers.  The Muddy Waters  report  also criticized NQ’s delays in
collecting payments from customers, evidenced in a measure
called days sales outstanding, or DSO. According to Muddy
Waters, the company’s DSO measure was 198 days at the second
quarter’s end, based on NQ’s revenue for the 12 months to June
30.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  