-- N.Y. Gallery Owner Pleads Guilty to Role in Gambling Ring
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-12T22:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/nyc-gallery-owner-pleads-guilty-to-gambling-ring-role.html
Manhattan  art gallery owner Hillel “Helly” Nahmad pleaded guilty to participating in a high-stakes gambling ring catering to celebrities and the very rich,
calling it a hobby that developed into an illegal business.  “Judge, this all started as a group of friends betting on
sporting events, but I recognize that I crossed the line and I
apologize to the court and my family,” Nahmad told U.S.
District Judge Jesse Furman today in Manhattan.  Nahmad and 33 others, including an alleged Russian crime
boss, were named in a 27-count indictment unsealed in April and
charged with operating two overlapping gambling rings.  Nahmad, 35, pleaded guilty to one count of operating an
illegal gambling business. He faces as much as five years in
prison when he’s sentenced on March 19. Nahmad will also forfeit
$6.4 million and a painting, “Carnaval a Nice, 1937” by Raoul Dufy, as part of a plea agreement with prosecutors.  “It started as a hobby,” Nahmad, whose gallery sells
paintings by  Pablo Picasso  and other modern masters, told
Furman. “Unfortunately it became a business. It was never my
main business.”  Both sides agreed that nonbinding federal sentencing
guidelines call for Nahmad to get from 12 to 18 months in
prison. His lawyers,  Benjamin Brafman  and  Paul Schechtman , said
in a statement after the hearing that they hope he won’t get any
prison time. The plea agreement doesn’t call for Nahmad to
cooperate with the government’s investigation.  Dropped Charges  “We are pleased that the government has agreed to dismiss
the racketeering, money-laundering and fraud charges in the
indictment,” his lawyers said in the statement.  One of the gambling rings, allegedly run by a  New Yorker 
named Vadim Trincher, operated an international sports book for
wealthy Russians and laundered tens of millions of dollars from
Russia and Ukraine through Cyprus to the U.S., prosecutors said.  Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov, who has been charged in connection
with bribing officials of the 2002 Winter Olympics in  Salt Lake
City , provided protection to the ring and was paid $10 million
in a single two-month period, prosecutors said.  The other ring, run by Trincher’s son, Illya Trincher of
Beverly Hills,  California , ran a high-stakes gambling operation
for millionaires and billionaires, according to the government.  Prosecutors claimed the ring was financed, in part, by
Nahmad’s gallery, according to the indictment. The gallery last
year held an exhibition of modern and postwar artists including
 Joan Miro ,  Alexander Calder , Jean Dubuffet and Fernand Leger.  The case is U.S. v. Tokhtakhounov, 13-cr-00268, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  