-- NYC Council Unable to Reach Agreement on Midtown Rezoning
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-11-13T00:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/nyc-council-unable-to-reach-agreement-on-midtown-rezoning.html
The New York City Council failed to
agree on a rezoning plan that would have allowed developers to
replace office buildings in  Manhattan ’s East Midtown
neighborhood with taller towers, one of Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s final initiatives before leaving office.  The proposal also would have allowed landmarks such as St.
Patrick’s Cathedral on Fifth Avenue to sell air rights to
developers across a broader swath of Midtown. Council Speaker
Christine Quinn and member Dan Garodnick announced the lack of
agreement after a caucus session.  “We remain concerned with the price, methodology and
timing of the air rights to be sold by the city,” Quinn and
Garodnick said in the statement. “We are also concerned with
the certainty and funding level of the needed infrastructure
improvements.”  The proposal, supported by developers and construction
unions, would have rezoned a 73-block area around Grand Central
Terminal with office and residential towers that Bloomberg said
the city needed to remain competitive with  London  and other
world capitals.  The mayor withdrew the application after the council
decided not to take up the issue at a committee hearing
scheduled for tomorrow, saying failure to act “will
unfortunately cost the area hundreds of millions of dollars in
badly needed subway and street improvements and $1 billion in
additional tax revenue.”  Mass Transit  The lack of agreement will cancel a financing agreement for
$100 million in mass-transit and public-space improvements
before any development would begin, Bloomberg said.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent company Bloomberg LP.  Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio, 52, who assumes office Jan. 1,
said in a statement today that while he supported rezoning the
area “to allow the creation of a world-class 21st-century
commercial district,” the delay will “address the many
unanswered questions about this plan,” including whether
development rights had been “appropriately priced to create the
best possible value for the city.”  The zoning plan would have required developers to
contribute to a fund that would finance improved entrances,
platforms, stairways, escalators and other enhancements to the
area’s streets and mass-transit network. The account, known as
the District Improvement Fund, would help the area accommodate
additional people working in the larger office buildings.  ‘Costly’ Decision  “We believe this decision is costly to the city of New
York,” Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of
New York, an industry association, said today. Should de Blasio
kill the plan, “it means hundreds of millions of dollars of
transit and street improvements will not be made.”  A version of the rezoning plan will go forward, said Quinn,
who leaves office Dec. 31, and Garodnick, a Manhattan Democrat
who represents the Midtown district and will continue in the
next council term.  “We want to see development in the area that is both
responsible and encourages growth that keeps us competitive with
other cities,” they said in their joint statement. “But, with
so many outstanding issues, there is no good reason to rush the
proposal through.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  