-- NYSE’s New Boss Says 221-Year-Old Market Must Act Like Startup
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-11-12T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/nyse-s-new-boss-says-221-year-old-market-must-act-like-startup.html
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
completed its purchase of NYSE Euronext at the close of today’s
trading session, and its chief executive officer said the deal
will usher in a swift shift to a more aggressive culture at the
221-year-old owner of the  New York  Stock Exchange.  Jeffrey Sprecher , the CEO of Atlanta-based ICE, wants the
combined entity to act more like a startup than a venerable
institution with roots in the 18th century. His new employees
should take more risks, adopting an approach that made ICE one
of the world’s biggest exchange operators just 13 years after
its founding, he said.  “I hope I can convince the NYSE employees to embrace that
style of business and accept a certain amount of failure,”
Sprecher said in a phone interview today. “Any more-mature
company has a hard time with that, but I really think that in
today’s era companies need to move quickly.”  Sprecher is buying NYSE Euronext at a time when profits
from the company’s traditional business, U.S. equities, have
diminished because of regulatory and technological changes
during the past decade and a half.  With the  acquisition , he gains a financial futures
division, NYSE Liffe, that gives him interest-rate futures for
the first time. He tried and failed in 2007 to buy the Chicago
Board of Trade to get access to the contracts, which allow
investors to bet on or hedge moves in rates. The products are
the largest contracts by volume at ICE competitor CME Group Inc.  Job Cuts  The 58-year-old executive said the integration of the two
firms will be swift. ICE, with about 1,100 workers, is taking on
a company with more than 3,000 employees. He said workforce
changes will be announced tomorrow.  “ICE needs to move relatively quickly and be relatively
definitive with the combination employee pool so that we can get
the integration behind us,” Sprecher said. “I don’t want our
company to be distracted by internal issues at this moment in
time when there’s so much change being put on top of our
customers,” he said. “It’s important that we’re relatively
quick and decisive on getting the companies integrated.”  ICE’s takeover has already led to changes at the top of
 NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s management ranks. Chief Financial Officer
Michael Geltzeiler plans to join ADT Corp., while the departure
of NYSE Liffe’s co-CEO, Mark Ibbotson, was revealed in August.  On Oct. 31,  Bloomberg News  reported that two Liffe
executives would leave. Fraser Cowie,  executive director  for
strategic alliances, and Ian Dudden, head of commodity
derivatives, planned to depart following the acquisition,
according to three people familiar with the situation.  ICE has already announced plans to spin off NYSE Euronext’s
European equities division through an initial public offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  