-- Loeb Says Central Banks Provide Global Put, Aiding Stocks
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-11-12T21:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/loeb-says-central-banks-provide-global-put-aiding-stocks.html
Billionaire hedge-fund manager Dan Loeb said easy-money policies by central banks in the U.S.,  Asia 
and  Europe  are providing protection for equity investors in the
near-term, even as stock prices surge.  Loeb, the founder of New York-based Third Point LLC,
highlighted the  European Central Bank ’s decision Nov. 7 to cut
its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low, along with programs
in place by other central banks around the globe. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  has pledged to hold down borrowing costs to combat
pressure from weakening prices.  “Given monetary policy here, the actions taken by Draghi
last week in Europe, and what’s going on in the U.K.,  Japan , and
even  China , we sort of have a global put to equities,” Loeb
said today on a conference call discussing results at Third
Point Reinsurance Ltd., a Bermuda-based company that invests its
portfolio with his hedge fund.  The  Federal Reserve  and other central banks have supported
financial markets with monetary policy to spur growth. Investors
have likened interest-rate cuts to the insurance against losses
offered by owning a  put option , because they’ve had the effect
of boosting stock prices as they make other investment options
less attractive.  Fink, Blankfein  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has advanced  24 percent 
since Dec. 31 and is on pace for its fifth straight year of
positive returns. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index has gained 15
percent, while Japan’s Topix index has rallied 40 percent.  “We’re in a mode where economies around the world,
developed economies, are trying to inflate, and that’s usually a
good thing for equities,” Loeb said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein and Laurence D. Fink, the CEO of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said
today that the benefits from stimulus efforts aren’t permanent.
Fink, speaking at the annual meeting of the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association in New York, called on the Fed
to begin tapering is monthly purchase of bonds.  Central-bank activity “in the near term is very, very
supportive, although in the long term, it creates problems,”
Blankfein said at an investor conference in New York.  Third Point Re’s profit in the quarter ended Sept. 30
climbed 18 percent to $46.6 million from a year earlier as
underwriting losses narrowed and investment income increased,
according to a statement today. The reinsurer slipped 0.1
percent to $15.10 at 4 p.m. in New York. The stock has gained 21
percent since an initial public offering in August.  Mortgage Insurance  CEO John Berger said on the call that Third Point Re could
post an underwriting profit as soon as the second half of next
year if current reinsurance pricing trends continue. He said
there are opportunities to shoulder risks for companies selling
residential policies, workers’ compensation coverage and
 mortgage insurance .  Private mortgage insurers  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  and Radian
Group Inc. have surged this year as investors bet the companies
will expand their share of the market as the U.S. government
scales back its involvement and home prices rebound. Both firms
raised capital this year to replenish funds drained during the
housing slump.  Loeb also said the real estate market provides
opportunities. The investor has been adding subprime mezzanine
bonds after selling most of those holdings during a rally in the
first quarter, he said on the call. Such securities involve the
riskier tranches of pools of loans to borrowers with lower
credit scores.  Crystal Ball  The  money manager  focuses on event-driven investing, buying
and selling stocks or bonds of companies going through changes
like spinoffs or mergers. He has pushed Yahoo! Inc. and Sony
Corp. to shift strategies with the goal of driving up share
prices.  He declined to say on the conference call whether he
planned to reduce bets on rising stocks in the remainder of the
year. While some of his investments reached target prices
earlier in 2013, he said he continues to add other holdings that
he expects to climb more.  “It’s always difficult to predict what our positions will
do over a six-week period,” Loeb said. “I wish my crystal ball
were more accurate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  