-- Oklahoma Rejected by Top Court on Ultrasound Abortion Law
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-12T18:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/oklahoma-rejected-by-top-court-on-ultrasound-abortion-law.html
The U.S. Supreme Court refused to
revive an  Oklahoma  abortion law that would have required doctors
to first perform an ultrasound, show it to the woman and
describe what the image depicts.  Rejecting an appeal by state officials, the justices left
intact an Oklahoma Supreme Court decision that invalidated the
law as placing an unconstitutional burden on abortion rights.  The rebuff marks the second time this month that the high
court has declined to reinstate Oklahoma abortion regulations.
The justices earlier dropped a planned case over restrictions on
drug-induced abortions after the Oklahoma Supreme Court said the
state’s law would have outlawed all such procedures.  The rebuff is “another clear message to lawmakers across
the U.S. that attacks on women’s health, rights and dignity are
patently unconstitutional and will not be allowed to stand,”
said Nancy Northup, president of the Center for Reproductive
Rights. That group sued to challenge the law on behalf of Nova
Health Systems, an abortion provider.  Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt argued that the
ultrasound requirement was a legitimate effort to ensure that a
woman wouldn’t later regret her decision to have an abortion.  Pruitt said in a statement that a federal appeals court had
upheld a similar ultrasound law in  Texas .  “The unfortunate message sent by the Oklahoma Supreme
Court’s decision in this case is that when it comes to abortion
regulations, what is legal in other states is illegal in
Oklahoma,” he said.  More Cases  Nova had urged the Supreme Court to reject the state’s
appeal, saying the Oklahoma law went well beyond informed-consent statutes in other states.  The court is likely to act this year in two more abortion
cases. In one, Planned Parenthood is seeking to block
enforcement of a Texas law that requires all abortion providers
to have local hospital admissions privileges.  In the other,  Arizona  is asking the court to reinstate a
law that would ban abortion at 20 weeks or later in pregnancy.
The high court hasn’t ruled in an abortion case since 2007.  The case is Pruitt v. Nova Health, 12-1170.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  