-- Hollande Bond Rally Muffles S&P’s Wake-Up Call
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-11-12T11:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/hollande-bond-rally-muffles-s-p-s-wake-up-call-euro-credit.html
Yield-hungry bond investors are
giving French President Francois Hollande a free ride.  Buyers of French debt ignored a wake-up call from Standard
& Poor’s last week that Hollande isn’t doing enough to address
shortcomings holding back growth, such as high taxes and labor
costs. At 2.3 percent, the 10-year yield has stayed at less than
one percentage point from its record low after France’s rating
was lowered by S&P on Nov. 8 to AA, the third-highest grade.  The market’s muted reaction reflects France’s deep and
liquid bond market and efforts by the European Central Bank --
like its major counterparts around the globe -- to pump money
into the system, capping yields in so-called core and semi-core
markets. Trouble is, the low yields also diminish the urgency
for Hollande to fix Europe’s second-largest economy.  “The market is more patient with France than ratings
agencies are,” said  Steven Major , head of fixed-income research
at HSBC Group Plc, in London. “If the financing cost keeps
going down, there is less impetus to act. The sad truth is that
action has only come when the refinancing rates rose.”  Hollande himself immediately jumped on France’s low
borrowing costs as evidence his policies are the right ones. The
government is “doing everything” to reduce the deficit,
improve competitiveness and create jobs, he said in a press
conference less than four hours after the downgrade.  Disregarded Downgrades  Although the French 10-year yield is close to its record
low, it’s still attractive to investors given the 47 basis point
premium it offers over German bunds and 20 basis points over
comparable Finnish bonds. The French-German spread is down from
a euro-era record of 204 basis points in November 2011.  The cost of insuring French government bonds against
default fell to 51 basis points, the lowest in more than three
years, after the S&P announcement. It rose to a record 261 basis
points in November 2011.  “The French government’s current approach to budgetary and
structural reforms to taxation, as well as to product, services
and labor markets, will not substantially raise  France ’s medium-term growth prospects,” S&P said.  Investors have largely disregarded ratings downgrades.
Since S&P’s first downgrade of France in January last year,
French government bonds returned more than 10 percent, according
to the Bloomberg France Sovereign Bond Index. France lost its
AAA level at Fitch Ratings in July, after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the country to Aa1 from Aaa in November last year.  ‘Diminished Shock’  The U.S. 10-year Treasury yield was 2.8 percent today,
compared with 2.6 percent on Aug. 5, 2011, the day S&P stripped
the country of its AAA rating. It dropped to a record low of
1.379 in July last year.  “In part this reflects a diminished power to shock on the
part of ratings agencies since the global crisis began,” said
Richard McGuire, head of European interest-rate strategy at
Rabobank International in London. “It’s central bank liquidity
that has been in the driving seat in terms of determining the
euro-zone yield and spreads. This is why the ever-popular notion
of shorting France versus  Germany  has remained very much the
pain trade despite the convincing fundamental arguments.”  The French government bond market is the second biggest in
the euro area, after Italy’s, and is the fourth largest in the
world, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “France is and will remain a country whose credit is solid
and that will continue to finance its debt at among the most
attractive rates in the world,” Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said on France Info radio on Nov. 8.  ‘Hidden Landmine’  Those remarks provide cover against S&P’s real concern:
that Hollande’s effort to revive the French economy is faltering
in the face repeated protests against tax increases.  “It appears the market is pricing in very low risk of any
significant difficulty in France in terms of a reform process,”
said Robin Marshall, a director of fixed-income at Smith &
Williamson Investment Management in  London . “To me, that’s
pretty optimistic. There are a number of fundamental issues that
have gone into the background because of perception that the
region’s economy is turning around and the ECB will continue to
keep its policy accommodative. France is still a bit of a hidden
landmine in my view.”  The Socialist president, whose popularity is at a record
low, has faced increasing resistance as he seeks to raise taxes
to trim the budget deficit. He decided last month to suspend a
truck levy in the face of protests, two days after backing down
on a plan to increase taxation on savings programs.  Cooling Momentum  S&P cited the slow pace of reforms and a rigid economy
that’s losing competitiveness relative to its northern European
peers for its downgrade.  “France is also falling behind relative to Spain and
 Italy ,” HSBC said in its note. “At a government level, more
efforts to reduce expenditure are required as a disproportionate
tax burden is stifling the economy.”  After pushing through a payroll tax cut and a loosening of
labor market rules to make firings easier in the past year,
Hollande hasn’t set out the next steps for fixing an economy
that has barely grown for two years. Unemployment is at a 14-year high of almost 11 percent. Hollande’s mandate runs until
May 2017, leaving him three and a half years to go.  “Momentum on reform dropped off last spring, leaving us
with very little policy plans in the pipeline,” said Fabrice Montagne, an economist at Barclays in Paris. “This is the right
timing for a wake-up call.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  