-- Olympic Security Provider G4S Paid No U.K. Tax in 2012, NAO Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-11-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/olympic-security-provider-g4s-paid-no-u-k-tax-in-2012-nao-says.html
G4S Plc (GFS)  paid no U.K. tax on British
revenues of 1.9 billion pounds ($3 billion) in 2012, the year it
failed to provide sufficient security for the London Olympics,
according to a report from the National Audit Office.  The company, whose Chief Executive Officer Nick Buckles
quit this year after the government had to call in the military
at short notice to help protect the Olympics, said in a
statement that it hadn’t paid tax because of exceptional losses
in 2012.  G4S, the world’s biggest security-services provider, paid
85 million pounds of tax worldwide on profits of 175 million
pounds, according to the report by the government spending
watchdog published today. Its global revenues were 8 billion
pounds, of which 700 million pounds came from the U.K.
government.  Another major supplier to the U.K. government, Atos, an
information-technology company based in Bezons,  France , also
paid no U.K. tax on British revenues of 1.4 billion pounds, of
which half came from the U.K. government, according to the NAO.  “There is something particularly galling about the idea of
a company who gets its income from the public purse not putting
its rightful contribution back in,”  Margaret Hodge , the Labour
Party lawmaker who chairs Parliament’s Public Accounts
Committee, said in an e-mailed statement. “We don’t actually
know how much profit Atos and G4S made in the U.K. last year
because this remains an area where there is a total lack of
transparency. We need to lift that veil of secrecy.”  The NAO was looking at the way government contracts are
awarded and managed. It concluded that while using private
companies can save the government money and reduce risks, too
much emphasis on cutting costs threatens to hamper innovation
and investment.  “We don’t undertake any aggressive tax planning and
everything booked in the U.K. is also billed here,”  Atos (ATO)  said
in an e-mailed statement. “However, due to significant
investment in the U.K. to maintain our business here as well as
pension contributions we did not make enough profit last year to
qualify for  corporation tax .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  