-- London’s Mayor Sees More Kuwait Investment in Developments
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-11-12T13:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/london-s-mayor-sees-more-kuwait-investment-in-developments-1-.html
Kuwait is interested in investing in
London real estate projects after focusing on completed
properties for several years,  Boris Johnson , the city’s mayor,
said after meeting with members of the  Kuwait Investment
Authority .  “The KIA wants to move forward with fresh developments
that I think they had moved away from over the last few years,
and that’s going to be good news for London,” Johnson, 49, said
today in  Kuwait City .  Sovereign-wealth funds from Qatar to Norway are investing
in London developments as a dearth of  project financing  from
banks creates an opportunity to achieve higher returns. Johnson
and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  traveled to China
last month to promote investment in Britain and its capital.  The KIA doubled investments in the U.K. over the last 10
years to more than $24 billion, Managing Director Bader Al-Saad
said during a visit to London in June. As well as real estate
assets, the country’s sovereign-wealth fund also has an
infrastructure fund operating from London, he said. The KIA
couldn’t be reached for comment.  Johnson said he’s seeking to attract interest from other
sovereign-wealth funds in the  Middle East , without naming any.
The mayor said he would like to help the KIA “do new
developments in areas that desperately need new housing and
homes for people to live in. It’s not just a question of buying
existing homes.”  Foreign investors are involved in some of the biggest
housing developments in London. Oxley Holdings Ltd., a
Singapore-based property developer this month agreed to buy a
site on the River Thames, where it plans to build 3,400 homes.
Malaysian companies SP Setia Bhd and Sime Darby Bhd bought the
Battersea Power Station project, one of Europe’s largest
developments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  