-- Hong Kong Needs Closer China Ties, Blackstone’s Leung Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g ,   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-11-13T02:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/hong-kong-needs-regional-tie-for-shanghai-fight-blackstone-says.html
Hong Kong  should build a free-trade
zone with the neighboring Chinese province of Guangdong to make
it a more competitive commercial and financial center for the
world’s second-biggest economy, a former top city official said.  By creating a zone that allows Hong Kong-based companies
and individuals to freely access Chinese markets, the city would
be able to better exploit lower tax rates and other advantages
it has over  Shanghai  and mainland regions, Antony Leung, who
served as finance secretary from 2001 to 2003 and is now greater
 China  chairman for  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , said yesterday at a
Bloomberg seminar.  “What Shanghai lacks is the pool of talent that’s already
residing in Hong Kong,” Leung said. “Hong Kong is renowned for
a low tax and simple tax regime, and with our rule of law, with
the freedom, with the convenience and comfortable living, I
think we can attract a lot of talents.”  The comments underscore the challenges Hong Kong Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying faces in fending against competition
from Shanghai, which  China (CNGDPYOY)  targets making a global financial
center by 2020 and where authorities last month set up a free
trade zone to test investment, trade and market reforms.
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, last month
said it’s cutting investments in Hong Kong on concern its
markets will underperform.  No Future  “Hong Kong has no future if we can’t merge with the  Pearl
River Delta ,” Justin Chiu,  executive director  at  Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd. (1) , the developer controlled by  Asia ’s richest man,
said at the seminar.  Debate in Hong Kong about its role in China is intensifying
as Chinese leaders pledge to give markets a bigger economic
role, while demands from opposition lawmakers for democracy in
the former British colony raises the ire of the central
government in Beijing.  Guangdong, the biggest regional economy in China, is
lobbying for a free-trade zone with Hong Kong and Macau,
Governor Zhu Xiaodan said in September. The zone will let Hong
Kong’s services industry grow and lift the region, he said.  Talent Pool  Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man, said in September Hong
Kong needs to raise its competitiveness if it wants to avoid
losing out to Shanghai.  Hong Kong should build rail links to Macau and the
neighboring Chinese city of Zhuhai, rivaling similar high-speed
networks that China has built between its cities, said Chiu.  “We marginalize ourselves when we’re cutting ourselves off
from the Pearl River Delta,” said Chiu.  At the same time, Hong Kong also needs to manage the social
tensions that have risen with closer ties, Regina Ip, an
executive council member, said yesterday at the seminar.  “The integration has also given rise to political problems
in the form of resentment against more competition for Hong
Kong-based resources - baby milk formulas, maternity beds,
kindergarten school places,” said Ip.  Only 35 percent of people in Hong Kong trust in the Chinese
government, according to a  survey  by the University of Hong Kong
Public Opinion Programme of 1,007 people conducted Sept. 15 to
17.  Rising discontent may erode China’s support for Hong Kong,
 Allan Zeman , chairman of Lan Kwai Fong Holdings Ltd., the
biggest landlord for restaurants and bars in Hong Kong’s
business district, said at the seminar.  “Beijing has lost faith in Hong Kong,” Zeman said. “It
is watching us very carefully, so we really shouldn’t shoot
ourselves in the foot and allow other cities in China to surpass
us.”  Hong Kong risks falling behind its rivals if citizens there
don’t start rallying behind Chief Executive Leung, a Chinese
official said in September.  Leung has struggled to gain broad public support since
taking office in July last year, when he defeated front-runner
 Henry Tang , who had the support of tycoons including Li.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  