-- Orange Diamond Sells for $36 Million at Christie’s
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-11-13T08:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/orange-diamond-sells-for-36-million-at-christie-s.html
The largest fancy-vivid orange
diamond known to exist sold for 32.6 million Swiss francs ($36
million) at Christie’s International in Geneva.  The 14.82-carat pear-shaped stone’s price including fees
was about $2.4 million per carat, according to the auction house
at last night’s sale. This was a per-carat record for any
colored diamond at a public sale. The gem also set a record for
an orange diamond of its type, Christie’s said.  The Geneva fall auction season culminates today when
 Sotheby’s (BID)  auctions a 59.60-carat internally flawless diamond
called the “Pink Star.” It’s valued at more than $60 million,
and  David Bennett , who will wield the gavel, may break his 2010
record for the most expensive diamond sold in auction if it
finds a buyer.  “There are buyers out there for these great rarities,”
Bennett said in an interview Nov. 8. “There are moments to
offer these things and there are moments when it just doesn’t
feel right. This does feel like one of the right moments.”  While pink and blue diamonds regularly appear at auctions,
the orange stones are much rarer.  Christie’s diamond had been with the same anonymous owner
for at least 30 years, the auction house said, describing its
clarity as VS1. The stone exceeded its presale estimate of as
much as $20 million, or $1.3 million per carat.  “As far as orange diamonds go, it has no peer,”  Alan
Bronstein , a consultant in colored diamonds who knows the stone,
said before last night’s sale.  Winston Diamond  The previous time an orange diamond of the same
classifications appeared at auction, it weighed 5.54 carats.
Known as “The Pumpkin Diamond,” it fetched $1.3 million at
Sotheby’s in 1997, selling to Ronald Winston, a son of the  Harry
Winston  founder.  The most expensive diamond at auction fetched 45.4 million
francs at Sotheby’s in Geneva in 2010; the fancy, intense pink
stone weighed 24.78 carats and was bought by jeweler  Laurence Graff .  Yesterday, Christie’s also sold a Van Cleef & Arpels Art
Deco emerald-and-diamond necklace that belonged to Egyptian
Princess Faiza for $4.2 million. The auction house called it a
“very rare souvenir of pre-revolutionary  Egypt  in the late
1940s.” The auction house also sold a collection of perfume
icon Helene Rochas, who died in 2011, for $2.3 million.  Tin, Pearls  A Cartier necklace with more than 108 carats of emeralds
and 59 carats of diamonds commanded $9.9 million at the auction.
It was part of a collection by Bolivian tin tycoon Simon Itturi
Patino, known as “The Andean Rockefeller.” A seven-strand
necklace with 614 natural saltwater pearls fetched $9.1 million.
It was sold by a royal family.  A 1957 Patek Philippe pink-gold watch that adjusts for leap
years and is one of six of its kind known to exist sold for $2.2
million at Christie’s earlier as the auction house sold a record
$43.9 million of watches within 24 hours. The sales also
included a 1969 Rolex that sold for $1.1 million, a record for
the Daytona model and close to a record for that brand.  Sotheby’s sold a Breguet pocket watch that belonged to Sir
Richard Wallace, known for the fine art gallery in  London , to
the Breguet museum for $1.1 million yesterday.  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina and  Philip Boroff  on
U.S. art auctions,  Catherine Hickley  on art,  Amanda Gordon ’s
Scene Last Night,  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining and  Jeremy
Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  