-- Orange Juice’s Double Bottom Signals Rally: Technical Analysis
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-11-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/orange-juice-s-double-bottom-signals-rally-technical-analysis.html
Orange-juice futures may advance 4.6
percent in the next 30 days after forming a double bottom,
according to  technical analysis  by Infinity Trading Corp.  The commodity touched $1.164 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York on Oct. 22, the lowest since Jan. 30, forming the first
of a double bottom. After two days of gains, prices resumed the
decline, trading at $1.171 on Oct. 29, to form another bottom.
Since then, futures gained in eight of the past nine sessions,
and may rally further to $1.40, the highest since Sept. 16,
according to Fain Shaffer, the president of Indianapolis-based
Infinity.  Futures climbed 5.3 percent to $1.315 on Nov. 8, the
biggest gain for a most-active contract in eight months, after
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  forecast the crop in  Florida ,
the world’s biggest grower behind  Brazil , will shrink 6.4
percent to 125 million boxes, the smallest since 1990. The
harvest is tumbling after a crop disease damaged groves. A box
weighs 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  “This could be one of the top commodities of the winter
season,” in the Northern Hemisphere, which runs from mid-December through mid-March, Shaffer said in a telephone
interview. “We’ve got a bullish market here,” he said,
predicting that technical factors, combined with risks of
additional production losses in Florida, may push prices higher.  The most-active January contract rose 1.8 percent yesterday
to $1.3385 a pound in New York. Prices have rallied in three of
the previous four quarters.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast price changes. A
double bottom is a chart pattern showing a drop, a rebound and
then another decline approaching the previous low, usually
indicating price support.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  