-- Osaka City Plans to Sell Thirty-Year Water Treatment Concession
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-11-12T09:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/osaka-city-plans-to-sell-thirty-year-water-treatment-concession.html
Osaka city,  Japan ’s third-most
populous, plans to sell the right to operate its water treatment
and supply services for 30 years.  The city of about 2.67 million people will sell the water
treatment and supply concession to a separate entity, initially
owned by the city government, by March 2016, it said in a
statement on its website today. It then plans to sell a stake in
that business to private companies at a later date, according to
the statement.  Osaka, led by Mayor Toru Hashimoto, joins other Japanese
cities in privatizing the operations of state-run infrastructure
from airports to water supply. The moves are part of Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s plan to reduce Japan’s debt and boost
investment by private companies.  The city will set out a detailed plan for the concession
sale by March next year, according to the statement. Osaka’s
Waterworks Bureau, which currently provides the services, earned
net income of 10.3 billion yen ($103 million) in the year ended
March 31 on revenue of 65.4 billion yen, according to data
compiled by the bureau.  Partially privatizing the city’s water services will
promote collaboration between the government and private
companies, as well as prepare water businesses to expand
overseas to offset declining domestic demand, the government
said in the statement.  Fukuoka prefecture on Japan’s southern Kyushu island is
considering a sale of rights to operate the nation’s fourth-biggest state-owned airport, which could raise more than 120
billion yen, people with knowledge of the matter said last
month. It would follow Sendai, in Japan’s northeastern Miyagi
prefecture, in seeking money from an airport concession sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  