-- House Republican Leaders Said to Be Wary of Tax Revisions
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-11-12T22:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/house-republican-leaders-said-to-be-wary-of-tax-revisions.html
House Republican leaders are worried
about political damage if the party’s top tax writer releases a
plan to revise the U.S. tax code and limit popular breaks, four
House Republican aides said.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp  wants to
push legislation through his panel this year. The biggest
changes since 1986 would raise taxes for many Americans while
lowering them for others, creating a challenge for Republicans
who don’t want a distraction from their attacks on the flawed
rollout of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  Camp, who wants to curtail tax breaks and lower rates, is
scheduled to meet on Nov. 14 with House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican. Other committee members, House
Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy  also will
be at the meeting, one of the aides said.  Republican leaders can’t stop Camp from releasing a bill.
They could urge him to wait, say they would withhold support or
ask other party members to tell Camp that they oppose his plan.  Camp told reporters at the Capitol today he didn’t want to
prejudge his meeting with party leaders, and that he wasn’t sure
whether he would release the bill before the House leaves
Washington Nov. 21 for the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.  ‘Reform Agenda’  “I look forward to discussing the merits of  tax reform 
with our leadership,” said Camp, a Michigan Republican. “I
think the time is right, we need a pro-growth reform agenda.”  The aides spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the
intraparty quandary and said no final decisions have been made
on what to do about tax-law revisions or what leaders should
tell Camp. The tax bill is a party priority that would advance a
goal Republicans have embraced in their budget each year since
winning the House majority in the 2010 elections.  Republican leaders are concerned about the lack of a path
to a tax law, given their opposition to raising taxes and
Democrats’ insistence that any major  tax-code  changes be
accompanied with revenue increases, the aides said.  The issue has reached the point where Republicans must
decide whether it’s the right time to move forward, a senior
House Republican aide said.  That aide said a potential worry is opposition from
lawmakers outside the Ways and Means panel who are generally
supportive of the concept without being steeped in the details
and might object to ending specific tax breaks.  Budget Talks  Republicans also want to keep the public’s focus on flaws
in the health-care law and continue bipartisan budget talks
without opening up the possibility of tax increases.  Camp has held the details of his plan closely, particularly
those on politically charged issues such as the mortgage
interest deduction, capital gains rates and the exclusion for
employer-provided health insurance.  He has been holding a series of closed-door meetings with
his committee’s Republican members during the past few months as
they try to draft a proposal with the goal of lowering the top
individual rate to 25 percent from 39.6 percent and the top
corporate rate to 25 percent from 35 percent.  Camp has released discussion drafts of changes to the
taxation of international income, derivatives and small
businesses.  A committee Republican aide, speaking on condition of
anonymity, said Camp’s timeline hasn’t changed. Ways and Means
Republicans are scheduled to meet tomorrow.  Camp has been working with Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat. They have a joint Twitter handle on
their goal of revising the tax code and went on a multi-city
tour earlier this year. Baucus said last week that he plans to
begin releasing discussion drafts in the next two weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  