-- How People Lie About Gay Sex and Homophobia
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-11-12T14:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/how-people-lie-about-gay-sex-and-homophobia.html
Social theorists, above all Duke
University’s  Timur Kuran , have drawn attention to the phenomenon
of “preference falsification.” The basic idea is that when
people speak in public, they aren’t always truthful about their
preferences. What they say is different from what they really
think.  In unfree societies, people may be too frightened to
disclose their actual views in opinion surveys. But preference
falsification can also afflict democracies, if social pressures
lead people to misdescribe their real views and behavior.  Recent  research  uncovers strong evidence of preference
falsification in the U.S. When people are assured of anonymity,
it turns out, a lot more of them will acknowledge that they have
had same-sex experiences and that they don’t entirely identify
as heterosexual. But it also turns out that when people are
assured of anonymity, they will show significantly higher rates
of anti-gay sentiment.  These results suggest that recent surveys have been
understating, at least to some degree, two different things: the
current level of same-sex activity and the current level of
opposition to gay rights.  The research, conducted by Ohio State University economist
 Katherine B. Coffman  and her colleagues, involved 2,516
participants, all from the U.S. About half of the participants
were randomly assigned to take a standard survey, employing the
“best practices” in widespread use today.  Survey Findings  In this survey, people were asked to respond to several
innocuous questions, not involving sensitive issues, and then to
answer questions about sexual orientation, designed to elicit
both their views and their reports about their own behavior.
This approach gives apparently credible assurances of anonymity
to those surveyed, but it remains possible, in practice, for the
experimenters to link particular answers to particular
questions.  The other participants were assigned to what Coffman and
her colleagues call a “veiled report” treatment. The details
are a bit technical, but the basic point is to design the survey
so that the experimenters can’t learn, and can’t even make
inferences about, any individual’s answers to particular
questions. They can calculate answers only at the aggregate
level.  The two approaches produced significantly different
results. In the best practices survey, 17 percent of
participants said they had had a sexual experience with someone
of the same sex (12 percent of men, 24 percent of women). For
the veiled report, the corresponding number was 27 percent (17
percent of men and 43 percent of women) -- an increase of 58
percent.  In the best practices survey, 11 percent of the population
said that they didn’t consider themselves to be heterosexual. In
the veiled report, that number jumped to almost 19 percent -- an
increase of 65 percent.  Did participants believe that discrimination on the basis
of sexual orientation should be illegal? In the standard survey,
only about 14 percent said no. That number increased to 25
percent in the veiled report.  In best practices, only 16 percent of participants said
they would be uncomfortable having a manager at work who was
lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT for short). The
number jumped to 27 percent in the veiled report.  The effect of assuring anonymity varied significantly
across demographic groups. The veiled survey had no effect on
the answers of young people to questions about their sexual
orientation, apparently because social norms don’t much
discourage young people from revealing the truth.  Veiled Approach  But among Christians and older people, the effect of the
veiled approach was especially large, increasing their reports
of non-heterosexuality and of same-sex experiences by more than
100 percent.  In best practices, only a minority of Republicans (35
percent) said they would be unhappy with an LGBT manager. Under
the veiled report, most Republicans (67 percent) said they would
be unhappy.  It is important to emphasize that  Coffman  and her
colleagues didn’t have a representative sample, so the total
percentages can’t be taken as reflective of what the general
American population thinks and does. Among other things, the
participants in their study were younger, more liberal and
better educated than the general U.S. population.  But the researchers’ real interest was the effect of
assuring anonymity, and on that question the absence of a
representative sample doesn’t undermine their conclusions. On
the contrary, the impact of assured anonymity on the answers
would almost certainly be even bigger with the American
population as a whole, because the demographic groups that show
the largest effects from the veiled report were underrepresented
in their survey.  In recent years, the U.S. has experienced rapid shifts in
popular attitudes toward same-sex relationships. Americans
increasingly disapprove of discrimination against gay men and
lesbians. That disapproval is likely to grow over time.  But social norms  continue  to matter. We have good reason to
believe that there is more same-sex activity, and also more
homophobia, than current surveys suggest.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at Harvard Law School, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 