-- Indonesia Palm Reserves May Drop as Weather Curbs Output
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-11-12T10:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/palm-reserves-in-indonesia-seen-dropping-as-weather-curbs-output.html
Palm oil  inventories in  Indonesia ,
the world’s largest supplier, probably declined in October to
the lowest level in 16 months as rain disrupted production and
exports gained, boosting the outlook for prices.  Reserves shrank 8.5 percent to 2.04 million metric tons
from 2.23 million tons in September, and compared with 2.6
million tons a year earlier, according to the median of
estimates from five plantation executives, traders and refiners
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest since 1.85 million tons
in June 2012. Exports rose 3.7 percent to 1.7 million tons and
output was unchanged at 2.4 million tons, the survey showed.  Futures in  Kuala Lumpur  entered a bull market this month
and are heading for their first annual gain in three years on
speculation that production in top producers Indonesia and
 Malaysia  is trailing analysts’ estimates. Output of the oil,
used in everything from candy to cosmetics, is typically highest
from July to October. Stockpiles in Indonesia may drop through
the fourth quarter on lower-than-expected production, according
to  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s top palm oil trader.  “Refineries are scrambling for palm oil,” said Sahat Sinaga,  executive director  at the Indonesian Vegetable Oil
Industry Association. “Inventories may drop further in November
to about 1.8 million tons and that may boost prices.”  The Indonesian Palm Oil Association, or Gapki, which
doesn’t publish inventory and production data, may release
October export figures next week. The forecast for changes in
output and reserves were derived from earlier survey findings.  Bull Market  The stockpile prediction by Sinaga would be the lowest
compared with the medians in the surveys that started in May
2012, and would be 49 percent less than a record 3.5 million
tons in January.  Futures advanced 6.6 percent this year to 2,600 ringgit
($809) a ton on the Bursa Malaysia Derivatives today. Prices
reached 2,628 ringgit on Nov. 1, the highest close since
September 2012 and 21 percent more than the 2,167 settlement on
July 29, meeting the common definition of a  bull market .  “The uptrend in prices has just started” and will last at
least through January, said Hariyanto Wijaya, an analyst at PT
Mandiri Sekuritas, a unit of PT Bank Mandiri, Indonesia’s
biggest lender by assets. Prices usually reach their lowest in
October when production peaks and then start to climb as
supplies drop, he said in a report dated yesterday.  Forecast Cut  Several major plantations in Indonesia said that output
unexpectedly fell 7 percent to 10 percent in the first 10 months
because of excessive rain and the growing cycle, according to
Derom Bangun, chairman of the palm oil board, on Oct. 30. The
board may cut its production estimate when it gets November
data, he said. The group lowered its forecast to 26.7 million
tons to 27 million tons on Sept. 30 from 28 million tons. Output
was 25.7 million tons in 2012.  A decline in production would contrast with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture’s prediction for a record 31 million
tons in 2013-2014. Output may exceed 25 million tons this year,
Agriculture Minister Suswono said Nov. 8.  Wilmar’s production of crude palm oil dropped 8 percent to
473,833 tons in the third quarter as output of fresh fruit
bunches fell 10 percent, the Singapore-based company said last
week. About 75 percent of its supplies come from Indonesia.  PT Astra Agro Lestari (AALI) , the country’s largest listed
plantation company by market value, had a 7.1 percent decline in
production of fresh fruit bunches in the first nine months, it
said Oct. 28.  PT Perusahaan Perkebunan London Sumatra Indonesia (LSIP) 
reported a 17 percent drop and PT Sampoerna Agro had a 29
percent decrease.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  