-- PBOC Raises Yuan Fixing Toward Record Before Lew Visits China
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-11-12T03:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/pboc-raises-yuan-fixing-toward-record-before-lew-visits-china.html
China  raised the  yuan ’s reference
rate to within 0.1 percent of an all-time high before a visit
this week by U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, who is
calling for faster exchange-rate reform in the Asian nation.  The People’s Bank of China boosted the fixing by 0.05
percent to 6.136 per dollar, near a record 6.133 on Oct. 23. Lew
is traveling to  Japan , China,  Singapore , Malaysia and Vietnam
from today and will discuss the importance of allowing financial
markets to determine exchange rates, according to Treasury
officials, who requested anonymity as a condition for briefing
reporters. China should move more quickly on this front, he
wrote in an editorial today in The Wall Street Journal  Asia .  “The PBOC has been setting the fix on the stronger side in
the lead-up to Lew’s visit this Friday,” said Khoon Goh, a
Singapore-based strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. “This has helped the yuan fare better compared to
other Asian currencies.”  The yuan traded at 6.0918 per dollar as of 10:51 a.m. in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The rate was 0.7 percent stronger than the People’s Bank of
China’s reference rate, compared with the maximum allowed
divergence of 1 percent. The yuan has strengthened 0.5 percent
in the past month, Asia’s best performance.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
fell for a second day before the conclusion of a four-day
meeting at which Chinese leaders are discussing economic
reforms. The rate fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 1.62 percent.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan was little changed
at 6.0791 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.02 percent to 6.158, a 1.1
percent  discount  to the onshore spot rate in Shanghai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  