-- PDVSA to Sell $4.5 Billion in Bonds Amid Pre-Election Shortages
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   P i e t r o   D .   P i t t s
-- 2013-11-12T21:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/pdvsa-to-sell-4-5-billion-in-bonds-amid-pre-election-shortages.html
Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA will sell
$4.5 billion in bonds this week in the first issuance by a state
entity since May 2012 as the government seeks to bolster
shrinking reserves and curb the world’s fastest  inflation .  PDVSA, as the state oil company is known, will sell debt
privately to selected state and private buyers to pay off debts
and boost output, company President  Rafael Ramirez  told
reporters in Caracas today. The securities will have several
maturity dates, he said, without providing more details.  The government is seeking to boost dollar supply to pay for
imports and offset a shortage of locally produced goods that has
helped spur 54 percent annual inflation. President  Nicolas Maduro  dispatched the military to take over a retail chain last
weekend and warned other businesses to cut prices to “fair”
levels as the country gears up for municipal elections next
month and the  Christmas shopping season .  “The timing is absolutely critical because of the local
elections on Dec. 8,”  Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin
American strategy at Jefferies Group LLC, said by phone from  New
York .  “Maduro needs to reduce the inflation and boost imports,
which is what this issuance is intended to go toward.”  The yield on the country’s benchmark bonds due 2027 soared
0.79 percentage point to 13.82 percent at 4:49 p.m. in New York,
the highest since January 2012, as Maduro vowed in a national
address to tighten price controls and punish speculators.  ‘Bad Moment’  “PDVSA is issuing at a very bad moment and almost surely
will have to pay a high coupon of between 12 and 13 percent,
because the market is reacting negatively to Maduro’s
announcements,”  Asdrubal Oliveros , director of Caracas-based
consultancy Ecoanalitica, said in a phone interview today.  South America ’s largest oil producer is likely to sell most
bonds to the central bank, which would gradually resell them to
international investors, as in previous issues, Morden and
Oliveros said.  Venezuela’s international reserves fell to $21.3 billion
today, the lowest level in nine years. Scarce dollars have
limited the supply of products ranging from medicine to milk in
a country that imports about three-quarters of the goods it
consumes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Pietro D. Pitts in Caracas at 
 ppitts2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  