-- Pentagon Awards Drop as Shutdown Intensifies U.S. Cuts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-11-12T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/pentagon-awards-drop-as-shutdown-intensifies-u-s-cuts.html
Pentagon contracts plunged 66
percent to $15.7 billion last month, the lowest level since
January, driven by automatic U.S. spending cuts and a partial
government shutdown.  The slump reflects a shifting landscape for companies such
as  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , whose sales have
declined after years of gains propelled in part by two wars.  The Defense Department’s contracting is being constrained
by a temporary  federal budget  that includes the across-the-board
reductions, said  Loren Thompson , a defense analyst with
Lexington Institute, an Arlington, Virginia-based research
organization. It also was blunted by the October shutdown, as
the Pentagon furloughed employees involved in acquisition, he
said.  “You put those two things together, and there’s a
substantial problem in the amount of contracting activity
compared with what the Pentagon was planning,” said Thompson,
who also consults for companies.  The automatic cuts under a process called sequestration
would take about $52 billion from the military’s request of
$526.6 billion, excluding war costs, for the current fiscal
year.  They are part of a broader slowdown in  military spending .
Declines in defense outlays have subtracted 0.28 percentage
point a quarter on average from gross domestic product over the
past two years, according to Commerce Department data.  Rocket Services  The number of civilian federal employees, excluding those
working for the  Postal Service , was 2.13 million in October, the
fewest since July 2009, according to Labor Department figures.
The 526,600 Defense Department civilian workers in September
marked a four-year low.  The Pentagon announced 185 awards in October with a maximum
value of $15.7 billion, compared with 717, or $46 billion, in
September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  None of the military contracts last month topped $1 billion
in value. The month’s largest award was a $939.1 million
extension of a rocket-services agreement with United Launch
Alliance LLC, a joint venture owned by  Lockheed (LMT)  Martin Corp. and
 Boeing Co. (BA)   The legislation that Congress passed to continue funding
through Jan. 15 includes the reductions under sequestration. It
also limits the Pentagon from getting started on new projects
until a regular appropriations package is enacted, Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel said last month.  Holiday Slump  The military has fallen behind on its acquisition work,
Thompson said. About 800,000 federal workers were sent home when
the shutdown began Oct. 1. Defense employees handling
contracting initially were furloughed, and efforts to catch up
will be complicated by spending restraints and the traditional
slow times around the holidays, he said.  Thompson said he didn’t expect contract awards to return to
normal until late January at the earliest, and only if Congress
passes a regular spending bill that month.  “If we get another shutdown, it’s Groundhog Day,”
Thompson said, referring to the Bill Murray movie in which a TV
weatherman relives the day over and over again. “It’s a mess.”  The value of last month’s announced awards was less than
half the $37.4 billion from the same period a year earlier,
according to military acquisition data compiled by Bloomberg.
Many of the contracts were announced Oct. 18, two days after the
shutdown ended, because the Pentagon didn’t publish its daily
roundup of awards during the disruption.  The Defense Department is required to announce contracts of
at least $6.5 million.  Lobbying Push  House and Senate negotiators are trying to write a budget
for the rest of the 2014 fiscal year that avoids sequestration.
The defense industry is lobbying Congress to develop an
alternative to the scheduled budget reductions, which began
March 1 and will cut $1.2 trillion in federal spending over nine
years if no action is taken.  A year ago, Pentagon officials were “operating under the
assumption that sequestration would not occur,” said Brian Friel, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “Defense buyers were
getting things on contract, whereas now the reality of
sequestration seems to be setting in.”  The federal shutdown began after  House Republicans  refused
to pass legislation keeping the government running unless the
bill delayed or ended funding for President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
of 2010 is intended to extend coverage to millions of uninsured
Americans.  ‘Extraordinary Money’  The budget battle may erupt again when the temporary
funding bill expires in January, said Mark Amtower, who runs a
government contracting consulting firm in Clarksville,  Maryland .  “Who knows if it’s going to be resolved, given the fact
that they went ahead and did the shutdown,” said Amtower, who
gives “even odds” that Congress won’t agree to fund the
government after January. “There are a couple of groups with
extraordinary money on the right fringe that will push remaining
Tea Party people to go as far as they can. All of this impacts
the award of contracts.”  The month’s biggest contract, to United Launch Alliance,
based in Centennial,  Colorado , was announced Oct. 18. The  Air
Force  uses the venture’s Delta IV and Atlas V rockets to launch
satellites.  Jessica Rye, a United Launch spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the award.  Army Radios  The Navy selected 14 companies to compete under a $900
million contract to provide technology and communications
services under what’s known in military parlance as C5ISR
(command, control, communications, computers, combat systems,
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance).  The contract, the month’s second largest, went to companies
including Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed and Arlington,
Virginia-based  CACI International Inc. (CACI)   A group of small businesses won an $872 million award on
Oct. 31 to support fire and emergency services equipment.  Harris
Corp. (HRS) , based in  Melbourne ,  Florida , received an $847 million
modification for Army radios. Aerospace Corp., based in El
Segundo,  California , was awarded a $788 million contract for
space-engineering services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net . 