-- Petronas Stands by Brent Even After Manipulation Claim
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-11-12T10:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/petronas-stands-by-brent-after-manipulation-claim.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state energy company, remains committed to using Brent as a
benchmark for buying and selling oil even amid accusations of
price fixing, its chief executive said.  “I don’t see any manipulation,” Chief Executive Officer
Shamsul Azhar Abbas told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today.
“Brent is still the most acceptable benchmark.”  Four energy traders claimed in a lawsuit last month that
some of the world’s biggest oil companies including BP Plc,
Statoil ASA and Royal Dutch Shell Plc conspired with Morgan
Stanley and energy traders such as Vitol Group to fix spot
prices for Brent for more than a decade. The North Sea oil price
as assessed by Platts, a unit of New York-based McGraw Hill
Financial Inc., is used to price more than half the world’s
crude including  Australia ’s Cossack, Malaysia’s Tapis and
Castilla in  Colombia .  The case is one of at least seven U.S. lawsuits alleging
price fixing in the London-based Brent market. European Union
antitrust authorities raided the offices of companies including
Platts, BP and Shell in May amid allegations of collusion in
setting prices of crude, refined products and biofuels.  The probe comes as global regulators scrutinize financial
measures around the world after fining banks about $2.5 billion
for distorting other benchmarks.  Petronas, as Malaysia’s state energy company is known,
reported a 16 percent increase in third-quarter profit on
increased sales. Net income rose to 14.5 billion ringgit ($4.5
billion) in the three months through September from a restated
12.5 billion ringgit a year earlier, according to a statement
released today in Kuala Lumpur.  South Sudan  Revenue climbed 19 percent to 81.4 billion ringgit, buoyed
by a resumption in  South Sudan  production and higher output in
Malaysia and  Canada .  Brent climbed to an average $110.36 a barrel during the
three-month period from $109.61 a year earlier, Petronas said in
the statement. Total production rose to 2.064 million barrels a
day of oil equivalent in the third quarter from 1.904 million
last year, according to the company.  Petronas is likely to book a full-year profit before tax
for 2013 more than 90 billion ringgit on higher production and
foreign exchange gains, Shamsul said. This is based on crude at
between $106 to $108 a barrel and the ringgit at 3.12 to 3.15 to
the dollar, he said.  The Malaysian producer has yet to complete a deal agreed in
May to buy a 40 percent stake in two blocks of  OGX Petroleo e
Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ’s Tubarao Martelo field off  Brazil  for $850
million. OGX, which once transformed  Eike Batista  into Brazil’s
richest man, filed for  bankruptcy protection  last month.  Stake Sale  A decision on whether to proceed will depend on the court
ruling, Shamsul said, declining to elaborate.  In Canada, Petronas may sell another stake in its Pacific
NorthWest LNG project, this time to an Indian company, Shamsul
said, declining to name the buyer. It sold a 10 percent stake to
Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. in March.  Petronas’s board has approved the sale which is pending
approval from the Indian government, Shamsul said. “We hope to
wrap up the deal as soon as possible.”  Petronas  agreed last week to buy 75 percent of Talisman
Energy Inc.’s Montney shale holdings in the Farrell Creek and
Cypress areas of Canada’s British Columbia for C$1.5 billion.
It’s making the acquisition through Progress Energy Canada, the
company it bought last year for C$5.2 billion after an initial
rejection from the Canadian government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  