-- Philippine Peso Posts Worst 2-Day Drop Since August; Bonds Fall
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-11-12T08:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/philippine-peso-posts-worst-2-day-drop-since-august-bonds-fall.html
The Philippine peso completed its
biggest two-day loss since August and bonds fell as President
 Benigno Aquino  declared a state of calamity following the
destruction and loss of life from Super Typhoon Haiyan.  The currency reached an eight-week low as the government
said the devastation may hurt the economy. Countries around the
world pledged aid as the number of confirmed deaths rose to
1,774. A stronger dollar and higher U.S. Treasury yields are
adding pressure on the peso to weaken, Singapore-based analysts
Prakriti Sofat and Hamish Pepper at Barclays Plc wrote in a
research report today. The central bank’s tolerance for currency
appreciation also appears to be very low, they said.  “The shock over the destruction of the typhoon and a
relatively stronger dollar” prompted a sell-off in the peso,
said Leong Sook Mei, Southeast Asian head of global markets
research in Singapore at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  The peso declined 0.5 percent to 43.778 per dollar in
 Manila , taking the two-day drop to 1.4 percent, the worst since
Aug. 23, prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show. It touched 43.792
earlier, the lowest level since Sept. 17.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, increased 37 basis
points, or 0.37 percentage point, to 6.04 percent.  Bonds Fall  Ten-year  government bonds  declined for a third day. The
yield on the 11.375 percent notes due October 2023 climbed two
basis points to 3.67 percent, according to noon fixing prices
from Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp. That’s the highest
level in more than two weeks.  There is no plan to sell bonds to fund reconstruction,
Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said in a mobile-phone message today,
and the Treasury has “enough liquidity” for rebuilding.  An estimated 660,000 people have been displaced by the
typhoon, John Ging, an official with the United Nations
humanitarian affairs office, told reporters in  New York .  Losses will be $12 billion to $15 billion, or about 5
percent of economic output, according to an estimate by Charles
Watson, director of research and development at Kinetic Analysis
Corp., a disaster-modeling firm. “For the Philippine islands,
it is catastrophic,” Watson said in an e-mail.  The government has 18.7 billion pesos ($429 million) to
fund reconstruction after Haiyan slammed into the  Philippines  on
Nov. 8, President Aquino said yesterday in a televised address.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  