-- Pimco Raises Government Debt Holdings in Flagship Fund
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-11-12T22:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/pimco-doubles-holdings-of-non-u-s-debt-in-flagship-fund.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  raised the percentage of Treasuries and other U.S.
government-related debt in his flagship fund in October after
the Federal Reserve unexpectedly maintained its bond purchases.  The proportion of U.S. government and related debt in the
$248 billion Total Return Fund climbed to 37 percent from 35
percent the prior month, data on Pimco’s  website  show. Mortgage
debt fell to 34 percent from 35 percent in September. The
Newport Beach, California-based company doesn’t comment directly
on monthly changes in holdings or specific types of securities
within a market sector.  Gross has been recommending that investors purchase
shorter-term Treasuries as the Fed weighs tapering its bond
buying under the quantitative-easing stimulus strategy and the
market underestimates how long it will then take the central
bank to begin raising interest rates. Gross anticipates the
central bank will become more accommodative under Janet Yellen.  The U.S. is growing slowly and inflation levels are at
“unacceptable, dangerous territory at the moment,” Gross said
in a Nov. 8 radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene . The Fed is “moving into forward guidance in a big
way, and at some point we may expect to see a nominal GDP target
as well as a higher inflation target in the United States.”  Fed Vice Chairman Yellen faces a confirmation hearing Nov.
14 after being to succeed Ben S. Bernanke as chairman.  Holdings Figures  U.S. credit, which includes investment-grade and high-yield
securities, rose to 10 percent from 9 percent. The category was
previously separated into two sectors called investment grade
and high yield.  The Total Return Fund’s emerging-market debt holding was at
6 percent, the same as in September.  Over the past five years, the  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has
returned 7.66 percent, outperforming 70 percent of competitors.
It gained 0.36 percent over the past month, outperforming 71
percent of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund’s government and Treasury debt category includes
holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, agency debt,  interest-rate swaps  and inflation-protected securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  