-- Pivotal Vies to Bring EMC, VMware Into Cloud Software
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-11-12T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/pivotal-vies-to-bring-emc-vmware-into-cloud-software.html
Pivotal, the spinout of  EMC Corp. (EMC) 
and  VMware Inc. (VMW) , is introducing software to help its parents
gain relevance in cloud computing.  Starting Nov. 15, Pivotal will help businesses create Web-based applications that can be moved from in-house data centers
to cloud servers run by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , VMware and OpenStack,
the open-source project founded by Rackspace Hosting Inc., Scott Yara, a senior vice president at Pivotal, said in an interview.  Pivotal, based in  San Francisco  and run by Paul Maritz, was
established by EMC and VMWare late last year to tap surging
demand for Internet-based programs as growth slows in their
traditional businesses. Pivotal is trying to attract developers
who want to build applications that can move between internal
servers and those rented from other companies, without having to
rewrite the programs.  “I have called it the Android of the cloud,” said Yara,
likening the software, called Pivotal CF, to  Google’s (GOOG)  open-source mobile operating system. “The question is how do you
build an open model that allows applications to move from
corporate data centers to public cloud and across different
public clouds.”  Amazon has built a multi-billion dollar business called
Amazon Web Services by letting companies offload their data
center needs and rent servers and storage by the hour. Microsoft
and Google are competing in the market and will most likely be
added to Pivotal’s offerings next year, Yara said.  Additional Support  Pivotal CF is a professional version of open-source
software developed by VMware. The company said it will continue
to back the open-source version and will announce additional
support from  Intel Corp. (INTC) , SAP AG, International Business
Machines Corp. and General Electric Co., which invested in
Pivotal.  Pivotal will also offer Pivotal One services for tasks like
data analytics, messaging and databases.  Maritz, the former CEO of VMware, took the helm of Pivotal
in December when EMC and VMware confirmed the spinoff. Maritz,
who was previously the No. 3 executive at Microsoft, has said he
is not interested in the CEO job there, which is being vacated
by  Steve Ballmer , people familiar with Maritz’s thinking said
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  