-- Polish Yields Advance on Bets Fed to Start Tapering in December
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-11-12T13:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/polish-yields-advance-on-bets-fed-to-start-tapering-in-december.html
Poland ’s government bond yields
jumped to their highest in a month on speculation the U.S.
Federal Reserve may start tapering its monetary stimulus by as
early as December, cutting the appetite for riskier assets.  The yield on 10-year Polish debt jumped 14 basis points, or
0.14 percentage point, to 4.44 percent at 12:45 p.m. in Warsaw,
the strongest level since Oct. 11. The spread over similar
German bonds rose 11 basis points to 266, the highest since
September. U.S. payrolls data on Nov. 8 showed companies added
almost twice as many workers as projected in October, damping
demand for fixed-income assets.  “The macroeconomic environment supports the reduction of
positions on  emerging markets ,” Jakub Taborowicz, who helps
manage the equivalent of $7.1 billion at Poland’s largest mutual
fund PZU TFI SA, said by e-mail. The U.S. payrolls were “a
trigger” that accelerated the process.  U.S. policy makers will reduce the pace of their monthly
asset purchases to $70 billion at their March 18-19 meeting,
from the current $85 billion, according to the median estimate
of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey on Nov. 8. A similar
forecast in an Oct. 17-18 survey of 40 economists also called
for a cut to $70 billion in March.  Poland’s central bank pledged to keep  interest rates  at a
record low of 2.5 percent through at least mid-2014, Governor
 Marek Belka  said Nov. 6. The  European Central Bank  unexpectedly
trimmed its main rate to 0.25 percent on Nov. 7 as the euro
region faces the danger of a “prolonged” period of low
inflation, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on that day.  “Even though the ECB cut rates, you can see that everyone
is most concerned about how soon and by how much the Fed will
start to cut stimulus,” Krzysztof Bednarczyk, who helps oversee
1.4 billion zloty at Opera TFI, a Warsaw-based  money manager ,
said by e-mail. Given that the Polish central bank “has no
inclination to increase rates,” domestic bond yields are
entering “really nice buying levels.”  The zloty strengthened 0.2 percent to 4.2065 per euro,
recovering from a 0.8 percent depreciation to a six-week low
yesterday, when the local market was closed for a public
holiday.  For Related News and Information:
Top Stories:{TOP<GO  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  