-- Prudential Raises Dividend 33% After Swinging to Profit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-11-12T21:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/prudential-increases-dividend-33-after-swinging-to-profit-1-.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, raised its dividend by 33
percent after posting its first profit in five quarters.  The quarterly  dividend  of 53 cents per share is payable
Dec. 19 to shareholders of record as of Nov. 26, the  Newark , New
Jersey-based insurer said today in a statement. The increase was
the largest since a 64 percent boost in 2010 when the payout was
made on an annual basis.  The insurer has rallied 62 percent this year as rising
stock markets and higher bond yields reduced liabilities on
retirement products in which the company guarantees minimum
returns for clients. Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld,
who has been expanding in Japan and buying back shares to
improve the return on equity, last week posted third-quarter
profit of $1.04 billion, compared with a $584 million loss a
year earlier.  “Prudential is a well-managed and diversified company with
a broad portfolio,”  Eric Berg , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets , said in a Nov. 7 research note. “Our conviction level
remains high that the company will be able to achieve its main
financial objective of a 13 percent ROE by year-end 2013 even if
markets aren’t all that cooperative.”  Prudential gained 0.2 percent to $86.64 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York. Larger rival  MetLife Inc. (MET)  slipped 1.2 percent, trimming
its advance for the year to 50 percent.  Systemically Important  MetLife increased its dividend this year for the first time
since 2007, after its exit from banking limited oversight from
the  Federal Reserve . The quarterly payout was set at 27.5 cents
a share. While MetLife kept its dividend stable during the
financial crisis, Prudential cut the payout by about half in
2008.  Prudential was designated a systemically important
financial institution this year, placing it under Fed
supervision. MetLife, based in New York, has said it’s also
under consideration for the risk label.  “To see this action so soon after the non-bank SIFI
designation is encouraging to say the least,”  John Nadel , an
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said of the dividend in a
research note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  