-- Puerto Rico Distress Spells Wall Street Opportunity: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/puerto-rico-distress-spells-wall-street-opportunity-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico debt is having its worst
year since 1999 as a shrinking economy strains the island’s
finances. For Wall Street banks and law firms, that’s a signal
to tout the bonds to investors in distressed debt who don’t
typically buy municipal securities.  In the last month, bankers at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  made private presentations to investors in New York,
according to people who attended the meetings. Lazard Capital
Markets LLC said it hosted a similar event.  Bankers and lawyers are trying to boost trading and
advisory fees for securities that are increasingly appealing to
hedge funds and buyers of speculative-grade corporate and
sovereign debt. They’ve been lured after yields on some Puerto
Rico obligations, rated one step above junk, soared above 15
percent on a taxable basis, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “All these broker-dealers are trying to raise interest in
trading this paper,” said David Tawil, co-founder of Maglan
Capital LP, a New York-based distressed-debt hedge fund that’s
been buying the U.S. territory’s obligations. Tawil said he
attended a presentation, though he declined to specify which
one.  “The first thing that they’ve got to do is help on the
education side, because a lot of distressed investors are not
municipal-bond experts and they need to get comfortable,” he
said. “They’re helping people get up to speed.”  Ripple Effect  The heightened demand from a new category of buyers is
helping stabilize the $70 billion market for Puerto Rico debt as
the commonwealth seeks to borrow to plug deficits and roll over
bank loans. The territory’s fiscal health has implications
beyond the Caribbean: More than 75 percent of U.S. mutual funds
focusing on munis hold Puerto Rico bonds, which are tax-exempt
nationwide.  Puerto Rico securities halted a four-month slide in
October, paring this year’s tumble to about 15.6 percent, still
the worst performance since at least 1999, Standard & Poor’s
data show. The losses, along with Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla’s steps to revive the economy and end budget gaps, have
drawn buyers of distressed munis.  U.S. Role  Mary Miller, the U.S. Treasury’s undersecretary for
domestic affairs, said at the Bloomberg Link State & Municipal
Finance conference in New York last week that the U.S. isn’t
planning “deep federal assistance” for Puerto Rico.  Yields on Puerto Rico munis have still dropped from record
highs. Tax-exempt general obligations maturing in July 2041
traded Nov. 8 with an average yield of 7.86 percent, down from
about 9.3 percent on Sept. 11, the highest since their original
sale in March 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For top
earners, that is equivalent to 15.4 percent on a taxable basis.  Puerto Rico vowed seven years ago to fix its finances after
posting a $740 million budget deficit. Yet the commonwealth and
its agencies doubled borrowing since 2004, aided by Wall Street
banks selling Puerto Rican bonds to money managers and
individuals.  Scott Helfman, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
and Lauren Bellmare, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley in New
York, declined to comment on the conferences.  Lazard Capital  Lazard Capital held a meeting Oct. 10 at its New York 
office with about 75 participants, said Peter Santry, head of 
fixed-income trading. As more hedge funds buy and sell 
commonwealth securities, the firm wants to capture that trading 
revenue, Santry said.  “You want to get business out of it,” Santry said.  Former Governor Luis Fortuno, who lost a re-election bid in
November 2012 and is now a partner at Washington-based Steptoe &
Johnson LLP, spoke at the Lazard Capital meeting on the legal 
structures of Puerto Rico debt and the commonwealth’s economy, 
Santry said. Fortuno declined to comment in an e-mail, saying he 
wouldn’t discuss current or potential clients.  Citigroup hosted an Oct. 24 conference that attracted more
than 200 attendees, eight times more than the company was
expecting, according to two participants, who asked not to be
identified because the meeting was private. Bank representatives
said in the presentation that the company originally booked a
conference room and had to find a bigger space, the attendees
said.  Island Underwriter  Peter Bartlett, co-head of Citigroup’s municipal trading
and sales department, helped run the meeting, the people said.
The company and its Salomon Smith Barney unit managed $27
billion of Puerto Rico debt sales since 2000, the most among
underwriting banks, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bartlett, who is based in Los Angeles, didn’t respond to e-mails sent yesterday, when U.S. bond markets were shut for
Veterans’ Day.  The audience included representatives from  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group (OZM)  LLC, Highbridge Capital Management LLC and P.
Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, one of the attendees said.  Morgan Stanley, which has served as underwriter of the
biggest percentage of the island’s debt this year, outlined
Puerto Rico bonds during its Oct. 22 Global Distressed Debt
Conference at the Marriott Marquis hotel in Times Square,
according to three people at the meeting who asked for anonymity
because the event was private. A participant who also asked for
anonymity provided a copy of presentation materials by analysts
Ryan Brady and John Ruiz.  Cadwalader Spotlight  Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, a New York-based law
firm that provides advice on distressed municipal debt, had a
conference on Nov. 1 to discuss Puerto Rico, said a person who
attended. A Cadwalader e-mail about the event provided by a
recipient described it as: “Distressed Municipal Finance
Series: Spotlight on Puerto Rico.”  Adam Segall, a spokesman for Cadwalader, declined to
comment.  Puerto Rico Treasury Secretary Melba Acosta and Government
Development Bank Chairman David Chafey also declined to comment.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Och-Ziff at Sard
Verbinnen & Co.; Kirsti McCabe, a spokeswoman for Highbridge at
RLM Finsbury; and Catherine Jones, a spokeswoman for Schoenfeld
at ASC Advisors LLC, all declined to comment.  Commonwealth’s Efforts  Puerto Rico officials have made their own efforts to brief
investors.  Tawil and Greenwich, Connecticut-based MeehanCombs LP,
which manages $130 million, were among more than 2,000
participants in an Oct. 15 webcast in which Puerto Rico
officials, including Garcia Padilla and Chafey, spoke on the
island’s finances in a bid to calm the market for its debt.  Other participants included New York-based Arrowgrass
Capital Partners (US) LP, whose parent company manages $3.5
billion of alternative investments; and MatlinPatterson Global
Advisers LLC, a New York alternative-asset manager.  The Puerto Rico officials said on the webcast that they had
sufficient funds to forgo selling debt before June 30 if
interest rates are too high.  Detroit ’s record bankruptcy filing in July and weeks of
outflows from municipal mutual funds pushed up interest rates on
the commonwealth’s debt and led it to turn to banks for private
loans.  Garcia Padilla, 42, who took office in January, has pledged
to create more than 90,000 jobs by 2016 and end recurring budget
deficits. He enacted laws to boost the retirement age and
require public workers to contribute more to pensions to help
sustain a retirement system that has a weaker funding ratio than
that of any U.S. state.  Budget Beater  The governor, a member of the Popular Democratic Party,
boosted business taxes to help balance the fiscal 2014 budget.
The island took in $120 million more revenue than budgeted for
the first four months of the fiscal year that began July 1,
according to preliminary data from its Treasury Department.  While revenue collections are above budget, the island’s
economy is projected to shrink 0.8 percent in fiscal 2014,
according to Puerto Rico’s Planning Board, which calculates
economic growth.  In the broader muni market, issuers from  California  to New
York plan to sell about $5.4 billion of long-term debt this week
with benchmark yields close to the lowest since June.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield 2.73 percent, compared with
 2.75 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the interest rates, a gauge of relative value,
is about  99 percent . It’s the first time it’s been below 100
percent since June and it compares with an average of 94 percent
since 2001. A lower figure signals munis are becoming more
expensive compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  