-- Rajan Plays Middleman With Currency Intervention: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-11-13T04:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/rajan-plays-middleman-with-currency-intervention-india-credit.html
India ’s largest foreign-exchange
intervention since the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy
has helped smooth swings in the rupee, giving policy makers time
to revive the economy,  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  and UBS AG say.  The  Reserve Bank  of India  bought and sold  $10.3 billion in
September, the most since October 2008, data published Nov. 11
show. It played the role of middleman after Governor  Raghuram Rajan  introduced discounted swaps to buy dollars from lenders,
following sales of the greenback to state  oil companies .  The rupee has jumped 8 percent from a record low on Aug.
28, the most among 168 global currencies, curbing inflation and
the current-account deficit. Rajan’s window for banks attracted
$17.5 billion as of Nov. 11, cutting their funding costs even as
he lifted the RBI’s benchmark rate to quell price pressures. The
government approved stalled projects worth at least 3.84
trillion rupees ($60 billion) this year to spur growth.  “The RBI’s swaps have helped steady the rupee,” N. Srinivasan Venkatesh, head of treasury at IDBI Bank in Mumbai,
said in a Nov. 11 telephone interview. “By the time the
transactions need to be reversed, probably starting next year,
the RBI would have had a grip on inflation and the government
can increase recent efforts to support growth.”  Inflation, Rupee  Venkatesh expects inflation to ease by February and
predicts growth could accelerate to 7 percent in the year
through March 2015. The RBI forecasts  gross domestic product 
will increase 5 percent this fiscal year, matching the previous
period’s pace that was the slowest since 2003. The rupee will
strengthen to around 61 per dollar in January, from 63.73 today,
as corporate inflows rise, he said.  The swap facility for refiners, the biggest purchasers of
foreign currency in India, started on Aug. 29. Rajan, who took
charge of the RBI on Sept. 4, said the same day he would offer
concessional swaps for dollars raised by banks through deposits
from Indians living abroad and overseas borrowings.  The swap window for banks, which closes Nov. 30, could
attract as much as $25 billion, Economic Affairs Secretary
Arvind Mayaram said in  New Delhi  yesterday. Refiners have
resumed buying 30 percent to 40 percent of their dollar needs in
the  currency market , he told CNBC-TV18 on Nov. 7.  The  rate at which banks borrow  from each other for three
months touched an almost four-month low of 9.01 percent on Nov.
6, National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. data show. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year  government bonds  rose five basis points
today to 9.10 percent.  Repurchase Rate  Rajan has raised the repurchase rate twice, taking it to
7.75 percent from 7.25 percent.  Consumer-price gains  have
averaged 9.8 percent since the end of June compared with a 10.1
percent increase in the first six months, official data show.
The rate will drop below 9 percent by the end of March, Rajan
said Oct. 29.  Three-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, has fallen 623 basis
points since Aug. 30, the most among 52 global currency pairs
tracked by Bloomberg. The rate has risen 326 basis points this
month to 13.77 percent as signs of a recovery in the  U.S.
economy  renewed concern that the  Federal Reserve  will begin
paring stimulus in the coming months.  India’s central bank bought $3.4 billion and sold $6.9
billion in September, the latest RBI figures show, the most
since October 2008 when it bought $2 billion and sold $20.6
billion. The nation’s  foreign-currency assets  stood at $248
billion at the end of September, little changed from the end of
August, before rising to $254 billion by end-October.  Fed Tapering  “The RBI’s interventions have probably bought them some
time, given the stress during the Fed tapering talks,” Ashley Perrott, the Singapore-based head of Pan-Asian fixed income at
UBS’s asset management unit, which oversees about $642 billion
globally, said by telephone on Nov. 12. “It’s given them a
window to rebuild their credibility.”  The rupee is one of the currencies most sensitive to a
potential reduction in the Fed’s asset purchases as India runs
current-account and budget deficits, according to  Credit
Agricole  CIB.  “Any addition to foreign-exchange reserves from non-resident Indians is insufficient to change the big picture of
very weak fundamentals,” Credit Agricole wrote in a research
report yesterday. “We retain our strong conviction negative
view on the rupee in the medium term.”  ‘Honeymoon’ Ending  There’s also a sense that Rajan’s “honeymoon is coming to
an end,”  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based head of foreign-exchange strategy at the French lender, said in a Nov. 6
telephone interview. Credit Agricole predicts the rupee will
weaken to 65 per dollar in coming weeks and to 75 by end-2014.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  says the rupee will strengthen to
56.50 by the end of next year as growth has probably bottomed in
 Asia ’s third-largest economy. The Australian lender recommends
investors buy the Indian currency when it drops below 64.  A stronger rupee will also allow India to benefit from
falling oil prices, according to Westpac strategist  Jonathan Cavenagh . He predicts  Brent crude , which has tumbled about 4.7
percent in the past month to $106.07 a barrel, could drop to
around $100 in the coming months.  “There are positives around the corner for India,”
Cavenagh said in a Nov. 11 telephone interview from  Singapore .
“Policy makers need to build on the good work done so far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  