-- Billionaire Mikitani’s Kenko Sues Japan Government on Drug Curbs
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-11-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/rakuten-s-kenko-unit-sues-japan-government-on-drug-restrictions.html
Kenko.com Inc. (3325) , a unit of
billionaire Hiroshi Mikitani’s Internet retailer, said it filed
a lawsuit against the Japanese government to fight restrictions
on the online sale of some drugs.  The government’s ban is “unconstitutional,” and the
lawsuit was filed at the Tokyo District Court,  Rakuten Inc. (4755)  unit
Kenko said in a stock-exchange statement yesterday. The cabinet
approved a bill yesterday that would limit some sales.  The filing came after Mikitani, the 48-year-old head of
Rakuten, threatened legal action against the government and said
he would step down from a key government council if Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe pushed forward a bill that would prevent
Internet sales of 28 drug products. The Kenko suit and online
drug sales will be handled according to the law, said Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga at a press conference.  “It will be fought in the lawsuit,” the cabinet secretary
said.  The possible resignation of Mikitani, one of  Japan ’s
leading entrepreneurs, would be a blow to the image of Abe as he
pushes legislation for his growth strategy through the current
Diet session. Rakuten spokesman Daisuke Nakane declined to
comment on Mikitani’s possible resignation from the council.  Japan’s government has proposed restricting some online
drug sales even after the Supreme Court in January allowed
resumption of Internet sales.  The  Japan Pharmaceutical Association , representing about
100,000 licensed pharmacists, had opposed online sales, saying
they increased risks that users would experience side-effects.  Kenko.com in January won a lawsuit seeking the Japanese
government’s withdrawal of a ban on selling over-the-counter
drugs online. Kenko lost about 500 million yen ($5 million) in
annual sales, or 30,000 orders, in 2009 when the government
ordered it to stop sales of over-the-counter drugs, the company
has said. Mikitani has a net worth of $7.7 billion, according to
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  