-- Trans Fat Ban Seen Threatening 4 Million Acres of Soy
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-11-12T19:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/trans-fat-ban-seen-threatening-4-million-acres-of-soy.html
U.S. farmers may lose as much as 4
million acres (1.6 million hectares) of annual soybean
production if regulators move too quickly to ban trans fats in
processed food, according to the American Soybean Association.  The Food and Drug Administration said last week it’s on a
“clear track” to banning partially hydrogenated oils, the main
vehicle for trans fats, because of links to heart disease. About
8 million acres of soybean-oil demand already has been lost
since concerns about trans fat began prompting food processors
and restaurants to switch to healthier alternatives, said
American Soybean Association President Danny Murphy.  “We understand the logic and the need for it, but we just
want to make sure the FDA doesn’t totally disturb the market by
moving really quickly,” Murphy, who grows corn and soybeans on
his farm in Canton,  Mississippi , said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “We stand to lose substantial market share.”  U.S. farmers are forecast to harvest 75.7 million acres of
soybeans, the Department of Agriculture said Nov. 8. Soybean
futures have dropped 6.8 percent in  Chicago  this year.  The food industry has voluntarily cut trans fats in
processed foods by more than 73 percent since 2005, according to
the Grocery Manufacturers Association. The Nov. 8 announcement
by FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg on trans fats means a ban
is likely after two decades of battles with public health
advocates.  While trans fats occur naturally in some meat and dairy,
most of that found in processed food are vegetable oils treated
with hydrogen to improve texture, stabilize flavors and extend
shelf life. Hydrogenation converts liquid oil into a solid.  Modified Soybeans  The soybean industry is now counting on regulators to
approve so-called high-oleic soybeans, varieties genetically
engineered by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and DuPont Co. to be stable without
hydrogenation. Once the new generation of modified soybeans gets
all the regulatory approvals, the industry plans to regain
market share with  18 million acres  of heart-healthy plants by
2023, according to the United Soybean Board.  DuPont’s Plenish soybean can eliminate trans fats and
reduce saturated fats by 20 percent in foods such as potato
chips. It’s been approved by all soy importers except the
European Union, said Russ Sanders, director of food and industry
markets for DuPont’s Pioneer seed unit. Plenish was planted on
as few as 100,000 acres in the U.S. this year because of export
concerns, he said.  Canola Demand  Monsanto’s Vistive Gold is engineered to produce soybean
oil with zero trans fats and 60 percent less saturated fat than
conventional beans. Vistive Gold has been approved for planting
in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico  and is being planted in “limited
quantities” pending import approvals from the EU and  China ,
Gayla Daugherty, a spokeswoman for the St. Louis-based company,
said in an e-mail.  A trans fat ban could help demand for canola, palm oil and
animal fat, said  Anne Frick , an analyst at Jefferies Bache LLC
in New York.  Dow Chemical Co. is already benefiting from trans fat
concerns with its heart-healthy canola, marketed as Nexera,
which required no regulatory approvals because it was
conventionally bred. Nexera canola supplied 1.5 billion pounds
of oil this year to the 24 billion pound North American
vegetable oil market, said David Dzisiak, commercial leader for
grains and oils at Midland, Michigan-based Dow.  “There’s still several billion pounds of hydrogenated oils
being used and we can replace those,” he said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  