-- RBNZ’s Wheeler Says Kiwi May Face Upward Pressure as Rates Rise
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-11-13T00:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/rbnz-sees-signs-of-loan-limits-starting-to-curb-housing-demand.html
Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor
Graeme Wheeler said the nation’s currency may be driven higher
when he starts raising interest rates next year, as major
economies are unlikely to increase borrowing costs.  “The concern will be that the interest differential
between New Zealand and any of the advanced economies will
widen,” Wheeler told a parliamentary committee in Wellington
today. “That could increase pressure on the exchange rate and
put the traded goods sector under more pressure.”  New Zealand is set to become one of the first nations in
the developed world to increase borrowing costs as surging home
 prices (QVNZTOTY)  and the rebuild of earthquake-damaged Christchurch fuel
inflation pressures. Wheeler last month introduced limits on
low-deposit home loans to try to slow an overheated housing
market and delay raising rates. The RBNZ said in its semi-annual
 Financial Stability Report  earlier today there are signs that
the lending restrictions are starting to work.  The nation’s currency dropped. The New Zealand dollar
traded at 81.99 U.S. cents at 1:35 p.m. in Wellington, from
82.25 cents before the stability report was released.  “A strengthening economic activity backdrop will need to
be countered by a higher official cash rate,” Mark Smith,
senior economist at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington,
said in an e-mailed note. “Nevertheless, supportive prudential
policy measures, the high New Zealand dollar, and restrictive
fiscal policy settings are expected to be factors tempering
future official cash rate lifts.”  Lending Limits  The RBNZ said while New Zealand’s financial system remains
sound, imbalances in the housing market pose the biggest
stability risk. It joins other small and open economies such as
 Singapore  and Hong Kong in using tools beyond the benchmark
borrowing rate in a bid to curtail surging house prices.  Prices rose 8.9 percent in October from a year earlier, the
fastest annual pace since January 2008.  Under the RBNZ’s lending limits introduced on Oct. 1, loans
for more than 80 percent of a property’s value must account for
no more than 10 percent of a bank’s new lending, down from about
30 percent.  While it’s “too early” to assess the impact of the
limits, annecdotal reports of waning buyer interest and
transaction volumes are evidence the measures are “starting to
affect the housing market,” the RBNZ said in the stability
report.  ‘More Strident’  “It was possibly a little bit more strident in terms of
the message,” said Chris Green, director of economics and
strategy at First NZ Capital Ltd. in Auckland. “Despite it
being too early to draw conclusions, they are seeing a change in
market behavior. So potentially it means interest-rate hikes
won’t come as early as may have been expected.”  Wheeler last month said he expected to start raising the
 Official Cash Rate (NZOCR)  from a record-low 2.5 percent next year.
Sustained strength in the exchange rate provides the RBNZ with
greater flexibility as to the timing and size of future rate
increases, he said.  “The New Zealand dollar trade weighted index remains at
elevated levels,” the RBNZ said in today’s report. The dollar
has been rising since early September, reflecting the
strengthening outlook for the domestic economy, it said.  Faster Growth  Wheeler last month said the economy grew more than 3
percent in the year through September.  Employment rose  1.2
percent in the third quarter -- the fastest jobs growth since
2007, according to a Nov. 6 government report. In his testimony
today, Wheeler said inflation pressures are building.  In its report, the RBNZ said a further risk to financial
stability is the high level of debt among dairy farmers, which
increases their vulnerability when commodity prices decline. It
urged farmers to be mindful about future borrowing and to use
current high incomes to repay debt.  The broader economy faces vulnerabilities associated with
high external debt, which is the result of a persistent current
account deficit, Wheeler said. The RBNZ expects the deficit to
worsen as residential investment expands over the next two to
three years, he said.  “It is important that the improved savings performance is
maintained and that the public sector deficit continues to
reduce,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  