-- Regional Gas Price Differences Will Remain Beyond 2035, IEA Says
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-11-12T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/regional-gas-price-differences-will-remain-beyond-2035-iea-says.html
Natural gas prices will vary across
regions until more flexible supply terms develop and a global
market is formed to narrow the gaps, according to the
International Energy Agency.  For prices to converge, contracts for liquefied natural gas
supplies and oil-indexed pricing need to be loosened, spurred by
accelerated gas-market reforms in Asia and LNG exports from
North America, the Paris-based IEA said today in its World
Energy Outlook 2013 report.  “Although gas price differentials have come down from the
extraordinary levels seen in mid-2012, natural gas in the U.S.
still trades at one-third of the import prices to Europe and
one-fifth of those to  Japan ,” the IEA said. “While regional
differences in natural gas prices narrow in our central
scenario, they nonetheless remain large through to 2035.”  Next-month gas in the U.S. averaged $3.66 per million
British thermal units in the past year on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. The comparable price in the U.K. was 66.5
pence a therm, equivalent to $10.62 a million Btu, on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange. LNG for delivery to Northeast Asia in
four to eight weeks averaged $16.09, according to  assessments  by
World Gas Intelligence.  While gas demand is expected to rise in Asia and the Middle
East by 2035, led by a quadrupling in China, it will struggle to
return to 2010 levels in the European Union amid competition
from a rising share of renewables and more profitable coal in
power generation, the IEA said.  China  and parts of Latin America and Europe could replicate
U.S. success in developing unconventional gas resources “at
smaller scale,” the IEA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in London at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  