-- Reliance Communications Quarterly Net Beats Estimates
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-11-13T08:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/reliance-communications-profit-beats-estimates-on-one-time-gain.html
(Corrects to show profit beat estimates in second
paragraph of story published yesterday.)  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) ,
 India ’s third-largest mobile-phone company by market value,
reported second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates
after income other than from operations almost tripled.  Net income  jumped more than sixfold to 6.75 billion rupees
($106 million) in the three months ended September from 1.02
billion rupees a year earlier, the Mumbai-based company said in
a statement today. That surpassed the 1.18 billion-rupee median
of 18 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The carrier posted its first increase in profit in five
quarters after the company wrote back a 4.4 billion-rupee
provision it had made earlier for business restructuring.
Billionaire Chairman  Anil Ambani ’s company, which this month
began offering Apple Inc.’s latest iPhone on contracts, also
benefited from an increase in revenue from voice calls made on
its network.  “This is a break for Reliance because no one was expecting
positive results,” Harit Shah, an analyst with Nirmal Bang
Institutional Equities in  Mumbai , said before the earnings
announcement. “They are winning quality clients who are
spending money on voice and data traffic.”  Revenue from voice services rose 7.8 percent to 33.8
billion rupees, and total data traffic more than doubled, the
company said.  Average revenue per user  was 120 rupees, a 26
percent jump from a year earlier, according to the statement.  Shares of Reliance fell 5.2 percent to 129.20 rupees at the
close of Mumbai trading, before the earnings announcement. The
stock has climbed 75 percent this year, compared with the 4.4
percent increase in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex and the biggest
local carrier Bharti Airtel Ltd.’s 6.5 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  