-- Trump Is Confident of Case Against Scottish Wind Farm Consent
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-11-12T15:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/trump-is-confident-of-case-against-scottish-wind-farm-consent.html
Donald Trump , the  New York  real
estate billionaire, is convinced a decision by the Scottish
government to allow an offshore wind farm in sight of his golf
course will be overturned, said Trump executive George Sorial.  “We are confident of our case,” Sorial said today in a
telephone interview. “We have absolute confidence that the
Scottish legal system will resolve this matter fairly.”  The judicial review, set to last four days at the Court of
Session in Edinburgh, will be attended by Donald Trump Jr. and
Sorial, the executive in charge of the 750 million-pound ($1.19
billion) Scottish golf resort development in Aberdeenshire.
Trump, 67, won’t attend the hearing before judge Raymond
Doherty.  Trump’s lawyers will present their case today and tomorrow
through a combination of written and oral submissions, Sorial
said. Lawyers acting for the Scottish government will defend the
case over the following two days, he said.  The timing of the written ruling will depend on the judge’s
workload, a spokeswoman for the court wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions.  The European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre, a venture
between Vattenfall AB,  Technip SA (TEC)  and Aberdeen Renewable Energy
Group, was given permission in March to build 11  wind turbines 
capable of generating enough power for more than 49,000 homes.
The project will cost more than 230 million pounds, according to
the companies.  Renewable Target  Trump has been in conflict with Scottish First Minister
 Alex Salmond , whose electoral district includes Trump’s estate,
for almost two years over his goal to make Scotland the hub for
European wind power and to generate all of its electricity from
renewable sources by 2020.  Salmond’s government is committed to the successful and
sustainable development of an offshore wind industry, it said in
an e-mailed statement. “It is not appropriate for the Scottish
government to comment on on-going legal proceedings.”  Trump, who is currently building a second course on his
1,400-acre (567 hectares) Menie estate north of Aberdeen, last
year deferred a plan to build a five-star hotel, 500 homes and
950 rental apartments at the resort because of the wind farm.  Trump was prepared to fight the proposal to install the 651
feet-high (198 meters) turbines 1.5 miles (2.4 kilometers) out
to sea for years in the courts if necessary, Sorial said in an
interview in February. The turbines will be higher at the tip of
the blades than the London tower known as the Gherkin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  