-- Russian GDP Expands Less Than Forecast in Third Quarter
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-11-12T16:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/russian-gdp-expands-less-than-forecast-in-third-quarter.html
Russia’s economy grew less than
estimated in the third quarter as a lack of investment kept the
world’s largest energy exporter from reversing its worst
slowdown since a 2009 recession.  Gross domestic product  expanded 1.2 percent from a year
earlier, the same pace as in the previous three months, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. That matched the  Economy Ministry ’s forecast and
trailed the 1.4 median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  The investment-led growth model laid out by President
 Vladimir Putin  after he took office for a third term last year
hasn’t materialized, with weaker domestic demand hurting profits
at companies including OAO AvtoVAZ. GDP growth had slowed every
quarter since Putin won a third Kremlin term in March 2012, with
senior officials including Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev 
warning Russia’s export-driven economic model neared exhaustion.  “There is still little evidence of a much-needed shift
away from an excessive reliance on  consumer spending  and towards
greater investment,”  Neil Shearing , chief economist for
 emerging markets  at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in an
e-mailed note. “An increase in private investment is unlikely
without structural reforms to the financial sector and the
business environment. These remain off the table for now.”  Stocks Laggard  Lackluster prospects for Russian growth have curbed
appetite for the country’s equities. The dollar-denominated  RTS
Index (RTSI$)  of 50 stocks has fallen 5.8 percent this year compared
with a 24.1 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Russian benchmark gauge closed 0.7 percent higher at
1,437.37 in Moscow. The yield on Russia’s five-year ruble debt
rose 7 basis points, or 0.07 percent, to 6.88 percent, a two-month high, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Assuming some ‘optical’ recovery in the fourth quarter on
the back of a base effect in agriculture and investments, annual
GDP growth is unlikely to come higher than 1.5 percent,” said
Vladimir Kolychev, chief economist for Russia at VTB Capital in
Moscow. “Policy-wise, it should push the central bank to cut
rates once inflation comes down in the first quarter.”  Rates Unchanged  The central bank left  interest rates  unchanged for a 14th
month last week after consumer prices rose 6.3 percent in
October from a year earlier. Policy makers led by Chairman
 Elvira Nabiullina  dropped a forecast that the inflation rate
would fall into this year’s target range of 5 percent to 6
percent by year-end and warned that the pace of economic growth
would remain “low” in the medium term.  Sales of new cars and light vehicles fell in October for an
eighth month, declining 8 percent from a year earlier, the
Association of European Businesses in Russia said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The drop at AvtoVAZ, Russia’s biggest
carmaker, reached 25 percent, the group said.  Russia, where growth averaged 7 percent during Putin’s
first two terms as president in 2000-2008, will see its share of
global GDP eroded over the next two decades as the economy
expands more slowly than the world average, Economy Minister
 Alexei Ulyukayev  told reporters in Moscow last week.  The government now projects an average growth rate of 2.5
percent a year to 2030 compared with 3.4 percent to 3.5 percent
globally, he said. Capital Economic’s Shearing cut his forecast
for Russian GDP growth this year to 1.5 percent from 1.8
percent, while keeping his 2014 projection at 2.8 percent.  Investment, Productivity  Putin’s goals for economic growth included increasing
investment to 25 percent of GDP by 2015 and raising  labor
productivity  50 percent from 2011 levels by 2018, according to
orders published hours after his inauguration on May 7, 2012.
Russia must double the pace of labor productivity gains from
last year’s 3.1 percent, Putin said at an investment conference
in Moscow on Oct. 2.  Economic growth had slowed every quarter since the last
three months of 2011, when GDP expanded 5.1 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Economists projected the pace
would accelerate to 3 percent as recently as July, according to
a Bloomberg survey. Today’s release was a first estimate and
didn’t provide any breakdown of the data.  The disappointing GDP figure “does keep pressure on the
central bank to deliver the much needed policy support,”
Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for  Russia  at Bank of
America Merill Lynch, said by e-mail. “However, the regulator
remains overly focused on inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  