-- Enron Revisited as Court Reviews Whistle-Blower Shield
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-12T22:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/sarbanes-oxley-whistle-blower-shield-scrutinized-by-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court revisited the
Enron Corp. collapse as the justices debated whether whistle-blower protections in a 2002 law cover employees of auditors,
law firms and other advisers to publicly traded companies.  Hearing arguments today in the case of two former mutual-fund industry workers, the justices tried to sort out a law that
represented Congress’s response to the accounting fraud behind
Enron’s 2001 failure. The fast-paced session was laced with
questions about a hypothetical butler working for the late
 Kenneth Lay , who was Enron’s chairman, and the role of the
company’s accounting firm,  Arthur Andersen  LLP.  The case will determine the scope of whistle-blower
protections that watchdog groups say are important to prevent
another Enron-like catastrophe. The dispute pits business groups
against President  Barack Obama ’s administration, which is
seeking a broad interpretation of the whistle-blower provision.  “That’s what Congress intended to cover: these
accountants, lawyers and outside auditors who were so central to
the fall of Enron,” said Nicole Saharsky, a Justice Department
lawyer. Enron, once the world’s largest energy trader, collapsed
after using off-books partnerships to hide billions of dollars
in losses and debt. That also brought down Arthur Andersen.  Sarbanes-Oxley Law  The dispute turns on a provision in the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley
law barring publicly traded companies and their contractors and
subcontractors from discriminating against an “employee” who
reports fraud or a violation of securities regulations. The
central question is whether that provision allows retaliation
lawsuits only by the employees of the public company, or by
those of its contractors as well.  The case is significant for the mutual fund industry. While
the funds themselves are publicly traded, they typically have
few if any employees, instead using privately held companies to
conduct day-to-day activities.  The suing employees, Jackie Hosang Lawson and Jonathan M.
Zang, worked for units of privately held FMR LLC. The units
provide investment advice and management services to publicly
traded Fidelity mutual funds.  The workers say they lost their jobs after reporting fraud.
Lawson complained that expenses were being inflated and,
ultimately, passed on to fund shareholders. Zang contended that
a Fidelity statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission misrepresented how portfolio managers were
compensated.  Appeals Court  FMR denies the allegations and says both employees had
performance problems. Zang was fired in 2005 and Lawson resigned
in 2007.  A federal appeals court ruled that Lawson and Zang can’t
sue for retaliation under Sarbanes-Oxley because they didn’t
work for publicly traded companies.  The workers’ lawyer, Eric Schnapper, said the lower court
ruling “has the implausible consequence of permitting the very
type of retaliation that we know Congress was concerned about,
retaliation by an accountant such as Arthur Andersen.”  Several justices suggested Schnapper’s interpretation of
the law -- as protecting all the employees of a publicly traded
company’s contractors and subcontractors -- would sweep too
broadly.  Justice  Stephen Breyer  asked whether Schnapper’s approach
would allow lawsuits by employees of a gardening company that
cuts the grass outside a company’s office building.  ‘Mom-and-Pop Shop’  Does the statute “make every mom-and-pop shop in the
country, when they have one employee, suddenly subject to the
whistle-blower protection for any fraud, even those frauds that
have nothing to do with any publicly traded company?” Breyer
asked Schnapper.  Schnapper said his interpretation of the statute wouldn’t
apply to employees of the company’s officers, including “Ken Lay’s butler.”  Chief Justice  John Roberts  wondered why the statute didn’t
reach that far. “What about the butler who does, in fact, hear
all this information about a conspiracy and wire fraud?” he
asked FMR’s lawyer,  Mark Perry .  Perry said that butler could file a complaint with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “And if he gets fired, he’s completely protected and has
reinstatement and back pay,” Perry said.  ‘Workout Firm’  Perry said the reference to contractors and subcontractors
in the disputed provision applies only to a “workout firm”
brought in to wind down the affairs of a bankrupt company. He
said Congress addressed accounting firms and law firms in a
different part of the 2002 statute, letting two federal agencies
issue regulations to protect those workers.  Under questioning from Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , Perry
said the agencies hadn’t issued any such rules.  Saharsky said the court could limit the provision by
binding contractors only when the alleged fraud involved work
for the public company. Justice  Antonin Scalia  questioned
whether that approach could be squared with the language of the
statute.  “It’s a very sensible limitation,” Scalia said.
“Unfortunately, it’s not there.”  The case, which the court will decide by July, is Lawson v.
FMR LLC, 12-3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  