-- Saudi Quarterly Non-Oil Business Optimism Index Rises, NCB Says
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-11-12T11:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/saudi-quarterly-non-oil-business-optimism-index-rises-ncb-says.html
Saudi Arabia’s Business Optimism
Index for the non-hydrocarbon sector rose five points this
quarter on an improved outlook for corporate orders and profit,
National Commercial Bank and Dun & Bradstreet Corp. said.  The index rose to 54 points for the fourth quarter from 49
in the third, the companies said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The construction sector index rose to 84 this quarter
from 60 in the previous quarter on expectation of more projects
and a “boost in the economy,” they said.  The kingdom, the Arab world’s biggest economy, is spending
about $500 billion on new roads, airports and social welfare,
and has made job creation for its citizens a priority. The
government on Nov. 4 started enforcing measures against
undocumented foreign workers, leading to thousands of arrests
and deportations across the country.  Saudi Arabia’s economic growth slowed in the second quarter
to 2.7 percent, compared with 5.5 percent during the same
quarter last year, according to official data. Output is
forecast to slow this year to 4.2 percent from 5.1 percent last
year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20 analysts.  More than half of the businesspeople and executives
surveyed for the index think the new labor laws will have a
“negative impact” on their companies, according to the report.
The outlook for hiring in the non-hydrocarbon sector for this
quarter was 47, with 50 percent of respondents saying they will
hire employees, the companies said.  The reading of the hydrocarbon industry was 30 this
quarter, down from 39 in the previous quarter, the companies
said, attributing the slide to expectations that revenue and
profitability will slip.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  