-- Scene Last Night: Tom Ford, Wintour at CFDA/Vogue Awards
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-11-12T16:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/scene-last-night-tom-ford-wintour-at-cfda-vogue-awards.html
Menswear designers Dao-Yi Chow and
Maxwell Osborne last night won the 2013 Council of Fashion
Designers of America/Vogue Fashion Fund prize.  The founders of the brand Public School, who make fitted
flannel shirts, sweatshirt trousers and asymmetrical suiting,
will receive $300,000 and one year of mentoring.  Women’s evening-wear designer Juan Carlos Obando, who
brought Condola Rashad as his date, and Marc Alary, who left
Marc Jacobs to create his own jewelry line of zebra and monkey
rings and earrings, were runners-up. They will receive $100,000
each, plus mentoring.  The night began with black SUVs pulling up on a narrow
cobblestone street to Spring Studios in TriBeCa, depositing
almost 400 guests, among them Aerin Lauder, Taylor Schilling,
Alexander Wang and Amar’e Stoudemire, in a November-appropriate
wool cap.  “I’m a fan,” hedge-fund manager Richard Perry told Ashley Olsen of the Row before they took their seats in a room all
white except for pink tablecloths and red flowers. Dinner was
chicken pot pie.  Anna Wintour kicked off the presentation at around 9,
noting the CFDA/Vogue Fashion Fund, now in its 10th year, was
“born out of a moment of great adversity after 9/11.” It has
made $3.8 million in grants to date.  Julianne Moore, in a glittering red Tom Ford dress -- think
Dorothy’s ruby slippers -- introduced Ford, who told of white-water rafting in Idaho with Moore and running into a clothed
Wintour on a nude beach in St. Barts  Kiss Goodbye  “I leaned in to kiss her goodbye and I realized, ‘Oh my
God, I am absolutely naked,’” Ford said. “It was like that
dream in high school.”  “Never sell a controlling interest in your name,” advised
Ford.  Baz Luhrmann introduced a film about Wintour in which Seth Meyers says, “I was in a street fight once, outmanned 10 to 1
when, all the sudden, Anna shows up.”  “Baz, you are such trouble tonight,” Wintour said
afterward. “I think we should now put our finalists out of
their misery.” Ford and Moore did the honors.  “To the love of my life, thank you for letting me use your
credit card,” said runner-up Obando.  “We’ve been sitting next to Tommy Hilfiger tonight,” said
Osborne of the winning Public School. “Ten years ago, I worked
at his first store. This is beyond what we can think of at this
point.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Daniel Akst on  books ,  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  