-- Second North Sea Ekofisk November Crude Cargo Shipped to Chile
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-11-12T09:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/second-north-sea-ekofisk-november-crude-cargo-shipped-to-chile.html
Tanker Pink left Ekofisk crude
terminal Teesside in England yesterday for  Chile , the second
vessel to make the journey this month, according to ship-tracking data on Bloomberg.  The vessel is headed for the Chilean port of Quintero, the
data show. BP Plc chartered the suezmax, able to haul 1 million
barrels of oil, earlier this month, according to two shipbroker
reports including RS Platou Markets AS, and three people who
participate in the market, asking not to be identified because
the information is confidential.  Pink is the second ship to carry Ekofisk blend to Chile
since Nov. 1 when the Front Odin set sail. The arbitrage trade
for this grade was last seen on May 29, 2012, when the Ice
Transporter loaded a cargo also for Quintero. Cheaper North Sea
Forties crude has been shipped more regularly to Chile this
year, with five vessels making the journey since January, the
shiptracking data show.  Refiners in  Latin America  typically purchase regional
grades from  Ecuador ,  Brazil ,  Argentina  and  Canada . The arbitrage
to buy blends from further away, such as the North Sea, is
profitable when the price difference between Dated Brent and
West Texas Intermediate narrows. Ekofisk is one of four crudes
used to set Dated Brent, the benchmark used to price more than
half of the world’s oil.  Aconcagua Refinery  Chile’s state-run Empresa Nacional del Petroleo is the
buyer of the crude, according to four people who participate in
the market, asking not to be identified because the information
is confidential. Enap operates the 104,000 barrel-a-day
Aconcagua refinery, near the port of Quintero, and the 116,000
barrel-a-day Bio Bio plant in the south of the country,
according to the company’s website.  BP doesn’t comment on such matters, Mark Salt, a London-based spokesman for the company, said today by phone. Enap
officials in Santiago weren’t available for comment when
contacted outside working hours.  WTI crude’s  discount  to Brent dropped to $11.39 a barrel
today, having narrowed to 20 cents on July 19.  The Norwegian grade is delivered by pipeline to the
Teesside terminal in northeast  England , where it is loaded onto
tankers. Forties, which is more dense and has a higher sulfur
content than Ekofisk, is shipped from Hound Point in  Scotland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  