-- Senate Republicans Block Another Appellate-Court Nominee
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/senate-republicans-block-another-appellate-court-nominee.html
For the second time in two weeks,
U.S. Senate Republicans blocked one of President  Barack Obama ’s
nominees for a federal appeals court considered the nation’s
second-highest because of its influence over government
regulations.  The nominee, Georgetown University law professor Nina Pillard, fell short of the 60 votes needed to advance for
consideration for a seat on the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
 District of Columbia . The 56-41 vote yesterday to limit debate
effectively halted the nomination. On Oct. 31, Republicans
blocked Washington appellate lawyer Patricia Millett’s 
nomination to the same court.  They are among three nominees that Obama has asked the
Senate to confirm to fill vacancies on the D.C. Circuit court.
Republicans say that its workload doesn’t justify filling the
vacancies.  The refusal of Republicans to advance the nominees has
rekindled calls among Democrats for changing the chamber’s rules
to prevent the use of the delaying tactic known as a filibuster
to thwart certain executive-branch and judicial nominations.  “There will have to be a rules change,” Senate Judiciary
Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, said after
the vote. “You cannot say that one president can have his way
on qualified judges, another president cannot.”  Republicans said they welcomed the fight over any rule
change that could eventually benefit their party if they win
back the White House.  Rule Changes  “If the Democrats are bent on changing the rules, then I
say go ahead,” Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley , the top
Republican on the Judiciary Committee, said on the floor.
“There are a lot more Scalias and Thomases out there that we
would love to put on the bench,” Grassley said of  Supreme Court 
Justices Antonin Scalia and  Clarence Thomas , who were chosen by
Republican presidents.  Democrats also said Republicans were preventing women from
becoming federal judges. In March, Senate Republicans blocked
another D.C. Circuit court nominee, Caitlin Halligan, because of
her work as New York’s solicitor general on a lawsuit to hold
gun manufacturers liable for crimes committed with firearms.  “The women of America ought to be angry and saddened
today,” Connecticut Democrat  Richard Blumenthal  told reporters
after yesterday’s vote.  Republican Switches  Two Republican senators,  Susan Collins  of Maine and  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, voted with Democrats to advance Pillard’s
nomination. Both also voted to let Millett’s nomination proceed.  Republicans have said that the court’s current complement
of eight judges is sufficient to handle the workload and have
accused Obama of seeking to “pack” the court with judges
sympathetic to his regulatory policies.  Democrats want to “stack’ the D.C. Circuit court to
“transform it into a rubber stamp for the president’s big-government, over-regulatory agenda,” Republican Whip John Cornyn of Texas said in a floor speech.  The D.C. Circuit court reviews challenges to executive-branch regulations, such as rules proposed by the Federal
Communications Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency
and the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission . The eight active
judges are evenly divided between nominees of Democratic and
Republican presidents. Obama's only nominee on the court is 
male -- Sri Srinivasan, who was confirmed in May.  Partisan Split  In a number of high-stakes business cases before the court,
the judges have split along party lines. When a three-judge
panel last year threw out an EPA rule to curb emissions from
coal-fired  power plants  in upwind states, the majority opinion
came from two judges nominated by a Republican. The dissenter
was nominated by a Democrat.  Just a day after Millett’s nomination was blocked, two
Republican-nominated judges on the court ruled that a provision
in Obama’s 2010 health-care law that requires insurance plans to
cover contraception violated the religious freedom of two Roman
Catholic brothers who owned a private business. The dissent was
written by a senior judge nominated by a Democrat.  To bolster their argument that there is no need for more
judges on the court, Republicans have cited statements from 2006
by New York Senator  Charles Schumer  and other Democrats
questioning the need to fill a vacancy with Assistant Attorney
General Peter Keisler, who was nominated by President  George W. Bush , a Republican.  Bush Nominees  Republicans also point to the Democrats’ successful efforts
to block another Bush nominee,  Miguel Estrada , a Washington
lawyer who was seen as having the potential to become the
Supreme Court’s first Hispanic justice.  On the Senate floor yesterday, Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
disputed the Republican arguments about the caseload. The Nevada
Democrat said that when Bush was president, “Senate Republicans
happily filled the ninth, 10th and 11th seats on the D.C.
Circuit -- the same three seats President Obama seeks to fill
today -- even though the court had a smaller caseload at the
time.” All told, the Senate confirmed four of Bush’s nominees
to the court, including  John Roberts , who later became the
Supreme Court’s chief justice.  Even though Republicans haven’t budged in their opposition,
Reid plans to set a vote on Obama’s third pending nomination to
the appeals court, U.S. District Judge Robert L. Wilkins.  Filling Vacancies  “Democrats really believe that the president is entitled
to fill vacancies,” said  Carl Tobias , a law professor at the
 University of Richmond  in Richmond, Virginia. “The question
that is really hard to answer,” he said, is how to “get out of
this mess without blowing up the Senate.”  The two parties’ views on filibusters over judicial
nominations have often depended on the occupant of the White
House. With Bush in the White House in 2005, Republicans, who
held the majority in the Senate, were angered by Democratic
efforts to block the president’s judicial nominees. They
proposed requiring a simple majority vote to end a nomination
filibuster, known among senators as the “nuclear option.” That
showdown was defused when a bipartisan group of 14 senators
 agreed  to block judicial nominees only “under extraordinary
circumstances.”  The fight over judicial nominees is already providing
fodder for next year’s political campaigns. Last week, a pro-Republican advocacy group, the Judicial Crisis Network, said
it’s airing an  advertisement  to highlight the voting record on
judicial nominations of a Democratic senator seeking re-election
in Arkansas, one of the nation’s most-contested Senate races.  “ Mark Pryor ’s voted for every one of Obama’s liberal
activist judges,” the ad said. “Now Pryor is helping Obama
pack a key court with new liberal judges who will review the
EPA, the IRS and agencies Obama is using to push his
unconstitutional job-killing agenda.”  Erik Dorey, a spokesman for Pryor’s re-election campaign,
said by e-mail that the ad was a “false attack” orchestrated
by “special interest pals” of Representative Thomas Cotton,
Pryor’s Republican challenger, who are “trying to smear” the
senator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  