-- Sina’s Weibo Service Close to Break Even as Net Doubles
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-11-13T03:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/sina-profit-beats-estimates-as-weibo-advertising-sales-rise.html
Sina Corp. (SINA)  said its Twitter-like
Weibo service is close to breaking even as advertising sales at
the operator of  China ’s biggest microblogging service climb and
the company’s profit more than doubled.  Third-quarter  net income  rose to $25.4 million from $9.88
million a year earlier, Shanghai-based Sina said in a statement.
That beat the $16.2 million average of nine  analyst  estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales gained 21 percent to $184.6
million, surpassing the average estimate of $178 million.  Advertising revenue climbed 26 percent to $151.6 million
from a year earlier. The company is collaborating with Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd., China’s largest e-commerce operator and a
shareholder in Sina’s Weibo service, in areas of advertising and
payment systems to better compete with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)   “Weibo’s strong growth was facilitated by value-added
services such as games and also membership fees,” Jodie Ding,
an analyst at Shanghai-based Internet consulting group
IResearch, said by phone. “Cooperation with Alibaba Taobao also
helped with growth.”  Sina Weibo’s daily active users reached 60.2 million from
June to September, said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Charles Chao. Sina Weibo’s advertising revenue more than doubled
to $43.7 million in the quarter, and value-added services
revenue for the unit more than doubled to $9.7 million  yuan .  Alibaba Collaboration  “Although it looks like we are approaching the break even
line for our Weibo business with the momentum of Weibo
monetization, our long-term goal is to build an ecosystem
surrounding the Weibo social media platform,” said Chao.  Sina Weibo is also allowing subscribers to use Alibaba’s
third party payment system Alipay on its site, Chao said.  Profitability was “driven primarily by strong momentum in
Weibo monetization,” Chao said. “Teaming up with Alipay, we
will be able to connect tens of millions of users to build up
the scale of our Weibo mobile payment much more quickly.”  Sina Weibo revenue from Alibaba reached $20 million, said
Herman Yu, the company’s chief financial officer. The service
had about 400,000 corporate accounts, he said.  The company forecast fourth-quarter non-GAAP sales of $190
million to $194 million, including advertising revenue of $160
million to $162 million.  Sina rose 3.6 percent in extended trading after the
results. The  stock  declined 2.2 percent to close at $75.91 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Sina agreed in April to sell 18 percent of Weibo to Alibaba
for $586 million. The two companies will also collaborate in
areas including online marketing and payment as more users turn
to e-commerce on smartphones and tablets from personal
computers.  In August, Alibaba began allowing shoppers to log on to its
Taobao Marketplace e-commerce website using their Weibo
accounts, after suspending sellers’ access to Tencent’s WeChat
instant-messaging service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  