-- Singapore Air Net Rises on Passenger Traffic, Fuel Gains
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-11-12T11:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/singapore-air-net-rises-on-passenger-traffic-plane-sale.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , Southeast
 Asia ’s largest carrier, posted its biggest quarterly profit in
two years after it carried more passengers and gains from
hedging  jet fuel  helped trim the company’s biggest expenditure.  Net income  rose 78 percent from a year earlier to S$160.6
million ($128 million) in the three months ended in September,
Singapore Air said in a statement today. Gains from hedging fuel
and contribution from associates both tripled in the quarter.  Singapore Air passenger numbers increased 6.3 percent in
the quarter as economic expansion in Asia stoked more travel.
Chief Executive Officer Goh Choon Phong this year ordered
aircraft worth $17 billion from Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. and
revamped first- and business-class offerings in a bid to fend
off competition from discount carriers and Middle East airlines
expanding in the region.  “It was a positive surprise on the net level with gains
from associated companies and fuel hedging,” said Andrew Orchard, an analyst at CIMB Group Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong .
“But on the operational side, there are still some concerns
with yields remaining soft.”  Singapore Air fell 0.4 percent to close at S$10.25 in
Singapore before the earnings were released. The stock has
dropped 4.7 percent this year, compared with a 0.4 percent gain
for the benchmark Straits Times Index.  Jet Fuel Hedging  Operating profit rose 23 percent to S$86.9 million while
sales increased 2.8 percent to S$3.9 billion, the company said
in the statement. Contribution from associated companies such as
 Tiger Airways (TGR)  Holdings Ltd. tripled in the quarter to S$36.6
million.  Gains from jet fuel more than tripled to S$52.1 million,
helping cut spending on oil by 0.5 percent in the quarter. The
airline posted a gain of S$9.1 million in the quarter from sale
of an aircraft and parts. The company will pay an interim
dividend of 10 Singapore cents a share.  “Advance bookings for the coming months are projected to
be higher compared to the same period last year,” Singapore Air
said in the statement. “However, ongoing promotional activities
necessitated by intense competition and a strong  Singapore
dollar  are expected to place pressure on yields.”  Yields Drop  Passenger yield, the average price a traveler pays to fly
one kilometer, fell to 11 Singapore cents in the quarter from
11.4 cents a year earlier, Singapore Air said. The yield from
carrying cargo dropped to 32.1 cents from 32.7 cents.  Singapore Air filled an average 81.1 percent of its seats
in the period, compared with 79.8 percent a year ago.  Singapore Air in September agreed to set up an airline in
India with Mumbai-based  Tata Group ,  owner  of the Jaguar and Land
Rover brands, to tap surging  travel demand  in the world’s
second-most populous nation where the number of air passengers
is forecast to triple to 452 million by 2020.  The new airline, which won initial approval from India’s
 Foreign Investment Promotion Board  last month, will be based in
capital  New Delhi . Tata will hold 51 percent of the venture and
Singapore Air the remainder.  Plane Purchase  In May, Singapore Air ordered 30 Boeing 787-10X variant
planes and 30 Airbus A350-900s to replace less fuel-efficient
models. The contract also included an option for 20 more
A350-900s which may be converted by the carrier for purchasing
the larger A350-1000 variant.  That was on top of the of the 25 Airbus aircraft worth $7.5
billion, including five A380s, ordered in October last year.  The carrier will next week end its all-business class
service from Singapore to Newark, the world’s longest non-stop
flight. Direct flights between the island city and  Los Angeles 
ceased last month.  Singapore Air faces increased competition as the alliance
between  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s biggest, and Emirates
started flights March 31. The agreement with the Dubai-based
airline cuts average journey times by more than two hours from
Melbourne and Sydney to the top 10 destinations in  Europe .  To compete, Singapore Air this year raised its stake in
 Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  The carrier is also the largest
 investor  in Tiger Airways, a short-haul low-fare airline that
competes with  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Lion Mentari Airlines PT and more
than 10 other budget carriers that fly in the Southeast Asian
region.  Scoot , a medium-haul budget airline fully owned by
Singapore Air, started flying with Boeing 777 aircraft last
year. Singapore Air transferred its orders for the Boeing 787
Dreamliners to Scoot.  Airlines worldwide are likely to generate a net income of
$11.7 billion this year, 7.9 percent smaller than a June
forecast, the  International Air Transport Association  said in
September. Airlines in Asia Pacific are projected to earn $3.1
billion, $1.5 billion less than earlier estimated amid slow
growth in the region’s emerging economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  