-- Starbucks to Pay $2.79 Billion to Settle Coffee Dispute
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-11-13T21:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/starbucks-to-pay-2-76-billion-to-settle-grocery-dispute.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  said it would pay
 Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ)  $2.79 billion to settle a dispute
over distribution in the coffee-shop chain’s bagged-coffee unit,
as grocery-store sales become a growing part of the business.  The payment, ordered by an arbitrator, consists of $2.23
billion in damages and $557 million in interest and attorneys’
fees, Seattle-based Starbucks said today in a filing. The
company said it has adequate cash and borrowing capacity to fund
the payment and will book it as a charge to its fiscal 2013
operating expenses.  The ruling settles a dispute that began in 2010, when
Starbucks offered $750 million to end an agreement through which
Mondelez, then known as Kraft Foods Inc., distributed its coffee
to food retailers. Kraft rejected the offer. Starbucks sought to
wrest control of its packaged coffee business as revenue grew
and surpassed gains in other  segments .  Recent revenue growth at Starbucks is being driven by new
products, such as K-Cups, “that would not have been possible
without ending the Kraft arrangement,” David Tarantino, an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee , said in a
research note today. The company can continue to grow its
packaged-coffee business at an “above-average pace for an
extended period,” he said.  In Starbucks’s fiscal 2012, revenue for packaged coffee and
teas sold in grocery stores and other retailers jumped 50
percent, compared with a 14 percent sales increase for the
entire company. That growth was largely driven by sales of
Starbucks and Tazo brand single-serve K-Cup packs, the company
said in its annual filing. Starbucks said yesterday that it
disagreed with the arbitrator’s conclusion and said Kraft didn’t
deliver on its responsibility to the brand.  Moving Forward  “They are paying more than I expected,” Nick Setyan, an
analyst at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles, said yesterday in
an e-mail. He had expected Starbucks to pay as much as $2
billion and rates the shares outperform, the equivalent of a buy
recommendation. “Having said that, it’s great to have it behind
us now,” he said.  Mondelez said yesterday in a statement that it would use
the proceeds from the award to buy back stock.  While Kraft Foods Group Inc. remained the named party in
the dispute after it was spun off from Mondelez in October 2012,
Kraft agreed to direct any recovery to Mondelez and said the
arbitration’s outcome won’t have a material financial impact on
it.  Global Business  In November 2010, Starbucks Chief Executive Officer Howard Schultz said he planned to terminate the distribution pact with
Kraft, which started with an agreement in 1998 that was
superseded by a new deal in 2004. The world’s largest coffee
chain was seeking to generate more of its revenue from grocery
stores with new offerings such as Via, its single-serve coffee
product. It’s also expanding its packaged coffee business in
more overseas markets.  Starbucks is “building a multibillion-dollar global
consumer packaged business,” Schultz said today on a  webcast .
“We now have the flexibility and the freedom to control our own
destiny.”  Kraft sought compensation for the “fair market value” of
the business plus possibly a premium of as much as 35 percent of
that value. Since they started working together, Starbucks’s
retail-grocery coffee business grew to $500 million in annual
revenue from $50 million, Kraft said in November 2010.  Grocery Stores  Starbucks said sales growth at grocery stores “quickly
fell” after 2000 and its market share dropped to about 25
percent of grocery store premium coffee sales at the beginning
of 2010 from almost 33 percent in 2005.  “Most certainly Starbucks has handled the channel business
better than Kraft, more easily deploying single-serve as well as
expanding into different products,” Setyan said. He said he
views Starbucks as “a global consumer-products company rather
than simply a coffee retailer now. That would be impossible if
Kraft still controlled coffee distribution.”  Starbucks added 1 percent to $81.46 at the close in New
York. Deerfield, Illinois-based Mondelez rose 2.7 percent to
$33.31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  