-- Sumitomo Mitsui Raises Profit Forecast After Record Earnings
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-11-13T01:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/sumitomo-mitsui-raises-profit-forecast-after-record-first-half.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value, raised its
full-year profit forecast 29 percent after the country’s stock
market rally helped first-half earnings climb to a record.  Net income will probably total 750 billion yen ($7.5
billion) in the year ending March 31, the Tokyo-based company
said in a statement yesterday. That compares with the 580
billion yen previously forecast and the 696.7 billion-yen
average  estimate  of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sumitomo
Mitsui  stock  rose to a three-week high today.  Japan’s equity rebound, while moderating in recent months,
has spurred Sumitomo Mitsui’s fee income and increased the value
of its shareholdings. Lending at major banks has climbed for 11
months and corporate bankruptcies have fallen for 12 as the
world’s third-largest economy recovers on the back of Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus measures.  “The upward revision was bigger than I expected,” Miki Murakami, a Tokyo-based analyst at Fitch Ratings Ltd., said by
phone yesterday. “I don’t think the bank will have any problem
achieving the target unless there is a shock in the markets.”  The bank led by President Koichi Miyata joins  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and Panasonic Corp. in raising profit forecasts in a mixed
earnings season that also saw companies from Nissan Motor Co. to
Sony Corp. lower projections.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender, and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
the bank that’s being probed for lending to crime groups, are
scheduled to report tomorrow.  Quarterly Gain  Net income  jumped 53 percent in the six months ended Sept.
30 from a year earlier to 505.7 billion yen, the highest half-year earnings in Sumitomo Mitsui’s 11-year history. Second-quarter profit rose 2 percent from a year earlier to 217.4
billion yen, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the
six-month data, which were reported after  Japan ’s stock market
closed yesterday.  Shares of Sumitomo Mitsui rose 1.5 percent to 4,940 yen,
the highest intraday level since Oct. 21, as of 10:40 a.m. Tokyo
time. The benchmark Topix Index lost 0.2 percent. The lender’s
59 percent gain this year is the best performance among the
three so-called megabanks and compares with the Topix’s 40
percent climb.  Sumitomo Mitsui raised its planned full-year  dividend  to
120 yen from 110 yen.  Miyata stressed the importance of severing ties with crime
groups, after Japan’s financial regulator ordered Mizuho to
bolster compliance in September for failing to end loans to
gangsters through a consumer-credit affiliate.  Lawmaker Questions  “I don’t think our bank needs a big overhaul in measures
to block anti-social groups, but this requires continued
efforts,” Miyata said at a news briefing yesterday. The
Financial Services Agency began inspecting the three megabanks
this month following the probe into Mizuho.  Mizuho President  Yasuhiro Sato  reiterated his apology for
the crime-loan issue in parliament today. In testimony to the
lower house financial affairs committee, he said the company’s
punishments of officials, including pay cuts, were regarded by
some observers as “light.”  In the same session, Japanese Bankers Association Chairman
Takeshi Kunibe said the lobby will develop additional measures
to combat crime groups this month. The association is
considering sharing more information on criminal organizations
with consumer credit firms, Takeshi Kunibe, who is also Sumitomo
Mitsui’s banking unit chief, said last month.  Fees, Commissions  Prime Minister Abe’s campaign to end deflation with fiscal
spending and monetary easing helped Japanese stocks become the
best performers in the developed world this year even after
declining from a peak in May.  Fees and commissions rose 22 percent in the April-September
period from a year earlier to 490.1 billion yen, Sumitomo Mitsui
said. Its SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. unit contributed by posting
a more than sixfold profit increase, the brokerage’s earnings
 data  showed last month.  Sumitomo Mitsui had a 60.4 billion-yen gain from equity-related investments in the first half, compared with a loss of
132.9 billion yen a year earlier, its earnings statement showed.
Lending income increased 15 percent to 780.3 billion yen.  Resona Holdings Inc. (8308) , Japan’s fifth-biggest bank by market
value, also raised its full-year profit forecast yesterday to
185 billion yen from 145 billion yen. That’s higher than the
164.3 billion-yen average  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed.  Lower Bankruptcies  Loans at major banks increased 1.7 percent in October, the
11th consecutive advance, Bank of Japan data show. That’s
helping to offset the lowest loan profitability in Asia as asset
purchases by Japan’s central bank depress  interest rates . Net
interest margins at the megabanks average 0.99 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Japan’s economy probably grew at an annual 1.7 percent rate
in the three months ended Sept. 30, the fourth quarter of
expansion, according to economists  surveyed  before government
figures scheduled for release tomorrow. As well as spur lending,
the rebound has led to a drop in bankruptcies, allowing banks to
reduce cash set aside for bad loans.  Sumitomo Mitsui had 39.6 billion yen of credit-related
revenue in the first half, compared with 48 billion yen in costs
a year earlier, yesterday’s statement showed. Business  failures 
fell 7.3 percent in October, a 12th straight decline, Tokyo
Shoko Research Ltd. data showed this week.  Still, with net income growth slowing in the second
quarter, the profit windfall may be losing momentum as the stock
rebound cools. The Topix has slid 5.7 percent since May 22 as
investors examine whether Abe will succeed in pushing through
policies to make Japan more competitive -- the so-called third
arrow of his economic strategy.  “We’re likely to see a slowdown in the second-half
earnings,” Rie Nishihara, a Tokyo-based senior analyst at
Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s third-biggest bank by
market value. “I have a sense that Abe’s third arrow may be
falling short of market expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  