-- Sumitomo Mitsui Raises Profit Forecast 29% on Stock Rebound
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-11-12T09:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/sumitomo-mitsui-raises-profit-forecast-29-as-fee-income-climbs.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value, raised its
annual profit forecast 29 percent after gains in fee income and
the value of its stock holdings boosted first-half earnings.  Net income will probably total 750 billion yen ($7.5
billion) in the year ending March 31, the Tokyo-based company
said in a statement today. That compares with the 580 billion
yen previously forecast and the 696.7 billion-yen average
 estimate  of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The bank led by President Koichi Miyata has benefited from
a Japanese stock-market rally which, while moderating in recent
months, has spurred sales of investment products and increased
the value of its shares in other companies. Lending at major
banks has climbed for 11 months and corporate bankruptcies have
fallen for 12 as the world’s third-largest economy recovers on
the back of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus measures.  “Abenomics had a significant impact on the earnings,
especially stock investments and fee businesses,” Rie Nishihara, a Tokyo-based senior analyst at Mizuho Securities
Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest bank by market value, said
before the results. “The economic recovery improved clients’
businesses and allowed the bank to reverse credit costs.”  Sumitomo Mitsui joins  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Panasonic
Corp. in raising profit forecasts in a mixed earnings season
that also saw companies from Nissan Motor Co. to Sony Corp.
lower projections. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s
biggest lender, and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , the bank that’s
being probed for lending to crime groups, are scheduled to
release results on Nov. 14.  Quarterly Gain  Net income  jumped 53 percent to 505.7 billion yen in the
six months ended Sept. 30 from 331 billion yen a year earlier,
 Sumitomo Mitsui  said today. Profit in the second quarter rose 2
percent from a year earlier to 217.4 billion yen, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on the half-year data.  Shares of Sumitomo Mitsui closed 2 percent higher at 4,865
yen in Tokyo before the earnings announcement. Their 56 percent
gain this year is the best performance among the three so-called
megabanks and compares with the benchmark Topix Index’s 40
percent increase.  Resona Holdings Inc. (8308) , Japan’s fifth-biggest bank by market
value, also raised its full-year profit forecast today to 185
billion yen from 145 billion yen. That’s higher than the 164.3
billion-yen average  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed.  Gangster Loans  Miyata today stressed the importance of severing ties with
crime groups, after Japan’s financial regulator ordered Mizuho
to bolster compliance in September for failing to end loans to
gangsters through a consumer-credit affiliate.  “I don’t think our bank needs a big overhaul in measures
to block anti-social groups, but this requires continued
efforts,” Miyata said at a news briefing in  Tokyo . The
Financial Services Agency began inspecting the three megabanks
this month following the probe into Mizuho.  Mizuho President Yasuhiro Sato is scheduled to answer
questions in parliament tomorrow on the crime-loan issue.
Sumitomo Mitsui’s banking unit chief, Takeshi Kunibe, is due to
appear in his role as Japanese Bankers Association chairman.  Prime Minister Abe’s campaign to end deflation with fiscal
spending and monetary easing helped Japanese stocks become the
best performers in the developed world this year even after
declining from a peak in May.  Higher Fees  Fees and commissions rose 22 percent in the April-September
period from a year earlier to 490.1 billion yen, Sumitomo Mitsui
said today. Its SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. unit contributed by
posting a more than sixfold profit increase, the brokerage’s
earnings  data  showed last month.  Sumitomo Mitsui had a 60.4 billion-yen gain from equity-related investments in the first half compared with a loss of
132.9 billion yen a year earlier, the statement showed. Lending
income increased 15 percent to 780.3 billion yen.  Loans at major banks increased 1.7 percent in October, the
11th consecutive advance,  Bank of Japan  data show. That’s
helping to offset the lowest loan profitability in  Asia  as asset
purchases by Japan’s central bank depress  interest rates . Net
interest margins at the megabanks average 0.99 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Japan’s economy probably grew at an annual 1.7 percent rate
in the three months ended Sept. 30, the fourth quarter of
expansion, according to economists  surveyed  before government
figures scheduled for release Nov. 14. As well as spur lending,
the rebound has led to a drop in bankruptcies, allowing banks to
reduce cash set aside for bad loans.  Third Arrow  Sumitomo Mitsui had 39.6 billion yen of credit-related
revenue in the first half, compared with 48 billion yen in costs
a year earlier, today’s statement showed. Business  failures  fell
7.3 percent in October, a 12th straight decline, Tokyo Shoko
Research Ltd. data showed this week.  Still, with net income growth slowing in the second
quarter, the profit windfall may be losing momentum as the stock
rebound cools. The Topix has slid 5.5 percent since May 22 as
investors examine whether Abe will succeed in pushing through
policies to make Japan more competitive -- the so-called third
arrow of his economic strategy.  “We’re likely to see a slowdown in the second-half
earnings,” said Nishihara at  Mizuho Securities . “I have a
sense that Abe’s third arrow may be falling short of market
expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  