-- Sweden’s Return to Deflation Raises Bets on December Cut
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-11-12T10:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/sweden-s-return-to-deflation-rekindles-speculation-of-rate-cuts.html
Sweden  unexpectedly returned to
 deflation  last month, sending the krona to its lowest against
the euro since June 2012 as speculation increased the central
bank will be forced to cut interest rates again.  Consumer prices fell an annual 0.1 percent in October,
 Statistics Sweden  said today. They were seen rising 0.2 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists.  Adjusted for
mortgage costs , price gains slowed to an annual 0.6 percent from
0.9 percent.  “The Riksbank has for some time, especially after the ECB
refi rate cut last week, been under increasing pressure to cut
the repo rate,” SEB analysts including said Olle Holmgren said
in a note today. “Today’s inflation data was a substantial
downside surprise and confirms once again the low inflationary
pressure in the Swedish economy.”  The krona plunged as much as 1.3 percent against the euro
to 8.9138, the lowest level since June 11, 2012. It slid as much
as 1.5 percent versus the dollar to 6.656, the lowest since
Sept. 6. It was the biggest loser against both the dollar and
the euro of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Riksbank in October kept its repo rate at 1 percent and
signaled tightening won’t start until late next year. Two of the
bank’s six board members have been arguing that rates should be
cut again to help reach the 2 percent inflation target.  SEB said it now predicts a rate cut to 0.75 percent next
month from the Riksbank. The European Central Bank last week cut
its main rate to a record low 0.25 percent.  Cleary Lower  Deputy Governor Cecilia Skingsley told reporters today
after a speech in  Stockholm  that she didn’t want to comment
specifically on today’s inflation data.  “It was lower than what we had forecast -- that’s clear,”
she said. “And that, together with all other data and
development of events, we will have to weigh together at our
next interest rate meeting.”  Inflation, excluding mortgage costs, has trailed the bank’s
price target since December 2010.  The bank said on Oct. 24 that while inflation is low,
import prices and wages will rise faster “when economic
activity improves.” The Riksbank forecast that inflation
adjusted for mortgage costs will be 1.3 percent next year and
1.9 percent in 2015. It predicted the economy will expand 2.6
percent next year after 0.7 percent growth this year.  Wage Growth  Policy makers have cited a build-up in household debt and
rising house prices as a reason for not cutting rates further.  “With wage growth weak and the recovery in activity still
fairly tentative, a case can be made for the Riksbank to cut the
repo rate from its current level,” David Tinsley, an economist
at BNP Paribas in  London , said today in a note. “It’s not clear
however that the Riksbank Executive Board is yet prepared to
modify its stance that the level of household debt in Sweden is
a constraint on the scope for further easing.”  While BNP continues to see “a sustained period of
unchanged  rates” the “balance of risks is shifting in favor
of the bank making a move,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  