-- U.K. RICS House-Price Index Hits 11-Year High on Help to Buy
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-11-12T10:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/u-k-rics-house-price-index-hits-11-year-high-as-demand-rises.html
A  U.K. house-price index  rose to the
highest in more than a decade in October as government programs
to boost home ownership increased the pressure on supply across
the country.  The  gauge  by the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors
increased to 57, the highest since June 2002, from 53 in
September, the London-based group said in a report today, citing
a poll of property surveyors. A separate report showed mortgage
lending climbed to the highest level in almost six years in the
third quarter.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  announced yesterday that more
than 2,000 people had been accepted for a government-backed
mortgage under his Help to Buy initiative, which has drawn
criticism from the  International Monetary Fund  and politicians
for potentially stoking a housing bubble. The program, which has
reduced down-payment requirements to as little as 5 percent, is
allowing “hardworking people” to get onto the property ladder,
Cameron said.  “It’s no secret the housing market is gathering some
momentum,” said RICS Chief Economist Simon Rubinsohn. “A
greater willingness by lenders to increase loan-to-values on
mortgage products allied to the Help to Buy scheme has meant
that more and more first-time buyers are in a position to enter
the market.”  The pound dropped 0.7 percent to $1.5872 at 10:23 a.m.
 London  time after a report showed inflation slowed more in
October than economists forecast. The benchmark 10-year gilt
 yield  was down 1 basis point at 2.79 percent.  Supply Shortage  The gap between demand and supply widened to the most since
May 2009, RICS said. The number of sales relative to stock
climbed to the highest since October 2007, as the number of new
properties coming on to the market were outpaced by the level of
transactions.  House prices  are expected to continue rising in
all regions except northern  England  and sales expectations
climbed to the highest on record, RICS said.  “This imbalance urgently needs to be addressed,”
Rubinsohn said. “House-building starts have picked up recently
but we are still well behind in terms of the amount of
properties needed. If we are to create a more sustainable
market, it is critical that many more good-quality homes are
built in areas where people want to live.”  In the next 12 months, house prices are expected to
increase 3 percent nationally, up from 2.6 percent in September,
RICS said.  The  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said today that 170,700
loans for house purchases were advanced between July and
September, the most since the fourth quarter of 2007.  A separate U.K.  house-price index  slipped in September from
a record level in August, though it was 3.8 percent higher than
a year earlier, the fastest annual growth rate since 2010, data
from the  Office for National Statistics  showed today. The
increase was led by London, where home values jumped 9.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  