-- U.S. Demand to Export Crude Seen Soaring Amid Hydrocarbons Boom
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2013-11-12T10:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/u-s-demand-to-export-crude-seen-soaring-amid-hydrocarbons-boom.html
Demand to export U.S. crude is
poised to soar as the nation’s surging supply of hydrocarbons
creates a glut of the feedstock, according to Citigroup Inc.,
the bank that predicted a slump in the nation’s imports.  Oil companies  will apply for government permits to sell
crude overseas by 2015 and some may do so immediately,  Edward Morse , Citigroup’s New York-based head of commodities research,
said in a report yesterday. Shipments of refined oils such as
gasoline, as well as liquefied petroleum gas, piped gas, and
coal are now the same level as those of transport equipment,
making hydrocarbons the joint-largest U.S. export, Morse said.  While the U.S. bans most crude exports under decades-old
laws, a glut of the feedstock is adding pressure to export it
from the  Gulf of Mexico , Morse said. The nation’s refining hub
has the capacity to process about 1.5 million barrels a day more
light, sweet oil and its crude production has expanded by 1
million barrels a day in each of the past two years, he said.
Light, sweet grades are less dense and contain less sulfur,
making them useful for making fuels such as gasoline.  “The current crude glut on the U.S. Gulf Coast will
continue to spark requests for crude oil export licenses and a
positive but restricted response is inevitable,” Morse said.
“Applications for exports should start to soar.”  The Citigroup analyst predicted in December 2011 that
America’s  net oil imports  would slump 60 percent by 2020 because
of slowing consumption and rising production. The nation’s net
shipments at the time were 9 million barrels and they averaged
7.8 million barrels so far in 2013, Energy Department data show.  Brent-WTI  The surge in energy production is driving down crude costs
for U.S. refineries. West Texas Intermediate oil this year cost
an average of $10.15 a barrel less than Brent, the international
benchmark. Brent cost an average of $2.16 a barrel more than WTI
in 2003.  Oil companies may be able to export crudes where laws
governing such transactions aren’t clear, Morse said. President
 Barack Obama  can also allow shipments in the national interest,
the Citigroup analyst said. The Commerce Department’s Bureau of
Industry and Security can also license sales while there are
signs that the U.S. could allow crude swaps with foreign
suppliers, he said.  Venezuela, Mexico and  Colombia  all might benefit from swaps
of U.S. light crude for heavy oils,  Adam Sieminski ,
administrator of the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, said Oct. 29. A U.S. light
crude swap for heavy probably wouldn’t threaten  energy security ,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  