-- U.S. Receives $1.2 Billion From October Sales of GM Stock
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-11-12T22:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/u-s-receives-1-2-billion-from-october-sales-of-gm-stock.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said
net proceeds of its sales of  General Motors Co. (GM)  shares totaled
about $1.2 billion last month as the government winds down its
investment in the automaker.  Through the end of October, the U.S. government had
recovered $37.2 billion of the $51 billion it spent to bail out
and restructure Detroit-based GM, the Treasury said today in a
report to Congress. The report doesn’t say how many shares were
sold during the month or at what price.  GM slipped less than 0.1 percent to $36.66 at the close in
 New York . The shares have gained 27 percent so far this year,
compared with a 24 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Treasury said in a September report its GM stake had been
reduced to 7.3 percent. Following its 2009 bankruptcy, the
automaker went public again in 2010, leaving the  U.S. Treasury 
as GM’s largest shareholder. The government began selling down
its stake in December as GM repurchased $5.5 billion of shares.
The Treasury said at that time it would sell the rest of its
remaining shares within 15 months. The U.S. is the  third-largest
GM shareholder , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government may complete selling its GM stake before the
year is over, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has said. The
U.S. investment in GM was the biggest piece of an industry
bailout that became a centerpiece of President  Barack Obama ’s
first term.  The government is exiting GM as investor confidence in the
company has risen while the company introduces 18 new or
redesigned vehicles in the U.S. The product surge is
transforming its lineup into one of the freshest in the industry
from one of the oldest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net  