-- UN Council Authorizes More Troops for Somalia Mission
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-11-13T08:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/un-council-authorizes-more-troops-for-somalia-mission.html
The  United Nations  Security Council
approved sending additional troops to Somalia to deter the
Islamist al-Shabaab militia from expanding in the country and
the wider region.  The 15-member council yesterday adopted a resolution
approving an increase of more than 4,000 troops for the African
Union mission in Somalia, logistical support from the UN to the
Somali army and deployment of a UN security unit to protect UN
compounds in the country.  The resolution comes four days after the insurgency linked
to al-Qaeda bombed a hotel in Mogadishu, the latest in series of
terror attacks which included a June strike against a UN
compound in the Somali capital and the four-day siege of a
Kenyan shopping mall in September that killed at least 67
civilians and security personnel.  “As recent attacks show, al-Shabaab continues to pose a
threat, not just to  Somalia  but to the wider region,” Mark Lyall Grant, the U.K.’s envoy to the UN, told reporters in  New
York . “Now was the right time for the Security Council to
act.”  Forces, Helicopters  The resolution will boost the number of African Union
security personnel to 22,126 for as long as two years and
underscored the force’s need for as many as 12 military
helicopters, according to a statement e-mailed today by the UN.  The added resources will help prepare Somalia’s army to
eventually take over the country’s security without outside
help, Prime Minister Abdi Farah Shirdon said in an e-mailed
statement.  “This will allow the Somali National Army alongside Amisom
to expand their scope and area of operations,” he said. “The
long-term security and stability of Somalia will ultimately lie
with the Somali national security forces.”  Establishing security in Somalia is key to thwarting al-Shabaab’s expansion, and the international community must help
boost the Somali government’s ability to defend itself against
the insurgency, Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson told the
 Security Council  last month after a trip to Mogadishu.  The “significant increase” of troops should allow the
African Union mission, known as Amisom, to “take the front foot
and gain momentum in tackling al-Shabaab,” Grant said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  