-- Murray Goulburn Tops Rivals with $470 Million Cheese Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-11-13T05:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/murray-goulburn-tops-rivals-with-470-million-cheese-bid.html
Murray Goulburn Cooperative Co.,
 Australia ’s biggest milk processor, raised its takeover offer
for  Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory Co. (WCB) , valuing it at A$505
million ($470 million) and topping two rival bids.  The A$9 a share cash bid from Warrnambool’s second-largest
shareholder is 13 percent higher than the A$8 offer from
Canada’s  Saputo Inc. (SAP)  and above  Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA) ’s share and cash
proposal, the Melbourne-based company said today in a statement.  The three-way contest for the maker of brands including
Sungold milk and Great Ocean Road cheese has more than doubled
Warrnambool’s market value in the two months since Bega’s
initial bid. The bidders are seeking to raise production and add
export infrastructure amid rising demand in  Asia .  Murray Goulburn’s new offer “defies any commercial common
sense,” said Mark Topy, a Melbourne-based analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Group Inc. “This really is a pretty aggressive
strategy, they want this asset at all costs, irrespective of how
it could endanger their own financial position.”  Warrnambool jumped 6.6 percent to A$9.10 in Sydney trading.
Bega rose 5.1 percent to A$4.58, making its offer of 1.2 of its
shares and A$2 cash worth A$7.50 for each Warrnambool share.  The bidding war comes as  China , the world’s most populous
nation, is setting records for milk-powder imports, while dairy
demand is rising in  India ,  Indonesia  and  Vietnam , according to
Warrnambool.  ‘Mighty’ Business  Warrnambool’s board, which has recommended Saputo’s offer
to shareholders, will meet to consider the improved bid, the
Victoria-state based company said in a statement. A call to
Sandy Vassiadis, a spokeswoman for Saputo, wasn’t returned after
business hours in Canada.  “This revised offer, and the combination of Murray
Goulburn and Warrnambool, would deliver a mighty dairy food
business oriented toward exports and oriented toward Asia,”
Murray Goulburn Managing Director Gary Helou said today on a
media call.  The maker of Devondale milk and cheese said Oct. 18 it had
obtained A$350 million in extra debt facilities to help fund the
purchase. “We are comfortable with this, our banks are
comfortable with this,” Helou said. The company has options to
raise more debt, or to raise equity from farmer shareholders or
from external shareholders, he said.  ‘Knockout Punch’  Bega  holds 18 percent  of Warrnambool and Murray Goulburn
holds 17 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan ’s Kirin Holdings Co. bought a 9.99 percent stake in
Warrnambool last month, seeking to protect an arrangement under
which the producer supplies at least 12,000 metric tons of
cheddar each year for its Australian unit’s Coon and Cracker
Barrel cheese brands. Fonterra Cooperative Group, the world’s
largest dairy exporter, said Nov. 1 it had acquired a 6 percent
stake in New South Wales state-based Bega.  Montreal-based Saputo,  Canada ’s largest dairy processor,
has the ability to beat Murray Goulburn’s proposal, Canaccord’s
Topy said. “They have bid a dollar more to go for a knockout
punch, but Saputo does have deeper pockets.”  Murray Goulburn, the only of the three bidders still to
require approval from regulators, will lodge submissions with
the Australian Competition Tribunal by Nov. 29 and expects the
process to take around 90 days, Helou told reporters.  Bidding for Warrnambool began when Bega made a stock-and-cash proposal that was valued at A$5.78 a share when announced
on Sept. 12. The next month, Saputo offered A$7 a share and
Murray Goulburn bid A$7.50. Saputo raised its proposal to A$8 a
share on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  