-- Vale Sells $1.8 Billion Stake in Norway’s Norsk Hydro
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-11-12T20:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/vale-seeks-to-sell-1-8-billion-aluminum-norsk-hydro-stake.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s biggest iron
ore exporter, sold its stake in aluminum-maker  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) 
for $1.8 billion, about half the holding’s value when the
Brazilian company acquired it in 2011.  Vale sold 407.1 million shares in Oslo-based Hydro for 25
kroner each, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said today in a
statement. If an over-allotment option of 40.7 million shares is
exercised in full, Vale will have disposed of its entire 22
percent stake for 11.2 billion kroner ($1.82 billion).  The miner is selling assets, putting projects on hold and
focusing on its more profitable iron-ore business in a bid to
recover profit margins after commodity prices fell. In
September, it sold stakes in a cargo unit for about 2.7 billion
reais ($1.2 billion) to  Japan ’s Mitsui & Co. and a Brazilian
government fund after $1.47 billion of asset sales last year,
including a  coal mine  in  Colombia  and 10 large vessels.  At 25 kroner a share, the deal prices the stake slightly
above its value on Vale’s books, said Alan Glezer, an equity
analyst at Banco Bradesco SA. “We view the likely transaction
as positive as it strengthens Vale’s balance sheet, helping to
alleviate part of the leverage pressure during an intense period
of investment,” he said yesterday in a note.  Vale  fell  2.5 percent at the close in  Sao Paulo  to 32.43
reais, the lowest since Oct. 25. Hydro  declined  5.5 percent to
close at 25.49 kroner in Oslo.  Boosting Cash  With the sale, Vale may be seeking to boost its cash
position before a possible settlement in a 30.5 billion-real
 Brazil  tax dispute, where the company may be asked to make a 20
percent downpayment, according to Grupo BTG Pactual.  “There are lingering concerns on a potential settlement
with the government for payment of the foreign subsidiary profit
tax dispute, which could be announced towards month-end,” BTG
analysts led by Edmo Chagas said in a note to clients today. “A
disbursement of 6 billion reais could require the help of asset
sales in order to avoid depleting the company’s cash base.”  Vale has enough time to make a decision on the possible tax
settlement before a Nov. 29 deadline, Chief Executive Officer
Murilo Ferreira told reporters on Nov. 7. The company today
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment on the use
of the stake sale proceeds.  Board Seat  Vale received $1.08 billion in cash, the 22 percent stake
and a seat on the board, after selling its bauxite and alumina
assets in Brazil to the aluminum producer. Including assumed net
debt, the value of the deal was $5.27 billion, Hydro said in
February 2011.  The 22 percent stake was valued at $3.53 billion, based on
a closing price of 44.63 kroner, when the asset sale was
completed in February 2011, according to the 2011 statement.  DNB Markets and Morgan Stanley were joint global
coordinators and book runners for the offering, Vale said. Vale
increased the offer from a total of 224 million shares after an
earlier book-building process.  Vale is seeking to complete the settlement of the share
sale on Nov. 15, it said in the statement. The shares have been
purchased by “several investors,” Hydro said in a separate
statement today.  ‘Uncertain Period’  “The potential Vale divestment has represented a key
uncertainty for a long period of time” for Hydro, Thomas Lorck,
an analyst at Arctic Securities in Oslo, said in a note to
investors. Lorck upgraded his rating on Hydro to buy.  Vale was in a lockout period for two years after acquiring
the stake and has been talking about a possible sale since the
end of last year.  Vale is also studying the sale of its 40 percent stake in
Brazilian bauxite producer Mineracao Rio do Norte SA and oil and
gas assets, CEO Ferreira said Sept. 24.  “We also have a surprise that I won’t mention so you
remain curious,” Ferreira told reporters in  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil, at the time. The company is “very focused” on its
divestment plan and was working to make new announcements, he
subsequently said Nov. 7 during an earnings conference call.  Cost Savings  As part of its cost-reduction efforts, Vale is also working
to combine some of its nickel operations in  Canada ’s Sudbury
basin with Glencore Xstrata Plc.  Vale officials have been saying they may consider selling
the Hydro holding since at least December. CEO Ferreira said in
April that the company won’t “discard” its stake and that
short sellers of the Norwegian stock may “get tired” of
waiting for a divestment.  The Brazilian miner wrote down $975 million on the value of
the Hydro investment as part of $5.66 billion in charges and
impairments taken during the fourth quarter of 2012, it said
Feb. 27. Vale last week posted its first quarterly profit
increase in more than two years.  “The offering of Hydro shares is consistent with Vale’s
strategy of reducing its exposure to non-core assets, and a
result of its focus on discipline in capital allocation and
value maximization for shareholders,” it said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  