-- Vanguard Bond Chief Says Losses Aren’t Locked in When Fed Tapers
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-11-12T16:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/vanguard-bond-chief-says-losses-aren-t-locked-in-when-fed-tapers.html
A reduction of quantitative easing
by the Federal Reserve needn’t be a harbinger for losses with
growth slow and inflation subdued, according to Gregory Davis,
named last week as head of fixed income at Vanguard Group Inc.  “You can have some tapering of QE, but at the end of the
day, you still have an economy that’s relatively weak, that’s
showing a few signs of life,” Davis, 43, said in a Nov. 7
telephone interview from Sydney, where he serves as chief
investment officer for the Asia Pacific region and a director of
the mutual-fund company’s Australia unit. “Inflation is still
low, the labor market is relatively fragile, the expectations
are the Fed’s going to remain accommodative for a long period of
time.”  The U.S. central bank is forecast to begin tapering its
bond purchases in March, according to Bloomberg surveys of
economists on Nov. 8, while  interest-rate swaps  data show the
first benchmark rate increase will take place in May 2015. The
Fed may adjust its forward guidance on the timing for any policy
interest-rate increase and how it is linked to economic
performance measures, such as the nation’s jobless rate, said
Davis, who will oversee $750 billion when he takes over in March
at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, the world’s
largest mutual fund company.  Bond Holders  Investors planning to hold bonds for the long-term needn’t
be concerned about losses when yields are rising, said Davis,
who graduated from Pennsylvania State University and the
University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business.  ‘If rates rise, and you’re in an intermediate-term bond
fund, rates rising isn’t a bad thing in the long term because
you’re going to be reinvesting those coupons and principal
payments over time at higher rates,’’ he said.  Davis will succeed Robert Auwaerter, 58, who will retire in
March after leading the fixed-income group since 2003. Vanguard,
with total assets under management of $2.4 trillion as of Oct.
31, is the second-largest holder of U.S. Treasuries with $166.3
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pacific
Investment Management Co. holds $167.1 billion of the debt, the
data shows.  The Fed’s decision to cut back on bond buying will depend
on its perception that economic activity is picking up in a
sustainable manner, said Davis, who spent nine months at Merrill
Lynch & Co. before moving to Vanguard as a trader on its bond-index desk in 1999.  Fed Speculation  Vanguard projects the Fed’s decision to taper bond
purchases is likely in the first three months of 2014, Davis
said. Policy  makers  began their third round of asset purchases
in September 2012 with $40 billion a month of  mortgage 
securities and extended their efforts with $45 billion a month
in Treasuries beginning January.  Sluggish growth and a Fed prepared to focus policy guidance
on achieving a lower  unemployment  rate of about 5.5 percent to 6
percent suggest that the intermediate part of the yield curve
will benefit, Davis said.  “There are other ways the Fed can continue to anchor the
market and will, to some degree, anchor where the very short end
of the curve is,” Davis said. “And depending on how long that
anchoring lasts it’s going to have an impact on the intermediate
part of the curve as well.”  Market Returns  The five-year U.S. Treasury note returned an average 1.9
percent in each year from 2003 through 2006, even as the yield
rose to 4.69 percent from 2.73 percent during the period, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch five-Year U.S. Treasury Index shows.
The securities gained an average 7.1 percent in the next four
years through 2010 as the yield fell to 0.83 percent.  Corporate bonds are likely to maintain their superior
performance relative to Treasuries in the coming year, Davis
said. U.S.  government  debt has declined 2.7 percent this year
while high-quality  company  obligations have lost 2.2 percent,
Bloomberg bond indexes show.  Vanguard’s $109 billion Total Bond Market Index Fund,
including $17 billion in Exchange Traded Fund shares, its
largest fixed-income offering, has lost 2 percent this year,
trailing 73 percent of its peers.  Davis said he work as head of Vanguard’s bond-indexing
group will help him in the expanded role, along with his time
working for Auwaerter.  “He’s a brilliant man and I’ve learned a great deal from
him about how to look at markets and valuations and think about
risk,” Davis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  