-- Venezuela Bonds Plunge as Military Takes Over Electronics Store
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-11-12T20:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/venezuela-bonds-sink-as-maduro-pledges-consumer-price-controls.html
Venezuelan bonds tumbled, sending
yields to a 22-month high, after President Nicolas Maduro
dispatched the military to take over a retail chain as part of
his effort to quell inflation that’s soared above 50 percent.  The country’s benchmark bonds due 2027 fell 3.9 cents to
72.1 cents on the dollar as Maduro’s seizure of electronics
retailer Daka and his warnings to other businesses to cut prices
to “fair” levels deepened investor concern that growth is
being choked off by government controls. Yields on the bonds
soared 0.79 percentage point to 13.82 percent, the highest since
January 2012, at 3:19 p.m. in New York.  Maduro, who took over as president this year after his
socialist mentor Hugo Chavez died of cancer, is stiffening
government-imposed price controls that have contributed to food
and goods shortages across the South American country. Maduro
blamed the “parasitic bourgeoisie” and said he’d impose limits
on profit margins throughout the economy after inflation surged
to 54 percent in October, the fastest pace in 16 years.  “In the 20 years that I’ve been managing emerging markets,
I have never seen the mismanagement of the scale that I’m seeing
in  Venezuela  today,” Ray Zucaro, who oversees $375 million of
emerging-market debt at SW Asset Management LLC in Newport
Beach,  California , wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.
“The government effectively is promoting anarchy. This
disconnect with reality, I’ve never seen it bigger than it is
now.”  State oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA will sell $4.5
billion of bonds this week, Venezuela Oil Minister Rafael
Ramirez told reporters today in Caracas. It would be the first
sale by PDVSA since May 2012, and could help alleviate a 
shortage of dollars in the economy that has added to the 
inflation surge.  JPMorgan Recommendation  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan bonds
over U.S. Treasuries soared 0.75 percentage point to 1,190 basis
points, the highest in  emerging markets , according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified index.  Ben Ramsey, an economist at JPMorgan, lowered his
recommendation for Venezuelan bonds to neutral from overweight,
according to a report today. Declining oil prices may require a
bigger economic adjustment by Maduro after municipal elections
Dec. 8, he wrote.  It “is questionable that a government that has doubled
down on fiscal largesse and price controls in the month ahead of
the election will actually be inclined to deliver the needed
adjustment,” wrote Ramsey.  Maduro ordered the military on Nov. 8 to enforce an order
that the Daka chain reduce its prices to October levels,
accusing the store of overcharging customers by as much as 1,200
percent. He said the government will review prices charged in
other stores.  Surging Inflation  Shoppers were lining up outside electronics stores in
Caracas today seeking discounted appliances before Christmas. In
a televised address, Maduro urged them not loot the stores,
saying he trusts “the spiritual forces of love and peace of the
Venezuelan people.”  Maduro’s approval rating fell 6 percentage points in
September to 41 percent ahead of the local elections, Barclays
Plc said in report today, citing a Datanalisis poll. The survey
found 72 percent of Venezuelans perceive the country’s situation
as being negative, compared with about 52 percent when Maduro
was elected in April.  Venezuela’s inflation rate has more than doubled since the
beginning of the year as a shortage of dollars crimp imports in
a country that buys 70 percent of its goods abroad. The scarcity
index that measures the amount of goods out of stock at any
given time rose to 22.4 percent in October, the highest level
since January 2008, according to the central bank.  ‘Very Radical’  The government, which devalued the bolivar by 32 percent in
February to 6.3 per dollar, has been unable to stem the
currency’s decline on the black market, where companies and
individuals not authorized to use the official rate pay about 60
bolivars per dollar.  Chief price regulator Eduardo Saman said Nov. 9 on state
television that it’s illegal for stores to raise prices on
existing inventory. The government has set prices for everything
from medical services to flour.  “I won’t accept the closing of stores; if a store is shut,
it will be transferred to the employees,” Maduro said in a
televised national address Nov. 9. “This is just the start of
what I’m going to do to protect the Venezuelan people.”  National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello, speaking on
state television yesterday, said that Congress this week should
approve a law to give Maduro special decree powers.  `Radical' Actions  The state oil company seized about $1 million worth of
equipment from Houston-based Superior Energy Services Inc. last
month. Chavez took control of more than 1,000 companies or their
assets during his 14 years in office as part of his self-proclaimed socialist revolution.  “The rhetoric and to a certain point the actions are
becoming very radical and obviously the market is not going to
react positively to that,” Fernando Losada, a Latin America
economist at AllianceBernstein LP, said in a telephone interview
from New York. “The people who are making the decisions don’t
believe in the rules of the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  