-- Vodacom Said to Be in Talks With Naspers on Content Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-11-13T15:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/vodacom-said-to-be-in-talks-with-naspers-on-content-deal.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the wireless
operator with the most subscribers in South Africa, is in
discussions with  Naspers Ltd. (NPN)  about access to its television
content, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The talks, which are at an early stage, may lead to Vodacom
using content from Multichoice, a broadcast division of Africa’s
largest media company, to offer to users of its phone and
Internet network, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  Naspers operates satellite television in South Africa and
48 countries on the continent, making the Cape Town-based
company the dominant provider of pay-TV in sub-Saharan Africa.  “With connection speeds rising and data prices continuing
to fall, the delivery of music and video content via mobile is
becoming increasingly viable,” Vodacom spokesman Richard Boorman said by e-mail. “We’re exploring a number of
opportunities along these lines but it’s too early to comment in
detail.”  Meloy Horn, a spokeswoman for Naspers, declined to comment
when contacted by phone. The company, which is expanding its own
Internet business across the world, said on June 25 full-year
sales rose 27 percent to 50.2 billion rand ($4.8 billion).  Vodacom’s potential tie-up with Naspers comes as other
Africa-focused telecommunications companies look to expand into
higher-margin data accessed on smartphones as voice revenue
declines. Safaricom Ltd.,  Kenya ’s biggest phone company, said
Nov. 6 it plans to begin selling bundled Internet and television
services for on-demand viewing.  High Speed  “If you want to take a step to personalized TV, possibly
there is a way of utilizing a smartphone or device to distribute
content over,” Fredrik Jejdling, head of sub-Saharan Africa for
Stockholm-based Ericsson AB, said in an interview in Cape Town
yesterday. “A smartphone is the most desirable consumer device
in Africa.”  Vodacom said on Sept. 30 it’s in exclusive talks to acquire
Internet provider Neotel Pty Ltd., a unit of  Tata Communications
Ltd. (TCOM) , in a deal that will give the Johannesburg-based company
access to business customers as well as households. Vodacom
plans to invest in the combined entity to provide high-speed
connectivity, it said at the time.  The company, 65 percent owned by Newbury, England-based
 Vodafone Plc (VOD) , plans to use cash from its parent’s sale of a
stake in Verizon Wireless to boost investment in its Africa
network, it said on Nov. 11. Vodacom plans to spend as much as
17 percent of its revenue on capital expenditure in the medium
term, up from 13 percent in 2013, it said.  Network Speed  Vodafone said yesterday it would invest 7 billion pounds
($11 billion) on improving network speed and coverage as part of
its “Project Spring” venture by March 2016. Vodacom  shares 
advanced 2.1 percent to 121 rand by the close of trading in
Johannesburg, having gained 3.3 percent yesterday, the most in
four months.  “It makes good sense for mobile operators to engage the
content owners to obtain and deliver such content,” Steven
Ambrose, chief executive officer of telecommunications advisory
company Strategy Worx, said by e-mail. “Video content will
become a major component of data consumption. Unlike many
developed markets mobile is where this will happen in South
 Africa  and Africa. We expect more such deals.”  South Africa remains one of the world’s stragglers in
Internet access, with average broadband speeds lagging behind
smaller economies including Greenland and Azerbaijan, according
to broadband statistics website netindex.com. Vodacom’s data
revenue growth in Africa’s biggest economy rose 21 percent in
the six months through September, outpacing a total sales
increase of 6.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  