-- Vodafone Adds to Network Spending as Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-12T10:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/vodafone-service-sales-miss-estimates-amid-network-upgrade-push.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the second-largest wireless company, will plow billions into improving its
network speed and coverage as it works to reverse service-sales
declines that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Investments in “Project Spring,” the network-improvement
project announced in September, will expand to 7 billion pounds
($11.2 billion) by March 2016 -- a year ahead of schedule and 1
billion pounds extra -- Vodafone said today. Service revenue,
excluding currency swings and acquisitions, fell 4.9 percent in
the quarter ended Sept 30, missing analysts’ estimates for a 4.6
percent decline, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  is betting that
Vodafone can benefit from investing ahead of a recovery in
European markets, expanding the reach of faster mobile and fiber
broadband services. Including Project Spring, Vodafone will
spend more than 19 billion pounds on its network by 2016, Colao
said on a conference call today. It may be difficult for
competitors to keep pace with the Newbury, England-based
company’s spending, according to a report from Moody’s Investors
Service.  “The clear, underlying message is that most companies in
Europe are going to have to step up their capex in order to
accelerate convergence to set off the challenges coming from
Vodafone,” said Carlos Winzer, senior vice president of
corporate finance at Moody’s.  Network Investments  Project Spring’s goal is to improve Vodafone’s high-speed
wireless and fixed networks in Europe as well as select high-growth markets like parts of Africa and  India . Vodafone is
funding the plan with the $130 billion in proceeds it got from
selling its stake in U.S. mobile company Verizon Wireless.  Vodafone rose 1.6 percent to 231.05 pence at 10:11 a.m. in
London trading. The shares had gained 47 percent this year
through yesterday.  First-half sales, before changes to how joint-venture
revenue is recorded, fell 3.2 percent to 22.03 billion pounds.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
6.6 billion pounds, the company said in a statement today.
Analysts had predicted sales of 21.8 billion pounds and Ebitda
of 6.42 billion pounds, according to the average of seven
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Recovering Economies  Colao said he sees an improvement in Europe’s economic
environment on the horizon. Vodafone reported first-half
organic-revenue declines -- which include the effect of
regulatory restrictions on what it can charge other carriers for
using its network -- of 15 percent in southern Europe and 3.9
percent in northern and central Europe in the quarter. Vodafone
said northern Europe’s economy will return to growth in 2013 and
southern Europe will do the same in 2014.  “We expect that during the next three to five years,
Europe will definitely improve,” Colao said. “Therefore, we
prefer to have a stronger, more performing and more
differentiated operation by then so that we can come out at a
higher speed than everybody else.”  Vodafone targeted adjusted operating profit of around 5
billion pounds and free cash flow between 4.5 billion pounds and
5 billion pounds for the year ending in March 2014.  Vodafone’s competitors are seeing mixed results. Telefonica
SA, Spain’s largest phone company, said this month that while
revenue fell 12 percent in its home country, margins had begun
to improve. Spain exited a two-year recession last quarter,
which helped Telefonica hold on to more customers.  Tanzania, Italy  Orange SA,  France ’s largest phone company, said profit fell
7.7 percent in the quarter amid competition on tariffs while
Germany’s Deutsche Telekom AG reported a 2.6 percent drop in
adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization because of price wars in eastern Europe.  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the South African carrier controlled by
Vodafone, will ramp up investment in its 3G networks in Tanzania
using Project Spring funds, Chief Executive Officer Shameel Joosub said yesterday.  Vodafone will double its investments in Italy to 3.6
billion euros ($4.8 billion) over two years, the local unit said
today. The business will use the funds, which are on top of the
900 million euros annually invested, to develop mobile and bring
high-speed fixed broadband services to 25 percent of the Italian
population by 2016.  Vodafone will increase the 2014 dividend by 8 percent with
completion of the Verizon Wireless stake sale, bringing it to 11
pence per share.  That sale, expected to be completed in the first three
months of 2014, gives Vodafone the flexibility to reassess its
holdings across the globe. Vodafone bought Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG this year for about 7.5 billion euros, expanding
Vodafone’s services in  Germany  to include TV and Internet.  Indian Expansion  Vodafone last month asked the Indian government for
permission to raise its stake in its local unit to 100 percent.
India is Vodafone’s largest market by customers, and accounts
for about 9.8 percent of annual revenue, though customer bills
on the continent are lower than in Europe. The company said
today that it expects the deal to go through and doesn’t have a
clear time frame for approval from the government.  “The regulatory framework is becoming increasingly clear,
particularly in India, underpinning our expectations for
continued strong growth and improving profitability,” Vodafone
said in the statement.  The company has also considered an acquisition of  Italy ’s
Fastweb SpA, the fixed-line company that Swisscom AG took over
in 2007, people familiar with the matter said in June.  AT&T Interest  Since disposing of the Verizon Wireless stake, Vodafone has
been eyed by Dallas-based AT&T Inc., according to people
familiar with the situation. AT&T executives are laying the
groundwork internally for a potential takeover next year, which
may involve splitting Vodafone’s European operations from the
African and Indian businesses, the people said, asking not to be
named discussing private deliberations.  AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson has met with European Union
officials this year to discuss plans for a lighter regulatory
regime that would reignite growth for the continent’s phone
companies. More predictable spectrum allocations, coordination
across borders and flexibility in wireless technologies will
encourage carriers to invest more in networks and services,
Stephenson said at a conference in Brussels last month.  Colao declined to comment today on talks with AT&T.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  