-- Volatility Seen in Treasuries as Traders See Higher Yields
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-11-12T17:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/volatility-seen-in-treasuries-as-traders-brace-for-higher-yields.html
U.S. government debt  is becoming
increasingly perilous to options traders who are pushing up the
cost to protect against sudden losses by the most in a year,
even as Federal Reserve stimulus suppresses volatility.  The cost to lock in fixed-interest rates that are a half-percentage point above  10-year yields  is now about 17 percent
higher than contracts tied to prevailing rates, according to
data compiled by Deutsche Bank AG. The premium for the three-month options has risen from this year’s low of 10 percent in
June, signaling growing demand for protection from the risk U.S.
borrowing costs will start rising before March. The increase was
the biggest since 2012.  While the prospect the Fed will keep its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases into 2014 caused swings in 10-year
Treasury  yields (USGG10YR)  to diminish and encouraged bullish options
traders to bet on lower rates, the  relative calm  is obscuring
the danger that investors may get blindsided by a pullback. Some
speculators are hedging their bets that yields are poised to
eclipse 3 percent. Reports on jobs, services and manufacturing
last week all showed U.S. companies persevered through the
partial government shutdown.  “There is a nervous stasis in the market,”  William O’Donnell , the head U.S. government bond strategist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview on Nov. 5. Investors are signaling that “yields could
easily be a long way away from here given there are a daisy
chain of market risks to come between now and about March. It
keeps alive this tail-risk hedging.”  Expectations Game  Yields on 10-year Treasuries touched 2.79 percent today,
the highest level seen since they surged in September to a two-year high of 3.01 percent. Yields fell as low as 2.47 percent
last month after the Fed surprised forecasters in September by
maintaining the pace of quantitative easing and the 16-day
government shutdown that ended Oct. 17 threatened to weaken the
nation’s recovery.  U.S. debt  with maturities longer than 10 years slid 11
percent this year, the largest drop among 144 indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  As speculation shifted from how soon the Fed will start
tapering to how long it may wait, economists in a Bloomberg
survey on Nov. 8 said the central bank will keep suppressing
borrowing costs by buying $45 billion of Treasuries and $40
billion of mortgage-backed debt each month until March. At the
same time, bond investors have become more convinced  borrowing
costs  will remain steady.  Fluctuations for 10-year Treasury yields decreased to the
lowest since June 2011 at the end of October, based on
historical 30-day volatility, a measure of the actual pace of
rate swings.  ‘Very Painful’  Since reaching the year’s high of 50.6 percent in July, the
gauge tumbled to a low of 20.9 on Oct. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Volatility has averaged 39.5 over the
past five years, the data show.  The lack of apprehension in the debt markets has unnerved
some traders in U.S.  interest-rate swaps , who are driving up
demand for options that will protect them from sudden
fluctuations over the next three months.  “You have a build-up of risks,” Aleksandar Kocic, an
interest-rate strategist at Deutsche Bank, said in a telephone
interview on Nov. 4. “The market has driven itself to this
position where it’s going to be very painful if rates move. The
Fed will likely be the main agent for this.”  Hedging Risk  When Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled in May that the
central bank could taper its stimulus in “the next few
meetings” if the U.S. posted sustained growth, Treasuries
swooned and yields on 10-year notes surged by more than a
percentage point in 3 1/2 months.  Volatility for three-month contracts that enable investors
to pay a fixed rate that is 0.5 percentage point above the 10-year yield is 1.17 times greater than contracts struck closest
to current yields. Volatility is used to gauge the cost of
options.  While demand for contracts that profit from falling rates
has also increased, the bearish wagers on the options reflect
expectations that U.S. borrowing costs will rise higher than
most interest-rate strategists and economists project as the
recovery gains enough momentum.  Ten-year Treasury yields rose the most in two months last
week, climbing 0.13 percentage point to 2.75 percent, Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices show. The price of the 2.5 percent note due
August 2023 fell 1 2/32, or $10.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 97
28/32.  Yields on the notes will reach 2.94 percent in the first
quarter of 2014, according to the weighted average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  Jobs Growth  American companies are already shaking off the effects of
the federal shutdown more quickly than economists anticipated.  Employers added 204,000 workers in October, exceeding all
91 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey, Labor Department figures
showed on Nov. 8. The median projection was for a 120,000 gain.  The payroll data came three days after the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing  index  rose, indicating
hiring in the services industries picked up in October as the
biggest part of the economy unexpectedly expanded.  U.S.  manufacturing  also accelerated last month to the
highest level since April 2011, surprising economists who
forecast a contraction, as U.S. producers of everything from
textiles to cars benefited from a boost in domestic demand.  ‘Economic Reality’  While the shutdown probably pared growth to an annualized
rate of 2 percent this quarter, the economy is likely to expand
by 2.6 percent next year, a full percentage point more than for
2013, based on a survey of 75 economists on Oct. 31.  By 2015, growth is projected to accelerate to 3 percent,
which would be the fastest pace in a decade.  “The underlying economic reality is the economy has made a
lot of progress,”  Zach Pandl , a Minneapolis-based senior
interest-rate strategist at Columbia Management Investment
Advisers, which oversees $340 billion, said in a telephone
interview on Nov. 7. “We are not in the same sort of world we
were in a year or two ago. Given that the economy continues to
improve, taper is inevitable.”  The case for sustained growth in the world’s largest
economy still isn’t strong enough to warrant a pullback from the
Fed, which will keep short-term borrowing costs from rising,
according to Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the world’s biggest bond fund manager.  Fed Goals  While a government report last week showed the U.S. grew
more than economists estimated in the third quarter,  consumer
spending  climbed at the slowest pace since 2011 and business
purchases on equipment weakened.  Consumer confidence  in the week
ended Nov. 3 dropped to a one-year low, with the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index falling for a sixth straight week.  Employment and inflation have also fallen short of the
central bank’s goals. The jobless rate in October rose to 7.3
percent -- above the 6.5 percent level the Fed said would prompt
policy makers to consider raising short-term rates.  The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures price index, increased 0.9 percent in
September from a year earlier and has remained below its 2
percent target, adopted in January 2012, for 17 straight months.  Potential Losses  When yields on 10-year Treasuries surpassed 3 percent in
September as indicators such as falling weekly claims for
jobless benefits and rising manufacturing orders suggested the
economy was strengthening enough to allow the Fed to pare its
bond purchases, the central bank maintained that it didn’t have
the evidence to justify paring its stimulus. That was before the
budget impasse triggered the shutdown and pushed the country
toward the first default in its history.  U.S. benchmark lending rates “are going to stay low for a
long time,” El-Erian, whose firm oversees $1.97 trillion, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview on Nov. 8.  Slow growth and an  accommodative Fed  “lasts as long as the
other policy-making entities don’t get their acts together,” he
said. El-Erian said  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco
recommends that investors purchase Treasuries with maturities of
five years or less.  Some measures indicate that investors are underestimating
the risk of financing the  U.S. government .  With the amount of outstanding U.S. debt more than doubling
since mid-2008 to an unprecedented $11.6 trillion as the U.S.
financed deficits to mitigate the fallout from the financial
crisis, potential losses due to rising yields on the longest-maturity Treasuries are close to the highest since at least
1996, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  ‘Exaggerated Moves’  The gauge known as duration, which calculates how much
prices change when yields rise or fall, for Treasuries due in 10
years or more is at 15.8, closing in on the all-time high of
16.6 in May.  Volatility in three-month options on 10-year yields struck
at rates closest to current levels has fallen at about twice the
pace of the drop in Treasury yields since September, signaling
some options traders may be overestimating how long the Fed will
maintain the pace of its bond buying, said Ruslan Bikbov, a
fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Corp.  Tapering Volatile  “A tapering of bond purchase is going to be volatile when
it happens,” he said in a telephone interview on Nov. 7 from
 New York . “While better-than-expected data in the next couple
of months may trigger an out-sized move higher in rates.”  At its Oct. 29-30 meeting, the Fed refrained from providing
stronger signals of prolonged stimulus in a statement after
signaling diminishing concern over higher borrowing costs as
they maintained the pace of bond purchases.  The cost to protect against a 10 percent loss in the
longest-dated Treasuries was 1.29 times greater last week than
options that profit from a 10 percent gain, based on the implied
volatility of three-month contracts on the iShares 20+ Year
Treasury Bond ETF, an exchange-traded fund.  That’s the biggest premium since the aftermath of the
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy in September 2008.  With yields close to historical lows, “you have elevated
interest-rate risk, because they could turn around and go
higher,” said Carl Kaufman, the San Francisco-based co-manager
of the $5.2 billion  Osterweis Strategic Income Fund (OSTIX) , which has
outperformed 95 percent of its rivals in the past three years.
“Very small changes in the economic outlook or rates cause big
changes in the markets, which exaggerates moves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  