-- Wampanoag Tribe Plans Casino in Martha’s Vineyard Enclave
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-11-13T15:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/wampanoag-tribe-seeks-casino-in-martha-s-vineyard-enclave.html
The Wampanoag tribe on Martha’s
Vineyard said a U.S. agency cleared the way for a casino-style
gambling hall on the  Massachusetts  island known as a vacation
spot for U.S. presidents.  “We are announcing that we will probably be the first
gaming site” in the state, Cheryl Andrews-Maltais, the
chairwoman of the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head, said yesterday in
a conference call with reporters. “We’ve been able to secure
our federal approvals.”  The announcement elicited shock in the State House, where
legislative leaders have fought plans to bring gambling to the
Vineyard, as it’s known, for decades. The gaming hall would be
in Aquinnah, near the Gay Head bluffs, one of the most exclusive
areas in one of the wealthiest enclaves in the state. The news
spurred a burst of comments on the Twitter Inc. website,
including one labeling the parlor “Caesar’s Preppy Palace.”  The American Indian tribe received a legal opinion from
Eric Shepard, the acting general counsel of the National Indian
Gaming Commission, last month. Shepard said the Wampanoags are
eligible to build a class 2 casino, which can include slot
machines and card games such as poker, according to a letter the
tribe provided. The tribe owns 485 acres in the Vineyard town of
Aquinnah, which is the Wampanoag term for Gay Head.  No Overbuilding  The tribe will open a temporary slot parlor at a community
center within months with “hundreds, not thousands,” of the
gaming machines, Andrews-Maltais said. The tribe also plans to
build a permanent facility on the island, she said.  “We want to be sure we are consistent with the modesty we
think should be there,” Andrews-Maltais said. “We want to be
sure we don’t overbuild.”  Andrews-Maltais said she doesn’t need any additional local
or state approval to move forward with the plans.  State and local officials disagree. They point to a
 settlement  reached in the 1980s where the Wampanoags agreed to
follow Massachusetts laws on Martha’s Vineyard territory.  “The Aquinnah’s Land Claims Settlement Act, and the
related settlement agreement, acknowledges, preserves and
protects the Commonwealth’s authority to regulate gaming both on
the Aquinnah’s land in Gay Head and on any after-acquired land
within Massachusetts,” Kate Cook, Governor Deval Patrick’s
chief legal counsel, said in a statement.  Town Permission  The land settlement was approved by the state legislature
and the U.S. Congress, Cook said.  Aquinnah Selectman Spencer Booker, who is a Wampanoag, said
the tribe would need the town’s permission to move forward with
the project, citing municipal lawyers. Booker said the town
would challenge the tribe in court if it went ahead with its
plans without seeking local input.  “Our town lawyers have said unequivocally that the tribe
would need permission from the town,” he said by telephone.  The tribe also said it is pursuing a class 3 gambling
compact with the state, to permit more casino-style table games.  The news of plans for gaming on the island’s scenic and
remote southwest end stunned the Massachusetts political
establishment, which is in the midst of enacting a new gambling
law intended to bring three casinos to the state and one slot
parlor. The Wampanoag Aquinnah plan could mean an unanticipated
addition that lawmakers have fought to prevent for decades.  ‘Huge Surprise’  “Are you serious? I’m speechless,” state Senate Majority
Leader Stanley Rosenberg, an Amherst Democrat, told the State
House News Service. “After everything and all we’ve been
working on, this comes as a huge surprise.”  Meanwhile, the Massachusetts legislature gave final
approval for a class 3 gambling compact with the Mashpee
Wampanoags for a site in Taunton, a city in southeastern
Massachusetts, the News Service said. Patrick, a Democrat, is
expected to sign it.  Aquinnah is one of several towns on Martha’s Vineyard and
is next to Chilmark, where President  Barack Obama  vacationed
last summer. Former President Bill Clinton and his family also
frequented the island. Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, the former
first lady, owned an estate near Gay Head, and her son, John F. Kennedy Jr., died in a 1999 plane crash en route to the island.  The median sale price of a single-family home in Aquinnah
in the past six months was $1.4 million, according to the Warren
Group, a real estate research firm based in Boston. Caroline Kennedy, Jackie Onassis’s daughter, recently put 90 acres up for
sale in the town, asking $45 million for two parcels.  Selectman Booker said he’s personally opposed to a slot
parlor and would like Aquinnah’s 400 residents to vote on it.
“It does not sit well with me,” he said.  Andrews-Maltais said that she believes the people of
Martha’s Vineyard will eventually embrace the plan.  “There seems to be a tremendous appetite for gambling,”
she said. “We have, every four to six months, some kind of Las
Vegas night fundraiser and they do very well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in  Boston  at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  