-- Warrnambool Says Kirin May Support $424 Million Saputo Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-11-12T07:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/warrnambool-says-kirin-may-support-424-million-saputo-deal-1-.html
Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory
Co. (WCB) , the Australian target of a three-way takeover battle, said
 Saputo Inc. (SAP)  may win the support of shareholder  Japan ’s Kirin
Holdings Co. for its C$444 million ($424 million) bid.  Saputo,  Canada ’s largest dairy processor, will probably
provide assurances to Kirin’s local unit over supply agreements
between the companies following any takeover, Warrnambool Chief
Executive Officer David Lord said today in a phone interview.
“The conversations they have with Saputo will be around having
their interests protected.”  Australia ’s Treasurer  Joe Hockey  said today that the
government had approved Saputo’s offer without imposing
conditions. Its A$8 a share offer for Warrnambool, the maker of
brands including Sungold milk and Great Ocean Road cheese, is
higher than Murray Goulburn Cooperative Co.’s A$7.50 cash
proposal and above a cash and shares bid from  Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA) ,
the company’s largest shareholder.  With the competing bidders expected to reject Saputo’s
offer and some small shareholders opposed to a foreign company
taking ownership of Warrnambool, the Canadian producer may
struggle to win sufficient backing, said Mark Topy, an analyst
at Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. “If Saputo doesn’t get to 50
percent, my view is that there’s a serious prospect that they
will let the bid lapse.”  Warrnambool, which has recommended the Saputo offer, rose
1.1 percent to A$8.54 in Sydney. Bega declined 3.6 percent to
A$4.36, making its offer worth A$7.23 per Warrnambool share.  Cheddar Supply  The share trading premium reflects the potential tax credit
of as much as 56 cents a share payable to holders if the bid is
successful, rather than any expectation of a new offer, said
Lord.  Saputo declined to comment on talks with shareholders. Lion
spokeswoman Leela Sutton declined to comment on any discussions
with bidders.  Warrnambool has agreements to supply at least 12,000 metric
tons of cheddar each year for Lion’s Coon and Cracker Barrel
cheese brands, according to a presentation last month.  The rival suitors are seeking to raise production and add
dairy export infrastructure amid rising demand in  Asia . China is
setting records for milk-powder imports, while  Southeast Asia ’s
six largest economies are unable to produce enough dairy goods
to meet local demand, according to a July report by Rabobank,
which specializes in agricultural research.  Bega  holds 18 percent  of Warrnambool and Murray Goulburn
holds 17 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saputo’s bid is dependent on securing more than 50 percent
of Warrnambool shares, though the producer can waive the
condition if it obtains at least 40 percent, Warrnambool said
today in a statement.  Bega has won consent for a deal from the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission, while Murray Goulburn has
applied for regulatory clearance to the Australian Competition
Tribunal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  