-- Weighing Chat-Room Ban, U.K. Fraud Spies: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-11-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/weighing-chat-room-ban-u-k-fraud-spies-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
 U.S. bank  by assets, is weighing whether to ban traders from
using electronic chat rooms to communicate with peers at other
firms as the forums draw scrutiny from global regulators,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  JPMorgan’s deliberations, which should be complete by early
2014, focus on multidealer chat rooms for currencies and other
asset classes, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , Britain’s biggest publicly owned lender, is also
reviewing its use of chat rooms as part of an overhaul of its
trading practices around market benchmarks, another person said.  Regulators have targeted traders’ electronic messages,
using them as evidence of wrongdoing in their investigations
into the manipulation of benchmark interest rates and foreign-exchange markets. During a visit to London last month, Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  called on employees to be vigilant
about their language in e-mails and instant messages, two people
with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  JPMorgan may encourage traders to use the telephone and e-mails rather than chat rooms to assist clients in large currency
transactions, the person said.  Credit Suisse Group AG (ACA)  also is considering a chat-room ban,
the Wall Street Journal reported Nov. 10, citing people familiar
with the discussions.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Citigroup Inc. and  UBS AG (UBS) 
are also among banks reviewing the use of chat rooms, the
newspaper reported, citing unidentified people at those
companies and others that do business with them.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
and Citigroup’s Danielle Romero-Apsilos, declined to comment.
Jack Grone at Credit Suisse didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment. Spokesmen for RBS, Barclays and UBS
also declined to comment.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Prosecutor May Turn to Spy Agencies to Find Corporate Crime  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office will work more closely with
spy agencies in an effort to crack down on corporate wrongdoing.  The SFO will increase links with U.K. security agencies in
a bid to put more pressure on companies to self-report
activities such as bribery,  David Green , director of the white-collar crime prosecutor, told the Times of London in an
interview published yesterday. The largest U.K. spy agencies
include MI5, the domestic security service, MI6, the overseas
intelligence agency and Britain’s  Government Communications
Headquarters , known as GCHQ.  Global spy agencies have come under scrutiny in recent
months after former U.S. intelligence contractor Edward Snowden
revealed the scale of surveillance activities by the U.S.
National Security Agency, including allegations the NSA had
tapped German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s mobile phone.  The revelations have led to scrutiny of U.K. spy
operations, with a number of agency directors from MI5, MI6 and
GCHQ brought before lawmakers in Parliament in London last week
to discuss their activities.  Liberty , a London-based human rights group, said in a
statement yesterday that it will represent similar civil
liberties groups in a lawsuit against U.K. spy agencies,
including MI6 and GCHQ, over allegations private communications
were intercepted on fiber-optic cables.  ‘Simpler’ Structure for Small Caps Needed, Group Tells Treasury  Regulators should finish the JOBS Act and also encourage
increased liquidity in small-cap stocks by supporting a
“simpler, more orderly” market structure for such companies
and investors, the Equity Capital Formation  Task Force  told the
U.S. Treasury in a report.  The group was referring to the Jumpstart Our Business
Startups Act.  The report calls for national exchanges to conduct a pilot
small-cap trading program, which would be overseen by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, in which participating
companies trade under new small-cap trading rules. The program
would provide for companies to be quoted in minimum price
increments of $0.05 and trade only at the bid, offer or midpoint
between the two, the group said in the report.  The task force is made up of representatives from mutual
funds,  venture capital , exchanges, broker dealers, academics,
investor relations advisers, and securities industry trade
groups.  Compliance Action  Denmark Faces Historic Fight With EU to Save Mortgage System  Denmark is bracing itself for an historic showdown with the
European Union as lawmakers in the Nordic country settle on a
definition of stable funding for mortgage banks that Brussels
has yet to accept.  For the first time in the history of Denmark’s two-century-old mortgage bond market, lawmakers proposed last week adding a
trigger to extend maturities on one-year notes at risk of
failing to meet stable funding requirements. Never before have
investors in the $530 billion market for Danish mortgage bonds
faced government intervention in securities funding existing
loans, according to the Danish Mortgage Bankers’ Federation.  The government in Copenhagen now needs to convince European
regulators the new maturity profile satisfies stable funding
rules intended to protect against market freezes. The Danish
Financial Supervisory Authority, which deems funding shorter
than 12 months as unstable for commercial banks, says the EU
should accept the new mortgage bonds. Denmark is waiting for a
response from Brussels as lawmakers say they’re willing to do
whatever it takes to save the world’s biggest mortgage market
per capita.  Without European approval, banks in Denmark will have to
slash sales of mortgages with rates that are reset annually. The
one-year bonds make up about 40 percent of the market,
comprising the single biggest category of mortgages.  ICBC Faces Capital Surcharge as Deutsche Bank, Citigroup Fall  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  was added to a
list of too-big-to-fail banks that must set aside additional
capital to guard against losses as part a global regulator’s
plans to protect the economy.  ICBC was the only firm joining the Financial Stability
Board’s annual list of too-big-to-fail banks, which it produces
in preparation for capital rules scheduled to be phased in
starting in 2016. Other changes include lower surcharges for
Deutsche Bank AG, and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which both drop out of the
top category and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp .  The capital surcharges for globally systemic lenders are
part of a broader overhaul of bank standards in the wake of the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. International
regulators agreed in 2010 to more than triple minimum rules on
the core capital banks should have to absorb losses.  Alterations to the list, which this year increased to 29
from 28 banks, were driven by “data quality improvements,
changes in the methodology and changes in underlying systemic
importance,” the FSB said.  While banks in the top tier of the list may face capital
surcharges totaling 2.5 percent of their risk-weighted assets,
others face requirements ranging from 1 to 2 percent.  Yesterday’s list leaves only JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in line to face the top 2.5 percent requirement.  The FSB brings together central bankers, regulators and
government officials from the Group of 20 nations to coordinate
financial rule-making.  For more, click here.  Courts  Bear Stearns Liquidators Assail Ratings Companies in Lawsuit  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ’s  Standard & Poor’s  unit,
 Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and Fitch Group Inc. were sued by the liquidators
of two Bear Stearns hedge funds, who accused them of issuing
ratings they knew were bogus.  Geoffrey Varga and Mark Longbottom, the liquidators of the
two defunct funds, filed an initial notice of their intent to
sue over the ratings in July in New York State  Supreme Court  in
Manhattan. They filed a complaint yesterday giving details of
their claims.  In their lawsuit, which seeks damages in connection with
more than $1 billion in losses, the liquidators include
communications that they say show the companies knew their
ratings were faulty.  In one text message cited in the filing, an S&P employee
purportedly told a co-worker that investments could be
“structured by cows” and still get rated. An internal document
from a Moody’s worker said the firm sold its soul “to the devil
for revenue,” according to the complaint.  The allegations are without merit and Standard & Poor’s
will fight them,  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for the New York-based
company, said in an e-mail.  Daniel Noonan , a spokesman for New York-based Fitch Group,
also said the claims lacked merit and the company would defend
itself. New York-based Moody’s didn’t immediately return a phone
message left with its media relations office seeking comment.  The funds were part of Bear Stearns Asset Management and
collapsed in 2007, a year before their parent company, which was
eventually bought by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The case is Varga v. McGraw Hill Financial Inc.,
652410/2013, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  Comings and Goings  Pay Increases for Bank Risk Officers in Asia Trump New York  Salaries for banks’ risk and compliance officers in
Singapore and Hong Kong rose at about twice the pace of pay for
similar positions at New York and London firms amid a shortage
of skilled staff members, a recruiter said.  Pay excluding bonuses for people who changed jobs in the
Asian cities rose as much as 20 percent this year, compared with
10 percent in the Western hubs, said Neil Owen, a director for
Robert Half International Inc. in London. A senior official in
Singapore is paid as much as S$250,000 ($201,000) annually,
compared with Hong Kong’s HK$1.8 million ($232,000), London’s
175,750 pounds ($281,000) and New York’s $323,595, data compiled
by the firm show.  The faster wage gains reflect the smaller pool of
experienced professionals available in the Asian cities, Owen
said. It also underscores the rise in demand for such skills as
policy makers globally tighten regulations on banks’ capital
buffers and crack down on offenses from money laundering to
rigging of  interest rates . Pay for risk and compliance officers
rose more than for other finance jobs in 2013, Owen said.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  