-- World Bank’s Kim Sees More Global Impact From Fed Tapering
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-11-12T18:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/world-bank-s-kim-sees-more-global-impact-from-fed-tapering.html
World Bank President Jim Yong Kim
predicted another wave of higher global interest rates that
could hurt  emerging markets  when the U.S. Federal Reserve starts
tapering its $85 billion-a-month asset-purchase program.  Bond prices slumped internationally and emerging-market
stocks plunged after May 22, when Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said for the first time the central bank could withdraw
stimulus, also called quantitative easing. While those market
movements were partly reversed after the Fed maintained its
policy, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have
urged nations from  Turkey  to  Indonesia  to strengthen their
economies in preparation for the reduction.  “We think we’ve seen about a third of the overall increase
in interest rates responding to that first announcement,” Kim
told reporters in Washington today. “What that means is when QE
tapering actually happens, interest rates will continue to go
up,” which “could cause problems for the emerging-market
economies.”  Among other consequences, higher borrowing costs will
complicate developing economies’ access to funding for large-scale investments such as power plants and highways, according
to Kim, who is trying to create a Global Infrastructure Facility
to help direct private-sector money into such projects.  Infrastructure Fund  Investors “need us to be able to go in and, based on our
60-plus years of experience doing projects in these countries,
knowing the governments and also knowing the private sector, to
come in and be able to say ‘here is a project, here are the
risks, here’s how we’re going to mitigate those risks,’” Kim
said, adding that the bank would also contribute its own money.  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and South Africa see an
infrastructure deficit of about $4.5 trillion over the next five
years that public aid alone is unable to fill, he said. Managers
at sovereign wealth funds and at pension funds have expressed
interest in the facility, where the rules of governance remain
to be decided and are “tricky,” he said.  Among encouraging signs to the global economy is the U.S.,
which the bank sees growing about 2.8 percent next year.
Expansion in China seems to have rebounded in the third quarter,
said Kim, who welcomed news of an elevated role of markets in
the nation’s economic strategy at a gathering of Communist Party
leaders this week in Beijing.  ‘Extremely Positive’  “The language coming out of the party congress is
extremely positive,” Kim said.  Kim also said he’s offered the Washington-based lender’s
assistance to the  Philippines , where rescuers are battling to
deliver emergency aid to areas ravaged by Super Typhoon Haiyan,
which may have killed more than 10,000 people.  The bank can assist in any way the government deems
appropriate, from speeding up cash-transfer programs to helping
remove debris, he said.  The typhoon is another example of serious storms that have
become more frequent and call for measures countries can take to
slow or mitigate the effects of climate change, such as the
removal of fossil-fuel subsidies or investment in renewable
energies, Kim said.  “What I hope the tragedy in the Philippines helps us to do
is to move away from having what I think are silly arguments”
over the reality of climate change, he said. “There are so many
things we can do right now, let’s stop the argument, let’s move
forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  