-- World Bank Urges Developing Nations to Make Savings Affordable
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-11-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/world-bank-urges-developing-nations-to-make-savings-affordable.html
Developing countries  should push for
greater competition among financial-service providers so more
people can afford to safeguard their assets with formal savings
accounts, the  World Bank  said.  About half of the world’s adult population, or 2.5 billion
people, don’t put their money in a bank, according to the “2014
Global Financial Development Report” that the Washington-based
lender released today. The report encourages policy makers to
come up with incentives for banks that would correct for
“market failures” which make it too risky or expensive for
them to accept a broader range of clients.  “Well-designed efforts to foster financial inclusion can
be an effective way to empower people,” World Bank President
Jim Yong Kim said in a statement. “Whether you are a public-sector financial regulator or a private-sector bank, it is in
your interest to get everyone access to financial services.”  Measures helping low-income households open and maintain
basic  savings accounts  also tend to have a positive effect on
their  living standards , the study showed. While about 50 nations
recently set targets for bolstering financial inclusion, the
World Bank cautions against extending credit to households
unable to handle it responsibly.  “The role of policies should not be to expand inclusion
just for inclusion’s sake,” Asli Demirguc-Kunt, the World
Bank’s director of research, said in an interview. “We know
that encouraging too many people to borrow can backfire.”  Less Poverty  The report linked the use of savings products with poverty
reduction, one of the bank’s goals along with boosting shared
prosperity. Microcredit programs don’t have as clear an impact
on raising household wealth, the report said.  “Without access to financial services, individuals cannot
invest in their education and they cannot take advantage of
promising growth opportunities,” Demirguc-Kunt said.
“Therefore, they cannot lift themselves out of poverty.”  Governments should ensure that banks and other lending
institutions are motivated to compete for new clients by
developing cheaper savings tools, the World Bank said.  Policies should balance spurring innovations such as mobile
banking and eventually allowing for “competition so there isn’t
too much monopoly rent,” Demirguc-Kunt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  