-- WTI Declines From November High as Stockpiles Seen Rising
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-11-12T12:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/wti-drops-from-november-high-as-crude-stockpiles-seen-rising.html
West Texas Intermediate fell from
the highest closing price this month amid speculation crude
inventories rose to the most since June in the U.S., the world’s
biggest oil consumer.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent after two days of
gains.  Crude stockpiles  climbed for an eighth week, adding
500,000 barrels in the period ended Nov. 8, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before a report from the Energy
Information Administration this week.  Iran  and the United
Nations signed their first accord in six years yesterday, giving
monitors broader access to nuclear facilities in the Persian
Gulf nation. The U.S. will become the largest oil producer by
2015, the International Energy Agency said today.  “If you look at the U.S. market only, you’ll probably have
a good surplus,” said Andy Sommer, a senior oil analyst at Axpo
Trading AG in Dietikon, Switzerland. “Our assumption is that
Iranian crude comes back to the market in the later part of
2014. Not fully back, but a slow, gradual ramp up.”  WTI for December delivery dropped as much as 83 cents to
$94.31 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. The contract was at $94.77 as of 12:11 p.m. London
time. It advanced 0.6 percent to $95.14 yesterday, the highest
close since Oct. 31. The volume of all futures traded was about
34 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for December settlement rose as much as 59 cents to
$106.99 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a premium of
$12.02 to WTI. The spread was $11.26 yesterday, the widest based
on closing prices in four days.  Fuel Supplies  WTI lost 5.8 percent in October, the biggest monthly drop
in a year, as a surge in U.S. crude  production  bolstered
inventories. Output expanded to 7.9 million barrels a day as of
Oct. 18, the fastest rate since March 1989, according to the
EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical unit.  Crude stockpiles probably rose to 385.9 million barrels
last week, the highest level since the seven days to June 21,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts in the
Bloomberg survey. The EIA is scheduled to release its weekly
report on Nov. 14 in  Washington , a day later than usual because
of the Veterans Day holiday yesterday.  Gasoline inventories  may have fallen by 500,000 barrels for
a fifth weekly decline, the survey shows. Distillate supplies,
including heating oil and diesel, are expected to have decreased
by 900,000 barrels.  Uranium Mine  The International Atomic Energy Agency and Iran agreed to
carry out “practical measures” aiding inspections, and
implementation will start within three months, the Vienna-based
agency’s director, Yukiya Amano, said in Tehran yesterday. That
includes access to Iran’s largest uranium mine, according to Ali Akbar Salehi, who heads the nation’s nuclear program.  Iran, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, says its atomic development is for civilian energy
and medical use and that it has a right to enrich uranium for
peaceful purposes. The U.S. and its allies say Iran is covertly
seeking nuclear-weapons capability.  OPEC’s biggest producer, Saudi Arabia, boosted exports in
October amid reduced domestic demand, according to a person with
knowledge of the nation’s output policy. The world’s largest
crude exporter shipped 300,000 barrels a day more than in
September, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the data hasn’t been officially released.  Biggest Producer  Crude prices will advance to $128 a barrel by 2035 with a
16 percent increase in consumption, supporting the development
of so-called tight oil in the U.S. and a tripling in output from
 Brazil , the IEA said in its annual World Energy Outlook. OPEC’s
role will recover in the middle of the next decade as other
nations struggle to repeat North America’s success with
exploiting shale deposits, the Paris-based agency predicted.  “The United States becomes the largest oil producer in the
world, including crude, natural gas liquids and unconventional
oil, by 2015 and retains this status until the beginning of the
2030s,” the adviser to 28 energy-consuming nations said.  Soaring shale output in the U.S. is helping the world’s
largest oil consumer achieve its highest level of energy
independence in two decades, cushioning it against disruptions
in  Africa  and the Middle East. The boom threatens revenues for
OPEC’s 12 members, whose production is near its lowest in two
years amid political unrest in Libya and theft in Nigeria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  