-- Wynn Says U.S. Hasn’t Sought Macau Gift Information
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-11-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/wynn-resorts-discloses-criminal-probe-into-macau-university-gift.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , the casino
company founded by  Steve Wynn , said it has yet to receive a
demand for information for a U.S. criminal investigation into
the company’s donation to the University of Macau seven months
after prosecutors disclosed the probe.  The Justice Department mentioned its investigation into the
$135 million gift to the University of Macau Development
Foundation in a footnote in an April 8 court filing in a civil
case between Wynn Resorts and its former director, Kazuo Okada.  Las Vegas-based Wynn Resorts said in a  filing  yesterday
that it hasn’t received any target letter or subpoena related to
the investigation and intends to cooperate fully with any
government request.  Wynn Resorts forcibly redeemed Okada’s 20 percent stake in
the company last year based on a report that it commissioned by
former  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Director  Louis Freeh . He
alleged that Okada had made improper payments to Philippine
gaming regulators. Okada has denied the allegations and
questioned Wynn Resorts’ donation to the University of Macau in
2011.  In July, the Securities and Exchange Commission’s regional
office in Salt Lake City notified Wynn that it ended an
investigation into the donation without recommending enforcement
action.  Peter Carr , a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the company’s disclosure of a criminal probe.  ‘Identical’ Disclosure  “The mention of the Department of Justice investigation in
our 10-Q released today is identical to the disclosure the
company made in May and August of this year and is consistent
with standard reporting practices,” Michael Weaver, a Wynn
Resorts spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The footnote that disclosed the probe in April was in a
filing by the government seeking permission to intervene in the
Wynn Resorts lawsuit against Okada. The U.S. at the time was
seeking to halt the collection of evidence in the case as it
pursued a criminal investigation of Okada’s payments to
Philippine gaming regulators.  The Nevada judge overseeing that case last month put
proceedings on hold for another six month at the request of the
 Justice Department , citing concerns for witness safety.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Federal court in Los Angeles at  epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  