-- Yingli Declines as Meeting Disappoints: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-11-13T17:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/yingli-leads-slump-as-party-meeting-disappoints-china-overnight.html
(Corrects company name in fourth paragraph.)  Chinese equities fell for the first
time in three days in  New York  as a Communist Party meeting
failed to produce the details to a planned policy shift that
investors sought.  The Bloomberg China-US Index of the most traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. slumped 0.6 percent to 101.15 yesterday,
snapping a two-day rally.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , which  Muddy Waters  LLC
accused of inflating revenue, slid in after hours trading after
posting posted third-quarter profit that beat estimates.  Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the largest solar maker, tumbled 11
percent after reporting a wider-than-estimated loss for the
third quarter.  China  elevated the role of markets in the nation’s economic
strategy after President Xi Jinping oversaw a gathering of
Communist Party leaders while stopping short for now of
providing details on policy shifts. The document from the third
full meeting of the party’s 18th  Central Committee  didn’t
discuss specific issues such as regional borrowing,  interest
rates  or the one-child policy, while referring generally to
giving farmers more property rights.  “I would imagine some slight disappointment and that could
translate into marginally low bond yields and stock prices,”
 Eric Lascelles , chief economist at Toronto-based RBC Global
Asset Management Inc., which oversees about $280 billion, said
by phone yesterday. “It’s a very lightweight document, it
doesn’t get into the details and there are many questions left
unanswered. The idea that we are going to get all these changes
tomorrow is unrealistic.”  ETF Retreats  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dropped 0.9 percent to $36.90
after a two-day advance. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped
0.2 percent as investors speculated on the timing of any
reduction to Federal Reserve stimulus.  China will make markets “decisive” in allocating
resources, according to a statement published by the official
Xinhua News Agency after a four-day meeting. At the same time,
the state will remain “dominant” in the economy, indicating
limits on reducing government involvement.  “There’s nothing that has exceeded expectations,”
according to Dai Ming,  fund manager  at Hengsheng Hongding Asset
Management. “The lack of details will pressure the market.”  More policy details will come next week, said Gabriel Wallach, chief investment officer at BNP Paribas Investment
Partners in  Boston . “It is disappointing only because there are
no major announcements on SOE reform,” or state-owned
enterprises, Wallach said in e-mailed comment yesterday.  Service Economy  The nation’s state media had heralded the meeting as a
“watershed” event. Chinese Politburo member Yu Zhengsheng said
reforms to be discussed at the meeting would be
“unprecedented,” Xinhua News Agency reported on Oct. 26.  “In the coming weeks, there’s going to be more of a focus
on how do we develop the consumer, how do we take a little bit
more of the focus to the service side of the economy to improve
the lifestyle of the middle-class there,”  Michael Strauss ,
chief investment strategist and chief economist at Commonfund
Group in Wilton,  Connecticut , said by phone. Strauss helps
oversee about $25 billion of assets.  All of the reforms that people had hoped from the meeting
in areas, including financial liberalization, state-owned
enterprises and labor mobility “may still be on the table, and
they seem to reference doing that in increasing the size and
role of markets,” RBC’s Lascelles said.  NQ Earnings  American depositary receipts of NQ Mobile fell 6 percent to
$13.45 as of 5:52 p.m. after closing at $14.31. The company has
plunged about 40 percent since Oct. 24 when Muddy Waters, the
research firm founded by short seller  Carson Block , initiated
coverage with a strong sell rating. NQ Mobile, which has
headquarters in Beijing and Dallas, has denied the allegations.  In a separate statement yesterday, NQ Mobile said that its
senior management, including co-Chief Executive Officers Omar Khan and  Henry Lin  and President Zemin Xu, will purchase $3
million of American depositary shares with their personal funds
in the next six months.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of China’s largest Twitter-like service,
posted third-quarter profit that surpassed analysts’ estimates
after new mobile services helped lure more advertising. Its
shares climbed 3.5 percent to $78.60 at 5:45 p.m.  Yingli’s ADRs plunged 11 percent to $6.23, the biggest
slump since Oct. 25. The Baoding-based Chinese solar maker
reported adjusted net loss of 24 cents for the third quarter,
wider than the 22-cent average estimate of five analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. Trina Solar Ltd., which earnings report
is due Nov. 19, sank 4.4 percent to $16.17, snapping a two-day
gain.  Huaneng, Vipshop  ADRs of  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , China’s biggest
electricity producer, slumped 2.9 percent to a two-month low of
$39.37.  Vipshop, based in Guangzhou, jumped 15 percent to $84.48 in
New York, the highest close since its U.S. listing in March
2012. The company forecast fourth-quarter revenue of as much as
$590 million, beating analysts’ average projection compiled by
Bloomberg. Third-quarter adjusted profit also exceeded
estimates.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  slipped
0.2 percent to 10,561.61, while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
advanced 0.8 percent to 2,126.77 on a second day of gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  