-- Yum’s China Sales Fall Less Than Estimated
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-11-13T21:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/yum-s-china-sales-fall-less-than-estimated.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , which gets about
half of its revenue from China, posted same-store sales in the
nation that fell less than analysts estimated last month as
declines at its KFC chain slowed.  Sales at stores open at least 12 months in China slid 5
percent, the Louisville, Kentucky-based company said yesterday
in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Analysts estimated a 5.8 percent drop, the average of five
projections gathered by Consensus Metrix.  KFC is seeing more  competition  from local  restaurant
chains , such as Dicos and Hua Lai Shi. The American fried-chicken company also still is facing consumer backlash there
after an outbreak of avian flu and the investigation of a former
supplier for selling food with too much antibiotics. KFC’s same-store sales dropped 7 percent last month in China, compared with
a 13 percent decline in September.  Yum rose 2.4 percent to $73.19 at the close in  New York .
The  shares  have gained 10 percent this year, compared with a 25
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company has been advertising new items, such as a beef
burger, and touting the quality of its food to attract Chinese
consumers. Yum this month is introducing a KFC advertising
campaign in China about quality assurance, Chief Executive
Officer  David Novak  said during a conference call last month.
The ads will feature store employees and suppliers such as
poultry farmers, he said.  The fast-food company, which also owns Taco Bell, last
month lowered its 2013 profit forecast as third-quarter revenue
decreased.  China Struggles  Other American companies have been struggling in China as
domestic competition grows and shoppers become more discerning.
Earlier this month, McDonald’s Corp., the world’s largest
restaurant chain, said same-store sales in its Asia Pacific,
 Middle East  and Africa region fell 2.8 percent last month.  Nike
Inc. (NKE) ’s sales excluding currency fluctuations dropped 3 percent
in China in its fiscal first quarter.  Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of
growth because they include only older, established locations.  Yum has more than 6,000 restaurants in  China , including
some under the East Dawning and Little Sheep names.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  