-- Hyundai Chief Technology Officer Quits Over Quality Issues
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-11-12T10:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/hyundai-motor-chief-technology-officer-quits-over-quality-issues.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s chief technology
officer resigned after record recalls this year threatened to
undermine the South Korean automaker’s reputation for
reliability.  Kwon Moon Sik, who was president of the research and
development division, quit yesterday along with two other
executives, the Seoul-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. It didn’t say who will replace Kwon.  The resignations follow a series of recalls this year by
Hyundai and its affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , including more than
1.7 million vehicles in the U.S. for malfunctioning stop-lamp
switches. The defects are a blow to Hyundai, which has striven
for years to upgrade its image as a maker of cheap utilitarian
cars, and follow a rapid expansion of production in new markets
such as Brazil and China as it competes with Toyota Motor Corp.  “Hyundai is probably trying to refresh the atmosphere
before the launch of its new models to show it cares about its
quality,” said Lee Sang Hyun, an analyst at NH Investment &
Securities Co. “Hyundai has seen how poor quality control has
hurt business at Toyota and other automakers and will try to
avoid being the center of such attention at all costs.”  Hyundai rose 0.6 percent to 249,000 won at the close in
Seoul trading, while the Kospi index gained 0.9 percent.  Record Recall  The U.S. recall was related to stop-lamp switches that may
malfunction and cause brake lights to not illuminate, the cruise
control to not turn off and other faults that could raise the
risk of a crash, according to filings posted on the  National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration ’s website.  The company expanded the recall to Genesis sedans, made
between December 2007 and March 2012, on a faulty brake system,
according to an e-mailed statement from  South Korea ’s transport
ministry last month.  Hyundai set aside 90 billion won ($84 million) in the first
quarter this year to manage the recalls in the U.S. on the
electronic defects, Lee Won Hee, chief financial officer, said
in April.  Once known as the builder of cheap, utilitarian urban cars
like the $4,995 Excel subcompact, Hyundai has emerged as an
industry contender, making vehicles in eight countries with a
2013 lineup that includes the $14,545 Accent and the $61,000
Equus premium sedan. Together with Kia, it was the world’s fifth
largest automaker by number of vehicles sold, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Matching Toyota  Chairman  Chung Mong Koo , whose father built postwar  Korea ’s
bridges and expressways, has focused on enhancing the quality of
his cars since taking over the company in 1998, insisting that
the vehicles would match the quality of Toyota. He backed that
claim with a 10-year engine warranty in the U.S.  In January 2012, Hyundai’s Elantra compact won acclaim when
Detroit automotive journalists named it North American Car of
the Year. The Genesis sedan, the same vehicle that was recalled
in South Korea this year, won the J.D. Power  trophy  for the
highest initial quality in the midsize premium car segment in
June.  Hyundai is preparing to introduce the new version of the
Genesis later this month and the Sonata next year. The automaker
is expressing its “strong will” to reinforce quality control,
the company said.  “Chairman Chung is known to take action on quality issues
and have those accountable take the responsibility,” said Lee
at NH Investment. “There’s no doubt that this will lead to
stricter quality control at the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  