-- Zell Says Buyers Lulled Into State of ‘Kumbaya’ by Easy Money
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-11-12T19:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-12/zell-says-buyers-lulled-into-state-of-kumbaya-by-easy-money.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s effort to jolt
the  U.S. economy  to life by pumping cash into the financial
system is causing price gains on everything from  stocks  to
apartment buildings to outpace growth, according to billionaire
real-estate investor  Sam Zell .  “There is a little bit too much Kumbaya,” in markets
today, Zell, founder of Equity Residential, the largest publicly
traded U.S. apartment landlord, said today at the Talmage Credit
Conference in New York. “The enormous liquidity is distorting
values.”  The central bank’s policy of keeping  interest rates  near
zero is rounding out a fifth year as policy makers push forward
with $85 billion in monthly bond purchases with the  unemployment
rate  stuck above 6.5 percent. Excess capital is shrinking the
investment universe, said Zell, nicknamed “the grave dancer”
for buying distressed properties that had been left for dead in
the 1990s.  “There is a direct correlation between shortage of capital
and the quality of the opportunity,” he said.  The majority of  Equity Residential (EQU) ’s holdings, apartment
complexes in large cities, will benefit further from surging
demand for rentals, Zell said. Values of multifamily dwellings
outside of major urban areas such as  Manhattan  are poised for
declines, he said. There is likely to be “some weakness” in
cities including Dallas and Washington, Zell said.  Apartments Decline  U.S. apartment prices decreased 0.2 percent in September,
the first monthly decline in nearly four years, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report yesterday. A 1.3 percent
monthly gain for properties in major markets was offset by a 1.1
percent dip in smaller cities, according to the ratings company.
Values for all commercial property types rose 1.8 percent, and
have recovered 47.2 percent since bottoming in 2009, according
to the Moody’s/RCA Commercial Property Price index.  The best buying opportunities after the property bubble
burst in 2007 were had by scooping up discounted securities such
as commercial-mortgage bonds, Zell said.  “Because the real-estate industry was basically
constipated, the real goodies occurred on the paper side, not on
the brick-and-mortar side,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  