-- ABB More Confident About Outlook as European Growth Rebounds
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-07-26T05:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/abb-more-confident-about-outlook-as-european-growth-rebounds-1-.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the maker of factory
robots and power-transmission equipment, said it’s more
confident about its short-term outlook as European demand
resists the debt crisis and  China  shows signs of rebounding.  The Swiss company experienced higher orders in power and
automation businesses in China in recent months, as well as
“sustained order growth across the portfolio in the U.S.,” ABB
said today as it reported second quarter earnings. Net income
fell 27 percent to $656 million, missing an estimate of $710.8
million in a survey of analysts by Bloomberg. Sales were
unchanged at $9.66 billion, also short of analysts’ prediction.  “We are seeing some strengthening in the China
construction market, we are hoping that extends into the second
half,” Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan said in an online
video.  Hogan, who joined from  General Electric Co. (GE)  in 2008, is
betting that income from the acquisitions of Baldor Electric Co.
and Thomas & Betts Corp., worth just over $8 billion combined,
will make up for weak growth in low-voltage products division.
ABB said today that earnings and sales suffered from exchange
rate swings in the quarter, slicing about $600 million off
revenue in the period.  Orders for low voltage products in China rebounded in the
quarter, while automation orders increased in  Europe  as demand
in countries such as the U.K.,  Norway  and in eastern Europe
offset weakness in southern Europe, ABB said. The company had
savings of about $280 million in the second quarter, it said.  Currency Swings  Net income was hurt by the strengthening U.S. dollar and
transaction and amortization-related charges of about $100
million tied to the purchase of Thomas & Betts, ABB said.
Economic uncertainty continued to curtail large power
investments “in most regions,” as weaker pricing in the
backlog cut sales, the company said.  In an indication that the slowdown is persisting in some
markets, low-voltage supplier  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  lowered its earnings
and sales targets for the year on July 23, citing weakness in
low-voltage power demand outside its home U.S. market.  “The second quarter results provided several reasons to be
more optimistic,” Hogan said in a release. “Management is
cautiously optimistic that the business environment over the
remainder of 2012 will support continued growth and
profitability in line with its 2011 to 2015 targets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  