-- Madoff Customers to be Paid $1.5 Billion to $2.4 Billion
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-26T16:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/madoff-customers-to-be-paid-1-5-billion-to-2-4-billion.html
Customers of  Bernard Madoff ’s
brokerage, who have received just $333 million from the
liquidator of the con man’s estate, will get a second payment of
$1.5 billion to $2.4 billion, an amount some investors found
disappointing.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  said he will ask a judge to
approve the distribution, which would bring payments to as much
as 50 percent of allowed claims. Part of $5 billion received in
a settlement with the Jeffry Picower estate would be used for
the payment, although “a large portion” would be held in
reserve, he said in a statement today.  “I’m hearing from investors that they were expecting a
larger distribution,” said  Joseph Sarachek , managing director
of claims trading at CRT Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells
distressed debt including that of Madoff’s brokerage. “I think
the trustee is doing a great job in moving the ball forward.”  Court challenges had been tying up the majority of the
$9 billion that Picard has raised in the 3 1/2 years since
Madoff’s 2008 arrest, mostly through settlements. Last month, a
former Madoff customer, Adele Fox, dropped her challenge of the
Picower estate’s forfeiture of $5 billion to Madoff’s estate and
more than $2 billion to the U.S., and the U.S. Supreme Court
refused to hear a challenge to Picard’s payment formula, freeing
up part of a $2.3 billion customer fund.  In a lawsuit, Picard had accused the deceased Picower,
among Madoff’s largest investors, of knowing of the fraud.  Claim Prices  Prices for claims on the con man’s estate have climbed to
about 65 cents on the dollar from the low 60s, as traders gain
“a sense that things are being resolved,” Sarachek said.  Holding Picower money in reserve is necessary because some
customers are demanding compensation for inflation or lost
interest, or are appealing other settlements, Picard said in the
statement.  Picard has charged around $273 million for his firm’s
Madoff work. Madoff, who cost investors around $17 billion in
lost principal, is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  The Madoff brokerage liquidation case is Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  