-- Aetna Joins Medical Group as Insurer-Provider Lines Blur
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-26T20:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/aetna-joins-with-medical-group-as-insurer-provider-lines-blur.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-biggest U.S.
health plan, will join with the nation’s 10th-largest doctor’s
group to sell coverage in Wisconsin, in the latest collaboration
to blur the lines between insurers and providers.  Aetna and Milwaukee-based Aurora Health Care will form an
“accountable care network” pitched at small- and mid-sized
businesses, said Aetna Chief Executive Officer Mark Bertolini.
Aurora, with 1,600 doctors serving 1.2 million patients a year,
will get a share of the savings, if the group can cut costs.
Further financial details weren’t disclosed.  Insurers from Aetna to  Cigna Corp. (CI)  to  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH)  have been sealing similar pacts with hospitals and doctors
across the U.S., reacting to pressure from employers to rein in
medical bills. The ventures typically emphasize preventive care,
close monitoring of at-risk patients and payments based on
quality measures rather than the number of procedures done.  “We think of this as reinventing the business model,”
Bertolini said in a telephone interview. “It’s no longer us
telling the providers what to do. It’s the providers managing
the risk of the population they’re serving and being rewarded
for a positive outcome.”  The Aurora-Aetna network, the insurer’s 11th accountable
care partner, will begin offering plans in January. Deals are in
the works for 180 others, Bertolini said.  The shares of Hartford, Connecticut-based Aetna fell less
than 1 percent to $35.30 at the close of  New York  trading. The
stock has dropped 16 percent this year. The insurer is scheduled
to report second-quarter earnings on July 31.  UnitedHealth, Cigna  In January, Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth, the
largest U.S. plan, said it’s in talks with “dozens” of groups
to form ACOs. Cigna plans to have 1 million patients in such
arrangements by 2014, CEO David Cordani said in March.  Health plans are competing in “a real estate grab” across
the U.S. for partners, Bertolini said. “This is the kind of
thing that will be a market-shifter.”  Besides tackling employers’ concerns about runaway medical
costs, the arrangements also make it easier for insurers to
expand their reach, Bertolini said. Aetna currently covers only
about 3 percent of people in the area Aurora serves, far behind
market leader UnitedHealth, he said.  Aurora’s not-for-profit medical network also includes 15
hospitals and 160 clinics in eastern  Wisconsin  and northern
 Illinois , according to a statement from the companies. Aurora is
the 10th biggest multispecialty physicians’ group in the U.S.,
based on the number of doctors employed, according to the
Alexandria, Virginia-based  American Medical Group Association .  Care Managers  Employees covered through the Aurora network will get
access to care managers who can schedule treatments and follow-
up on patients with chronic conditions.  Aurora’s system of electronic medical records and Aetna’s
ability to analyze medical claims will further improve care,
according to a statement.  Aurora will benefit from Aetna’s marketing muscle as well
as its technological capabilities, said Steve Bablitch, the
medical system’s chief corporate services officer.  Insurers “track all kinds of illnesses and diseases,” he
said by telephone. “They know a lot about our patient base.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  