-- Sesa Taps African Ore on Output Drop: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-07-27T11:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/agarwal-taps-liberia-as-home-ore-output-slumps-corporate-india.html
Reserves at Liberian mines owned by
billionaire Anil Agarwal’s  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  may be triple the
original estimate, improving prospects for India’s biggest  iron
ore  exporter struggling to boost output at home.  Mines at Western Cluster Ltd., 51 percent owned by Sesa, a
unit of  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , may have as much as 3 billion
metric tons of the magnetite variety, up from an estimated 1
billion tons, Managing Director Prasun Kumar Mukherjee said in
an interview. The company, India’s biggest iron-ore exporter,
has 374 million tons of reserves at home. Output fell last
quarter because of a mining ban in Karnataka state.  Sesa plans to spend as much as 4.5 billion rupees ($81
million) to tap the mine in the West African nation this year
after failing to double output in India. The Liberian mine may
help the company, established in 1954 as Scambi Economici S.A.
Goa, meet demand from steelmakers in India, where consumption of
the alloy is forecast by the government to rise an average 9
percent annually till 2017, as well as  Europe  and  China .  “The Liberian reserve can prove to be a big boost for the
company’s earnings,” said Giriraj Daga, an analyst at Nirmal
Bang Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, who  recommends  buying the stock.
“At current reserve and resource estimates, we assume the
output can be about 25 million tons a year or double the India
production.”  Sesa Goa rose 2.6 percent to 182.95 rupees in Mumbai, its
biggest gain in more than a week. The shares have gained 12
percent this year,  compared  with a 10 percent drop in the
Bloomberg World Mining Index.  The company forecasts shipments from Liberia to start by
March 2014, Mukherjee said on July 25.  Increase Stake  Sesa has applied to buy the shares it doesn’t own in the
Liberian mine from Elenilto Minerals & Mining LLC, according to
a  statement  on the website of the African nation’s Ministry of
Information, Cultural Affairs and Tourism. Sesa spokesman R.
Krishnagopal declined to comment about the company’s plan to
increase stake in the venture.  With an iron content of 35 percent, the ore in  Liberia  will
help Sesa produce 1 billion tons of iron ore concentrate,
Mukherjee said. The company spent $90 million in acquiring stake
in the mine in 2011, joining ArcelorMittal, OAO Severstal and
Chevron Corp. in investing to develop mining, rubber and oil
industries.  The African nation, which has been rebuilding its economy
after civil wars between 1989 and 2003, has attracted more than
$16 billion in investments since Nobel laureate Ellen Johnson- Sirleaf became president in 2005.  Regulatory Hurdles  The mine in Liberia “has huge reserves but the company may
face regulatory hurdles in the country,” said Ashish Karana, a
broker at K. Motiram Vakil in Mumbai. “We can’t say with
certainty that Sesa won’t face a situation” similar to what
 Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  is facing in  Bolivia , he said.  Jindal Steel on June 17 said it terminated a contract to
build the $2.1 billion El Mutun mine in Bolivia. Authorities in
the Latin American country also arrested two Jindal Steel
employees, the company said.  Tata Steel Ltd. and Steel Authority of India Ltd. have also
failed to develop projects overseas. Tata Steel’s proposed $5
billion factory in  Vietnam  has been delayed for more than five
years by regulatory hurdles.  Falling prices of the ore may also discourage mining. Iron
ore for immediate delivery declined for the 12th consecutive day
yesterday to the lowest since Oct. 28.  Chinese Demand  The  price  of ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to
the Chinese port of Tianjin slipped 1.1 percent to $117.30 a
ton, according to data compiled by the Steel Index Ltd. The
price has fallen to its lowest level in more than eight months
on concern that demand in China, the world’s biggest buyer, is
declining and Europe’s worsening debt crisis will curb global
growth.  Profit at Sesa, which is in the process of combining with
Agarwal’s  Sterlite Industries Ltd. (STLT) , fell 76 percent to 2 billion
rupees after excluding gains from its investment in Vedanta’s
 Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  unit.  Output at Sesa’s mines tumbled 23 percent to 3.4 million
tons last quarter because of transport restrictions in Goa
state, where the company is based, and a mining ban in the
southern state of Karnataka. Sesa, which had planned to raise
capacity to 50 million tons by March 31, saw its ability to
excavate drop 18 percent to 16.8 million tons following a
Supreme Court order.  Environmental Norms  Trouble began in July 2010 after Karnataka , which produces
20 percent of the nation’s iron ore, halted exports to clamp
down on illegal mining and tax evasions in the state.  India ’s
top court banned mining in parts of the state a year later,
pending probes into breaches of environmental norms.  Steelmakers are cutting output because of the lack of
availability of the ore. Demand from steelmakers without their
own iron-ore mines may increase 24 percent to 136 million tons
this fiscal year, according to India’s steel ministry.  Sesa and Elenilto Minerals last year pledged to jointly
invest more than $2.6 billion in the Liberian mine, with Sesa
bringing in about $2.5 billion, according to a statement sent by
Elenilto on Aug. 9. The project that may create more than 2,000
jobs over 25 years, also includes developing rail network to
transport the ore.  “Liberia drilling is in full swing and there are positive
signs about reserve and resource,” Mukherjee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  