-- AIA Group First-Half Profit Rises 10%, Beats Estimates
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-07-27T08:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/aia-group-first-half-profit-rises-10-beats-estimates.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the  third-largest 
Asia-based insurer by market value, posted a higher-than-
expected 10 percent increase in first-half profit from a record
new business performance.  Net income  of the Hong Kong-based company climbed to $1.44
billion in the six months to May 31, or 12 cents a share, from
$1.31 billion, or 11 cents a share, a year earlier, it said in a
statement to the city’s stock exchange today. The number
compared with the average  estimate  of $1.29 billion by five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Value of new business, a gauge of projected future
profitability of new policies, which has been a focus of Chief
Executive Officer Mark Tucker, increased 28 percent to a record
$512 million, according to the statement. AIA’s Hong Kong-quoted
shares slipped 0.2 percent to close at HK$26.75 after rising as
much as 3.5 percent earlier.  Tucker, 54, is being watched for his ability to continue to
boost new business profitability after consecutive quarters of
improvements since  joining  AIA in July 2010. He has been on a
mission to rejuvenate the company, which had lost share of new
business during the global financial crisis because of woes at
its one-time parent  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   “These have also been delivered at a time of capital
market volatility and global economic uncertainty,” which may
continue for some time, Tucker said on a conference call with
wire services reporters today. “We have substantial
opportunities given the size of the protection gap” in  Asia , he
said.  Regional trends such as low insurer ownership among the
populations, increasing urbanization, growing savings and
emerging middle class remain in place, he added.  Market Growth  AIA’s annualized new premium, a measure of new business
sales, rose 9 percent to $1.2 billion. New business margin, or
the value of new business as a percentage of annualized new
premium, expanded by 6.6 percentage points to 42.6 percent in
the six months, another record, according to Tucker.  Consensus estimates of analysts earlier put AIA’s first-
half value of new business growth at 25 percent, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG’s Arjan van Veen.  AIA’s better-than-expected profit also reflected stronger
investment income and outperformance in  Thailand , van Veen said
in an e-mail today.  Stocks in the major markets that AIA operates in, including
Hong Kong, Thailand,  China ,  Singapore ,  Malaysia  and  South Korea ,
gained 5.5 percent in the first half, van Veen and colleague
Frances Feng wrote in a July 23 note.  Investment Losses  AIA’s net income dropped 41 percent last year with stock
investment losses trumping gains in new business sales and
profitability as the  European debt crisis  and specter of global
economic recession damped markets. It recognizes all fair-value
changes of its equity investments in the profit and loss account.  AIA’s embedded value, an actuarial estimate of the economic
value of life insurers, gained 6 percent from November to $28.8
billion in May.  The solvency ratio, which measures the actual capital
against the minimum regulatory capital requirement, climbed 10
percentage points since November to 456 percent at the end of
May. It gave AIA excess capital of $3.8 billion, van Veen said.  “What is strong enough in this environment is a very good
question,” Tucker said. Calling capital “a rare commodity”
amid the uncertainties, he added that the cash will be used to
invest in new business and give it flexibility to pursue
possible acquisitions.  ING Bidding  He declined to comment on any specific acquisitions beyond
saying that AIA has the capability to pursue such opportunities
that make financial sense and benefit shareholders.  AIA is  bidding  for ING Groep NV’s Asian insurance business,
three people with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg earlier
this month. It is also a contender to buy  Aviva Plc (AV/) ’s life
insurance venture in Malaysia, Reuters reported last month,
citing unidentified people.  AIA’s shares have declined 9.5 percent since peaking on Feb.
28, paring their year-to-date gain to 10 percent. The stock has
outperformed the 12-member Hang Seng Finance Index, which has
advanced 2.6 percent this year.  AIA declared an interim dividend of 12.3 Hong Kong cents,
12 percent more than a year earlier. Pending board and
shareholder approval, the interim dividend will represent about
one-third of full-year payment, should the trading conditions
continue to meet current expectations, it said in a separate e-
mailed statement today.  The insurer may have to pay lower-than-expected dividends
to support business growth and potential acquisitions, Morgan
Stanley analysts, led by Ben Lin, wrote in a July 13 report.  New York-based AIG will be free to sell its remaining 18.6
percent stake in AIA after Sept. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  