-- Taking the L-I-E Out of Libor
-- B y   K i m   S c h o e n h o l t z   a n d   L a w r e n c e   J .   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-26T22:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/taking-the-l-i-e-out-of-libor.html
The recent revelations by  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  probably spell doom for the London interbank offered rate,
at least in its present form.  Many banks facing huge legal risks could decide to end
their participation in the rate-setting process. And even if
most institutions remain involved, Libor needs fundamental
reform if it is to restore its credibility as a benchmark for
hundreds of trillions of dollars of financial contracts.  How to ensure that a damaging scandal won’t happen again?
The answer seems straightforward: Wherever feasible, benchmarks
for financial contracts should derive from actual transactions,
not surveys, as is the case with Libor.  The current “survey Libor” is an old-school model that
can’t endure. Each day, a group of banks -- 18 for the U.S.
 dollar panel  -- submit to the British Bankers’ Association the
hypothetical  interest rate  at which they believe they could
borrow from other banks. To determine the rate, the BBA
disregards the top four and bottom four responses, and averages
the remaining 10.  Hypothetical Benchmark  In the old days, the BBA maybe could have counted on an
honest answer to this hypothetical question. But the incentives
for banks to lie increased as Libor became widely used as a
benchmark, making it a potential means of manipulating trillions
of dollars of contracts.  The global financial crisis that began in 2007 added a
powerful reason for banks to lowball Libor submissions because
any institution that revealed that its funding costs were higher
than those of its counterparts could be putting itself at risk
of a run by its fearful depositors. The now-public record of
Barclay’s activities shows how such considerations can overwhelm
a bank’s compliance safeguards and reputational considerations,
not to mention its ethics.  Transactions (at least in large volumes) don’t lie. The
deeper the market, the more difficult it is to manipulate. That
is why investors confidently trade trillions of dollars in
futures and options contracts based on transaction prices in
liquid markets such as U.S. Treasury bonds or the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 .  In the case of the interbank loan market, the effective
rate actually paid -- weighted by the volume of transactions at
each rate -- would be a natural benchmark for other financial
contracts.  How could the BBA’s “survey Libor” be replaced with a
transactions measure? One approach would be a clearinghouse to
broker interbank loans. It would make the interbank market more
efficient, and need only exist electronically, allowing banks to
post fund bids and offers to counterparty banks of their
choosing. It also would make it possible for willing banks to
transact and settle in real time.  Much as the Federal Reserve does with the federal funds
market, the  Bank of England  could use the anonymous transactions
data from the clearinghouse to post an effective Libor rate at
each active maturity. The central bank could also disclose
transaction volume and information on the dispersion of
interbank lending rates.  Naturally, not all maturities (or currencies) provided for
by the existing Libor process would be active on a daily basis.
Especially in a crisis, the volume of transactions at longer
maturities can be expected to plunge, as it did in 2007-2008.  Pricing Rules  Yet making volume information available would allow the
parties to Libor-linked financial contracts to agree in advance
on robust pricing rules -- which would be less vulnerable to
egregious manipulation -- to be implemented for illiquid
maturities or episodes. The prices of exchange-traded interest-
rate swaps might provide useful guides in such instances.  Continuing with the Libor status quo appears untenable. The
costs paid by Barclays alone -- including a fine of 290 million
pounds ($450 million) and a  24 percent plunge  in its stock price
since the settlement -- should be sufficient to make banks
reconsider their involvement in the process. If they can no
longer justify to shareholders the risks of participation,
“survey Libor” will die.  Now that Barclays has settled, regulators must address the
possible misbehavior of more than a dozen other Libor-panel
banks. And prosecutors may still bring criminal or civil charges
against banks or their employees for fraud or collusion.  The potential liabilities and risks are astounding.
Aggregate penalties and fines could easily amount to billions of
dollars. Lawsuits by injured parties could add billions more. In
a worst-case scenario, a criminal conviction for U.S. antitrust
violations as a result of Libor collusion could cost a bank its
charter. If several institutions were threatened with this fate,
a bank run or a broader financial crisis would be possible.  To ensure a safe and speedy Libor transition, U.K.
authorities could pay the new system’s setup and initial
operating costs, which are likely to be modest. Over time, the
electronic clearinghouse could become a publicly owned and
operated utility, or it could be sold and chartered to a
strictly regulated private owner.  Like Fedwire, the platform provided by the  Federal Reserve 
for large interbank transfers in the U.S., a new low- or no-cost
service for Libor probably would attract the overwhelming share
of transactions in the market. The resulting benefits of a
transparent and credible Libor benchmark would far exceed the
minimal cost of operating the new system.  (Kim Schoenholtz and Lawrence White are professors of
economics at  New York  University’s Stern School of Business. The
opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: In a special signed editorial,  Michael R.
Bloomberg  on the long road to  sane gun policies .  Also, the editors on  bringing back earmarks  and on  easing
austerity  in the U.K.;  Jonathan Alter  on the collective effort
to  “build that” ; Stephen L. Carter on why all  NCAA punishments 
should be as harsh as  Penn State ’s;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on why
 Obama would be better than Romney  on  Iran ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the
challenge of  Asian state capitalism ; William Pesek on  U.S.-China
relations ;  Jonathan Weil  on the  conflicts of interest  at  Freddie
Mac .  To contact the authors of this article:
Kim Schoenholtz at  kschoen@stern.nyu.edu ;
Lawrence White at lwhite@ stern.nyu.edu.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 