-- Alcatel-Lucent to Cut 5,000 Jobs After Reporting Loss
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-07-26T16:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/alcatel-lucent-to-cut-5-000-jobs-after-reporting-loss.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  will cut 5,000
jobs after slumping to a loss, signaling Chief Executive Officer
Ben Verwaayen’s effort to revive the company is losing steam and
sending the stock to its lowest level since at least 1989.  France ’s biggest phone-equipment supplier said today it
will save an extra 750 million euros ($911 million) with the
cuts, equal to about 6 percent of staff. The company, which in
2011 posted an annual profit for the first time in five years,
fell to a loss of 254 million euros in the latest quarter.  Heading into his fifth year as CEO, Verwaayen is
accelerating his turnaround bid after thousands of  job cuts ,
restructuring and asset sales failed to make the company
profitable. Still reeling from the 2006 purchase of Lucent
Technologies Inc. which boosted costs, Alcatel is also coping
with  plunging sales  to European carriers and price competition
from Asian vendors such as Huawei Technologies Co.  “They have to deliver and fast,” Eric Beaudet, an analyst
at Natixis Securities in Paris, said in a phone interview. The
job cuts “are a start.”  Alcatel-Lucent fell 6.1 percent to 82.2 cents in Paris, its
lowest level in at least 22 years. The stock has lost more than
80 percent since Verwaayen took over as CEO in 2008, plunging 32
percent this year alone.  One-Fifth  At 1.9 billion euros, the company is now worth about one
fifth of the $11.6 billion that Alcatel SA paid to acquire
Lucent. The biggest European rival, Stockholm-based  Ericsson AB (ERICB) ,
is worth about 204 billion kronor ($29.7 billion).  Alcatel-Lucent, rated junk by Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s , said its net cash shrank by 517 million euros
in the period to 236 million euros. Verwaayen’s efforts to shore
up  cash flow  include a patent-licensing agreement that was
signed in February and has yet to bring in revenue. It expects
inflows in the second half of this year.  “Failure of the patent portfolio monetization effort and
the newly-announced cost restructuring are big red flags for
balance sheet trouble,” George C. Notter, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co., said in a note. He recommends selling the
shares.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Alcatel-Lucent bonds using credit-
default swaps jumped as much as 142 basis points, or 8.31
percent, to 1,851 basis points. On the basis of these swaps,
Alcatel is considered about 9 times riskier than Ericsson.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Former chiefs Pat Russo and Serge Tchuruk, who oversaw the
2006 merger, handed Verwaayen an unprofitable company with a
high cost base. Plummeting sales of phone equipment and
intensifying competition from Asian rivals Huawei and  ZTE Corp. (000063) 
have since added to Verwaayen’s challenges.  The new job cuts, combined with previously announced
reductions, will save 1.25 billion euros by the end of next
year, Alcatel-Lucent said.  “For the last two years, we’ve tried to be and stay
profitable, unfortunately we’re seeing significant market
headwinds,” Chief Financial Officer Paul Tufano told Bloomberg
TV in an interview. “We’re taking steps to restore our
profitability sustainably.”  Government Pressure  Some competitors have been more aggressive with job cuts.
Nokia Siemens Networks, the network venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
 Siemens AG (SIE) , said in November it would cut 17,000 jobs, or 23
percent of its workforce.  In France, where Alcatel employs 9,000 of its 78,000-strong
staff, Verwaayen faces a tough stance from Socialist President
 Francois Hollande , elected in May after pledging to block “a
parade of firings”. Hollande’s government is trying to persuade
carmaker  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  to revise announced job cuts and
has called such plans at drug-maker  Sanofi (SAN)  “abusive”.  French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  is worried about
Alcatel’s plans and will meet with Chairman Philippe Camus at
the end of August, a government official, who declined to be
named, told reporters in Paris today.  Verwaayen addressed workers today in an internal conference
call and will have to meet with union representatives next in
some countries, including France, where management must inform
labor unions about plans to reorganize, which often leads to
protracted negotiations with employees.  Asset Sales  Productivity at Alcatel trails Ericsson, whose sales per
employee were 19 percent higher last year. Analysts project
Ericsson’s profit margin will be 8.4 percent this year, based on
estimates for earnings before interest and taxes, compared with
1 percent for Alcatel-Lucent.  Alcatel’s shares fell 20 percent on July 17 when it said it
won’t meet its goal of improving its full-year adjusted
operating-profit margin this year. Quarterly sales fell 7.1
percent to 3.5 billion euros, in line with the preliminary
numbers posted last week. The adjusted operating loss was 31
million euros and net loss was 11 cents a share.  The company said it will exit or restructure unprofitable
markets, countries and contracts, as well as intensify efforts
to sell businesses.  “It’s all I’m ready to talk about today,” Verwaayen said
at a conference in Alcatel’s headquarters. “But that’s not all
we’re going to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  