-- Alierta Abandons Dividend Penchant to Save Telefonica
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-07-26T16:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/alierta-abandons-dividend-penchant-to-save-telefonica.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s unprecedented
suspension of dividends goes against Chief Executive Officer
Cesar Alierta’s preference for high shareholder payouts as
 Spain ’s deepening debt crisis leaves the 67-year-old with little
choice but to conserve cash.  The board of  Europe ’s biggest phone company yesterday
unanimously approved the plan to halt dividends and cancel share
buybacks to save an estimated 10.2 billion euros ($12.6 billion)
because it saw that as the only way to secure access to  capital
markets  in the next two years, according to two people familiar
with the matter, asking not to be identified because board
deliberations are confidential.  Saddled with 58.3 billion euros in  net debt  and with the
company’s rating cut by two credit agencies within a month,
Alierta scrapped the payout completely through the final quarter
of 2013. Under his 12-year tenure as CEO, Alierta boosted
Madrid-based Telefonica’s  dividend yield  from zero to more than
12 percent, one of the highest in the industry.  “This may well be Alierta’s toughest decision since he
took over as cutting the dividend goes against his principle,”
said Maximino Carpio, a former Telefonica board member and
currently an economics professor at Universidad Autonoma de
 Madrid . “It’s the same as it’s happening with the Spanish
government, which had planned to carry out a program and it had
to change it and adjust to the circumstances driven by the
economic crisis.”  Villalonga Era  In 1998, under Alierta’s predecessor Juan Villalonga,
Telefonica suspended payouts to help finance the former Spanish
phone monopoly’s expansion in  Latin America . The company
continued to  remunerate  shareholders with bonus shares through
2003. The region now accounts for half of Telefonica’s revenue.  Alierta, who took over from Villalonga in 2000, is known
among investors and analysts as an advocate of shareholder
remuneration. Even as rivals including  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  have reduced payouts to conserve cash amid
the euro debt crisis, Telefonica continued to reward
shareholders.  The scrapped 2012 dividend amounts to 1.50 euros a share.
Telefonica will resume paying half of the figure toward the end
of next year. Calling the move an exceptional measure in
response to an “extremely challenging” economic environment,
Telefonica said the plan would help it “immunize from debt
markets’ liquidity conditions” by having debt maturities
covered till the end of 2013.  Reversing Losses  Telefonica’s stock, which slumped as much as 8.7 percent
earlier today, reversed losses and closed 3.4 percent higher in
Madrid after Alierta told investors that the company’s  earnings 
have reached bottom.  “The risk perception is totally decoupled with the
fundamentals of our business,” Alierta said on a conference
call. “Our exposure to southern Europe or even to the euro is
well below the exposure of other European players whose
headquarters are not in Spain.”  The stock has slumped 33 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 23 companies in the  Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services Index (BETELES) , which lost 5.3 percent during
the period.  Telefonica investors who stand to miss out on the payments
include Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Spain’s second-
biggest bank with an almost 7 percent stake, Barcelona-based
CaixaBank SA with a 5 percent holding and BlackRock Inc. with
about 3.8 percent, according to stock-market regulator CNMV.  “Alierta is a big advocate of high dividends and I think
he’ll bring a high dividend policy back as soon as he can,
though I’m not sure it will be as high as it was,” Carpio said.  ‘Prudent Decision’  BBVA fully backs Telefonica’s “prudent decision” amid the
current market environment to preserve value with a mid- to
long-term vision, spokesman  Paul Tobin  said.  The cost of insuring Telefonica bonds using credit-default
swaps fell as much as 18 basis points, or 3.2 percent, to 544
basis points, the biggest drop in two weeks, according to
Bloomberg data. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if
a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  After a decade-long expansion strategy that culminated in
the $10 billion takeover of Brazilian mobile-phone operator Vivo
Participacoes SA in 2010, Alierta is now selling assets. In the
past quarter, Telefonica divested a $1.4 billion stake in  China
Unicom (762)  (Hong Kong) Ltd. and announced plans to raise cash by
selling shares in its German and Latin American businesses.  KPN Talks  The turning point for Alierta to retreat from Telefonica’s
expansion came in May this year after it failed to secure a
stake in Royal  KPN NV (KPN)  and prevent billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
 America Movil (AMXL)  SAB from winning a 28 percent stake in the former
Dutch phone monopoly, a person familiar with the matter said
last month.  After Slim’s offer for KPN was announced in May, KPN
accelerated talks with Telefonica, the person said. The
companies reached a deal for Telefonica to buy the stake Slim
wanted, and then combine the carriers’ German businesses, the
person said. The deal collapsed after credit rating companies
warned Telefonica that it could be downgraded to junk if the
company were to take on any more debt, the person said.  “It is very very clear that there were substantial
synergies in market consolidation in  Germany  but we said very
clearly that the priority for Telefonica is deleveraging and to
improve our financial flexibility and that’s the reason why this
deal has not been done,” Alierta said on the call.  As part of the measures announced yesterday, Telefonica
slashed top managers’ total compensation by 30 percent, and
board members agreed to take a 20 percent pay cut. About 1,300
employees will be affected.  “It’s significant that Telefonica is doing this,” said
Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco de Sabadell in Madrid.
“It buys Telefonica more time to carry out asset disposals
without selling them at a huge discount.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  