-- All NCAA Punishments Should Be Like Penn State’s
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-07-26T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/all-ncaa-punishments-should-be-like-penn-state-s.html
Well, that didn’t take long.  No sooner had the  National Collegiate Athletic Association 
announced its sanctions against  Pennsylvania State University 
for allowing Jerry Sandusky to prey upon young children for more
than a decade than a legion of commentators emerged to insist
that the penalties were too harsh -- not that the school didn’t
deserve punishment, but that these particular sanctions would
strike  innocent students  as well as wrongdoers.  One critic  wonders “whether a $60 million fine is worth
destroying all the good Penn State has produced as well.”
According to  another , by reducing the school’s athletic
scholarships, the NCAA has “hurt dozens of young students who
had nothing to do with this whatsoever.”  Let’s grant that all of this is true -- that the cost of
the penalties against the school will fall on people who don’t
deserve it. So what?  I mean the question seriously. This is precisely what
enterprise liability does and what it is designed to do. Say
that a technology startup hires a bunch of smart, young people
and promises them lots of money, only to be hit by a patent-
infringement suit based on the actions of a handful of
researchers, actions about which the rest of the company knew
nothing.  Collective Responsibility  If the company loses the suit, most of those smart, young
people -- innocent all -- will lose their jobs. This likelihood
is not a defense.  The philosopher Elizabeth Wolgast, in  her book  “Ethics of
an Artificial Person,” points out that we are sensibly wary of
imposing collective responsibility. Thus, she says, we condemn
the German tradition of Sippenhaft (used by the Nazis, although
it predates their reign), under which an entire family could be
punished for the wrongdoing of one of its members. Our moral
practices, she argues, do not allow the imposition of punishment
on “innocent or non-offending people.”  This is the principle to which the critics of the  Penn
State  sanctions are appealing: that the non-offending are being
punished for the crimes of others.  But our adherence to the principle is at best inconsistent.
Whenever we hold an entity liable for the wrongdoing of some
group under its control, a lot of people who fall under the
entity’s umbrella and have done no wrong are going to get hurt.
This truism applies when a corporation that has fudged its
numbers is hit with a huge fine, paid with money that might
otherwise be used for investments that would create jobs. It
even applies when an outraged international community presses
economic sanctions against a rogue regime, because rogues will
always let their poorest citizens go hungry before  the regime’s
supporters do .  We like to think of punishments -- to a school, a bank, a
church -- as falling entirely on institutions that do wrong.
Unfortunately, this is not possible. Institutions are legal
fictions. When we punish them, we often punish the people behind
them. We always punish the people who rely on them.  In the particular case of college athletics, a significant
part of the punishment for cheating almost invariably falls on
innocent students. Schools that break the rules are typically
banned from postseason play or stripped of several athletic
scholarships. The loss of the playoffs reduces the utility of
sports to both students who participate and students who cheer
them on; the loss of scholarships reduces the net total of young
people who can afford college.  In a world of perfect information and no cognitive bias,
teenage athletes and their families would carefully weigh the
likelihood that a particular school might wind up on probation
in deciding where to enroll. Colleges would have an incentive to
avoid cheating for fear that a reputation for ethical laxness
would drive away the next generation of stars.  Not Rational  Few potential student-athletes actually behave in this way,
and it is not clear that it would be rational for them to do so.
The historian Ronald A. Smith, in  his book  “Pay for Play: A
History of Big-Time College Athletic Reform,” reminds us that
corruption in big-time college athletics is nothing new: We have
been fretting about the tendency of colleges to cheat for more
than a century. One reason scandals keep arising in collegiate
sports is the relative weakness of the punishments meted out.  This principle is well known in economics. Rarely is it
rational to expend resources taking precautions against losses
that are highly unlikely to arise. So if, as Smith suggests,
cheating to win is natural to us, then schools will continue to
take the risk as long as the punishment, discounted by the
likelihood of getting caught, is relatively small. And student-
athletes considering which school to attend will similarly have
no real incentive to take into account the possibility that some
future punishment of the college might fall on their shoulders.  The obvious solution is to make all sanctions  more severe  -
- that is, to treat academic fraud or the solicitation of money
for athletes with such seriousness that those penalties, too,
make headlines. If schools that cheat were routinely hit with
harsh sanctions, then it would become rational for student-
athletes to consider the possibility of future penalties when
making their decisions. But if Penn State’s punishment remains
sui generis -- an especially harsh sentence for an especially
terrible offense -- then schools will continue to have little
incentive to avoid the many smaller wrongs that together create
the culture of corruption so rampant in college sports.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
latest novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.   Today’s highlights: In a special signed editorial,  Michael R.
Bloomberg  on the long road to  sane gun policies .  Also, the editors on  bringing back earmarks  and on  easing
austerity  in the U.K.;  Jonathan Alter  on the collective effort
to  “build that” ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on why  Obama would be better
than Romney  on  Iran ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the challenge of  Asian
state capitalism ; William Pesek on  U.S.-China relations ;
 Jonathan Weil  on the  conflicts of interest  at  Freddie Mac ; Kim
Schoenholtz and Lawrence White on  remaking Libor .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 