-- Alzheimer’s Setback Makes Elan Takeover Bait to Biogen
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-07-27T21:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/alzheimer-s-setback-makes-elan-takeover-bait-to-biogen.html
Bad news for  Elan Corp. (ELN) ’s
Alzheimer’s drug is turning into good news for Biogen Idec
Inc.’s takeover options.  Elan  sank  15 percent, the most since 2009, on July 24
following disappointing results for bapineuzumab, an Alzheimer’s
therapy developed with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Johnson & Johnson. The
failure of that drug would leave Elan with a single major
product, the multiple sclerosis treatment Tysabri that Biogen
co-owns, priming the $7.1 billion company for a deal with
Biogen, Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Canada said.  While data compiled by Bloomberg show Elan is still more
expensive relative to earnings than every specialty drugmaker
greater than $5 billion, the chance to fully own Tysabri may
spur  Biogen (BIIB)  to offer at least $15 a share, a 25 percent premium
to yesterday’s price, RBC said. Tysabri’s sales will double to
$3 billion a year within half a decade, and Biogen can generate
more profit as the only owner, according to Jefferies. An
acquirer of Dublin-based Elan would also benefit from Ireland’s
low corporate tax rate, RBC said.  “Biogen would love to buy Elan to own 100 percent of
Tysabri,” Ib Sonderby, founder and chief executive officer of
Zoar Invest in Copenhagen, said in a telephone interview.
Sonderby, who says he’s owned Elan shares for a decade, pushed
for changes to its board in 2010. “It would be a much easier
target for them if they fail on bapineuzumab.”  Phone calls and an e-mail message to Elan weren’t returned.
Biogen Chief Financial Officer Paul Clancy declined to comment
on the possibility of the Weston, Massachusetts-based drugmaker
buying Elan.  ‘Great Partner’  “They’re a great partner,” Clancy said in a phone
interview. Tysabri is a “great therapy for patients.”  Elan would be the drugmaker’s biggest deal, topping the
$6.1 billion merger of Biogen Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals
Corp. that created the company in 2003, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  American depositary receipts of Elan tumbled as low as
$11.31 this week after Pfizer said bapineuzumab failed to
improve symptoms of dementia in the first of four late-stage
trials. Pfizer,  J&J (JNJ)  and Elan are trying to develop the first
therapy targeting an underlying cause of Alzheimer’s, which
afflicts an  estimated  5.4 million Americans, rather than just
its symptoms.  Today, the shares fell 0.6 percent to 9.54 euros in Dublin.
They rose 0.2 percent to $11.99 in  New York .  The three other bapineuzumab studies probably won’t show
positive results, according to  Michael Yee , a San Francisco-
based analyst with RBC. While a disappointment, failure
simplifies Elan’s outlook and makes a takeover by Biogen more
likely, he said.  Consolidating Profits  “One should assume that bapi does not work,” he said in a
phone interview. If the studies fail, Elan’s stock may fall to
$10, Yee added. There is “strategic value for Elan to be
acquired by Biogen, because they could consolidate the 50
percent partnership stake in Tysabri. They would be
consolidating the profit share, cutting costs and driving
accretion.”  Biogen could pay $15 a share and still boost its earnings,
the analyst estimated. Elan closed at $11.97 yesterday. The
company, at one time valued at $21 billion, has retreated 82
percent since its peak in June 2001. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index advanced 11 percent over that span. Elan posted at least
seven straight years of net  losses  before earning $560.1 million
last year.  After Elan’s plunge this week, its Irish shares are still
valued at 51 times  profit  from the past 12 months, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s more than double the industry median
and the highest among similar-sized companies.  ‘Real Asset’  An acquirer would benefit from Ireland’s low corporate tax
rate and Elan’s $3.19 billion in net operating losses at the end
of 2011, which could be used to reduce the buyer’s taxes, said
 Corey Davis , a New York-based analyst for Jefferies.  “The real asset is the fact that they’re an Irish
company,” Davis said in a phone interview, citing the country’s
12.5 percent corporate tax rate that prompted two other
transactions in the industry last year.  Jazz Pharmaceuticals Inc. of  Palo Alto ,  California , bought
Dublin-based Azur Pharma Ltd. and moved to Ireland. The combined
company, which makes a narcolepsy drug, is known as  Jazz
Pharmaceuticals Plc. (JAZZ)   Alkermes Plc (ALKS) , which makes an addiction
therapy, bought Elan’s drug technologies unit and moved its
headquarters to Dublin from Waltham,  Massachusetts .  Davis estimates Elan would fetch as much as $15 a share in
a takeover, 9.9 percent more than the current 20-day average.
Buyers have paid an average premium of 40 percent in
pharmaceutical and biotechnology deals greater than $1 billion
in the last three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Elan’s Losses  Biogen buying out its partner would follow the pattern set
by GlaxoSmithKline Plc, which agreed this month to pay $3
billion for  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI) , RBC’s Yee said. The two
drugmakers collaborated for two decades before London-based
Glaxo made its takeover approach to gain full ownership of the
lupus drug Benlysta and other experimental therapies.  Human Genome’s shares had  tumbled  75 percent in the year
before Glaxo’s interest became public in April, as Benlysta’s
initial sales disappointed investors.  Tysabri, administered intravenously, produced $1.5 billion
in 2011 sales and is Biogen’s  second-best selling  drug behind
Avonex, an MS therapy delivered through a shot. The company is
awaiting approval in the U.S. and Europe for BG-12, its first
pill for the disease, which may draw peak annual revenue of more
than $3 billion if approved, said Eric Schmidt, a New York-based
analyst at Cowen & Co.  BG-12  Positive data on BG-12 drove Biogen’s shares up 155 percent
in the past two years, giving the drugmaker the third-biggest
gain in the  NYSE Arca Biotechnology Index (BTK)  of 20 companies. A
decision from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is expected
this year.  Elan may become an even more attractive target after BG-12
enters the market next year, said Marko Kozul, an analyst for
Boston-based Leerink Swann LLC. The drug may eat into some of
Tysabri’s sales and further weigh on Elan’s shares, he said.  “It would make sense for Biogen to see how BG-12 launches
and what share of Tysabri’s market does it take,” Kozul said in
a telephone interview. “That could potentially further weaken
Elan, so if you’re Biogen, you could buy Elan at a cheaper
price.”  BG-12 and other medicines’ prospects mean that Biogen
doesn’t need to buy Elan, Cowen’s Schmidt said. In addition to
Tysabri, BG-12 and Avonex, Biogen sells the cancer therapy
Rituxan, and late-stage data are expected this year on
experimental medicines for  Lou Gehrig ’s disease and hemophilia.  Earnings Estimates  Analysts project Biogen’s revenue will climb 50 percent to
$7.56 billion by 2015, according to  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Elan’s may increase 60 percent, the forecasts show.  Biogen “has plenty of great growth drivers” without
owning all of Tysabri, Schmidt wrote in an e-mail.  If Elan’s bapineuzumab does well in future studies, the
drugmaker may draw takeover interest from  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J or New York-based Pfizer, Sonderby said.  Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, and  Bill Price , a
spokesman at J&J, said the companies don’t comment on market
speculation, when asked whether they are interested in acquiring
Elan.  Irish Tax  Failure in the first late-stage study doesn’t mean
bapineuzumab won’t succeed, Rudolph Tanzi, professor of
neurology at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston , said after the
data were reported. The trial was done in patients genetically
predisposed to Alzheimer’s, and doctors are awaiting results
from studies in patients without the higher genetic risk.  If those studies go poorly, Elan would be left with little
other than Tysabri “except for a ton of things in their early-
stage pipeline,” Jefferies’ Davis said.  “In the hands of Biogen, with synergies and maybe being
able to take advantage of their Irish  tax rate , it could be
worth a lot more to them,” the analyst said. If “the next bapi
trial fails and we’re down to $10 or so and Biogen comes in and
offers $15, it would be a hard offer for Elan to refuse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  