-- Amarin Falls After U.S. Approval Limits Debut Drug’s Use
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-27T20:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/amarin-wins-approval-for-debut-drug-to-treat-high-blood-fats.html
U.S. approval for  Amarin Corp. (AMRN) ’s
first product, a drug to combat high levels of blood fat that
can lead to stroke and heart attack, included limits on its use
that may have disappointed investors.  Amarin’s American depositary receipts fell in New York
trading after increasing yesterday, continuing a trend in the
last few months of investors selling on the news of drug
approvals, said Jon Lecroy, an MKM Partners analyst in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . The drug’s label may not have been as broad as some
investors were expecting, he said.  The Food and Drug Administration yesterday cleared Vascepa
as an adjunct to diet for a condition known as very high
triglycerides, Dublin-based Amarin said in a statement. The
medication will compete with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Lovaza.
Amarin anticipates starting sales in the first quarter of 2013,
Chief Executive Officer Joseph Zakrzewski said in the statement.  “They didn’t get any of the Anchor trial data in the
label, for patients with high triglycerides, which is a bigger
patient population than the Marine population they were approved
for,” Lecroy said in a telephone interview today, referring to
the names of clinical studies. “It also didn’t get NCE,” or
new chemical entity, status granting additional marketing
exclusivity, which may come in August, he said.  Amarin dropped 12 percent to $13.51 at the close in New
York in the biggest slide since November, erasing yesterday’s
gains. The depositary receipts have gained 80 percent this year.  Bad Cholesterol  Vascepa may have an advantage because it doesn’t raise bad
cholesterol levels, a possible side effect for Lovaza, Lecroy
said yesterday. Amarin’s drug has the potential to reach sales
of $1.25 billion in 2017, which may lead to acquisition offers
for the company from drugmakers including  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , he
said before the approval.  “There will be interest from large pharmaceutical
companies,” Lecroy said. “Any company with a large
cardiovascular or diabetes sales force makes sense. That’s
almost any.”  AstraZeneca, based in  London , may be an option because of
its best-selling cholesterol medication Crestor, Lecroy said.
Crestor is a statin, and Amarin’s drug may be used in a
combination with statins. Crestor had $6.6 billion in sales last
year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Pfizer, Abbott  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , based in New York, also may be a candidate to
buy Amarin to replace revenue lost from expiring patent
protection for its $9.6 billion drug Lipitor, as is  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) , which has an existing cardiovascular franchise,
said Akiva Felt, an analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los
Angeles , in a telephone interview.  Amarin is still considering an acquisition, a partnership
or bringing Vascepa to market itself, Zakrzewski said.  Joan Campion, a Pfizer spokeswoman,  Scott Stoffel , a
spokesman for Abbott, and  Tony Jewell , a spokesman for
AstraZeneca, said the companies don’t comment on speculation.  About 40 million people in the U.S. have elevated
triglyceride levels, which are associated with an increased risk
of developing coronary artery disease,  according  to Amarin. The
company’s drug is a prescription-grade omega-3 fatty acid.  Very high triglyceride levels are those considered greater
than 500 milligrams per deciliter. Amarin also is studying the
medication in high triglyceride levels between 200 and 500
milligrams per deciliter.  Amarin is attempting to gain “new chemical entity” status
from the FDA for the drug, which the agency grants to innovative
medicines or those that make significant changes in already
approved products, Felt said. The status makes a difference in
whether Amarin has five or three years to market its treatment
without generic competition.  “It’s fairly unique,” Felt said. “Usually it’s pretty
clear whether a drug qualifies for NCE or not.”  The FDA is expected to determine whether the therapy is a
new chemical entity by Aug. 17, Lecroy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  