-- Hamas Bid for Egypt Trade May Founder on Constraints for Mursi
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-07-26T07:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/hamas-bid-for-egypt-trade-may-founder-on-constraints-for-mursi.html
Fayaz Abu Hani saw his factories
blown apart three years ago in Israel’s military offensive
against the  Gaza Strip , crippling production of cooking oil,
flour and a popular mix of coffee and cardamom.  Egypt ’s change of leadership has given Abu Hani hope that
he may be able to rebuild his business. The opening of Egypt’s
Rafah border with Gaza for commerce would cut the cost of the
imported raw materials he needs. Ending trade curbs will be a
key demand of Gaza premier Ismail Haniyeh, a Hamas leader,
during his talks with President Mohamed Mursi in Cairo today.  “A commercial crossing with Egypt would give us self-
sufficiency and help bring in all kinds of goods to Gaza that
have been tough to obtain,” said the gray-bearded Abu Hani, 59.
“It’s a very good idea.”  Blocking those aspirations is pressure from  Israel , the
U.S. and the Palestinian Authority, who argue that a direct
commercial thoroughfare between Egypt and Gaza would violate
trade agreements and damage efforts to bridge the West Bank-Gaza
divide. Mursi may also approach changes with caution, as he
seeks to balance grass-roots pressure to help Gaza with pledges
to preserve Egypt’s international commitments.  Israel, which controls all Gaza’s other borders, has eased
restrictions since 2009, though it still bars construction
materials on the grounds they could be used for attacks. Israel
classifies Hamas, which has run Gaza since 2007, as a terrorist
organization, as do the European Union and U.S. It has opposed
Egypt-backed efforts to reconcile Hamas with the Palestinian
Authority, which controls the West Bank.  ‘Rational Response’  Mursi won the presidency last month as the candidate of the
Muslim Brotherhood, the group from which Hamas evolved. Egypt
eased travel restrictions for Palestinians this week, as the new
president seeks to distance himself from the unpopular policies
of  Hosni Mubarak , overthrown in a mass revolt last year, who
cooperated with Israel to blockade Gaza. The Brotherhood has
signaled it will uphold Egypt’s 1979 peace treaty with Israel.  “What Mursi did was a rational response to the pressures
imposed on him,” said Ashraf el-Sherif, a political scientist
at the American University in Cairo. Still, while there will be
“more openness” toward the Palestinians and especially Gaza
under the new administration, “it won’t be a 180-degree change,
at least for the time being,” he said.  Under a U.S.-backed agreement, Israel, Gaza and the West
Bank are part of a single customs union. That means there can’t
be unilateral action on matters affecting trade, said Azam Al
Ahmed, one of  Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas’s
negotiators in the unity talks with Hamas.  New Egypt  “Hamas cannot have reconciliation and at the same time
control the borders,” Al Ahmed said in an interview. “They
just cannot draw a map for the new Egyptian leadership and tell
them what to do.”  Hamas leaders say they are placing hopes in Mursi.  “Our people are looking to see a new Egypt that is not a
guard for the Zionist occupation,” Zeya Zaza, the Gaza economy
minister, said in an interview. “We are seeking to have an
economy that has strong ties with international and other Arab
economies, especially Egypt.”  With its 1.6 million population crammed into a sandy narrow
territory bordering the  Mediterranean Sea , Gaza has a poverty
rate of 33 percent, compared with 18 percent in the  West Bank ,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . Its economy
largely relies on the hundreds of tunnels dug under the Egyptian
border to smuggle in goods ranging from sheep to automobiles.  Four Times Price  Unloading a shipping container that comes through Israel’s
Ashdod port costs about four times what it would at Egypt’s El-
Arish facility, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) to the south,
according to Abu Hani. He says he hasn’t been able to rebuild
his four factories because of the Israeli restrictions.  Israel, which evacuated some 8,000 Jewish settlers from
Gaza in 2005, invaded the territory at the end of 2008, saying
it was responding to thousands of missiles fired over the border
by members of Hamas and various militia groups. Abu Hani’s
factory was demolished in the offensive, which left more than
1,100 Palestinians and 13 Israelis dead.  Israel subjects goods traded between Gaza and Egypt to
rigorous inspection at its Kerem Shalom border crossing 4
kilometers (2.5 miles) east of Rafah. It eased the blockade in
2009 after restrictions on items such as spaghetti and apricot
jam drew international protests.  ‘Float Away’  Still, exports have been almost entirely shut down for five
years, with shipments of strawberries and cut flowers only
periodically allowed. In 2011, exports were about 2 percent of
the level in the first half of 2007, according to  Gisha , an
Israeli group that promotes free movement for people in Gaza.  Egypt’s opening of the Rafah crossing for travelers after
Mubarak’s fall prompted concern in Israel. There are political
as well as security reasons for opposing trade via the station,
said Yigal Palmor, a Foreign Ministry spokesman.  “It will make Gaza further float away from the West
Bank,” he said. “It would make clear that Hamas is more
interested in its own independence than reconciliation.”  Omer Shaban, a Gaza-based economist, said that Mursi’s
desire to keep that reconciliation on track would inhibit moves
to free trade across the border.  Such measures would “serve only Hamas interests,” he
said. “Egypt won’t take the risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Gaza City at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  