-- America Movil Second-Quarter Profit Slumps 46% on Peso
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-07-27T20:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/america-movil-second-quarter-profit-slumps-46-on-peso.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the largest
wireless carrier in the Americas by subscribers, fell after a
weaker Mexican peso and increasing competition damped quarterly
profit.  The shares slipped 0.2 percent to 17.99 pesos at the close
in  Mexico  City after an intraday decline that was the largest
since June 1. Mexico City-based America Movil reported a 46
percent drop in second-quarter net income after markets closed
yesterday.  “We observe pressure on the profitability of the most
important subsidiaries because of the economic slowdown, lower
mobile interconnection rates and greater subsidies for the
migration to smart phones,” Manuel Jimenez, a Banorte Ixe Casa
de Bolsa analyst in Mexico City, wrote in a note to clients. He
cut his rating to hold from buy.  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , has
faced pricing pressure in markets such as  Brazil  and the U.S. as
well as in its home base of Mexico. Revenue on a per-subscriber
basis rose more slowly than monthly usage in all three markets,
according to the company.  “In Brazil, the economy has been slowing down a little bit
and the competition has been very tough,” Chief Executive
Officer Daniel Hajj said in a conference call today with
investors and analysts.  The company also is issuing more debt in foreign currencies
as it expands outside Latin America, agreeing to purchases this
year in the U.S. and  Europe . Mexican accounting rules require
quarterly recording of gains or losses on liabilities in those
currencies based on foreign-exchange fluctuations.  Peso’s Decline  The peso fell 4.1 percent against the dollar in the three-
month period ended June 30.  While the peso’s decline was expected to hurt earnings, a
broader measure of profitability was “a little bit weak,” said
 Christopher King , an analyst with Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, who has a hold rating on the stock.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization were 65.5 billion pesos, compared with 63.5 billion
pesos a year earlier. As a percentage of sales, Ebitda was 34.1
percent in the quarter, down from 36.2 percent a year earlier
and down from 35.1 percent in the first quarter.  “They are continuing to see pricing pressures in markets
like Brazil,” King said yesterday.  Minutes, Revenue  In Brazil, monthly wireless minutes per customer rose
almost 16 percent while average revenue per user fell more than
15 percent. In the Mexican market, minutes per user jumped more
than 21 percent and average per-user revenue climbed 6.4
percent. The increase in minutes per user in the U.S. was almost
11 percent, with average revenue per user up 7.2 percent.  Net income slid to 13.3 billion pesos ($990 million) from
24.3 billion pesos a year earlier,  America Movil  said in a
 statement  yesterday. Sales rose 9.3 percent to 191.7 billion
pesos, compared with the average analyst estimate of 189.1
billion pesos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company reported a foreign-exchange loss of 16.1
billion pesos, compared with a gain of 2.38 billion pesos a year
earlier. America Movil sold $2 billion in dollar-denominated
bonds and 1 billion euros ($1.23 billion) in bonds earlier this
month.  It agreed in May to pay $118 million for U.S. wireless
reseller Simple Mobile Inc. and is spending about $5 billion to
acquire minority stakes in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  and the Dutch
carrier  Royal KPN NV. (KPN)   America Movil is investing $9.5 billion this year in its
network in  Latin America  to attract more users from  Telefonica
SA (TEF)  with high-speed  Internet access . The company added 5.9
million mobile-phone subscribers in the second quarter including
1.1 million from Simple Mobile, for a total of 251.8 million.  Subscriber additions included 1.4 million each in Mexico
and Brazil. The company’s video subscribers through its
satellite and cable-TV services in Central and  South America 
increased 31 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  