-- Amgen Rises as Profit Tops Estimates on Drug Sales
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-07-27T20:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/amgen-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-on-rising-drug-sales.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, rose the most in eight months after
second-quarter profit topped analysts’ estimates on increased
demand for its rheumatoid arthritis and bone drugs and the
company raised its 2012 forecast.  Amgen climbed 5.8 percent to $83.92 at the close of trading
in  New York , its largest single-day gain since Nov. 7. The
shares of the  Thousand Oaks , California-based company increased
31 percent this year.  Net income jumped 8 percent to $1.27 billion, or $1.61 a
share, Amgen said yesterday in a statement. Earnings excluding
one-time items were $1.83 a share, topping by 28 cents the
average of 19 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Amgen is trading at its highest level in six years as
shareholders grow confident of the company’s new chief executive
officer, Robert Bradway, who took over in May, said  Michael Yee ,
an analyst with RBC Capital Markets Corp. in San Francisco.
Sales of the rheumatoid arthritis treatment Enbrel and Prolia,
an osteoporosis drug, generated higher sales that beat analysts’
estimates for the quarter.  “Investors are gaining more confidence in Amgen’s mid- to
long-term outlook,” Yee said in an interview. “There’s a new
CEO and head of R&D to bring fresh leadership. They have been
aggressively buying back stock, will consistently raise the
dividend, and the pipeline gets no credit at all.”  Revenue jumped 13 percent to $4.5 billion, and the company
raised its annual profit forecast to $6.20 to $6.35 a share from
a previous projection of $5.90 to $6.15 a share. Results also
benefited from a one-time payment of $206 million from Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. for rights to lung cancer drug motesanib, the
company said.  Drug Sales  Amgen’s annual sales quadrupled to $15.6 billion during the
11-year run of Bradway’s predecessor, Kevin Sharer. The company
has shored up declining revenue from its former core anemia
drugs by signing long-term deals, and is benefiting from revised
Medicare regulations allowing for higher doses. At the same
time, the company’s medicines to reduce  bone fractures  in cancer
and osteoporosis patients have expanded since winning U.S.
regulatory approval in 2010.  Sales of Xgeva, approved in November 2010 by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration to reduce fractures in cancer patients,
and Prolia, used to treat osteoporosis in menopausal women,
generated $299 million in the quarter, Amgen said. Analysts had
estimated sales of $283.8 million.  Sales of Enbrel, used to treat rheumatoid arthritis,
increased 11 percent to $1.06 billion. Analysts had projected
$950 million.  Anemia Drugs  Amgen said sales of the anemia drug Aranesp fell 8 percent
to $536 million in the second quarter, and Epogen, an older
version, slid 3 percent to $525 million. Amgen’s Neulasta and
Neupogen, medications used to reduce the risk of infection in
patients on chemotherapy, increased 2 percent to $1.35 billion.  “Results were for the most part unexpectedly positive --
across the board,” Chris Raymond, an analyst with Robert W.
Baird & Co., wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Amgen’s 23 percent stock gain this year through yesterday
bests the Standard & Poor’s 500 Health Care Index’s 9.3 percent
increase, and the shares are trading at their highest level
since 2005.  The company is in the middle of a stock buyback plan,
purchasing 230 million shares, more than 20 percent of the
company, for $13.5 billion since 2010, Raymond wrote in a July
15 note.  Experimental Drugs  Amgen highlighted two experimental drugs during its
conference call yesterday that RBC’s Yee said could have a big
impact on sales if they work.  One such therapy, AMG 145, targets the PCSK9 gene to lower
cholesterol and heart attack risk. Amgen is racing  Roche Holding
AG , Pfizer Inc., Sanofi and partner  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (REGN)  to gain entry into a market that generated $38.7 billion
last year, according to IMS Health.  Another is romosozumab, a treatment designed to promote new
bone growth, as opposed to its current therapies that prevent
bones from fracturing. Amgen and its partner on the drug,
Brussels-based  UCB SA (UCB) , are testing the therapy in post-
menopausal osteoporosis patients in a phase 3 trial.  Amgen will present data on the medicine from the second of
three trials typically required for U.S. regulatory approval at
a science meeting in October. Romosozumab could eventually be a
$1 billion drug, while AMG 145 may be a multibillion dollar
product over the long term, Yee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  