-- AMR Group, LSP Energy, Patriot Coal: Bankruptcy
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/amr-group-lsp-energy-patriot-coal-bankruptcy.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  Chief
Executive Officer Doug Parker said he expects American Airlines
parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  to set up a fair, transparent process to
evaluate merger options against its own bankruptcy plan.  US Airways  should get documents from American soon that
will lay out the procedure and let the carriers examine each
other’s financial records, Parker said yesterday on a conference
call. His Tempe, Arizona-based company has been pushing for a
merger with its larger competitor since January.  US Airways has been lobbying AMR creditors and bondholders
to build support for a combination, after signing tentative
labor agreements with the Fort Worth, Texas-based American’s
unions in April. The merger would create the world’s largest
airline, surpassing  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)   AMR has said it prefers to remain a stand-alone carrier. US
Airways would be concerned with a process that puts potential
merger partners at a disadvantage or slows the review to the
point that alternatives aren’t fully vetted, Parker said
yesterday.  Separately, US Airways Group reported record second-quarter
profit that exceeded analysts’ forecasts as it paid less for  jet
fuel  and collected higher fares.  The quarter included $15 million in one-time charges
related to auction-rate securities arbitration, early debt
payments and new labor contracts at a regional-carrier unit, and
a gain from a vendor settlement.  The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  Watch List  San Bernardino, California, to Defer $6.4 Million in Payments  San Bernardino, the third  California  city to move toward a
bankruptcy filing this year, will defer paying $3.4 million in
pension bonds and $2.2 million toward retiree health care to
tide it over before seeking court protection from creditors.  The city of 209,000, about 60 miles (100 kilometers) east
of  Los Angeles , suspended a total of $6.4 million in payments
under an emergency  budget  adopted July 24 in a unanimous City
Council vote.  Pressured by declines in property taxes and rising employee
costs, as well as accounting irregularities, San Bernardino’s
City Council voted July 10 to seek  bankruptcy protection  and
followed up a week later by  declaring  a fiscal emergency. That
lets San Bernardino bypass state-required mediation with
creditors and proceed directly to U.S. Bankruptcy Court.  The deferrals, together with a hiring freeze and employee
concessions previously reached, will save $12 million over the
next three months, Travis-Miller said. The city will need to cut
long-term expenses by 30 percent to stay solvent, she said.  Officials didn’t say when the city planned to go to court.
The filing is being held up by difficulty untangling previous
budgets, said Gwen Waters, a city spokeswoman.  If the city seeks protection, it would join California’s
Stockton, an agricultural center of 292,000 east of  San
Francisco , and Mammoth Lakes, a mountain resort town of 8,200
south of Yosemite National Park. Mediation with creditors
undertaken by both cities failed to produce agreements needed to
keep them out of court.  The moves by Stockton, Mammoth Lakes and San Bernardino may
undermine confidence in the credit of other California cities,
state Controller John Chiang said by telephone before the
meeting.  San Bernardino confronts a deficit that has reached $45.8
million on revenues of $120.4 million and would probably run out
of money before the end of the negotiation period, according to
the city’s fiscal emergency document. Revenues have dropped 9.8
percent since their peak in 2008, according to the document.  In addition to putting off payments for pensions, leases
and retiree health care, the emergency budget would postpone all
capital projects, maintain employee vacancies and continue
employment concessions negotiated with unions.  The budget doesn’t envision immediate firings of workers.  Other Updates  LSP Energy’s Sale Approval Met With Objection by TPF Group  LSP Energy, LP, the bankrupt gas-fired electric generating
company, is faced with an objection by a group known as TPF II,
to its motion to approve the sale of its assets, according to
court papers.  The bid would permit the payment of a so-called break-up
fee of $7.5 million to stalking horse bidder South Mississippi
Electric Power Association, or SMEPA, court files revealed.  Three limited partnerships together known as TPF II have
objected to the approval of SMEPA’s bid, Grant H. Davis, senior
vice president of Tenaska PFG II, LLP, the general partner of
TPF II, LP, one of limited partnerships, said in court papers.  TPF II, which has conducted due diligence and negotiations
with the debtor before and since the bankruptcy filing, “was
ready to submit a qualified bid” and intended to participate in
the July 18 auction under the rules established by the court’s
bidding procedures order. That order, Davis said in a filing,
“prohibited bidders from receiving break-up fees or other
stalking horse benefits.”  The debtor has asked the court for an amended sales
procedures order.  “The stalking horse bid did not induce TPF II to submit a
bid,” Davis said. TPF II “is willing to submit a higher and
better bid than SMEPA’s current bid if all parties are treated
equally,” Davis said in the filing.  A hearing is scheduled for today on TPF’s motion.  LSP filed for Chapter 11 reorganization on Feb. 10 and
secured final approval in February for a $20 million secured
loan provided by lenders including John Hancock Financial
Services Inc.  The case is In re LSP Energy LP, 12-10460,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Northampton Generating Asks for Third Plan Extension  Northampton Generating Co. LP has asked the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Charlotte, North Carolina to extend its time as the
only one that may file a plan of reorganization and gather
support for it.  This is the debtor’s third request for more time.  Earlier, the bankrupt owner of a 112-megawatt electric
generating plant in Northampton,  Pennsylvania , persuaded the
court to enlarge its exclusive time to submit a proposed plan.
While Northampton wanted an enlargement of exclusivity by three
months to Sept. 30, the court in Charlotte, North Carolina, at
that time only pushed the deadline out to Aug. 17.  On the current request, Northampton is asking that the
period of exclusivity be extended to Sept. 14 and the time to
solicit support extended to Nov. 13.  A hearing is scheduled on the motion for Aug. 14.  Northampton is a so-called merchant electric generator as a
result of the termination of a power-purchase agreement with
Metropolitan Edison Co. It is now part of the PJM
Interconnection LLC network. The plant is fueled by waste
products such as waste coal, fiber waste, and tires.  The Charlotte, North Carolina-based company defaulted on
bonds in 2009. Debt includes $73.4 million owing on senior bonds
issued through the Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing
Authority. The Authority also issued junior bonds on which $21.8
million is owing, according to a court filing.  Filed in December, the petition lists assets and debt both
in excess of $100 million. Later, the company filed official
lists showing assets of $205 million and debt totaling $121.5
million, including $95.4 million in secured debt.  The case is In re Northampton Generating Co. LP, 11-33095,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  North Carolina 
(Charlotte).  Briefly Noted  Patriot Coal Said to Set Price on Portion of DIP Loan Financing  Patriot Coal Corp. set the price it will sell a $375
million portion of its debtor-in-possession loan, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Patriot is proposing to sell the debt at 98 cents on the
dollar, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the terms are private. The so-called original issue discount
reduces proceeds for the borrower and boosts the yield for
investors.  The St. Louis-based coal producer will pay interest at 8
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate on
the debt and the lending benchmark will have a 1.5 percent
minimum, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc and Bank of America Corp. are
arranging the debt, which includes a $125 million line of credit
that pays interest at 3.25 percentage points more than Libor.  Lenders must let the banks know by 5 p.m. in New York on
July 31 if they will participate in the deal, the person said.  Patriot filed for bankruptcy protection on July 9. It
listed assets of $3.57 billion and debt of $3.07 billion as of
May 31. The company is one of the largest coal producers in the
U.S.  The case is In re  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) , 12-br-12900, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Post-Bankruptcy  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Said to Hire JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs for IPO  MGM Holdings Inc., the parent of Hollywood studio Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer, hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to manage its initial public offering, according to
two people familiar with the situation.  JPMorgan will lead the share sale, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public.  MGM said it submitted a draft IPO registration statement
confidentially to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
according to a statement dated yesterday. Los Angeles-based MGM
didn’t say how much it plans to raise or how many shares are
being offered.  The company emerged from bankruptcy at the end of 2010.  Downgrades/Other Ratings Actions  Heineken Placed on Credit Watch Negative, S&P Says  Heineken NV, the beer brewer and distributor, had its long-
and short-term corporate credit ratings placed on credit watch
negative yesterday by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service,
according to a statement by the ratings company.  S&P changed Heineken’s BBN+ and A-2 long- and short-term
corporate credit ratings from stable to negative following the
company’s announcement of its offer to acquire the stake of its
joint-venture partner Fraser & Neave in  Asia  Pacific Breweries
Ltd., S&P said in the statement.  The credit watch negative “reflects our view that the
debt-funded acquisition would weaken the group’s credit metrics,
despite further supporting Heineken’s strong business risk
profile,” S&P said in the statement.  Bank Downgrades Impact Market for Sales of Structured Notes  Sales of securities that package debt with derivatives and
provide banks with fees that average 2 1/2 times what they
receive underwriting corporate bonds are tumbling as credit
downgrades of the world’s largest financial companies curb
investors’ appetite.  Issuance of the structured notes, which offer customized
bets tied to stocks, currencies, commodities and  interest rates ,
have fallen 34 percent to $65.8 billion this year from the same
period of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Buyers
of structured notes, which include institutional investors as
well as high net-worth individuals, bear the risk both of the
bank selling the securities and of the underlying assets. Eight
of the 10 largest issuers have been downgraded this year, making
the notes less attractive to investors seeking safe assets as
the economy slows and  Europe ’s crisis deepens.  U.S. issuance fell 23 percent this year to $21.7 billion,
the lowest level since 2010, when Bloomberg started tracking the
market in that country. In Europe and Asia, where numbers go
back to 1999, sales fell 38 percent to $44.1 billion. That’s the
least since 2002 and the most severe drop in three years.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 Cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  