-- AMR Bond Ascension Points to Eventual US Airways Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-07-26T15:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/amr-bond-ascension-points-to-us-airways-deal-corporate-finance.html
Rising prices for  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  bonds
are pointing toward success for  US Airways  Group Inc. in its
push to merge with the American Airlines parent and create the
world’s largest carrier.  The most-actively traded debt, $460 million of 6.25 percent
convertible, unsecured notes due 2014, have almost quadrupled to
66 cents on the dollar from 17.75 cents on Nov. 29, when AMR
filed for bankruptcy, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The debt jumped 3.3 cents on July 19 after the chief executive
officers of the airlines met to discuss a merger.  US Airways CEO Doug Parker is negotiating directly with AMR
 bondholders  outside of the court process, and  David Tepper ’s
Appaloosa Management LP has teamed with other investors to push
for a bigger payoff.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR is pursuing a
stand-alone strategy that includes boosting revenue, a course
that  Vicki Bryan  of New York-based debt researcher Gimme Credit
LLC said isn’t seen as viable by bond owners.  “The fact that the bonds are recovering shows that the
unsecured creditors think there will be a deal,” Bryan, a
senior bond analyst, said in a telephone interview. “No one is
confident about their revenue generation plan. It’s worth more
only on the idea that someone else will buy it.”  AMR sought Chapter 11 in November after three consecutive
years of losses and sitting out a round of industry
consolidation that saw American fall to third place in the U.S.
behind United Continental Holdings Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc.  Frozen Pensions  Much of the increase in the convertible bonds is due to
American’s push to freeze rather than terminate its pension
plans, which removes a potential claim on assets, according to
Mark Streeter, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. American’s
efforts to cut costs by renegotiating union contracts have gone
better than expected as well, he said.  The company, which traces its  roots  to 1920s air-mail
operations in the Midwest that included the aviation pioneer
 Charles Lindbergh , listed $24.7 billion in assets and $29.6
billion in debt in its petition for court protection from its
creditors. Unsecured debt accounts for $840 million of that,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Extra Mileage’  AMR last week posted a quarterly profit of $95 million,
excluding bankruptcy-related costs, and said sales rose to a
record of $6.45 billion with higher fares. The bonds were also
boosted by the improved results, according to  Ray Neidl , an
airline analyst with Maxim Group LLC.  “There’s confidence in the value of the reorganization
with or without an acquisition,” Neidl said. “Those bonds
started recovering long before US Airways stepped in because
there was confidence in the recovery. The extra mileage in the
increase is the US Airways potential acquisition.”  AMR debt holders have organized outside the carrier’s
official unsecured creditors committee, creating two ad hoc
groups to gain leverage, according to people familiar with the
matter who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private.  The group including Appaloosa holds $700 million of
corporate debt and has hired law firm White & Case LLP and
financial adviser Houlihan Lokey, the people said. The other
includes OppenheimerFunds Inc., the largest holder of AMR’s
municipal debt, and has retained law firm Kramer Levin Naftalis
& Frankel LLP and financial adviser Seabury Group LLC, the
people said.  Lobbying Creditors  US Airways in April reached contract agreements with the
unions for American’s pilots, flight attendants, mechanics,
baggage handlers and other airport ground workers that are
contingent on a combination of the two carriers. Since then, the
Tempe, Arizona-based airline has been lobbying AMR creditors.  “The case will come to a point sooner or later where US
Airways’s offer is going to be weighed,” Max Newman, a
bankruptcy attorney at Butzel Long in  Bloomfield Hills ,
 Michigan , said in an interview. “The union support for US
Airways is going to be a major factor. Now they just have to sit
on their hands and wait a little bit.”  The bondholder group working with Appaloosa, which has met
with AMR CEO  Tom Horton  and Chief Restructuring Officer Beverly Goulet, agreed last month to consider the stand-alone plan
before reviewing a possible merger.  Bondholders have “nothing to lose” from considering an
offer from US Airways that will probably be “too good to pass
up,”  Dan McKenzie , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw in  New York ,
wrote today in a report. He estimated that there’s a 55 percent
chance the deal will succeed.  Breakfast Meeting  Horton has said he’s not yet convinced his airline must
merge to restructure or that US Airways would be the best
partner. Parker last week said he won’t wait indefinitely for a
deal, which should occur while AMR is in Chapter 11. A tie-up
would surpass United as the world’s biggest airline by traffic.  Combining US Airways and American is the only way to create
an airline with the scale and breadth of network offerings to
compete with United and Delta, Parker has said.  US Airways hasn’t made a formal merger bid and is waiting
for AMR to set terms that would allow rivals to scour its
financial information to decide on a possible offer. Horton told
Parker at a July 19 breakfast meeting at a Washington hotel that
AMR won’t be rushed into any merger, people familiar with the
matter said at the time.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane that same day extended to
Dec. 28 the company’s exclusive right to propose a plan to
restructure and exit  bankruptcy protection . After the exclusive
period expires, creditors and other parties may propose
reorganization plans.  “If American doesn’t merge with US Airways, we’re not
going back to 20 cents,” said JPMorgan’s Streeter. “American
on a stand-alone basis can still create a recovery that isn’t
that far off from where we are right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  