-- Apple Wins Delay on Web Notice That Samsung Didn’t Copy IPad
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-26T15:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/apple-wins-delay-on-web-notice-that-samsung-didn-t-copy-ipad.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won’t have to publish a
notice telling customers that Samsung Electronics Co. didn’t
copy its tablet designs until after an appeal in the
intellectual property dispute is heard in October, a U.K. court
ruled.  Apple had been ordered on July 18 to put a message on its
U.K. website and take out advertisements in British newspapers
describing a London court ruling that Samsung’s Galaxy devices
didn’t imitate the iPad.  That would have caused Apple “irreparable and
disproportionate harm,” said the company’s lawyer Anthony Grabiner today, arguing the order should be delayed pending an
appeal. “If you were on the other side you would be jumping
around with joy.”  Judge David Kitchin agreed in a ruling today that the
company would suffer lasting damage to its image. “It would not
be right to condemn Apple to such a fate before it has had a
chance to argue its case.”  Apple is fighting patent lawsuits around the globe against
competitors including Google Inc.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Samsung as it
competes for dominance of the smartphone and tablet computer
markets. The companies have accused each other of copying
designs and technology in their mobile devices. Legal battles
about the similarity of Samsung and Apple tablets are being
fought in Germany, the Netherlands and the U.S.  The argument that Apple “will suffer some mortal hurt is
frankly a nonsense” and the order should stand, Samsung’s
lawyer, Robert Howe, said today.  Judge Colin Birss said in a July 9 ruling that Samsung’s
tablets were unlikely to be confused with the iPad because they
are “not as cool.” They were distinctive enough not to
infringe Apple’s registered designs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  