-- Arizona’s Ban at 20 Weeks Shows Country’s Shift on Abortion Law
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/arizona-s-ban-at-20-weeks-shows-country-s-shift-on-abortion-law.html
Jennifer Hercegovac and her husband
picked out a name, set up a nursery and sold her business so she
could be a stay-at-home mother. Then, when she was 18 weeks
pregnant, an ultrasound detected fetal heart defects.  At first, she thought her son could still grow up to play
football after surgeries. Further tests last month, at 22 weeks,
detected  DiGeorge Syndrome , a chromosome disorder that with the
heart defects made the survival of her fetus beyond a few months
unlikely, she said. She scheduled an abortion the next day -- an
option other women in  Arizona  won’t have under a law set to go
into effect next week.  “You are attached to the baby, you love the baby, but to
give birth to a baby that you know is going to suffer and pass
away?” Hercegovac, 38, of New River, said in a telephone
interview as her sons, ages 2 and 3, drummed on cooking pots in
the background. “This seemed more humane.”  Arizona is one of nine states in the past two years to ban
abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy -- around the time
women commonly get ultrasounds to screen for fetal anomalies.
Abortion-rights advocates were in federal court in Phoenix
yesterday seeking a preliminary injunction against  the law .  In less than a decade, Arizona has gone from a state that
abortion-rights groups viewed as friendly to one that’s hailed
by abortion foes as a national model in their fight to protect
the unborn. The shift is emblematic of the nation’s, as
lawmakers push to diminish access to the procedure and target
those who provide it. The state has become a laboratory for
Republican priorities, on issues from gun rights to immigration
to Medicaid, since  Jan Brewer  replaced Governor  Janet Napolitano , a Democrat who resigned to become the U.S. Secretary
of  Homeland Security  in 2009.  ‘Hard Place’  “This is a really hard place for women of reproductive
age,” said Bryan Howard, president and chief executive officer
of  Planned Parenthood Arizona . “We are seeing a much more
aggressive agenda.”  States passed a record 92 abortion-restricting measures
last year, more than double the previous record set in 2005,
according to the  Guttmacher Institute , a pro-abortion rights New
York-based compiler of reproductive health data. Republicans
winning a majority of governorships and making gains in
statehouses in the 2010 elections have enabled that progress,
said Denise Burke, vice president of legal affairs at
Washington-based  Americans United for Life , a group that opposes
abortion. Last year it included Arizona on its list of “most
improved” states.  Waiting Requirement  Recent Arizona laws, including a 24-hour waiting
requirement for women seeking an abortion and a ban on nurse
practitioners performing the procedures or dispensing the so-
called abortion pill, have made it hard for women in rural areas
of the sprawling desert state to terminate pregnancies, Howard
said.  Planned Parenthood  no longer offers abortions outside of
Tucson and Phoenix, the state’s two urban centers, because it
couldn’t find enough rural physicians and comply with new laws.  Arizona’s 20-week ban is similar to one passed in  Nebraska 
two years ago, said Elizabeth Nash, state issues manager at
Guttmacher. Laws in  Alabama ,  Idaho ,  Indiana ,  Kansas  and  Oklahoma 
 followed , and bans in Louisiana and Georgia are set to go into
effect Aug. 1 and Jan. 1, respectively.  Arizona’s law calculates gestational age earlier than the
rest: from the first day of the woman’s last menstrual period,
which opponents say pushes it before conception. Its exception
is also narrower: abortions past 20 weeks are only permitted
when they are immediately needed to avert death or “serious
risk of substantial and irreversible impairment of a major
bodily function.” Otherwise the law makes it a misdemeanor
punishable by as long as six months in jail for anyone to
“knowingly perform, induce or attempt to perform or induce” such
a procedure.  ‘Death’s Door’  That language means “you have to wait for a woman to be at
death’s door to save her life,” said Talcott Camp, deputy
director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s  Reproductive
Freedom Project . “Arizona’s law is just a vicious attack on
women’s health and the doctors who protect it.”  Cathi Herrod, president of the anti-abortion  Center for
Arizona Policy , said the exception is sufficient. While
advocates of 20-week bans in other states highlighted the
potential for fetal pain -- which medical groups dispute --
proponents of Arizona’s law focused on health risks of abortion,
which increase with each week of pregnancy. The law is dubbed
“The Mother’s Health and Safety Act” for that reason, she
said.  ‘Critical Step’  “After almost 40 years of legalized abortion, we now see
the devastation that abortion causes women,” Herrod said in a
telephone interview. “This is a critical step forward to
protect the health and safety of women having an abortion as
well as to protect preborn children.”  Legal induced abortion, one of the most frequently
performed surgical procedures in the U.S., with an overall death
rate of 0.6 per 100,000 occurrences, is 14 times safer than
childbirth, according to the American College of Obstetricians
and Gynecologists.  Ultrasounds, which can be used to detect serious
complications such as heart abnormalities or spina bifida, are
usually administered between 18 and 20 weeks, according to  the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . The later they are
performed, the more accurate they are, said Mark I. Evans,
president of the Fetal Medicine Foundation of America and a
professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Mount Sinai School of
Medicine in  New York .  Unanticipated Consequences  Arizona’s law will yield unanticipated consequences because
it makes no exception for such complications, he said.
“Lowering the gestational age at which women can terminate
pregnancies will lead to more abortions because patients will
have to make decisions in borderline situations -- whereas if
they have more time, more of those pregnancies continue,” Evans
said.  Only 1.5 percent of abortions performed in the U.S. in 2006
were done after 20 weeks, according to Guttmacher. Twenty-three
percent of the 1,793 providers in the U.S. offered them in 2008.  In his 30 years practicing medicine and genetics, Evans
said the vast majority of terminations after 20 weeks have been
for fetal abnormalities. “Women don’t just wake up at 21 weeks
and say ‘Oh, I changed my mind.’” Unlike Arizona’s law,
 Georgia ’s has an exception for medically futile pregnancies,
Camp said.  ‘Abortion-Minded’  State Representative Kimberly Yee, the North Phoenix
Republican who sponsored the ban, said she thinks “an abortion-
minded woman has the time” to make a decision about her
pregnancy before the 20-week ban kicks in. She said she is
concerned about “all the babies that have the ability to
survive, but their parents are choosing to abort based on a
handicap. We heard from doctors that some parents have chosen,
if the baby has a  cleft lip , to treat that as an anomaly and
abort.”  In addition to passing abortion restrictions, Arizona
lawmakers have also frozen enrollment in its health insurance
program for low-income children and scaled back eligibility for
 Children’s Rehabilitative Services , which provides specialized
health coverage for children with intense health issues, said
Dana Wolfe Naimark, president and chief executive officer with
the Phoenix-based advocacy group  Children’s Action Alliance .  Brewer, who signed the law in April, said she is confident
it will withstand court scrutiny. In a July 14 interview, she
offered the following advice to mothers of babies born with
severe defects:  ‘Different Challenges’  “We get dealt all kinds of different challenges in life
and when those unfortunate things happen, you love them and you
take care of them and you educate them,” she said. “It’s as
simple as that.”  Hercegovac, the mother of two, said after her abortion last
month that she and her husband won’t try for a third child.
Being forced to deliver the child, knowing its condition, would
have been “unfair to the baby, to me, to my whole family,” she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor in  San Francisco  at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  