-- Army Seeks Pentagon Probe Into Missile Defense Chief
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-26T19:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/army-seeks-pentagon-probe-into-missile-defense-chief.html
Army Secretary John McHugh asked the
Pentagon’s inspector general to investigate whether the director
of the U.S.  Missile Defense Agency  misled Congress in a
continuing dispute over his leadership.  McHugh requested that Acting Inspector General Lynne
Halbrooks review a lawmaker’s concerns that Army Lieutenant
General Patrick O’Reilly attempted to “misdirect” a
congressional oversight panel asking him to assess his agency’s
morale, according to Army spokesman George Wright and
congressional correspondence.  The Missile Defense Agency is responsible for developing,
fielding and upgrading the nation’s ground- and sea-based
missile defense programs. Its top contractors are  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and
 Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  The Pentagon is seeking $7.7 billion for
the agency in fiscal 2013.  O’Reilly wrote the House Armed Services Committee’s
strategic panel in May that his agency’s morale was
“significantly higher” than average even as the Pentagon’s
inspector general found in a May 2 report that he had created an
“unhealthy command climate” by yelling at subordinates.  Representative  Michael Turner  of  Ohio , the Republican who
heads the panel which oversees the Missile Defense Agency, wrote
McHugh July 13 to register his concern about O’Reilly’s “lack
of transparency and forthrightness regarding this matter.”  The inspector general “is responsible for reviewing
allegations against senior officials,” McHugh wrote Turner
yesterday.  ‘Serious Concerns’  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  told reporters today that
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has “full confidence in the Army
to look into this matter.”  The lawmaker “has raised very serious concerns regarding
Lieutenant General O’Reilly,” Wright, the Army spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The secretary of the Army has
therefore directed referral of Turner’s letter to the inspector
general and requested their review and appropriate action.”  O’Reilly had no comment, his spokesman  Richard Lehner  said
today in an e-mail.  The inspector general found O’Reilly “engaged in a
leadership style that was inconsistent” with military ethics
regulations, according to the May report by the watchdog office.  “Witnesses testified that O’Reilly’s leadership style
resulted in a command climate of fear and low morale,” the
inspector general found.  ‘Cherry-Picked’ Statements  Reilly portrayed a different atmosphere under his
leadership in agency charts sent to the panel on May 30. The
office had “significantly higher satisfaction scores than the
rest of federal government in training, salary, ethical conduct
and diversity,” according to the summary of an employee survey
sponsored last year by the White House Office of Management and
Budget.  The agency ranked No. 32 of 154 government-wide among most-
improved U.S. agencies in fiscal 2011, Reilly said in a
statement at the time. “This improvement in morale was achieved
despite” the displacement of more than 75 percent of its
Washington area workforce because of base-closing requirements,
O’Reilly wrote in remarks intended to complete the record of a
March hearing.  Turner said in the letter to McHugh that O’Reilly’s
response to the House panel “was a series of apparently out of
context ‘cherry-picked’ statements and findings that were in
sharp disagreement with the IG report.”  “I am deeply concerned there may have been an attempt to
misdirect the subcommittee in its oversight,” Turner wrote.  O’Reilly, who served in the agency since the mid-1990s
including as manager for the ground-based defensive system,
became director in November 2008, a position that previous
directors held for about four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  