-- Asian Stocks Rise First Time in 5 Days on Easing Hopes
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-07-26T11:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/asia-stocks-snap-4-day-loss-as-home-sales-fuel-fed-bets.html
Asian  stocks  headed for the first
advance in five days after a drop in U.S. new home sales fueled
speculation the Federal Reserve may take new steps to spur
growth, boosting demand for growth-sensitive shares.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage by market
value, advanced 5.7 percent, leading gains among financial firms
on a plan to name a new chief executive officer amid an insider-
trading scandal.  Qantas Airways  Ltd. rose 9.6 percent in Sydney
on a report the carrier was close to forming a long-haul
alliance.  Olympus Corp. (7733)  jumped 9.6 percent after Terumo Corp., a
Japanese medical device maker, proposed to invest 50 billion yen
($639 million) in the camera maker as part of a merger.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.9 percent to 113.94 as
of 8:55 p.m. in Tokyo, with five stocks rising for every four
that fell. All 10 industry groups on the measure advanced, led
by financial stocks on expectations that the U.S.  Federal
Reserve  will embark on a third round of quantitative easing.  “Company-specific news is driving us, but the market is
generally a bit more positive based on the QE3 expectation,”
said Matt Riordan, a portfolio manager who helps manage about
$6.5 billion at Paradice Investment Management Pty. in Sydney.
“ Europe  is lurching and no closer to a solution.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell about 12 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern  China’s
economy  is slowing and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
worsen. The regional benchmark index traded at 11.5 times
 estimated earnings  as of yesterday, compared with 13 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10.5 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.9 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 0.7 percent even after data showed
the nation’s economy grew at the slowest pace in almost three
years. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 gained 0.6 percent. New Zealand’s
NZX 50 Index advanced 0.8 percent as the nation’s central bank
extended a pause in its benchmark  interest rate . Singapore’s
Straits Times Index added 0.7 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index closed 0.1 percent lower after
swinging between gains and losses. London Metal Exchange
shareholders approved the $2.2 billion takeover offer from Hong
Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., ending a 10-month pursuit.
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.5 percent after Il Houng
Lee, the International Monetary Fund’s top official in China,
said monetary stimulus measures in place are enough to support
growth.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  S&P 500 (SPXL1)  rose 1.2 percent today. The gauge
lost less than 0.1 percent in  New York  yesterday, erasing gains
in the final hour of trading, after a report showed demand for
new U.S. homes unexpectedly dropped in June from a two-year
high.  Weaker-than-expected economic data intensified bets that
the central bank is moving closer to taking new steps to spur
economic growth. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said
policy makers are studying options for further easing that could
be deployed in case economic growth remains too feeble to
produce a lasting decline in unemployment. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  meets next week.  Financial and industrial shares accounted for half of the
advance in the MSCI Asia Pacific measure today.  Nomura rose the most among financial firms on the index,
advancing 5.7 percent to 259 yen. The brokerage plans to name
Koji Nagai, president of its domestic brokerage unit, as chief
executive officer to replace Kenichi Watanabe, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter. Watanabe and Chief
Operating Officer Takumi Shibata will step down to take
responsibility for incidents in which employees leaked
information about clients’ share sales to traders, two people
said earlier today.  Qantas, Olympus  Qantas Airways led industry shares higher after the
Australian Financial Review said the carrier was close to
forming a long-haul alliance with Emirates Airline. The shares
rose 9.6 percent to A$1.085 in Sydney.  Among other stocks that rose, Olympus surged 9.6 percent to
1,400 yen in Tokyo. Terumo Corp., Asia’s biggest maker of
medical devices, proposed investing 50 billion yen in the
scandal-hit camera maker and merging with it, seeking to scupper
a tie-up by Sony Corp.  Earnings have  missed  analyst estimates for 51 percent of
the 91 firms listed on the Asia-Pacific index that have reported
quarterly results and offered forecasts this month, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s No. 1 camera maker, slumped 7.8
percent to 2,470 in Tokyo after cutting its full-year profit
forecast to 250 billion yen due to a stronger yen and
expectations for weaker global economic growth.  “On the one hand, you’re going to see a lot of weakness
from global cyclical export companies,” Kathy Matsui, chief
Japan strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo, told
Bloomberg TV. “On the other hand, you’re going to see
surprisingly resilient results coming from domestic demand
orientated companies.”  Sands China Ltd., the Asian unit of  Sheldon Adelson ’s Las
Vegas company, lost 4.9 percent to HK$21.15 after saying its
second-quarter net income fell 40 percent from last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  