-- AstraZeneca Leads Drugmakers With European Sales Decline
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-07-26T15:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/astrazeneca-leads-drugmakers-with-european-sales-decline.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) 
and  Sanofi (SAN)  reported declining revenue in  Europe  as government
austerity measures push down prices and make it harder for some
customers to pay their bills.  Sales in Western Europe fell 20 percent, London-based
AstraZeneca said today in a statement. That compares with an 11
percent decline at constant exchange rates for Paris-based
Sanofi and a 3 percent drop for Roche of  Basel ,  Switzerland .
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , also based in  London , yesterday said
European sales fell 8 percent.  There’s no sign that the pressure on government finances
will ease anytime soon.  Spain  requested 100 billion euros
($122.6 billion) of international aid for its banks last month,
becoming the fourth nation in the euro region to seek
assistance, and the cost of insuring against a Spanish default
rose to a record yesterday. Some purchasers of medicines in
Spain and  Italy  have struggled to pay their bills as governments
cut spending on health care to help rein in the debt crisis.  “Europe is very much the biggest problem that these
companies face,” said Gustav Ando, director of health-care
research at consulting company IHS  Global Insight  in London.
“Some of these countries might be looking at new price cuts on
individual, high-cost or high-volume products. So I don’t think
they’re out of the woods at all.”  AstraZeneca rose 0.2 percent to 2,913.50 pence in London.
Roche gained less than 0.1 percent to 168 Swiss francs in
Zurich, and Sanofi rose 3.4 percent to 63.75 euros in Paris. The
 Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index (BEPHARM)  of 19 companies rose 1.1
percent.  Rajoy’s Cuts  Falling drug prices in Europe and elsewhere have cost
drugmakers more than $2.67 billion in revenue, the European
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations said
last month. In Spain, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  cut 7 billion
euros out of the medical system as part of about 45 billion
euros of cost cuts and tax hikes. Italy may need to pass new
budget cuts of as much as 10 billion euros this year, MF
reported today.  Not all drugmakers are affected equally. Pressure from
governments looking to trim budgets is “testing the high end”
of AstraZeneca’s forecast for price cuts of a mid- to high-
single-digit percentage range, Chief Financial Officer Simon
Lowth told reporters on a conference call today. The company
also is suffering from generic competition to some of its
biggest-selling products.  ‘Most Difficult’  Western Europe “is clearly the most difficult region today
in the world,” Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher 
said on a conference call. “Europe is the region of the world
where government reimbursement is the highest and unfortunately
the pharmaceutical industry is sometimes seen as an easier
target, especially compared to more structural reforms which are
going to be needed.”  Planned spending cuts in Italy may wipe out 100 million
euros in revenue, said Hanspeter Spek, Sanofi’s president of
global operations, on a conference call today.  Roche, whose best-selling products are cancer treatments,
is experiencing price pressure of about 2 percent on sales in
Europe, Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan said at a news
conference in Basel today. Price pressure is probably about
twice as high for the industry as a whole, Schwan said.  Government Policy  “This really confirms what we have been saying for quite
some time,” Schwan said on a conference call with analysts.
“When the environment gets tougher, it is not the expensive and
innovative drugs that suffer first; it is the less
differentiated drugs that suffer first.”  He said he expects “very moderate growth” in the near
future in Europe, offset by the U.S. and continuing double-digit
growth in  emerging markets .  Glaxo’s prices fell by about 7 percent in the second
quarter, CEO  Andrew Witty  told analysts on a conference call
yesterday. The company reported an 8 percent decline in European
sales.  “We think to some degree that may be the worst it gets,
but that all depends on government policy,” Witty said.  If no further price cuts are implemented and trends such as
so-called parallel trading don’t worsen, the pricing impact may
improve to 6 percent and 5 percent declines in the next two
quarters, he said. Parallel trading is the export of drugs from
low-price countries to nations where they can be sold for more.  Unpaid Bills  While Glaxo’s U.S. sales also dropped 6 percent, that
decline was driven more by temporary factors, mostly patent
expirations for products including the Valtrex antiviral and
Arixtra blood thinner, Witty said.  “These one-offs in the U.S. will work their way out of the
system pretty quickly,” he said. “This is less concerning to
me than the European picture.”  Novartis AG (NOVN)  has experienced European price cuts of between
5 percent and 6 percent,  David Epstein , the head of the Basel-
based company’s pharma division, said on a conference call last
week.  Unpaid bills are also plaguing drugmakers in some of the
countries most affected by the debt crisis.  “Our biggest concern has always been our outstanding
bills,” Roche’s Schwan said. The Swiss company has been able to
cut unpaid bills by 24 percent in Europe in the first half, he
said, helped by a Spanish government plan to repay money owed by
Spanish regional governments to suppliers.  Italy, Spain  At the beginning of the year, public and private customers
owed Roche about 2 billion euros in Europe, Schwan said. That
number has now been cut to about 1.5 billion euros. Spain and
Italy are the biggest debtors, he said.  Customers in Italy owed Roche about 700 million euros at
the end of the first half, down from about 800 million euros at
the beginning of the year, he said. Spanish unpaid bills sank in
the half from about 800 million euros to about 400 million
euros.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , the Swiss maker of the Tracleer lung drug,
enrolled in a plan aimed at injecting cash into the Spanish
economy through repayment of debt by local authorities. Through
that agreement, the company was able to collect more than 100
million Swiss francs ($102.2 million) from customers in the
country, CFO Andrew Oakley said on a conference call last week.  “The situation, however, in Southern Europe remains
challenging and we continue to look at ways to best manage the
situation,” he said.  Because the European economies are unlikely to improve
soon, companies need to adapt and become more aggressive about
pursuing business to keep sales growing, Novartis CEO  Joe Jimenez  said.  “I’m still relatively optimistic, despite the fact that
there is increasing austerity,” Jimenez said on a conference
call with journalists. “I think it’s going to take a while for
the economies of Europe, in particular some of the more troubled
economies, to begin to grow again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  