-- ATP Bondholders Said to Seek Adviser as Debt Falls to Record Low
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n
-- 2012-07-26T21:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/atp-bondholders-said-to-seek-adviser-as-debt-falls-to-record-low.html
ATP Oil & Gas Corp.  bondholders  are
organizing a group to represent their interests in a potential
restructuring, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The investors interviewed potential advisers this week,
said one of the people, who declined to be identified because
he’s involved in the process, which isn’t public. ATP Chief
Financial Officer Albert Reese and Isabel Plume, a spokeswoman
for the Houston-based company, didn’t immediately return calls
for comment.  “ATP has grappled with numerous timing issues, and yet we
have not missed an interest payment on our debt,” Paul Bulmahn,
the company’s founder and executive chairman, said last month on
a conference call.  ATP’s $1.5 billion of 11.875 percent notes due May 2015
fell 0.5 cent to 38.25 cents on the dollar, the lowest ever, as
of 4:33 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The bonds traded as high as 77.5 cents on April 26.  ATP has been battered by production delays, missed output
targets and a cash crunch that jeopardized its ability to cover
debt payments. Last month, the company announced the hiring of
former Dynamic Offshore Resources LLC Chief Executive Officer
Matt McCarroll as CEO, then said six days later that he resigned
after failing to reach a “mutually agreeable” employment
agreement.  ‘Fingers Crossed’  “We expect either bankruptcy or an announcement of some
sort from somebody on a potential reorganization,” Bob Bruce,
manager of the $350 million Bruce Fund Inc., which held about $9
million of the 11.875 percent notes as of March, said in a
telephone interview. “We just keep our fingers crossed that a
miracle will happen.”  Bruce said he hadn’t heard from any bondholder group or
advisers.  ATP’s stock has dropped 74 percent this year to $1.95 in
Nasdaq trading.  The company may run out of cash in the third quarter,
Kenneth Duffel, an analyst at Montpelier, Vermont-based KDP
Investment Advisors, wrote in a May report. ATP hired investment
bank Jefferies Group Inc. to help manage its  cash flow , the
financial newsletter Debtwire reported. Richard Khaleel, a
Jefferies spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fineman in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  