-- Australia Stimulus Helps Shoppers Shake Doldrums: Retail
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-07-26T03:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/australia-stimulus-helps-shoppers-shake-doldrums-retail.html
Australia is starting to shake off
its doldrums.  Shoppers are reopening their wallets after the country’s
most prolonged consumer slump, defying a sovereign debt crisis
in the euro region, a slowdown in Australia’s biggest export
destination, China, and a levy on  carbon emissions  that
political opponents call a tax.  Fueled by A$2 billion ($2.1 billion) in government carbon
rebates and benefit checks paid out since May, as well as four
interest-rate cuts since November,  retail sales  have risen for
five months. The value of  credit-card payments  in May was the
second-highest on record and  consumer confidence  is at its best
level since February. The country’s largest electrical-goods
chain,  Harvey Norman  Holdings Ltd., said lower-income areas that
received rebates are outperforming richer neighborhoods, while
biggest retailer  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  said less-affluent shoppers
were buying  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  “You put dollars in people’s pockets and they’ll spend
it,”  Craig James , chief economist at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia’s CommSec brokerage, said by phone. “It’s a perfect
storm of positive factors: the oil price coming down, interest-
rate cuts and government handouts.”  It’s early to judge whether Australia’s  retail  sector has
turned the corner, James said.  Home prices , which affect the
mood of shoppers, were down 3.6 percent in June from a year
earlier in state and territory capital cities, according to an
index published by data companies RP Data and Rismark
International. “There’s still a degree of angst in the
community,” said James.  Widespread Benefits  While the effects of the stimulus may diminish toward year-
end, at present the benefits appear widespread, said Michael Simotas, a consumer analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney.  “Every unlisted retailer we’ve spoken to has seen a sharp
uplift,” he said. Basic goods and discount stores such as those
owned by Woolworths,  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)  and  Premier Investments
Ltd. (PMV)  will benefit in the short term, Tony Wilson, an analyst at
Evans & Partners Pty. said by e-mail.  Wesfarmers’ Target chain, the country’s largest department-
store network with 301 outlets, put in its best performance in
at least 2-1/2 half years in the three months through June, the
company said today. Sales at stores open at least 12 months rose
4.5 percent from a year earlier, Wesfarmers said. The measure
declined in eight out of the previous nine quarters.  Chinese Shoppers  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) , Australia’s largest listed department
store company, rose the most in a week, climbing 1.8 percent to
A$1.715 at 12:42 p.m. in Sydney.  Other major economies have seen a shopper slowdown. U.S.
retail sales fell for a third month in June and companies
including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  have cut profit
projections. In  Hong Kong , a favorite destination for mainland
Chinese shoppers, May retail sales grew at the slowest pace
since 2009.  Australia’s performance illustrates its good fortune in
having  interest rates  high enough for central bankers to
stimulate the economy through conventional means, Tom Kennedy,
an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney, said by phone.  Its key interest rate, still 3.5 percent after 1.25
percentage points of cuts since November, allows room to ease
conditions further compared to the U.S., euro area, Japan, and
the U.K., where rates are already below 1 percent.  Carbon Levy  Households have also benefited from a 10 percent fall in
 gasoline prices  since mid-May and stimulus money as a rebate
against the carbon levy introduced July 1, said George Tharenou,
a senior economist at UBS AG.  While average electricity bills will go up by about 10
percent because of the carbon price and household costs will
rise by an average of A$9.90 a week, tax cuts and benefit
payments will average A$10.10 a week, Australia’s Treasurer
 Wayne Swan   said  July 8. About 4 million of Australia’s 9.1
million households will be better off, with another 2 million
receiving assistance, he said.  Australia expects to raise A$24.7 billion over four years
from the carbon levy. Those funds, combined with a  budget 
projected to return to a surplus of 0.4 percent of gross
domestic product next year and government debt levels less than
half those in the U.S. and major European economies, give the
government more scope to push stimulus to lower-income
households.  Mining Boom  Australia hasn’t suffered a recession since 1991 and a
mining boom driven largely by surging Chinese  steel production 
helped it ride out the 2008 financial crisis. Still, the retail
industry weakened last year, reflecting seven interest-rate
increases in 13 months to contain inflation amid a mining boom,
as well as growing fears about the global economy.  Spending on clothing and footwear fell to its lowest levels
in 21 months in the September quarter. Shares in retailers
including surf-wear maker  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
electronics retailer  JB Hi-Fi Ltd. (JBH) , and camping-gear seller
 Kathmandu Holdings Ltd. (KMD)  slumped by more than a quarter in
December after they said first-half earnings would miss
forecasts.  The strengthening Australian dollar also squeezed local
retailers by lowering the cost of imported goods.  While the stronger currency hit trade-exposed businesses,
the mining boom has kept  unemployment  close to 30-year lows. The
gains in the Australian dollar has also lowered the cost of
imports, making goods cheaper for shoppers.  Woolworths Sales  In a sign of the improving outlook for the industry,
Woolworths this week posted fourth-quarter sales growth that
came in at more than double analyst estimates.  At Big W, the retailer’s discount department store chain,
the carbon rebates seem to have stoked sales of Apple Inc.’s
iPad to lower-income customers, the division’s director, Julie Coates, told investors this month.  A gauge of  discretionary stocks  on the S&P/ASX 200 index
put in its best first-half performance since 2009 during the six
months ended June 30.  Groups most affected by the stimulus money seem to have
been spurring sales at some branches of Harvey Norman,
Australia’s largest electrical goods company, co-founder and
chairman  Gerry Harvey  said in an interview.  “If you give a whole heap of money to people earning under
A$100,000 you’ll get the benefit in those areas,” Harvey said.  Saving Rate  Even so, the sales pick-up seen during June had mostly
washed out in July, Harvey said, and interest rate cuts don’t
seem to be having as much of an effect as previously.  That’s no surprise,  Reserve Bank  of Australia governor
Glenn Stevens said in a  June speech . The conditions that
supported the retail sector until 2007 were “unusual” and
won’t be repeated soon.  “If there were business strategies that assumed a
resumption of the earlier trend, they will surely be
disappointed,” he said.  Since the financial crisis, Australia’s  saving rate , a
determinant of spending levels, hasn’t dropped below 8 percent
once, and remains at levels more than double  those in the U.S .  Annual growth in retail spending hit 4 percent in June, the
highest level since 2009, and should hold at that rate for at
least for the rest of the year, according to UBS’s Tharenou.
That’s below the long-term average of 6 percent.  Even so, the rebates and cash stimulus will mean that over
the next year “people will have a little extra each month” he
said.  The  cash flow  already appears to be feeding into consumer
sentiment, said Rebecca Huntley, consumer executive director of
market research group Ipsos’s local division. Focus-group
surveys are showing less attention to pessimistic themes such as
the global economy, she said. “We may be starting to see some
slivers of sunshine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  