-- Australian Bonds Fall, Currency Gains on Draghi, Stocks
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-27T05:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/australia-bonds-fall-aussie-holds-gains-on-draghi-speech.html
Australia’s government bonds
declined and the local currency rose for a third day against the
dollar and the yen as Asian stocks extended a global rally,
boosting investor appetite for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie dollar was poised for a second monthly
gain after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve the euro.
ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said this week there were
arguments in favor of giving a banking license to the region’s
rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism. Demand for  New
Zealand ’s dollar was limited on signs global growth is slowing.  “The comments from ECB President Draghi echoed those from
ECB council member Nowotny earlier this week about granting the
ESM a banking license to increase its firepower,” said Gavin Stacey, chief rate strategist at Barclays Plc in Sydney. “You
would expect the risk-on to last into the European session. The
Australian dollar will benefit over the near term.”  Australia ’s government bonds  declined , pushing the yield on
the 10-year security up by 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage
point, to 2.96 percent as of 3:36 p.m. in Sydney. The benchmark
yield earlier touched 2.98 percent, the highest since July 12.
The three-year rate rose as much as 17 basis points to 2.42
percent, the highest since July 6.  The Australian dollar climbed 0.2 percent to $1.0419 from
$1.0397 yesterday, when it jumped 0.9 percent. It’s headed for a
1.8 percent gain this month against its U.S. counterpart. The
currency rose to 81.51 yen, up 0.2 percent from yesterday, when
it advanced 0.9 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, was little
changed at 80.24 U.S. cents from 80.19 yesterday, when it
advanced 1.6 percent. It fetched 62.77 yen from 62.72.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rose 1.7 percent,
following a 2.2 percent advance in the MSCI World Index
yesterday.  New Tools  The ECB chief’s pledge spurred speculation policy makers
may be preparing to unveil new measures to fight  Europe ’s debt
crisis as potential bailouts for economies the size of Spain and
 Italy  threaten to overwhelm rescue funds. Draghi spoke yesterday
at the Global Investment Conference in  London , saying surging
sovereign-bond yields may fall within the ECB’s jurisdiction.  Spanish 10-year yields reached a euro-era record of 7.75
percent this week, exceeding the 7 percent level that prompted
bailouts for  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland. Yields on the Spanish
10-year bonds declined to 6.93 percent yesterday.  The Australian dollar has strengthened 2.9 percent in the
past month, the best performance among 10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The kiwi has
strengthened 0.7 percent over the same period.  Crisis Continues  “If the ECB does not follow up with measures that are
convincing to the markets, then concerns would be that the
crisis will still continue,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency
strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “The global economy is
looking softer. The risk is still to the downside for the Aussie
and kiwi.”  The  jobless rate  in the euro area probably rose to 11.2
percent in June from 11.1 percent in May, economists in a
Bloomberg News poll predicted before the figures are released on
July 31. That would be the highest on record. U.S. gross
domestic product probably expanded at an annualized 1.4 percent
in the second quarter, the slowest pace in a year, according to
a separate survey before the Commerce Department publishes data
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  