-- Lazard Profit Falls 50% as Asset-Management Revenue Drops
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-07-26T20:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/lazard-profit-falls-50-as-asset-management-revenue-drops.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the largest independent
merger adviser, reported a 50 percent decrease in second-quarter
profit as asset-management revenue declined.  Earnings fell to $33 million, or 25 cents a share, from
$65.8 million, or 48 cents, a year-earlier, the Hamilton,
Bermuda-based firm said today in a statement. Per-share earnings
matched the  average estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Asset-management revenue declined 13 percent to $206.5
million. Assets under management fell 8 percent to $148 billion
as $1.14 billion of inflows failed to offset market declines
during the period.  Nelson Peltz ’s Trian Fund Management LP last month
disclosed a 5.1 percent stake in Lazard, making it the biggest
shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund
said Lazard, run by Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth Jacobs , is
“significantly undervalued” and that earnings per share could
increase to more than $3.50 in 2014.  Lazard gained 5.1 percent to close at $25.64 in  New York .
The firm’s shares have declined 1.8 percent this year.  Jacobs, who has run the firm since 2009, is transforming
Lazard from a private partnership to a “transparent,
shareholder-friendly” company, Trian said in a June
presentation. He’s planning to widen margins, return capital to
shareholders and improve governance and transparency, Trian said
at the time.  Pay Structure  Peltz criticized Lazard’s pay and cost structure in
meetings with senior executives before disclosing the stake,
people familiar with the matter said last month. He told Jacobs
the firm paid bankers more than deal flow or productivity
merited, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
talks were private.  Lazard paid out 63 percent of net revenue in compensation,
up from 58 percent in last year’s second quarter, even as the
total payout remained virtually unchanged at $285.2 million. The
compensation expense was affected by vesting grants awarded in
previous years, Jacobs said today in an interview.  “This relatively low ratio of 58.1 percent in last year’s
second quarter has impacted the quarterly earnings comparison,”
Chief Financial Officer Matthieu Bucaille said today on a
conference call following the results.  Bucaille said the firm is “aggressively” pursuing cuts in
both compensation and non-compensation expenses, and the results
should be reflected in earnings next year.  Financial Advisory  Revenue from the firm’s financial-advisory business fell 3
percent to $243 million in the second quarter from a year
earlier on a decline in  capital markets  and restructuring
advisory revenue.  Lazard’s merger advisory revenue for the first half of 2012
increased 16 percent to $388 million, even as global deal volume
declined 22 percent to $986.7 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Corporate executives have been hesitant
to pursue deals amid  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and weaker
economic growth in the U.S.  “Uncertainty regarding Europe and the U.S. fiscal outlook
continues to be a headwind for our industry, so we remain
cautious,” Jacobs said in the statement. “Even as we pursue
revenue growth, we are equally focused on expense management.”  Lazard named former Citigroup Inc. Chairman  Richard Parsons , 64, to its board of directors last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  