-- Baker & McKenzie, SNR Denton, Jones Day: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/baker-mckenzie-snr-denton-jones-day-business-of-law.html
Baker & McKenzie  LLP’s latest
outpost will open on Aug. 1 in Casablanca,  Morocco , a city of 4
million people where the firm’s new lawyers will focus on
corporate deals and disputes in North  Africa . It will be the
Baker & McKenzie’s third office in Africa and 71st globally.  Kamal Nasrollah, a partner who joins Baker & McKenzie with
about four other lawyers from Paris-based August & Debouzy, will
lead the office. Nasrollah opened August & Debouzy’s Casablanca
office in 2007, and previously worked in Paris,  New York  and
 London  for  Sullivan & Cromwell , Baker & McKenzie said.  Nasrollah and his team have advised on corporate deals and
disputes in Morocco as well as on cross-border work,
particularly with North African, West African and Middle Eastern
countries. The team, based in Casablanca and Paris, also has
experience with large-scale cross-border projects and corporate
reorganizations, the firm said.  Casablanca will be Baker & McKenzie’s fourth new office in
the past 18 months. In addition to Johannesburg in May, it
recently opened offices in Istanbul and Doha. The first African
office opened in Cairo in 1985.  “We are deeply committed to Africa and to clients who do
business on this fast-rising continent,” Eduardo Leite,
chairman of Baker & McKenzie’s executive committee said in a
statement. “Africa now accounts for almost a quarter of the
world’s foreign direct investment. This strong Casablanca team,
together with our highly regarded teams in Cairo and
Johannesburg, further enhances our ability to help clients
navigate with confidence in the region.”  Led by the Paris office, Baker & McKenzie has advised
clients on matters in the French-speaking nations of North and
West Africa and on transactions across a range of industries,
including energy, natural resources, healthcare, IT and
telecommunications, among others.  Baker & McKenzie has more than 3,800 locally qualified
lawyers and over 5,800 professional staff in 71 offices in 44
countries.  SNR Denton Names Co-Head of Insurance Regulatory Practice  SNR Denton LLP announced that Bruce Baty has been named co-
head of the firm’s insurance regulatory practice. He joins Kara
Baysinger as co-leader of the U.S. practice, which is part of
the firm’s global insurance sector team.  “Bruce is widely recognized in the insurance regulatory
field for his vast experience advising clients on a host of
regulatory compliance issues, including financial and market
conduct examinations to Holding Company Act compliance and
licensing,” Mike McNamara, SNR Denton’s U.S. managing partner
said. “We are confident that in this new role Bruce will
continue to strengthen our dynamic, market-leading practice.”  Baty’s practice focuses on representing insurance
companies, reinsurance companies, producers and third-party
administrators in property and casualty and life, accident and
health insurance matters. In addition to insurance regulatory
matters, Baty has also represented companies in litigation and
arbitration as well as transactions, including mergers and
acquisitions, product development and approval, insolvency
issues, and reinsurance programs. He also counsels corporate
clients on the scope and structure of their insurance coverage,
the firm said.  SNR Denton has 16 U.S. offices, and a total of 60 locations
including associate firms and special alliances world-wide.  Moves  U.S. Antitrust Criminal Enforcement Head Joins A&O  Allen & Overy LLP hired John Terzaken, the director of
criminal enforcement for the U.S.  Justice Department ’s antitrust
division, a partner in the firm’s global antitrust practice.  He will be based in the firm’s Washington office where he
will lead the cartel defense practice in the U.S., advising both
domestic and international clients on antitrust criminal
investigations and litigation.  Terzaken handled many high-profile global cartel
investigations during his tenure at the Justice Department
including the auto parts, LIBOR, LCD and air cargo
investigations, the firm said.  “We are an established global, elite antitrust practice
and being joined by a leading global figure such as John further
strengthens our ability to service our clients across the three
main antitrust hubs in Washington, Brussels and Beijing,”
Olivier Fréget, head of the global antitrust practice, said in a
statement.  Allen & Overy  plans to strengthen its U.S. antitrust
practice. The firm has over 100 antitrust lawyers
internationally. Brussels-based antitrust partner Michael J. Reynolds will be spending a significant part of his time in the
firm’s Washington office, in order to accelerate the development
and integration of the antitrust practice across the firm’s 40
offices in 28 countries, the firm said.  Terzaken joined the department’s criminal antitrust section
in June 2004, was appointed its assistant chief in November 2008
and named director two years later.  As director, he had management responsibility for the
antitrust division’s criminal investigations and litigation
nationwide, including reviewing, approving, and overseeing
investigations and prosecutions recommended by the eight Justice
Department offices responsible for criminal antitrust
enforcement, the firm said.  Allen & Overy has approximately 4,750 staff, including some
512 partners, working in 40 offices worldwide.  Jones Day Hires Banking & Finance Law Partner Bruce Moorhead  Jones Day  said Bruce W. Moorhead Jr. joined the firm as a
banking and finance practice partner based in Atlanta. He was
previously a partner with Hunton & Williams LLP, the firm said.  Moorhead’s practice focuses on the representation of
financial institutions in leveraged and asset-based lending
transactions and in workouts and bankruptcies. He has experience
in bank and non-bank financing, with a focus on leveraged
lending and cross-border financing, the firm said.  Moorhead, who will also work out of the New York office,
represents financial institutions and intermediaries such as
administrative and collateral agents in connection with
syndicated loans, leveraged acquisition lending, cash flow
lending, asset-based lending, and cross-border financing as well
as resolution of problem loans, debtor-in-possession financing,
and exit financing facilities.  “Bruce’s work for lenders in the area of asset based
finance and leveraged finance, as well as his particular skills
in important areas like DIP facilities and cross-border
financings, will make him a very welcome addition to our global
practice,” Brett Barragate, co-leader of Jones Day’s banking
and finance practice said in a statement.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 35 offices world-
wide.  Litigation  ‘Modern Family’ Resembles ‘Family Feud’ in Actor Pay Dispute  “Modern Family” is looking more like “Family Feud”
after actors in the most watched comedy on U.S. television sued
producer Twentieth Century Fox Television, threatening summer
filming in a fight over pay and outside work.  Jeffery D. McFarland, a partner with Quinn Emanuel Urquhart
& Sullivan LLP in  Los Angeles , is representing Sofia Vergara,
Julie Bowen, Ty Burrell and other cast members who are asking a
California judge to void contracts that cap pay and bar outside
work just ahead of the show’s planned fourth season, according
to a complaint filed yesterday in Los Angeles Superior Court.  A ruling is necessary “to avoid the hardship caused on the
parties by a protracted dispute and further delay” in light of
the new season, lawyers for the actors said in the complaint
against the producer, a unit of  News Corp . The contracts violate
state labor law prohibiting some agreements for services lasting
more than seven years, according to the filing.  The suit pits the actors against a producer they claim bars
them from working elsewhere while locking them into single-digit
pay raises. The success of “Modern Family,” the biggest show
on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC broadcast network and central to its
effort to draw viewers to new shows in September, “has been
built upon a collection of illegal contracts,” the actors said.  The contract for Vergara, 40, limits per-episode
compensation increases each year to 5 percent, while cast
members Jesse Tyler Ferguson, Eric Stonestreet, Burrell and
Bowen are entitled to 4 percent more annually, according to the
complaint.  The actors also said they are barred from seeking roles
outside the program without Fox’s consent.  Chris Alexander, a spokesman for Twentieth Century Fox
Television in Los Angeles, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Vergara v. Twentieth Century Fox, BC488786, Los
Angeles County Superior Court (Los Angeles).  News  Securities Suits Decreased in First Half of 2012, Study Finds  Federal securities class actions decreased in the first
half of 2012 compared with last year largely because of a
decline in Chinese reverse mergers and the lowest number of
mergers and acquisitions since the third quarter of 2009,
according to a study.  According to the  Stanford Law School  Securities Class
Action Clearinghouse and  Cornerstone Research , 88 federal
securities class-action, or group lawsuits were filed in the
first six months of this year, a reduction of 6 percent from
both the first half and second half of 2011.  Stanford Law School and Cornerstone reported five
securities class actions filed over the reverse-mergers in the
first half of the year, a 79 percent decline compared with the
same period last year, and seven such filings related to mergers
and acquisitions in the past six months, a 67 percent decline
from the same period in 2011.  The decline in filings stemming from Chinese reverse
mergers isn’t a surprise because “that sector of the market has
already been badly hit by concerns over the integrity of Chinese
private-company financial statements and these deals have been
disappearing from the market,”  Joseph Grundfest , a professor at
Stanford Law School, said in an e-mailed statement.  While class actions over such Chinese deals dropped,
filings against foreign issuers as a percentage of all lawsuits
were greater than every year since 1997, with the exception of
last year, according to the study.  Future filings may result from allegations of Libor
rigging, according to Grundfest.  Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  are probing more than a
dozen banks worldwide over allegations they manipulated Libor, a
benchmark for financial products valued at $360 trillion
worldwide. Investigators are examining whether traders colluded
to rig the rate for profit and whether banks understated their
borrowing costs to appear healthier than they were.  “The magnitude of the potential exposures and the
complexity of the underlying damages claims will likely generate
large amounts of litigation activity in many geographies,”
Grundfest said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 