-- Banks May Extend Maturities on Market-Linked CDs Amid Low Rates
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-07-26T19:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/banks-may-extend-maturities-on-market-linked-cds-amid-low-rates.html
Banks may issue more longer-dated
market-linked certificates of deposit as low  interest rates  make
those with shorter maturities less attractive.  U.S. bank revenue from the investments fell to $74 per
million dollars in retail deposits in May, the latest month for
which data is available, from a high of $100 in March, according
to Kehrer-LIMRA Research compiled from about 30 lenders,
including  Wells Fargo & Co . and SunTrust Banks Inc. That’s tied
with April for the lowest since July of last year.  The five-year swap rate, a benchmark for borrowing costs,
has averaged 1.1 percent this year, down from 2.2 percent during
the same period in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. When rates decline, the zero-coupon bonds used to
create structured notes become more expensive, which especially
affects shorter-term products. To create more attractive
structured CDs, banks may lengthen maturities.  “I remember when five years was the longest, and if you
went more than five years, it was sort of taboo,” said Glenn Lotenberg, a managing director at Incapital LLC in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida , who’s responsible for U.S. structured note
distribution. Now seven-year products aren’t unusual, he said.  “It’s likely that maturities may get extended to eight
years” on the more common CDs that allow investors to
participate in market gains, said Serge Troyanovsky, head of
North American structured product sales at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in  New
York .  Lowering Fees  Last year, banks sold at least 1,271 market-linked CDs,
which are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
according to StructuredRetailProducts.com, a database used by
the industry. Data on the overall size of the market is
incomplete because CDs, which aren’t considered securities,
aren’t registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  “For things to work out in August, I think the commissions
are going to be reduced,” said Lotenberg, whose company is
already offering fewer structured CDs. Cutting fees, which
average about 3 percent, would hurt margins for distributors
such as Incapital.  While issuers have been squeezed by falling interest rates,
they have been helped by lower volatility, which makes the
options used to create certain CDs less expensive, Troyanovsky
said. The VIX, as the  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index (VIX)  is known, averaged 19.1 in the first half of 2012, down
from 30.16 in the last six months of 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Barclays Plc issued a seven-year CD tied to a basket of 10
stocks yesterday, including Apple Inc. and Walgreen Co., with a
cap of between 5 percent and 7 percent annually, according to a
preliminary disclosure statement. The CD averages the returns of
the stocks, not including dividends. The bank distributed the
product for a maximum commission of 4.5 percent, according to
the statement.  Structured CDs are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 