-- Beer-Swilling Rylance Turns Evil Richard III Into Joker
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-07-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/beer-swilling-rylance-turns-evil-richard-iii-into-joker.html
Actor  Mark Rylance  drags his bad leg
across the stage, repeats the odd word or syllable, and does a
celebratory hop-skip-and-jump when he hears merry news.  This isn’t Rylance as Johnny Rooster in the award-winning 
contemporary play “ Jerusalem .” It’s Rylance as “Richard III” at 
Shakespeare’s Globe -- the crowning theatrical moment of the 
 London  2012 Olympics cultural festival. Yet there are 
conspicuous parallels.  Rylance gave a milestone performance as the reckless
trailer-dweller in the 2009 Jez Butterworth play, and between
runs in London and New York, spent a long time in the part. So
while you can take Rylance out of “Jerusalem,” it seems you
can’t take “Jerusalem” out of Rylance just yet.  The magnetic actor is still a highlight of a production
that touches people, literally. Rylance and the all-male cast
make physical contact with the audience, roping them in and
recreating the raucous atmosphere of theater in the Bard’s day.  When we first see the future King Richard III, he looks
like a court jester in his yellow stockings. A waist-length cape
half-covers the tiny crippled hand pinned to his chest.  As Rylance delivers the famous opening soliloquy, he does a
jolly little skip, and hands a white rose to a spectator. When
the audience laughs too hard, he motions at them to keep quiet.
There is nothing solemn or menacing about him.  Yet Richard is viciously plotting his own coronation. He
murders anyone with a claim to the throne, woos their wives and
daughters, and snuffs out their descendants.  Strawberry Blond  True to theater in Shakespeare’s day, the women in the play
are played by men. They wear elaborate lace collars, curly
strawberry-blond wigs, and long velvet trains that glide across
the stage.  The all-male cast does a good job of impersonating women,
though to some contemporary eyes they might come across as drag
queens. With her powder-white complexion and pursed pink lips,
 Queen Elizabeth  (Samuel Barnett) vaguely resembles the young Boy George.  There are other gifted multitaskers, including Liam Brennan
(as Clarence and the  Lord Mayor ), Paul Chahidi (as Hastings and
Tyrrell), and Roger Lloyd Pack (as the Duke of Buckingham), who
gets the audience chanting “God save Richard,  England ’s worthy
king!”  Ultimately, though, it’s Rylance people pay to see, and he
gives a lot back.  Comic Coronation  When he’s finally crowned king, he grandly shakes his
ermine cape over the front row. As he tumbles over, his golden
crown rolls into the hands of a spectator. And as he desperately
clings to his kingdom, he grabs another spectator’s arm,
virtually lifting him onto the stage.  While his performance could use a little gravitas, Rylance
-- a Shakespearean actor who was the  Globe’s  artistic director
from 1995 to 2005 -- connects with the contemporary public in a
way few can. He will lure many a first-timer to the Globe, and
to Shakespeare.  His “Richard III” comes as he struggles with recent
family tragedy: the death of his stepdaughter. With time, no
doubt, Rylance will come into his role as the crippled king.  Rating: ***.  “Richard III” runs through Oct. 13 at Shakespeare’s
Globe, 21 New Globe Walk, Bankside, SE1 9DT. Information:
 http://www.shakespearesglobe.com  or +44-20-7902-1400.  The production will transfer for the Apollo Theatre in the
West End on Nov 6.  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 