-- Beijing Man’s Death in Flooded Car Spurs Run on Hammers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-26T13:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/beijing-man-s-drowning-death-in-flooded-car-spurs-run-on-hammers.html
Sales of emergency hammers surged on
 China ’s e-commerce sites after record rainstorms in Beijing last
weekend killed 77 people, including a man who drowned when he
was trapped in his car and couldn’t escape the floodwaters.  The top 10 sellers of the hammers on Taobao.com, China’s
biggest e-commerce website, were all out of stock today, they
said. Buyers were told they would be able to receive their
orders in about two days.  The man’s drowning in his vehicle made methods for escaping
a car flooding with water a popular topic in China, with the
Beijing News publishing  an article  on its website today that
described how to break a car window from the inside. The July 21
storm dumped as much as 16 inches of rain on Beijing, the most
in six decades, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported.  Users of China’s microblog services expressed skepticism
about the government’s initial official death toll of 37 people.
The Beijing municipal government today revised the tally to 77
after more bodies were retrieved, Xinhua reported.  Some hammer sellers posted pictures and videos purporting
to show the man who drowned after his car got stuck in a flooded
underpass in central Beijing and he couldn’t open the door to
escape as the waters submerged his vehicle.  “We hope you never need this, but you must have one,” one
seller’s website read.  Sales so far have been “beyond expectations,” one top
seller, who would only give his surname, Zhang, said in a phone
interview. He said he sold more than 2,000 hammers since the
July 21 rainstorm and won’t have more until Aug. 8.  Beijing’s meteorological department forecast heavy rain for
yesterday and companies posted notices on Sina Corp.’s Weibo
microblog service allowing employees to go home early. The
expected storm never arrived and there was light rainfall in
Beijing today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Raymond Liu in Beijing at 
 rliu118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  