-- Bo Xilai Wife Charged in Poisoning Death of U.K Citizen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-27T04:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/bo-xilai-wife-charged-with-homicide-in-death-of-u-k-businessman.html
China ’s unveiling of murder charges
against the wife of ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai signals the
Communist Party is trying to move beyond the scandal before a
once-in-a-decade leadership handover later this year.  Gu Kailai, once a well-known lawyer, was charged with
“intentional homicide” in the poisoning of British businessman
Neil Heywood, the official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday,
without giving a date for a trial. Bo was removed as Chongqing
party secretary in March and suspended from the Politburo in
April on allegations of violating party discipline.  The challenge for China’s leaders will be to ensure they
don’t all emerge tainted by Bo’s ouster, which marks the most
serious leadership upheaval since the  Tiananmen Square  protests
in 1989. They have tried to present the case as an isolated
incident as they try to bolster their legitimacy ahead of the
18th Communist Party Congress when the country’s new leaders
will be revealed.  “If they can somehow find evidence against Bo Xilai and
have him dealt with before the 18th party congress, his
supporters will be silenced,” said Bo Zhiyue, a senior research
fellow at the  National University  of  Singapore ’s East Asian
Institute, who is not related to Bo Xilai. “You will settle all
these things down and people will say ‘Just forget about Bo
Xilai and lets move on to the next stage.’”  Gu’s alleged involvement in Heywood’s death was exposed
after Bo’s former police chief in Chongqing, Wang Lijun, went to
the U.S. Consulate in Chengdu in February bearing evidence she
and Zhang had Heywood killed, according to U.S. officials
briefed on the matter. Chinese investigators had initially told
U.K. authorities that Heywood died of alcohol poisoning.  Firm Evidence  “The facts are clear and the evidence is firm and
adequate,” Xinhua said yesterday. Gu, 53, and her son had a
financial conflict with Heywood, which led her to believe he was
a threat to her son’s safety, Xinhua said. An orderly in the
family home, Zhang Xiaojun, was also charged, the report said.  China’s leaders need to convince the public that the
incident isn’t a symptom of deeper problems within the system,
said June Teufel Dreyer, a professor of political science at the
 University of Miami  who focuses on China.  One way the party may seek to do that in the coming weeks
and months, Dreyer said, is to demonize Gu, portraying her as
evil, extravagant and adulterous. Gu may get a death sentence
that will be suspended indefinitely, she said.  “Now you have a really cynical and alienated population,”
Dreyer said in a telephone interview. In China “it plays into a
larger sense of malaise -- our leaders are not looking out for
us.”  Public Criticism  That disillusionment was on display recently when leaders
faced public criticism after Beijing officials claimed only 37
people were killed in floods from heavy rainstorms last weekend,
and later raised the toll to 77. Chinese  Internet users  also
questioned the official death toll from a mall fire in Tianjin,
and criticized administrators over a woman who was forced to
abort her seven-month fetus in June.  The state-run Global Times newspaper, which said earlier
this month that the government faces a credibility crisis,
published an editorial today saying courts are under more
scrutiny and legal departments should release more information
to satisfy the public’s demand.  “A trial held according to the law will strengthen the
Chinese people’s confidence in the country’s legal system,” the
editorial said. “This is a criminal case, and society should
see it as one.”  Reached Consensus  Bo hasn’t been seen in public since the National People’s
Congress in March. Prosecutors interrogated Gu and Zhang, and
“heard the opinions of the defense team,” Xinhua said.  The indictment is a sign that the country’s leadership has
reached a consensus about Bo’s fate at summertime meetings in
the beach-side resort of Beidaihe and that Bo will “very soon”
be charged as well, said Huang Jing, a professor of political
science at the  National University of Singapore .  Huang said the details in Gu’s indictment suggest the
charges against Bo may be very narrow, focused on attempts to
obstruct justice to protect his wife. That will keep the focus
away from broader corruption charges that could stain other
leaders, Huang said in a telephone interview from Chengdu,
Sichuan province.  Cheng Li, a scholar at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington , said in a telephone interview that Gu’s indictment
signals that Bo will probably be kicked out of the Communist
Party in the coming days or weeks.  Butcher’s Assistant  Gu is the youngest of five daughters of a People’s
Liberation Army general, according to a Chinese-language website
affiliated with the Communist Youth League. She rose from a
butcher’s assistant during the 1966-1976 Cultural Revolution to
become a lawyer who won a lawsuit in the U.S. and went on to
write a book about the experience.  Bo’s family has become an embodiment of the political
influence and wealth that can accrue to relatives of China’s top
leaders. Bo is a so-called princeling because his father,  Bo
Yibo , was one of the founding revolutionary leaders of the
People’s Republic. Gu’s sisters controlled a web of businesses
from Beijing to Hong Kong to the Caribbean worth at least $126
million, regulatory and corporate filings show.  Bo Guagua, Gu and Bo’s son, fueled further speculation
about the family’s wealth for attending Britain’s elite Harrow
School and Oxford University, and then Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government.  Seeking to dispel claims that he lived an extravagant
lifestyle, Bo Guagua sent a letter to Harvard’s Crimson
newspaper in April saying that his education was funded partly
by his mother’s “generosity from the savings she earned from
her years as a successful lawyer and writer.”  Speaking at a briefing at the National Party Congress in
March, Bo said his wife had quit her law practice and mostly did
housework. “I am very moved of her sacrifice,” Bo said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in  Hong Kong  at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  