-- Boston’s WGBH to Buy ‘This American Life’ Distributor PRI
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-26T21:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/boston-s-wgbh-will-buy-tthis-american-life-producer-pri.html
WGBH, a Boston public-radio station
and production company, will acquire its funding-strapped
partner Public Radio International, which distributes shows such
as “This American Life.”  PRI will become an independent unit of WGBH with its own
board, the two companies said today in a statement. PRI and WGBH
have worked together for 16 years to produce “PRI’s The
World,” a daily international news show for radio listeners.
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  PRI has been operating at a loss, with revenue falling 9.2
percent to  $23.7 million  in the most recently reported fiscal
year. Grants, gifts and corporate sponsorships fell 33 percent
to $6.5 million in the period, which ended in June 2011,
according to the Minneapolis-based broadcaster’s annual report.  “Joining forces with WGBH will benefit every group PRI
serves, including stations, talent, producers and the public,”
PRI Chief Executive Officer Alisa Miller said in the statement.  In addition to “This American Life” and “The World,”
PRI produces “Studio 360” with author Kurt Andersen. PRI
receives most of its revenue from its 900 affiliate radio
stations, which pay for such programming. Corporate sponsors
include  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Scion division.  Less than 2 percent of its budget comes from government-
funding sources such as the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
and the  National Science Foundation , according to Julia Yager, a
spokeswoman for PRI.  WGBH  is the one of the largest producers of content for
public radio and television. Its shows for PBS include “Nova,”
“Frontline” and “Masterpiece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  