-- Boston Scientific’s Kucheman Sees Sales Growth Back in 2013
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-07-26T20:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/boston-scientific-falls-on-declining-sales-of-implanted-devices.html
Revenue for  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ,
the second-biggest U.S. maker of heart devices, won’t resume
growing until 2013 as the industry adjusts to lower demand for
implanted stents and defibrillators and new products reach the
market, said Chief Executive Officer Hank Kucheman.  Boston Scientific trimmed its 2012 profit and revenue
forecasts today after sales of stents and defibrillators
declined in the second quarter. The shares of Natick,
Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific  plunged  6.8 percent to a
17-year low price of $4.97 at the close of New York trading. The
shares have fallen 28 percent in the past 12 months.  The market for defibrillators and pacemakers shrunk in the
second half of 2011, making the comparison easier for the
remainder of this year, said Jeff Capello, Boston Scientific’s
Chief Financial Officer. The introduction of new products next
year and growth in  emerging markets  will help the company break
even, he said in a telephone interview.  “Our challenge is to stabilize those businesses here in
the second half of 2012,” Kucheman said in an interview. “As
we move into 2013 and beyond, our strategic investments will hit
the top line of our enterprise in a meaningful way.”  Lower-than-expected long-term growth and underperformance
in Europe led the company to take a $3.4 billion charge during
the quarter to reduce the amount of goodwill on its balance
sheet stemming from a 2005 acquisition of Guidant Corp.  Boston Scientific reported a  net loss  of $3.5 billion, or
$2.39 a share, compared with a profit of $146 million, or 10
cents, a year earlier.  Pricing Pressure  “We think second quarter results point to continued end-
market weakness driven by intensifying pricing pressure and
sluggish demand,” said David Roman, an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in  New York , in a note to clients today. “Against
this backdrop, we estimate Boston Scientific continues to lose
share in its core business segments.”  The company cut its sales forecast for this year to $7.2
billion to $7.4 billion, from an outlook of $7.35 billion to
$7.65 billion in April. The company generated $7.6 billion last
year and has seen lower year-over-year sales for nine of the
past 10 quarters.  Earnings excluding one-time items will be 62 to 68 cents a
share for 2012, Boston Scientific said. The company in April
forecast 60 to 70 cents.  Cost Cuts  Boston Scientific reduced costs and improved profit margins
by moving manufacturing to  Costa Rica  and selling its own Promus
Element stent, an updated version of the device originally
licensed from Abbott Laboratories, said Derrick Sung, a Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York.  The margins were significantly higher and should be
sustained, Sung wrote in a note to clients today.  Kucheman said growth drivers next year would include the
Alair system for treating severe asthma, the Watchman device to
reduce stroke risk in those with erratic heart rates and an
implanted defibrillator that works without the thin wires known
as leads. The defibrillator has a potential market of $750
million, and Boston Scientific is the only company with the
device, said  Michael Mahoney , the company’s president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  