-- Brazil Consumer Default Rate Falls First Time Since March
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-07-26T15:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/brazil-consumer-default-rate-falls-first-time-since-march-1-.html
Brazil ’s consumer-loan default rate
fell in June for the first time in three months, as the
government’s drive to lower borrowing costs provides relief to
indebted families.  The  consumer default  rate declined to 7.8 percent from a
revised 7.9 percent in May, the central bank said in a report
distributed today in Brasilia. The company loan default rate
slid to 4 percent from 4.1 percent over the same period. Lower
 interest rates , higher income levels and a more conservative
selection process by banks have caused default rates to fall,
the central bank’s head of economic research, Tulio Maciel, told
reporters in Brasilia today.  Since August, Brazil has cut the benchmark Selic rate 450
basis points to the record low 8 percent and pressured banks to
lower rates on loans to accelerate a sluggish economic recovery.
Easier credit access, a drop in delinquency rates and record-low
unemployment will help drive consumption in the world’s second-
largest emerging market, central bank President Alexandre Tombini told reporters July 23. Policy makers have also
implemented growth measures such as tax breaks on automobiles
and  consumer goods .  “Private credit is still growing robustly,”  John Welch ,
macro strategist at  CIBC World Markets , said in a telephone
interview from Toronto. “Brazil is not suffering from a lack of
demand.”  Loan Rates  Brazil’s average interest rate on loans rose 0.2 percentage
point to 31.3 percent in July 1-16, Maciel said.  Average rates on consumer loans climbed 1.3 percentage
points to 37.8 percent, while rates on corporate loans fell 0.4
percentage point to 23.4 percent, Maciel told reporters in
Brasilia.  Some of the country’s largest banks said this week that
profits have been hit by consumers’ difficulties in paying their
debts.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Latin America’s second-largest bank by
market value, said on July 23 that second-quarter provisions
against bad loans rose 40 percent.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  said
July 24 that the average default rate for payments at least 90
days overdue rose to 5.2 percent in June from 4.5 percent a year
earlier, and provisions rose 17 percent from 2011.  Consumer confidence  in Brazil fell in July for the third
month in a row, according to data released from the Getulio
Vargas Foundation yesterday.  Credit Growth  Outstanding credit rose 17.9 percent in June from the same
month last year to 2.2 trillion reais ($1.1 billion), the
central bank said today. Credit increased 1.5 percent from the
previous month.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.68 percent at 11:01 a.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.3 percent to 2.0264 per dollar.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded at a 0.8 percent
annualized rate during the first quarter. The central bank
forecasts 2012 growth will reach 2.5 percent, while economists
surveyed weekly by the central bank expect an increase of 1.9
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 