-- Breaking Up Banks Won’t Make Them Safer, Ex-Senator Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-07-26T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/breaking-up-banks-won-t-make-them-safer-ex-senator-says.html
Phil Gramm , the former U.S. senator
who helped write the 1999 law that enabled the creation of
financial giants such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America
Corp. , said his legislation didn’t make the system any riskier.  The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act  repealed  the 1933 prohibition
against federally insured depository institutions combining with
securities firms and insurers. While his law allows deposit-
taking banks to affiliate with securities firms through holding
companies, depositors and taxpayers are protected because
affiliates can’t take capital out of the banks, Gramm said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  “I don’t see any evidence that allowing them to affiliate
through holding companies had anything to do with the financial
crisis nor has anybody ever presented any evidence to suggest
that it did,” said Gramm, 70. Companies that failed such as
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. “tended to be narrowly focused.”  Sanford “Sandy” Weill, who created Citigroup and pushed
for the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, said yesterday on CNBC that he
would now support dismantling financial holding companies.  “What we should probably do is go and split up  investment
banking  from banking,” Weill, 79, said in the interview. “Have
banks do something that’s not going to risk the taxpayer
dollars, that’s not going to be too big to fail.”  John Reed , who helped found Citigroup with Weill, and
former Merrill Lynch & Co. CEO David Komansky have said they
regretted fighting to overturn the Depression-era  Glass-Steagall
Act .  Richard Parsons , speaking two days after ending his 16-year
tenure on the board of Citigroup and one of its predecessors,
said the repeal contributed to the financial crisis.  Repeal’s Impact  “To some extent what we saw in the 2007-2008 crash was the
result of the throwing off of Glass-Steagall,” Parsons said in
April at a Rockefeller Foundation event in  Washington . “Have we
gotten our arms around it yet? I don’t think so because the
financial-services sector moves so fast.”  Thomas J. Bliley Jr., a former Republican congressman from
 Virginia  and another co-author of Gramm-Leach-Bliley, said that
the financial industry had been lobbying ever since the 1930s to
overturn Glass-Steagall.  “All of a sudden in the late ’90s they all came together
and agreed that we should get rid of it and of course we did,”
said Bliley, 80, who now lives in Richmond, Virginia, and is a
senior government affairs adviser for  Steptoe & Johnson LLP . “I
don’t know enough to really give you an answer” on whether it
was a mistake.  Citigroup Rescue  Citigroup, created in a 1998 merger that required the
overturn of Glass-Steagall, received a $45 billion taxpayer
bailout in 2008. Gramm said that bailouts went to about 800 U.S.
banks because of a global decline in the value of mortgage-
backed debt and that depositors were never more at risk because
of Citigroup’s affiliation with an investment bank.  “Under the law the depositor would not have been affected
by a failure of their security affiliate because they weren’t
allowed to co-mingle capital,” said Gramm, who said he was
speaking on the phone from the Atlanta airport and was en route
to  Spain .  Gramm added that he didn’t think the government should
provide bailouts to any affiliates of banks or any other non-
banks, such as insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   “It was a mistake not to let AIG fail too, but I wasn’t
secretary of the Treasury,” Gramm said. “I don’t think we
should have bailed out non-banks.”  UBS Bailout  Gramm, a Texas Republican who served in the Senate for 18
years, joined Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s investment bank in 2003
before retiring earlier this year. He is a visiting scholar at
the  American Enterprise Institute .  UBS received 6 billion Swiss francs from the Swiss
government in October 2008 and was allowed to split off as much
as $60 billion of its risky assets into a fund backed by the
central bank. Gramm said UBS didn’t need the help.  “The Swiss government loaned UBS money,” he said.
“Whether they should have done it or not, I don’t know. UBS
would have survived without it.”  Former U.S. Senator  Byron Dorgan , a North Dakota Democrat
who warned in 1999 that repealing Glass-Steagall could lead to
“massive taxpayer bailouts” in 10 years, said in a telephone
interview that the so-called firewalls that exist between
regulated banks and affiliates are like “tissue paper.”  “It’s just absurd for anybody now to make the case that
having these entities under the same corporate umbrella doesn’t
pose substantially greater risk,” said Dorgan, who retired from
the Senate in 2011 and is a senior policy adviser at law firm
 Arent Fox LLP . “Phil is just wrong about this. He was wrong 13
years ago and he’s wrong now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 