-- What Cameron Can Do About Britain’s Shrinking Economy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-26T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/britain-s-shrinking-economy-needs-a-budget-policy-reset.html
The London Olympics open Friday, and
let’s hope they go well. The host country could use some good
news.  This week’s figures for U.K. national output showed a
surprisingly big contraction of 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, deepening a double-dip recession.  There’s no longer much question about it: Prime Minister David Cameron’s government needs to loosen up its austerity-
focused fiscal policy. Admittedly, the latest growth figures are
puzzling, leading some analysts to ask whether they can be
trusted. Employment and tax receipts grew faster than you would
expect if the economy has slowed as much as the new numbers say.
 Special factors  like an extra public holiday and unusually wet
weather (even by British standards) probably made the outcome
worse.  Even allowing for this, the U.K. is doing worse than much
of  Europe , despite the fact that financial markets aren’t yet
questioning its ability to borrow. Quite the opposite: Real
long-term public borrowing costs for the U.K. are close to zero.
This gives the government a choice denied to many of its
European Union partners: It can ease fiscal policy. Moving
cautiously, it should.  Cameron and his Treasury chief,  George Osborne , have made
this harder for themselves than it needed to be. Promising not
to deviate from tough budget austerity, they have emphasized
steely inflexibility. That’s the wrong posture for a time of
acute economic uncertainty. To their credit, with the economy
underperforming, they have already deviated a little. They need
to deviate more and to stress adaptability over resolution.  This is a case where Cameron should avoid the politician’s
temptation to pretend he isn’t changing policy. That would only
constrain his ability to act with the speed and depth required.
Cameron needs to delay fiscal consolidation and make it plain
that’s what he’s doing.  Then, he’ll have an instrument that’s ideally suited to
delivering reversible fiscal stimulus, the value-added tax. A
one-year VAT cut would lower retail prices and encourage
consumers to bring purchases forward, giving a temporary boost
to demand. He should supplement this with a new program of
spending on infrastructure. This is investment that the U.K.
badly needs in any case, and whose financing cost in inflation-
adjusted terms is less than nothing at today’s  interest rates .  The  Bank of England  can help, too. It has already acted
boldly to provide monetary stimulus in orthodox and unorthodox
ways. It has cut short-term interest rates close to zero,  bought
assets  -- quantitative easing -- on a large scale, and has tried
new ways of helping the low cost of money feed through to
greater bank lending. Yet there’s room for more monetary easing.
For instance, the bank should announce that the current program
of quantitative easing, due to end in November, will be followed
by another.  Cameron should blend further structural reforms with the
fiscal flexibility that we’re advocating. The negative second-
quarter growth figures suggest the disturbing possibility that
U.K. labor productivity is falling fast -- this would explain
the combination of relatively fast  employment growth  and
shrinking production. So the government needs to make sure that
extra demand from further stimulus will energize new output.
Tight planning regulations, for instance, are holding back
construction. Cameron and his team need a more ambitious supply-
side agenda.  Cameron is right to be fiscally cautious. The U.K. must not
take its access to  cheap long-term funds  for granted, because
its underlying fiscal position is bad. As a yardstick,
economists at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  estimate  that the country’s primary budget balance
(excluding interest payments) would have to improve by 8.5
percent of GDP immediately to bring public debt down to 50
percent of GDP by 2050.  That’s sobering, and it justifies the government’s long-
term fiscal goals. At the same time, it misses the point:
Continued short-term tightening under current conditions is
probably counterproductive, even in trying to reduce the  budget
deficit . By worsening the recession, as it seems to have done,
overzealous austerity has dug the U.K. into a deeper fiscal
hole. There’s no virtue in sticking with a failing policy.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: In a special signed editorial,  Michael R.
Bloomberg  on the long road to  sane gun policies .  Also, the editors on  bringing back earmarks ;  Jonathan Alter  on
the collective effort to  “build that” ; Stephen L. Carter on why
all  NCAA punishments  should be as harsh as  Penn State ’s;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on why  Obama would be better than Romney  on  Iran ;
 Pankaj Mishra  on the challenge of  Asian state capitalism ;
William Pesek on  U.S.-China relations ;  Jonathan Weil  on the
 conflicts of interest  at  Freddie Mac ; Kim Schoenholtz and
Lawrence White on  remaking Libor .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 