-- British Rower Tries for Gold on 20th Anniversary of First Win
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-26T23:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/british-rower-tries-for-gold-on-20th-anniversary-of-first-win.html
Approaching 40, Greg Searle swapped
his business career for another shot at a rowing gold for
Britain.  Twenty years after winning the coxed pair with his older
brother Jonny in Barcelona, the  management consultant  who
advised Nestle SA is part of the men’s eight that’s going for
Olympic glory. He left the sport after a fourth place at the
2000 Sydney Games, then came out of retirement three years ago
to try to win a medal on home soil. At 40, he’s the oldest
member of a British rowing squad that may win at least 10
medals.  “I recognized that I could win a gold medal 20 years to
the day from when I won one as a 20-year-old, and I could win
one as a 40-year-old,” said Searle in an interview at the
British team’s training lake in Caversham, 36 miles west of
London. “I didn’t want to go to my grave and not have tried. I
had this belief that I could make it back into the team.”  Britain’s men’s 8 will race tomorrow in the second heat,
against world record holder  Canada , favorite  Germany  and the
Netherlands. The U.S.,  Australia , Ukraine and  Poland  meet in the
earlier heat.  Searle isn’t the only rower over 40 in London. He’ll be
racing against 42-year-old Diederik Simon, the oldest rower in
the competition. Simon, who won gold in the Dutch men’s eight at
the 1996 Atlanta Games, will be competing in his fifth Olympics.
Belarussian Ekaterina Karsten, 40, is rowing in her sixth
Olympics, twenty years after she won bronze in the quadruple
sculls in Barcelona.  ‘Old Man’  “I see him as a bit of an old man in the boat,” joked
Searle’s former crewmate Dan Ritchie, who is missing the games
because of an injury. “But he’s an inspiration to see how he
approaches training. I learn things from him. Sometimes I come
to training and I am like ’Yeah, let’s get this session done.’
Youthful exuberance. And Greg is there, stretching, getting the
arthritis moving in all the joints and everything. And he
performs well.”  Searle had worked for Lane4 Management, a consultancy firm
run by 1988 Olympic swimming champion Adrian Moorhouse, since
1997. Searle, who is from the  London  suburb of Ashford, advised
companies on leadership and psychological preparation for
performance.  For his second rowing career, Searle applied the same
business principles he’d been teaching.  “I was working with companies, looking at their three-year
plan,” Searle said. “Where do you want your company to be in
three years? How are you going to break that down, what are you
going to do to make sure you get there? What are you going to do
tomorrow to make sure it happens? When I decided in 2009 that I
wanted to win a gold medal in 2012, I had to make a three-year
plan exactly like that.”  Working Plan  It’s worked out.  He made the men’s eight for the World Cup series in May
2010. He kept his seat for the 2010 World Championships in  New
Zealand , his first appearance at the championships since 1999,
where the crew took silver. It was Searle’s first championship
medal in 12 years. The men’s eight also won silver last year,
and is the 11-2 favorite to win gold at U.K. bookmaker  Ladbrokes
Plc (LAD)  behind Germany at 1-5.  Searle has been getting advice from another Olympian who
knows about longevity; Steve Redgrave, Britain’s most successful
Olympian. Redgrave won rowing gold medals in five straight
 Olympic Games , his last one at Sydney 2000 at the age of 38.  “He told me: the Olympic Games is a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity, a very special day when anything can happen,”
Searle said. “And it’s open to anyone to take hold of it and
perform and deliver when it matters.”  Age Stigma  Dara Torres, an American swimmer who has won 12 medals in
five Olympics, said age is no barrier to Olympic success. She
retired at age 45 last month after missing out on a spot on the
U.S. Olympic team.  “There is such a stigma on being older and competing,”
Torres, who is working as a global ambassador for McDonald’s
Corp., said in an interview. “Age shouldn’t really matter,
though there does come a point when the body recovery is not as
easy. That makes it a little more challenging. But I think that
forty is the new thirty.”  Britain dominated the rowing event in Beijing four years
ago, taking six medals, two of each color. With 52 athletes
competing at Eton Dorney in 13 of the 14 boat classes, Britain
is once again expected to do well.  “We will have the strongest team ever,” said Jurgen
Grobler, chief coach for the British men who has coached
champions at nine Olympics since 1972, said at a press
conference in April. Grobler, a former East German, is aiming
for as many as five gold medals in rowing.  “We’re in it to win it,” Searle said.  Searle is looking forward to returning to business life
once the games are over.  “I’ll definitely go back,” he said. “Whether I’ll go
back full-time, or how soon, it will probably all depend on how
well I do at the Olympics and how it feels afterwards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Olympic Park through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  