-- Buffett $3 Billion Dow Preferred Stake May Be Repaid
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-07-26T16:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/buffett-3-billion-dow-stake-may-be-repaid-after-kuwait-case.html
Warren Buffett ’s investment in  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW) , which generated $255 million a year for his
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , may be redeemed with proceeds the
chemical maker will get as part of a legal dispute with  Kuwait .  Dow Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said on a
conference call today that the award may be used to improve the
company’s finances. Asked about preferred shares, which include
$3 billion held by Berkshire and $1 billion that were sold to
Kuwait’s sovereign wealth fund, the CEO said, “that’s the
balance sheet, and I would say it’s included.”  Dow sold the securities to help fund the 2009 purchase of
Rohm & Hass Co. The preferred shares pay an 8.5 percent annual
dividend. The yield is about 4 percentage points higher than on
Dow’s 30-year notes due in 2041, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We have the expensive preferreds on the balance sheet
that will be expensive to retire prematurely,” Liveris said
today. “Having said that, they’re very accretive, the immediate
time” they’re retired, he said.  A payment by Dow would add to funds Buffett, 81, has for
acquisitions and investments. Berkshire increased stockholdings
last year as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
Swiss Re Ltd. paid more than  $12 billion  to buy back securities
he added in the depths of the financial crisis.  Dow’s funds would give Buffett “a little more ammunition
in trying to acquire a whole company” or make new or larger
equity bets, said  David Kass , a professor at the University of
Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business, in an interview
before today’s conference call.  Arbitration Panel  An arbitration panel ordered in May that Kuwait pay the
chemical maker $2.16 billion for canceling a deal to buy part of
Midland, Michigan-based Dow’s  plastics business  in 2008. Kuwait
has asked for a reconsideration of the award without contesting
that the contract was breached, Liveris said today.  “They are just asking for an examination of due process,”
Liveris said. “It happens all the time with an award of this
size.”  The final award should be issued this year, he said, and
payment may arrive in 2013 along with interest and fees. The
funds will be used to reward shareholders, improve the balance
sheet or fund organic growth, he said, ruling out acquisitions
with the proceeds.  Dow turned to Buffett to help finance its acquisition of
Rohm & Hass for more than $16 billion. Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire can exchange its preferred stake for about 72.6
million shares of the chemical maker’s common stock at a
conversion price of $41.32 each. Dow  closed  yesterday at $30.27.  Buffett’s Commitment  “We do well if the common at Dow does well,” Buffett told
Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu  in an interview this month.
“We also do well on the coupon on Dow, but we made a
commitment” at a time when there were few sources of
alternative financing, he said.  Buffett didn’t comment to Liu on the price at which he’d
retire the securities. The billionaire didn’t immediately
respond to a message today left with an assistant. An attempt to
reach the  Kuwait Investment Authority  for comment wasn’t
immediately successful outside of regular business hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  