-- Burn Your iPhone With Chinese Olympic Uniforms
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-07-26T21:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/burn-your-iphone-with-chinese-olympic-uniforms.html
Tonight, as American athletes enter
 London ’s Olympic Stadium, all eyes will be on China. More to the
point, on the made-in-China uniforms Team USA is sporting.  Reports that  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  outsourced production of
the uniforms to China has U.S. lawmakers in a lather. Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said the outfits should be put in a
pile and burned. A new bill, the “Team USA Made in America
Act,” ensures athletes’ attire is more politically correct for
the 2014  Winter Games , which fittingly will be in  Russia .  This controversy is so contrived it hurts: It’s nothing
more than a ready-made excuse to beat up on that economic
bogeyman, China, which replaces the Soviet threat of old in a
U.S. election year. Uniform-gate is just a preview of how ugly
things may get and, frankly, pointless.  President  Barack Obama  is under pressure to explain why
unemployment is still higher than 8 percent ahead of the Nov. 6
election.  Mitt Romney , his Republican challenger, must offer a
vision for creating millions of jobs. Expect China to come up
early and often as both men try to whip up emotions and support.
Wouldn’t it be better if each offered specific ways to
revitalize the U.S. job market, perhaps even with China’s help?  Shallow Politics  These shallow politics of the moment trivialize the most
important relationship in the world and the magnitude of the
real strains. The Obama and Romney teams should be brainstorming
about ways to correct the global imbalances that thwart
America’s recovery. Xi Jinping, the man in line to be China’s
next president, should be telegraphing a new direction for a
lopsided economy that so far can only thrive by pursuing zero-
sum trade policies.  Instead, the U.S. and  China  are wasting time assigning
blame and hoping globalization’s biggest challenges work
themselves out. The leadership in both countries that might
develop and promote a rebalancing is nowhere in sight.  The uniforms episode reminds us that the U.S. is engaging
in fatuous pandering. Consider the lack of outrage over Roots
 Canada  Ltd., the Toronto-based company that made U.S.-team duds
for the 2002 Salt Lake City Games (headed by Romney) and for
 Athens  in 2004.  The difference is that Americans don’t view Canada as a
rival that threatens U.S. primacy. The U.S. doesn’t fear Canada
when it comes to exchange rates, cheap labor, human-rights
records, military buildups, support of repressive regimes,
designs on conquering space or massive stockpiles of Treasuries;
that distinction is all China’s.  Yet it’s hypocrisy to blame China for the U.S.’s woes.
Apple Inc. probably could assemble its iPhones and iPads within
driving distance of headquarters in Cupertino,  California , where
it dreams up these gadgets. It makes them in Shenzhen sweatshops
for reasons that have more to do with the U.S. economy than
China’s. U.S. consumers want bargains; shareholders demand that
Apple produce its goods as cheaply as possible; Americans insist
on high-paying jobs, and U.S. laws prohibit China-level wages.  Consumers would be shocked to learn how many of the
American flags they fly are made in China. Ditto for the
Louisville Slugger baseball bats they buy for their kids and the
fireworks that cities use to celebrate  Independence Day . Yet
these eight words explain the pros and cons of globalization:
“Designed by Apple in California, Assembled in China.” They
show why even high-tech products invented in the U.S. don’t
increase exports, but rather exacerbate the nation’s trade
deficit.  America’s Capitalism  Sure, China should let its currency appreciate. Yes, it
cheats on trade. Intellectual-property rights still mean little
to officials in Beijing. An equally big dilemma is the direction
American-style capitalism has taken during the past 20 years.
The only way to reverse things is for Apple and other icons of
U.S. industry to begin producing at home. And for most products,
that’s not about to happen, given the vast gap between U.S. and
Chinese labor costs.  Looked at this way,  Ralph Lauren  is only doing what U.S.
politicians, by way of government policies, encourage it to.
Executives who denounce Obama as anti-business while gleefully
pumping up profits produced abroad and squirreling away cash in
 tax havens  should look in the mirror as they decry the lack of
household demand since the 2008 financial crisis.  The U.S. doesn’t have a monopoly on hypocrisy. China is
indignant over the Team USA uniform uproar; the official Xinhua
News Agency calls it “a blasphemy” on the Olympic spirit. Come
on, the commercialization of the games and the corruption
scandals that plague the  International Olympic Committee  should
disabuse us of that. The Summer Games is “ American Idol ” with
sneakers. And although it may shock many in China, plenty of the
U.S.’s gripes are legitimate.  Devising smart policies will yield better results for the
U.S. than bashing China. Striking free-trade agreements around
the globe would do more good than waiting for the  yuan  to
strengthen. So will looking for new markets. So will reviving
the entrepreneurial passion that made the  U.S. economy  No. 1.  The key is to find ways to keep more of the jobs that some
of the world’s most dynamic companies create at home.
Bellyaching over who dresses Team USA won’t get America onto the
medal podium.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  