-- CA’s Shares Fall After Company Lowers Annual Sales Forecast
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-07-27T20:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/ca-s-shares-fall-after-company-lowers-annual-sales-forecast.html
CA Inc. (CA) , a maker of software for
managing  information technology , fell the most in more than a
year after the company cut its annual revenue forecast.  CA dropped 7.2 percent to $24.43 at the close in New York,
the biggest decline since May 2011. The shares have gained 21
percent this year.  Sales will climb 1 percent to 2 percent this year, reaching
$4.7 billion to $4.8 billion, Islandia, New York-based CA said
yesterday in a statement. The company had projected a rise of as
much as 4 percent for the fiscal year, which ends in March.  Chief Executive Officer Bill McCracken said on a conference
call that a sluggish economy and a business reorganization led
to a slow start for the year. CA, once focused on mainframe
software, has been expanding in cloud computing, where it faces
competition from  VMware Inc. (VMW)  and Microsoft Corp.  “I am not satisfied with our top-line performance,”
McCracken said. “What we did not adequately plan for in the
first quarter was the level of disruption our new customer
segmentation efforts would cause in the sales force, and the
impact it would have on our productivity in large, existing
accounts.”  First-quarter  revenue  fell 2 percent $1.15 billion, the
company said. That missed the $1.18 billion predicted by
analysts on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Net income from continuing operations rose to $240 million, or
51 cents a share, from $228 million, or 45 cents, a year
earlier. Profit excluding some items was 63 cents a share,
topping the 61-cent average estimate.  Buyback Plan  The company, formerly known as Computer Associates Inc.,
has expanded its dividend and buyback plan. CA said in January
that it would return $2.5 billion to shareholders by March 31,
2014. Taconic Capital Advisors LP had urged the company to boost
shareholder returns after the hedge fund acquired a 5.1 percent
stake.  CA is seeking a replacement for its 69-year-old CEO, who
plans to retire. McCracken, who had served as CA’s chairman,
took the reins after John Swainson stepped down at the end of
2009. McCracken has no specific retirement date, the company has
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  