-- Canada Natural Gas Climbs on Below-Normal U.S. Inventory Gain
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-07-26T19:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/canada-natural-gas-climbs-on-below-normal-u-s-inventory-gain.html
Canadian natural gas advanced after
a government report showed a smaller-than-normal increase in
U.S. stockpiles of the fuel last week amid hot weather.  August gas in Alberta  rose 1.3 percent after the Energy
Department said inventories expanded by 26 billion cubic feet
last week to 3.189 trillion, below the five-year average gain of
61 billion for the period. MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland , predicted above-normal temperatures in the central
U.S. and Northeast from July 31 through Aug. 9.  The storage report was “bullish when compared to last year
and the five-year average injection level for the same week,”
said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in  New York , in a note to clients today.
“The above-normal temperatures still are a positive for natural
gas prices.”  Alberta gas for August delivery gained 3 cents to C$2.37
per gigajoule ($2.23 per million British thermal units) as of
3:15 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet market. Gas
traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada  and the
U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 3.5 cents, or 1.1 percent, to settle at $3.105 per
million Btu. The futures have climbed 3.9 percent this year.  Cooling Demand  Cooling demand in the U.S. may be 14 percent above normal
from Aug. 1 through Aug. 5, according to Weather Derivatives in
Belton,  Missouri .  The high temperature in Chicago on Aug. 1 may be 86 degrees
Fahrenheit (30 Celsius), 3 above normal, said AccuWeather Inc.
in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.9 billion cubic
feet at 3 p.m. New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.05 billion cubic feet
at Empress,  Alberta , where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.98 billion cubic feet.  There was no available capacity on TransCanada’s British
Columbia system at Kingsgate. The system was forecast to carry
2.02 billion cubic feet today, above the estimated capacity of
2.018 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy ’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.73
billion cubic feet at 2:05 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  