-- Canada May Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-07-26T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/canada-may-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s employment, earnings, and hours report for May
released by  Statistics Canada .  In May, average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll
employees were $894.61, up 0.5% from the previous month. On a
year-over-year basis, earnings increased 2.5%.  The 2.5% increase during the 12 months to May reflects a
number of factors, including wage growth and changes in the
composition of employment by industry, occupation and level of
job experience.  Average hours worked per week can also contribute to
increases in earnings. In May, however, non-farm payroll
employees worked an average of 32.9 hours per week, unchanged
both from the month before and from 12 months earlier.  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings outpaced
the national average of 2.5% in five of the largest industrial
sectors: construction; educational services; retail trade;
accommodation and food services; and manufacturing. In contrast,
earnings declined in health care and social assistance.  In construction, weekly earnings increased 5.3% to
$1,133.09, and growth was widespread across all industries in
this sector.  Average weekly earnings in educational services increased
4.3% to $990.65 in the 12 months to May. The most notable growth
was within elementary and secondary schools.  In retail trade, one of the lowest-paid sectors on average,
weekly earnings rose 4.0% to $536.89. There were notable gains
among retail stores for clothing and clothing accessories;
general merchandise; and health and personal care stores.  Weekly earnings in accommodation and food services
increased 3.0% to $366.63 in the 12 months to May. Growth was
most notable in special food services and limited-service eating
places.  In manufacturing, weekly earnings increased 2.6% to
$1,008.76, with the most notable growth among manufacturers of
wood products, transportation equipment and food.  Weekly earnings of payroll employees in health care and
social assistance fell 2.3% to $793.48. Earnings declined in
general medical and surgical hospitals; home health care
services; individual and family services; and nursing care
facilities.  Average weekly earnings up in every province  Average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll employees
increased in every province in the 12 months to May. Growth was
highest in Saskatchewan and Newfoundland and Labrador.  In Saskatchewan, average weekly earnings were $897.80 in
May, up 5.4% from 12 months earlier. Earnings in the province
have been higher than the national average since August 2011.  In Newfoundland and Labrador, average weekly earnings
increased 5.4% to $918.59, the second-highest level among the
provinces after  Alberta . Year-over-year growth in Newfoundland
and Labrador has exceeded the national average since December
2010.  In the 12 months to May, average weekly earnings in  Quebec 
rose 5.1% to $835.60, and in  Nova Scotia , they grew 4.4% to
$793.73.  The lowest year-over-year growth occurred in Manitoba,
where earnings increased 1.1% to $820.71.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  Total non-farm payroll employment rose by 76,900 between
April and May, the third consecutive monthly increase. Most
sectors showed job gains in May.  On a year-over-year basis, non-farm payroll employment
increased 2.3% (+338,000). Over half of the gains have occurred
since February 2012.  Among all sectors, mining, quarrying and oil and gas
extraction posted the highest 12-month employment growth rate,
at 6.8%. It was followed by construction at 6.3% and
accommodation and food services at 4.0%.  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is a
business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key objective
is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of earnings, the
number of jobs and hours worked by detailed industry at the
national, provincial and territorial level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates from
its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household
survey, the main objective of which is to divide the working-age
population into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed
(including the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour
force. This survey is the official source for the  unemployment
rate  and collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics
of all those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part -
partie3-eng.htm) .  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the “other employees” category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses that could not be classified to a NAICS code.
Earnings data are based on gross taxable payroll before source
deductions.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  