-- Canon Declines Most in Three Years as Profit Forecast Cut
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-07-26T07:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/canon-falls-most-in-13-years-after-cutting-forecast-tokyo-mover.html
Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest
camera maker,  plunged  the most in more than three years in Tokyo
after cutting its full-year profit forecast because of a
stronger yen and expectations for weaker global growth.  The  shares declined  7.8 percent to close at 2,470 yen, the
most since November 2008. The benchmark Nikkei Index gained 0.9
percent. Canon shares have declined 28 percent this year.  Net income  may total 250 billion yen ($3.2 billion) in
2012, the Tokyo-based company said yesterday, paring its April
projection of 290 billion yen because of expectations for weaker
growth in the U.S.,  Europe  and  China . Chief Financial Officer
Toshizo Tanaka cited a stronger yen and lower sales estimates
for compact cameras and laser printers as the main reasons for
forecasting a smaller profit.  “Even as the worsening macro economy and a stronger yen
were expected to damage Canon’s earnings, an intensifying
competition in laser printers was unexpected,” Tetsuya Wadaki,
an analyst at Nomura Securities Co., said in a report yesterday.
It was also a surprise that sales estimates weren’t improved
after a new mirrorless camera model was unveiled on July 23, he
said.  Wadaki cut his price target for the stock 8 percent to
3,779 yen. Hisashi Moriyama, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
reduced his price estimate for the stock 12 percent to 2,200
yen, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Toshiya Hari lowered
his target price 3 percent to 3,600 yen.  Office Division Decline  The company may need to lower its forecast further, Eiichi Katayama, a Tokyo-based analyst at Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch said in a report. Laser-printer inventories rose
on weak sales at customer  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , Yu Yoshida, an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report.  Sales at the office-equipment division, Canon’s  biggest ,
may drop 5.2 percent to 1.8 trillion yen this year, the company
said yesterday, abandoning an earlier forecast for 1.1 percent
growth. Imaging-systems sales may increase 17 percent, compared
with the 20 percent it previously forecast.  U.S. printer makers, including  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and  Lexmark
International Inc. (LXK) , lowered earnings forecasts earlier this
month, citing weakness in Europe. Worldwide hardcopy peripherals
shipments declined 7.4 percent in the first quarter this year,
researcher IDC said in May.  The target for compact-camera sales this year was lowered
to 21 million units from the 22 million forecast earlier,
according to the statement. The company kept the sales target
for single-lens reflex cameras, used by professionals, unchanged
at 9.2 million units.  Appreciating Yen  The maker of EOS models said earlier this week the company
is introducing its first mirrorless model in September, joining
 Nikon Corp. (7731)  in tapping growing demand for lightweight cameras
with interchangeable lenses.  The Japanese currency averaged about 102.90 against the
euro last quarter, compared with Canon’s estimate in April of
105 yen. A stronger yen cuts the repatriated value of sales
earned overseas.  Each 1-yen decline in the value of the dollar will erode
second-half operating profit by about 5.3 billion yen, the
company said today. The impact of a 1-yen decline by the euro is
estimated at 2.9 billion yen, the company said. Canon gets 80
percent of  sales outside Japan .  Canon’s revised profit forecast lagged behind the 289.6
billion-yen average estimate of 20 analysts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company also reported second-quarter
 net income  of 51.7 billion yen, also missing analyst estimates
of 67.6 billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  