-- Capital Shopping First-Half Profit Rises on Rent Income Gain
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-07-26T08:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/capital-shopping-first-half-profit-rises-on-rent-income-increase.html
Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG) ,
the U.K.’s biggest shopping-mall owner, said first-half profit
excluding items rose on higher rental income.  Profit excluding changes to asset values and one-time items
climbed to 70 million pounds ($108 million), from 66 million
pounds a year earlier, the London-based company said in a
statement today. Adjusted earnings per share increased to 8.1
pence from 8 pence. Analysts expected 8.5 pence a share,
according to the average of four estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  While the U.K. economy entered its second recession in
three years in the first quarter, retailers are favoring large
malls that attract crowds with global brand names. That allowed
Capital Shopping to offset tenant failures by signing leases
with new brands at higher rents.  “Our prime U.K. regional shopping centers have continued
to show considerable resilience, with robust operating metrics
supporting sound financial results,” Capital Shopping Chief
Executive Officer David Fischel said in the statement.  Net rental income increased to 182 million pounds from 178
million pounds a year earlier. Like-for-like net rental income
fell 2.3%. Net income dropped to 78.9 million pounds from 181.9
million pounds as year-earlier gains on acquisitions and
property revaluation weren’t repeated.  The company’s shopping center income performed worse than
other U.K. real estate investment trusts with the decline in
comparable net rental income and a 1 percent decrease in
footfall,  Mike Prew  andRobert Duncan, analysts at Jefferies
Group Inc. in  London , said in a note today.  “The operating data was generally weaker than its peers”
and Capital Shopping’s leverage “is still too high given the
group’s grandiose development plans,” they said.  Capital Shopping fell 1 percent in London trading at 324.4
pence as of 9:22 a.m. The stock has gained 3.9 percent this
year, less than the  FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trust
Index (FAREITS) , which is up 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  