-- Capital One to Pay $12 Million Over Military-Lending Claims
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-26T20:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/capital-one-agrees-to-pay-12-million-for-military-violations.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
bank that paid $210 million over claims it misled credit-card
customers, will pay $12 million to resolve alleged violations
against military families, the U.S.  Justice Department  said.  Under an agreement announced today by the Justice
Department and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
Capital One will pay $7 million to servicemembers whose homes or
motor vehicles were unlawfully seized. The bank also agreed to
pay $5 million to military borrowers who didn’t get proper
benefits on credit-card accounts and consumer loans.  “Today’s action makes clear that the Justice Department
will fight for our servicemembers and use every available tool,
resource and authority to hold accountable those who engage in
discriminatory practices targeting those who serve,” Attorney
General Eric Holder said in a statement.  Regulators and lawmakers have focused on banks’ treatment
of servicemembers amid the wave of foreclosures following the
2008 credit crisis, investigating potential violations of the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which bars seizure of homes
owned by active military members and limits the  interest rates 
they can be charged.  Bank of America Corp.  reached a $20 million settlement with
the Justice Department in 2011, and banks including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed in
February to conduct reviews to determine whether any
servicemembers had faced illegal foreclosures since 2006.  Cooperated Fully  Capital One cooperated fully with the investigation, which
resulted in a settlement for servicemembers that is “one of the
most comprehensive ever obtained,” said  Thomas Perez , an
assistant attorney general at the Justice Department. The bank,
which resolved the claims without admitting or denying
wrongdoing, voluntarily adopted changes including extending a 4
percent interest rate to qualifying servicemembers.  The Justice Department alleged in its complaint that
Capital One violated federal law from July 15, 2006, to Nov. 21,
2011, by wrongfully denying requests to have interest rates on
 car loans  and credit cards reduced and foreclosing on mortgages
of protected service members without court orders.  The bank lacked “adequate oversight, internal controls,
policies and procedures, internal audit, and training” and
because of this “caused substantial consumer injury,” the OCC
said in its order.  “We sincerely apologize and are providing restitution to
our impacted customers, and will be providing lower rates and
greater benefits than the law requires to all eligible
servicemembers,” John G. Finneran Jr, the bank’s general
counsel, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Add-on’ Products  Capital One on July 18 agreed to pay $210 million to settle
charges of deceptive marketing of credit card “add-on”
products such as payment protection and credit monitoring in the
first public enforcement case brought by the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau. The bureau and OCC oversaw the settlement in
which the bank said it would provide restitution to about 2
million customers.  Today’s settlement requires Capital One to take prompt
action to fix deficiencies, according to the OCC’s statement.
The bank must also compensate all borrowers harmed by the
violations, according to the OCC and the Justice Department, who
estimated that at least 4,000 people would be eligible.  “Because of the extraordinary hardships of military
service, the law provides certain protections to our
servicemembers,” Comptroller of the Currency Thomas J. Curry
said in a statement. The settlement will “help assure that
servicemembers receive every benefit entitled under the law,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  