-- Carstens Says Mexico Inflation to Slow Within Target by Year End
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-07-26T16:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/carstens-says-mexico-inflation-to-slow-within-target-by-year-end.html
Mexican central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens said the effects of higher food prices will be
temporary and isolated and that inflation will return to the
target range by year end.  Consumer-price gains are “under control” and a recent
pick-up in the cost of food staples including corn tortillas,
eggs and poultry, spurred by a drought and an outbreak of bird
flu, will subside within two to three months, Carstens said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in  London .  Mexico’s stability will enable the nation’s economy to
continue outpacing  Brazil ’s expansion in coming years, said
Carstens, who took the helm of the bank in January 2010 and has
kept the benchmark rate at 4.5 percent ever since. Economic
bills proposed by incoming President Enrique Pena Nieto will
also spur growth, Carstens said, without giving details.  “We don’t see a generalized increase in prices,” the bank
governor said. “It probably will take us two or three months to
go back to our target. It’s a problem strictly of agricultural
prices, it’s a temporary issue.”  Mexico’s inflation rate rose to 4.45 percent in the middle
of July, the highest level since December 2010 and above the 2
percent to 4 percent target range.  Carstens’s forecast that inflation will slow to below 4
percent by year-end contrasts with his estimate on July 4 that
inflation would be within the target range by the end of the
third quarter.  Bird Flu  Mexican prices climbed 0.39 percent in the first two weeks
of July, the national statistics agency said on its website on
July 24. The median estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for prices to increase 0.26 percent.  The outbreak of bird flu in the western Mexican state of
Jalisco pushed up the cost of eggs 15.8 percent in the first
half of July, while the price of chickens gained 3.9 percent.  The cost of corn tortillas, which has the second-biggest
weighting among food items in  Mexico ’s consumer-price index,
climbed 1.1 percent last month. Corn prices have soared as the
La Nina weather pattern triggered excessive heat and dryness in
parts of Brazil,  Argentina  and Mexico in the beginning of this
year, damaging crops.  The worst drought since 1956 in the U.S., the world’s
largest corn producer and exporter, has also driven up corn
prices.  Carstens said that without the recent pick-up in inflation,
his board would consider loosening monetary policy to match
central banks around the world. Policy makers in the U.S. have
kept the their key rate between zero and 0.25 percent since
December 2008 and pledged to keep it “exceptionally low” at
least through late 2014. The  European Central Bank  this month
also cut its benchmark rate to a record low 0.75 percent.  “If conditions presented themselves, we would loosen
monetary policy, but also at the same time this is a neutral
position we have taken - we are prepared to tighten monetary
policy if certain events take place,” Carstens said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Eeuwens at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net ;
 Maryam Nemazee  at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net . 