-- Cash America Falls Most in Seven Years on Lower Outlook
-- B y   L a u r a   J .   K e l l e r
-- 2012-07-26T21:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/cash-america-falls-on-lower-outlook-as-ipo-pulled-dallas-mover.html
Cash America International Inc. (CSH) , the
world’s largest pawn shop operator, fell the most in seven years
after posting results that missed estimates and saying third-
quarter earnings will be lower than last year.  Cash America  plummeted  19 percent to close at $36.69 in  New
York , the most since April 2005. It was the biggest decline in
the 102-company Standard & Poor’s SmallCap Financials Index.  Net income rose 11 percent to $29.8 million, or 94 cents a
share, from $27 million, or 84 cents, a year earlier, the  Fort
Worth , Texas-based company said today in a statement. Adjusted
net income of 94 cents was 2 cents less than the  average
estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This particular quarter has me a little bit stumped,”
Chief Executive Officer Daniel R. Feehan said in a conference
call. Every component of Cash America’s U.S. store-front
business slowed in the second quarter, he said.  “Some combination of macroeconomic and consumer-sentiment
factors must be impacting our customers’ appetite for borrowing
and spending,” Feehan said.  New and renewed loans slowed in the first half, the firm
said. Loans rose 5 percent in the first six months of 2012 from
a year earlier, after climbing 26 percent in the same period of
2011 compared with 2010.  ‘Reserved’ Expectations  Demand for “pawn-lending products has proven more
challenging,” the firm said in the statement. “Management
expects growth in its pawn-lending business, but is more
reserved about expectations for the remainder of 2012.”  The pawn lender said it expects third-quarter earnings
expectations to be 95 cents to $1.05 a share, down from $1.08 a
year earlier. Full-year profit will climb 2 percent to 8
percent, according to the statement. Analysts including Bill Carcache of Nomura Securities International Inc. and Sameer Gokhale of Janney Montgomery Scott LLC said they were
anticipating a 17 percent increase.  “The market was looking for basically double the growth
that Cash America is now guiding to for the year,” Carcache
said in a phone interview. “It’s all about expectations.”  Pawn shop operators and payday lenders such as Cash America
typically profit when the economy is weak and consumers are more
likely to seek loans or pawn their valuables for cash. When
customers can’t make payments on their pawned loans, they
forfeit the merchandise as collateral.  Application Withdrawn  Second-quarter gross profit margin on selling forfeited
merchandise declined to 32 percent from 37 percent a year
earlier, the company said. Jewelry comprised more than 60
percent of the value of pawned merchandise held by Cash America
at June 30, according to the statement.  “Given that the spot price of gold actually increased year
over year, we’re concerned about what is driving these
declines,” Carcache said in a note to investors.  Cash America said today withdrew its application for an
initial public  offering  of its e-commerce subsidiary, Enova
International Inc. Enova provides online financial services in
the U.S., U.K.,  Australia  and  Canada , offering credit to
consumers who aren’t eligible to obtain it from banks or credit-
card lenders. Cash America had said in September it planned to
raise $500 million with Enova’s IPO.  “It is our board’s current judgment that the volatility in
the IPO market is not likely to abate anytime soon,” Feehan
said during the call.  Current IPO discount levels are “unacceptably high”  and
give investors too much leverage over stock issuers, Feehan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura J. Keller in New York at 
 lkeller12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  