-- Centrica Says Needs Price Clarity Before Making Nuclear Decision
-- B y   J o s e p h i n e   F o r s t e r   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-07-26T08:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/centrica-says-needs-price-clarity-before-making-nuclear-decision.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the biggest supplier
of gas and electricity to British households, said it needs more
clarity on power prices before deciding to participate in
building new nuclear reactors in Britain.  Centrica and partner Electricite de France SA are deciding
whether to start construction of a new plant in southwest
 England . The viability of new reactors depends on the so-called
strike price, the sum the government will guarantee generators
get paid for nuclear energy. The price needs to be 95 pounds to
105 pounds a megawatt-hour in 2020, double the current market
level, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “There’s a lot of detail still to work out” on new
nuclear projects, Chief Executive Officer Sam Laidlaw said on a
conference call. “Whether the price is going to be sufficient
for our investors. We’ve said all along that that’s a decision
that we’ll make at the end of the year.”  Centrica said today first-half profit rose 14 percent from
a year earlier, boosted by greater residential demand and higher
profits from oil and gas production.  Adjusted earnings before tax climbed to 767 million pounds
($1.2 billion) from 673 million pounds a year earlier, the
Windsor, England-based company said. Revenue gained 4 percent to
12 billion pounds.  Cold April  Centrica gained as much as 4 pence, or 1.3 percent, to 315
pence in  London . The shares, which have fallen 11 percent in the
past year, traded at 314.9 pence at 9:22 a.m. local time.  “Today’s interims are good results,” Investec Securities
said in a note to clients. “Centrica has been a relatively good
performer year to date and we’d expect that to continue.”  A cold and rainy April, the wettest in the U.K. since the
country’s Meteorological Office began keeping records in 1910,
followed by a similarly stormy May and June, drove energy
consumption in the first half of the year, Centrica said.  “We’ve certainly had very high levels of gas demand in the
last few months,” Laidlaw said. He pointed out that profits
were still below a five-year moving average. “Normally we have
more demand in the first half of the year. We wouldn’t expect a
repeat in the second half.”  Operating profits from the company’s U.K. upstream gas
business rose 28 percent to 682 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  