-- McGraw-Hill Profit Rises on Demand for Market Data, News
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-07-26T20:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/mcgraw-hill-second-quarter-profit-rises-on-market-data-and-news.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , the finance and
publishing company that’s splitting in two, said second-quarter
profit rose 2.4 percent on increased demand for market data and
news.  Net income rose to $216 million, or 76 cents a share, from
$211 million, or 68 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. Earnings excluding some items
related to its breakup and cost-cutting plan were 85 cents a
share, beating the 76-cent average of analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  McGraw-Hill, the owner of  Standard & Poor’s , said Sept. 12
it will break into two companies, one focused on financial
information and the other on educational publishing, by the end
of this year. The company is also evaluating selling the
education business instead of spinning it off, Chief Executive
Officer Harold “Terry” McGraw III said on a conference call
with analysts and investors.  “It’s fairly clear they are pursuing a dual track of full
speed ahead on the spin and exploring a sale,” said  Peter Appert , an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San Francisco .
Because of tax implications “they need to get a meaningfully
higher amount in a sale transaction than in a spin off.”  McGraw-Hill rose 2.6 percent to $46.14 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 5 percent in the past year.  The company has been bolstered by its S&P Capital IQ unit,
which analyzes financial market data, and Platts, which provides
news and prices for energy commodities, Appert said.  Commodities Division  Operating profit for McGraw’s Commodities & Commercial
division, which includes Platts, rose 45 percent to $71 million,
the company said. Adjusted operating profit for S&P Capital IQ
and S&P Indices increased 17 percent to $115 million.  “Platts is the dominant player of the energy pricing
business,” said Appert, who has an “overweight”  rating  on the
shares and doesn’t own any himself. “It’s always been strong
but was hidden deep in the bowels of McGraw-Hill’s media and
information segment for many years.”  Profit per share was also driven by reduced share count,
the result of the company buying back more than $1.5 billion in
shares since 2010, Appert said.  Sales fell to $1.55 billion from $1.56 billion a year
earlier, as education publishing revenue dropped 12 percent,
McGraw-Hill said. State funding of K-12 education is at its
lowest point in a decade, McGraw said on the conference call.  “We believe 2012 will be the low water mark in the K-12
space and that the market will show a modest recovery in 2013,”
he said.  The company said full-year earnings would be “near the
high end” of its April forecast of $3.25 to $3.35 a share.  The company began a strategic review of its businesses in
2010. On Aug. 22, Jana Partners LLC, a New York-based hedge fund
and investor in McGraw-Hill, proposed a plan to break up the
company after education revenue fell for three straight
quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  