-- Chile Peso Climbs Most in Three Weeks as Europe View Boosts Risk
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-07-26T18:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/chile-peso-climbs-most-in-three-weeks-as-europe-view-boosts-risk.html
Chile ’s peso, the best-performing
emerging-market currency in the last month, rose as optimism
that European policy makers will contain the credit crisis
lifted demand for the Andean nation’s higher-yielding assets.  The peso jumped 1.2 percent, the most in more than three
weeks, to 485.75 per dollar. The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin
American Currency Index rose 0.8 percent.  The euro, often used by traders as a measure of dollar
weakness, gained as much as 1.4 percent against the greenback
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy
makers are “ready to do whatever it takes” to preserve the
currency. Copper, Chile’s top export, rose as much as 1.9
percent in New York. The peso has gained 4.7 percent in the past
month, the most among major emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  “We have seen it outperform over the past month, and if
markets in  Europe  remain calm it can go lower,” said  Alejandro Cuadrado , Latin American foreign exchange strategist at  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)  “We have seen inflows from local
and foreign investors. I am still a little skeptical that it can
go through 485 to 480 pesos with copper lagging.”  Copper rose 2.1 percent in the past month. Chile’s central
bank held  interest rates  at five percent for six months on
 faster-than-forecast  growth even as inflation slowed. That
increases the real return on investing in the peso.  Chilean local investors, mostly pension funds, increased
their long peso position in the forwards market to a seven-week
high of $17.6 billion on July 24, according to central bank data
published today. Chile’s pensions supervisor on June 29
introduced new rules governing how funds must hedge the currency
risk of their investments outside Chile. Pension funds hedge
dollars by buying pesos in the forwards market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  