-- China Said to Tell Edible-Oil Suppliers to Keep Prices Stable
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-26T16:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/china-said-to-tell-edible-oil-suppliers-to-keep-price-stable-1-.html
Government officials in  China , the
largest user of cooking oils, told suppliers to keep wholesale
prices for packaged products stable to avoid stoking inflation,
according to two people familiar with this week’s talks.  They asked not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly. Officials at the office of foreign
media affairs at the National Development and Reform Commission
declined to comment yesterday when contacted by phone and asked
for a written request for an interview. A faxed letter
requesting an interview wasn’t immediately answered.  Soybean futures traded in  Chicago  reached a record $16.915
a bushel on July 23 as the U.S. endured its worst drought in a
half century. China is the world’s largest soybean  importer  and
second-biggest for  palm oil . Containing cooking-oil prices may
hurt crush margins for producers including  Wilmar International
Ltd. (WIL)  and Cofco Corp. and limit imports of soybeans and palm oil,
said Tommy Xiao, analyst at  Shanghai  JC Intelligence Co.  “This will add pressure to crushing and refining
businesses already suffering from negative margins,” Xiao said
by telephone from Shanghai. “It’ll probably be bearish” for
the global oilseed market, he said. While soybeans in Chicago
surged 32 percent this year, soybean meal in Dalian increased 28
percent and oil rose 4.2 percent.  “The government has advised that companies should avoid
increasing prices unless it is absolutely necessary,” according
to an e-mail from Wilmar in Singapore. “There is no control on
cooking  oil prices .” Yin Jianhao, a spokesman at Beijing-based
Cofco, didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone.  Soybean and palm are the two top sources of cooking oils
consumed in China, according to the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center. Consumer  prices  gained 2.2 percent in June,
the slowest pace in more than two years.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  