-- China Auto Group Forecasts Faster Second-Half Car Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-26T07:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/china-auto-group-forecasts-faster-second-half-car-sales.html
China ’s passenger-vehicle sales will
probably accelerate in the second half driven by strong demand
from first-time buyers and as the world’s second-largest economy
rebounds, according to the state-backed auto group.  Wholesale deliveries, including multipurpose and sport
utility vehicles, may rise 11 percent to 16.09 million units
this year, according to Shi Jianhua, deputy secretary general of
the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. Second-half
sales will rise 15 percent to 8.48 million units, compared with
a 7.1 percent pace in the first six months when 7.61 million
units were delivered, according to the association.  “There are indications that  China’s economy  will be better
in the second half and that will help spur car demand,” Shi
said at a forum in Beijing today. “People who were born in the
1980s are becoming the main source of car buyers. There’s a
structural demand for cars that will rise steadily for a long
time.”  The state-backed group is making the forecast for faster
sales amid the slowest economic growth in three years and as
caps on car registrations led to a glut at dealerships. The
government isn’t offering details on any steps to help the
industry with a large-scale stimulus plan.  “I didn’t expect such numbers to come,” said Han Weiqi,
an analyst with CSC International Holdings Ltd. “The
association seems too optimistic to me. To reach such a sales
expansion pace in the second half, some stimulus policies have
to be in place or with GDP growth soaring through the roof.”  The auto association maintained its forecast for total
vehicle sales, which includes trucks and buses, to rise 5
percent to 8 percent this year. The group cut its full-year
estimate for commercial vehicle sales to 3.91 million units from
the previous prediction of 4.11 million units made in January.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  