-- Hackers Linked to China’s Army Seen From EU to D.C.
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-07-26T23:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/china-hackers-hit-eu-point-man-and-d-c-with-byzantine-candor.html
The hackers clocked in at precisely
9:23 a.m. Brussels time on July 18 last year, and set to their
task. In just 14 minutes of quick keyboard work, they scooped up
the e-mails of the president of the  European Union Council ,
 Herman Van Rompuy , Europe’s point man for shepherding the
delicate politics of the bailout for Greece, according to a
computer record of the hackers’ activity.  Over 10 days last July, the hackers returned to the
council’s computers four times, accessing the internal
communications of 11 of the EU’s economic, security and foreign
affairs officials. The breach, unreported until now, potentially
gave the intruders an unvarnished view of the financial crisis
gripping Europe.  And the spies were themselves being watched. Working
together in secret, some 30 North American private security
researchers were tracking one of the biggest and busiest
hacking groups in China.  Observed for years by U.S. intelligence, which dubbed it
Byzantine Candor, the team of hackers also is known in security
circles as the Comment group for its trademark of infiltrating
computers using hidden webpage computer code known as
“comments.”  During almost two months of monitoring last year, the
researchers say they were struck by the sheer scale of the
hackers’ work as data bled from one victim after the next: from
oilfield services leader  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  to Washington law firm
Wiley Rein LLP; from a Canadian magistrate involved in a
sensitive China extradition case to Kolkata-based tobacco and
technology conglomerate  ITC Ltd. (ITC)   Gathering Secrets  The researchers identified 20 victims in all -- many of
them organizations with secrets that could give China an edge as
it strives to become the world’s largest economy. The targets
included lawyers pursuing trade claims against the country’s
exporters and an energy company preparing to drill in waters
China claims as its own.  “What the general public hears about -- stolen credit card
numbers, somebody hacked  LinkedIn (LNKD)  -- that’s the tip of the
iceberg, the unclassified stuff,” said Shawn Henry, former
executive assistant director of the  FBI  in charge of the
agency’s cyber division until leaving earlier this year. “I’ve
been circling the iceberg in a submarine. This is the biggest
vacuuming up of U.S. proprietary data that we’ve ever seen. It’s
a machine.”  Exploiting a hole in the hackers’ security, the researchers
created a digital diary, logging the intruders’ every move as
they crept into networks, shut off anti-virus systems,
camouflaged themselves as system administrators and covered
their tracks, making them almost immune to detection by their
victims.  Every Move  The minute-by-minute accounts spin a never-before told
story of the workaday routines and relentless onslaught of a
group so successful that a cyber unit within the  Air Force’s
Office of Special Investigations  in San Antonio is dedicated to
tracking it, according to a person familiar with the unit.  Those logs -- a record of the hackers’ commands to their
victims’ computers -- also reveal the highly organized effort
behind a group that more than any other is believed to be at the
spear point of the vast hacking industry in China. Byzantine 
Candor is linked to China’s military, the People’s Liberation 
Army, according to a 2008 diplomatic cable released by WikiLeaks. 
Two former intelligence officials verified the substance of the
document.  Hackers and Spies  The methods behind China-based looting of technology and 
data -- and most of the victims -- have remained for more than a
decade in the murky world of hackers and spies, fully known in
the U.S. only to a small community of investigators with
classified clearances.  “Until we can have this conversation in a transparent way,
we are going to be hard pressed to solve the problem,” said
Amit Yoran, former National Cyber Security Division director at
the Department of  Homeland Security .  Yoran now works for RSA Security Inc., a Bedford,
Massachusetts-based security company which was hacked by Chinese
teams last year. “I’m just not sure America is ready for
that,” he said.  What started as assaults on military and defense
contractors has widened into a rash of attacks from which no
corporate entity is safe, say U.S. intelligence officials, who
are raising the alarm in increasingly dire terms.  In an essay in the Wall Street Journal July 19, President
 Barack Obama  warned that “the cyber threat to our nation is one
of the most serious economic and national security challenges we
face.” Ten days earlier, in a speech given in Washington,
National Security Agency director Keith Alexander said cyber
espionage constitutes “the greatest transfer of wealth in
history,” and cited a figure of $1 trillion spent globally
every year by companies trying to protect themselves.  Harvesting Secrets  The networks of major  oil companies  have been harvested for
seismic maps charting oil reserves; patent law firms for their
clients’ trade secrets; and investment banks for market analysis
that might impact the global ventures of state-owned companies,
according to computer security experts who asked not to be named
and declined to give more details.  China’s foreign ministry in Beijing has previously
dismissed allegations of state-sponsored cyberspying as baseless
and said the government would crack down if incidents came to
light. Contacted for this story, it did so again, referring to
earlier ministry statements.  Private researchers have identified 10 to 20 Chinese
hacking groups but said they vary significantly in activity and
size, according to government investigators and security firms.  Group Apart  What sets the Comment group apart is the frenetic pace of
its operations. The attacks documented last summer represent a
fragment of the Comment group’s conquests, which stretch back at
least to 2002, according to incident reports and interviews with
investigators. Milpitas, California-based FireEye Inc. alone has
tracked hundreds of victims in the last three years and
estimates the group has hacked more than 1,000 organizations,
said Alex Lanstein, a senior security researcher.  Stolen information is flowing out of the networks of law
firms, investment banks, oil companies, drug makers, and high
technology manufacturers in such significant quantities that
intelligence officials now say it could cause long-term harm to
U.S. and European economies.  ’Earthquake Is Coming’  “The activity we’re seeing now is the tremor, but the
earthquake is coming,” said Ray Mislock, who before retiring in
September was chief security officer for DuPont Co., which has
been hacked by unidentified Chinese teams at least twice since
2009.  “A successful company can’t sustain a long-term loss of
knowledge that creates economic power,” he said.  Even those offline aren’t safe. Y.C. Deveshwar, 65, a
businessman who heads ITC, India’s largest maker of cigarettes,
doesn’t use a computer. The Comment hackers last year still
managed to steal a trove of his documents, navigating the
conglomerate’s huge network to pinpoint the machine used by
Deveshwar’s personal assistant.  On July 5, 2011, the thieves accessed a list of documents
that included Deveshwar’s family addresses, tax filings, and
meeting minutes, as well as letters to fellow executives, such
as London-based  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  chairman Richard Burrows and BAT chief executive, Nicandro Durante, according to
the logs. They tried to open one entitled “YCD LETTERS” but
couldn’t, so the hackers set up a program to steal a password
the next time his assistant signed on.  Keeping Quiet  When Bloomberg contacted the company in May, spokesman
Nazeeb Arif said ITC was unaware of the breach, potentially
giving the hackers unimpeded access to ITC’s network for more
than a year. Deveshwar said in a statement that “no classified
company related documents” were kept on the computer.  Companies that discover their networks have been
commandeered usually keep quiet, leaving the public,
shareholders and clients unaware of the magnitude of the
problem. Of the 10 Comment group victims reached by Bloomberg,
those who learned of the hacks chose not to disclose them
publicly, and three said they were unaware they’d been hacked
until contacted for this story.  This account of the Comment group is based on the
researchers’ logs, as well as interviews with current and former
intelligence officials, victims, and more than a dozen U.S.
cybersecurity experts, many of whom track the group
independently.  Private Investigators  The researcher who provided the computer logs asked not to
be named because of the sensitivity of the data, which included
the name of victims. He was part of a collaborative drawn from
20 organizations that included people from private security
companies, a university, internet service providers and
companies that have been targeted, including a defense
contractor and a pharmaceutical firm. The group included some of
the top experts in the field, with experience investigating
cyberspying against the U.S. government, major corporations and
high profile political targets, including the  Dalai Lama .  Like similar, ad hoc teams formed temporarily to study
hackers’ techniques, the group worked in secret because of the
sensitivities of the investigation aimed at state-sponsored
espionage. A smaller version of the group is continuing its
research.  As the surge in attacks on businesses and non-government
groups over the last five years has pulled private security
experts into the hacker hunt, they say they’re gradually
catching up with U.S. counterintelligence agencies, which have
been tackling the problem for a decade.  Espionage Tools  One Comment group trademark involves hijacking unassuming
public websites to send commands to victim computers, turning
mom-and-pop sites into tools of foreign espionage, but also
allowing the group to be monitored if those websites can be
found, according to security experts. Sites it has commandeered
include one for a teacher at a south Texas high school with the
website motto “Computers Rock!” and another for a drag racing
track outside Boise, Idaho.  Adding a potentially important piece to the puzzle,
researcher Joe Stewart, who works for Dell SecureWorks, an
Atlanta-based security firm and division of  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the
computer technology company, last year uncovered a flaw in
software used by Comment group hackers. Designed to disguise the
pilfered data’s ultimate destination, the mistake instead
revealed that in hundreds of instances, data was sent to
 Internet Protocol  (IP) addresses in Shanghai.  Military Link?  The location matched intelligence contained in the 2008
State Department cable published by WikiLeaks that placed the
group in Shanghai and linked it to China’s military. Commercial
researchers have yet to make that connection. The basis for that
cable’s conclusion, which includes the U.S.’s own spying,
remains classified, according to two former intelligence
specialists.  Lanstein said that although the make-up of the Comment
group has changed over time -- the logs show some inexperienced
hackers in the group making repeated mistakes, for example --the
characteristics of a single group are unmistakable. The code and
tools used by Comment aren’t public, and anyone using it would
have to be given entre into the hackers’ ranks, he said.  By October 2008, when the diplomatic cable published by
WikiLeaks outlined the group’s activities, the Comment group had
raided the networks of defense contractors and the Department of
State, as well as made a specialty of hacking U.S. Army systems.
The classified code names for China’s hacking teams were changed
last year after that leak.  Cybersecurity experts have connected the group to a series
of headline-grabbing hacks, ranging from the 2008 presidential
campaigns of Barack Obama and  John McCain  to the 72 victims
documented last year by the Santa Clara, California-based
security firm McAfee Inc., in what it called Operation Shady
Rat.  Nuclear Break-In  Others, not publicly attributed to the group before,
include a campaign against North American natural gas producers
that began in December 2011 and was detailed in an April alert
by the Department of Homeland Security, two experts who analyzed
the attack said. In another case, the hackers first stole a
contact list for subscribers to a nuclear management newsletter,
and then sent them forged e-mails laden with spyware.  In that instance, the group succeeded in breaking into the
computer network of at least one facility, Diablo Canyon nuclear
plant, next to the Hosgri fault north of Santa Barbara,
according to a person familiar with the case who asked not to be
named.  Last August, the plant’s incident management team saw an
anonymous Internet post that had been making the rounds among
cybersecurity professionals. It purported to identify web
domains being used by a Chinese hacking group, including one
that suggested a possible connection to Diablo plant operator
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., according to an internal report
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Partial Control  It’s unclear how the information got to the Internet, but
when the plant investigated, it found that the computer of a
senior nuclear planner was at least partly under the control of
the hackers, according to the report. The internal probe warned
that the hackers were attempting “to identify the operations,
organizations, and security of U.S. nuclear power generation
facilities.”  The investigators concluded that they had caught the breach
early and there was “no solid indication” data was stolen,
according to the report, though they also found evidence of
several previous infections.  Blair Jones, a spokesman for PG&E, declined to comment,
citing plant security.  Around the time the hackers were sending malware-laden e-
mails to U.S. nuclear facilities, six people at the Wiley Rein
law firm were ushered into hastily called meetings. In the room
were an ethics compliance officer and a person from the firm’s
information technology team, according to a person familiar with
the investigation. The firm had been hacked, each of the six
were told, and they were the targets.  Lawyers’ Files  Among them were  Alan Price  and Timothy Brightbill. Firm
partners and among the best known international trade lawyers in
the country, they’ve handled a series of major anti-dumping and
unfair trade cases against China. One of those, against China’s
solar cell manufacturers, in May resulted in tariffs on more
than $3 billion in Chinese exports, making it one of the largest
anti-dumping cases in U.S. history.  Dale Hausman, Wiley Rein’s general counsel, said he
couldn’t comment on how the breach affected the firm or its
clients. Wiley Rein has since strengthened its network security,
Hausman said.  “Given the nature of that practice, it’s almost a cost of
doing business. It’s not a surprise,” he said.  E-Mails to Spouses  Tipped off by the researchers, the firm called the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation , which dispatched a team of cyber
investigators, the person familiar with the investigation said.
Comment hackers had encrypted the data it stole, a trick
designed to make it harder to determine what was taken. The FBI
managed to decode it.  The data included thousands of pages of e-mails and
documents, from lawyers’ personal chatter with their spouses to
confidential communications with clients. Printed out in a
stack, the cache was taller than a set of encyclopedias, the
person said.  Researchers watching the hackers’ keystrokes last summer
say they couldn’t see most of what was stolen, but it was clear
that the spies had complete control over the firm’s e-mail
system. The logs also hold a clue to how the FBI might have
decrypted what was stolen. They show the simple password the
hackers used to encrypt the files: 123!@#. Paul Bresson, a
spokesman for the FBI in Washington, declined to comment.  Following the Crisis  In case after case, the hackers’ trail crisscrossed with
geopolitical events and global headlines. Last summer, as the
news focused on Europe’s financial crisis, with its import for
China’s rising economic power, the hackers followed.  The timing coincided with an intense period for EU Council
President  Van Rompuy , set off by the failure July 11 of the EU
finance ministers to agree on a second bailout package for
Greece. Over the next 10 days, the slight and balding former
Belgian prime minister presided over the negotiations, drawing
European leaders, including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , to
a consensus.  Although the monitoring of Van Rompuy and his staff
occurred during those talks, researchers say that the logs
suggest a broad attack that wasn’t timed to a specific event. It
was the cyber equivalent of a wiretap, they say -- an operation
aimed at gathering vast amounts of intelligence over weeks,
perhaps months.  ’Big Implications’  Richard Falkenrath , former deputy homeland security
adviser to President  George W. Bush , said China has succeeded in
integrating decision-making about foreign economic and
investment policy with intelligence collection.  “That has big implications for the rest of the world when
it deals with the country on those terms,” he said.  Beginning July 8, 2011, the hackers’ access already
established, they dipped into the council’s networks repeatedly
over 10 days. The logs suggest an established routine, with the
spies always checking in around 9 a.m. local time. They
controlled the council’s exchange server, which gave them
complete run of the e-mail system, the logs show. From there,
the hackers simply opened the accounts of Van Rompuy and the
others.  Week of E-Mails  Moving from one victim to the next, the spies grabbed e-
mails and attached documents, encrypted them in compression
files and catalogued the reams of material by date. They grabbed
a week’s worth of e-mails each time, appearing to follow a set
protocol. Their other targets included then economic adviser and
deputy head of cabinet, Odile Renaud-Basso, and the EU’s
counter-terrorism coordinator. It’s unclear how long the hackers
had been in the council’s network before the researchers’
monitoring began -- or how long it lasted after the end of July
last year.  There’s no indication the hackers penetrated the council’s
offline system for secret documents. “Classified information
and other sensitive internal information is handled on separate,
dedicated networks,” the council press office said in a
statement when asked about the hacks. The networks connected to
the Internet, which handle e-mail, “are not designed for
handling classified information.”  What the EU did about the breach is unclear. Dirk De Backer, a spokesman for Van Rompuy, declined to comment on the
incident, as did an official from the EU Council’s press office.
A member of the EU’s security team joined the group of
researchers in late July, and was provided information that
would help identify the hackers’ trail, one of the researchers
said.  “No Knowledge”  Zoltan Martinusz, then principal adviser on external
affairs and one of two victims reached by Bloomberg who would
address the issue, said, “I have no knowledge of this.” The
other official, who wasn’t authorized to discuss internal
security and asked not to be identified, said he was informed
last year that his e-mails had been accessed.  The logs show how the hackers consistently applied the
same, simple line of attack, the researchers said. Starting with
a malware-laden e-mail, they moved rapidly through networks,
grabbing encrypted passwords, cracking the coding offline, and
then returning to mimic the organization’s own network
administrators. The hackers were able to dip in and out of
networks sometimes over months.  The approach circumvented the millions of dollars the
organizations collectively spent on protection.  Security Switched Off  As the spies rifled the network of  Business Executives for
National Security Inc. , a Washington-based nonprofit whose
advisory council includes former Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger  and former Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin , the logs
show them switching off the system’s Symantec anti-virus
software. Henry Hinton Jr., the group’s chief operations
officer, said in June he was unaware of the hack, confirming the
user names of staff computers that the logs show were accessed,
his among them.  The records show the hackers’ mistakes, but also clever
tricks. Using network administrator status, they consolidated
onto a single machine the computer contents of the president and
seven other staff members of the International Republican
Institute, a nonprofit group promoting democracy.  220 Documents  With all that data in one place, the hackers on June 29,
2011, selected 220 documents, including PDFs, spreadsheets,
photos and the organization’s entire work plan for China. When
they were done, the Comment group zipped up the documents into
several encrypted files, making the data less noticeable as it
left the network, the logs show.  Lisa Gates, a spokeswoman for the IRI, confirmed that her
organization was hacked but declined to comment on the impact on
its programs in China because of concern for the safety of staff
and people who work with the group. A funding document describes
activities including supporting independent candidates in China,
who frequently face harassment by China’s authorities.  As a portrait of the hackers at work, the logs also show
how nimbly they could respond to events, even when sensitive
government networks were involved. The hackers accessed the
network of the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada July 18
last year, targeting the computer of Leeann King, an immigration
adjudicator in Vancouver.  King had made headlines less than a week earlier when she
temporarily freed Chinese national Lai Changxing in the final
days of a long extradition fight. Chinese authorities had been
chasing Lai since he fled to Canada in 1999, alleging that he
ran a smuggling ring that netted billions of dollars.  Cracking Court Accounts  Monitoring by Cyber Squared Inc., an Arlington, Virginia-
based company that tracks Comment independently and that
captured some of the same activity as the researchers, recorded
the hackers as they worked rapidly to break into King’s account.
Beginning only with access to computers in Toronto, the hackers
grabbed and decrypted user passwords, gaining access to IRB’s
network in Vancouver and ultimately, the logs show, to King’s
computer. From start to finish, the work took just under five
hours.  Melissa Anderson, a spokeswoman for the board, said
officials had no comment on the incident other than to say that
any such event would be fully investigated. Lai was eventually
sent back to China on July 23, 2011 after losing a final appeal.
He was arrested, tried, and in May of this year, a Chinese court
sentenced him to life in prison.  Controlling the Networks  In case after case, the hackers had the run of the networks
they were rifling. It’s unclear how many of the organizations
researchers contacted, but in only one of those cases was the
victim already aware of the intrusion, according to one member
of the group. Halliburton officials said they were aware of the
intrusion and were working with the FBI, one of the researchers
said.  Marisol Espinosa, a spokeswoman for the publicly traded
company, declined to comment on the incident.  The trail last summer led to some unlikely spots, including
Pietro’s, an Italian restaurant a couple of blocks from Grand
Central station in New York. In business since 1932, guests to
the dim, old-fashioned dining room can choose linguine with clam
sauce (red or white) for $28. The Comment group stopped using
the restaurant’s site to communicate with hacked networks
sometime last year, said FireEye’s Lanstein, who discovered that
the hackers had left footprints there. Traces are still there.  ’Ugly Gorilla’  Hidden in the webpage code of the restaurant’s site is a
single command: ugs12, he said. It’s an order to a captive
computer on some victim’s network to sleep for 12 minutes, then
check back in, he explained. The ”ug” stands for “ugly
gorilla,” what security experts believe is a moniker for a
particularly brash member of Comment, a signal for anyone
looking that the hackers were there, said Lanstein.  “We’re so good even hackers want us!” joked Bill
Bruckman, the restaurant’s co-owner, when he was told his
website had been part of the global infrastructure of a Chinese
hacking team. “Hey, put my name out there -- any business is
good business,” he said.  Bruckman said he knew nothing about the breach. A few
friends reported trouble accessing the site about six months
ago, though he said he’d never figured out what the problem was.  Outside a moment later, smoking a cigarette, Bruckman added
a more serious note.  “Think of all that effort and information going down the
drain. What a waste, you know what I mean?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  