-- China Shibor Extends Biggest Drop in 2 Weeks as PBOC Pumps Cash
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-07-26T08:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/china-shibor-extends-biggest-drop-in-2-weeks-as-pboc-pumps-cash.html
Chinese banks’ borrowing costs
dropped, extending yesterday’s biggest decline in two weeks, as
the central bank conducted reverse-repurchase operations to meet
a month-end increase in demand for cash.  The People’s Bank of China sold 50 billion  yuan  ($7.8
billion) of seven-day reverse-repo agreements at a yield of 3.35
percent today, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The monetary authority sold 95
billion yuan of the contracts on July 24, when 50 billion yuan
of three-month treasury deposits were also auctioned to
commercial banks.  “There was enough cash coming into the system this week,”
said Kumar Rachapudi, an interest-rate strategist at Barclays
Plc in Singapore. “We should see one or two more reserve-
requirement cuts this year. We were expecting one in July, but
think the PBOC right now prefers to fine-tune liquidity” using
reverse repos.  The Shanghai interbank offered  rate  that banks charge one
another for one-month loans fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.75 percent, according to the National
Interbank Funding Center. The rate slid 21 basis points
yesterday, the most since July 10.  The seven-day  repurchase  rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, touched 3.00 percent today, the lowest
level since July 17, before rising four basis points from
yesterday’s close to 3.38 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the Interbank Funding Center.  IMF View  China  may refrain from stepping up its monetary stimulus or
increasing spending because measures now in place are sufficient
to support growth, according to the International Monetary
Fund’s top official in the nation.  Authorities will probably maintain the “status quo” after
already shifting their monetary stance to a “more neutral or
accommodating one” and may forgo expanding this year’s budget,
Il Houng Lee, 54, the IMF’s senior resident representative in
China, said in an interview yesterday in the fund’s Beijing
office.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, added six basis points to 2.59
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
3.51 percent government bonds due February 2022 was little
changed at 3.27 percent, Interbank Funding Center data showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 