-- China Expands Value-Added Tax Trial That May Lower Payments
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-26T08:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/china-expands-value-added-tax-trial-that-may-lower-payments.html
China  will expand a trial tax
program to 10 more provinces and cities after seven months of
testing in  Shanghai , in a move that may reduce payments for non-
industrial companies and help support the economy.  The change to a value-added tax from a tax on revenue will
be applied starting Aug. 1 to transportation and service
businesses in Beijing and Tianjin cities and provinces including
Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Guangdong, China’s cabinet said in a
statement yesterday. The program will expand later to more areas
and industries, the State Council said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  this month repeated his call for
structural tax changes as the government seeks to stem a six-
quarter slowdown in the  economy . The shift to a VAT may save
Chinese companies 90 billion yuan ($14 billion) in tax payments
this year,  Zhu Jianfang , an economist with Citic Securities Co.
in Beijing, said in a note today.  “China has again turned to counter-cyclical measures in
the fields of tax and local investment,” Zhu said. “Fiscal
moves have become an important means in stabilizing growth.”  The value-added tax is based on the difference between the
price of goods and their cost of production. In Shanghai, the
tax was set at 17 percent for leasing services, 11 percent for
transportation services and 6 percent for other services
including  information technology , research and development,
according to the city’s tax bureau.  The government is seeking to aid service companies and make
China’s economy less reliant on industrial production. The new
system may reduce payments by 100 billion  yuan  a year if taken
nationwide and boost GDP growth by 0.5 percentage point a year,
Xiao Jie, head of China’s State Administration of Taxation, said
in a March article by the official Xinhua News Agency.  Shanghai reported a 13 percent decline in business-tax
revenue in the first half to 50 billion yuan after starting the
new tax system in January. Value-added-tax revenue rose 51
percent in the same period to 34 billion yuan, according to the
city’s statistics bureau.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Chris Anstey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  