-- China Cities Roll Out Stimulus as Changsha Targets $130 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/china-s-changsha-city-unveils-130-billion-investment-plan.html
The central Chinese city of Changsha
unveiled an 829.2 billion yuan ($130 billion) investment plan,
joining peers seeking to shore up local economies as national
 growth  slows.  Changsha, the capital of  Hunan province , is wooing banks to
finance 195 projects, which include an airport and subway lines
and will take several years to complete, the official  China  News
Service reported yesterday.  Local governments are stepping up efforts to bolster the
economy, with the cities of Nanjing and Ningbo saying over the
last two weeks that they will introduce measures including tax
cuts and incentives to boost consumption. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said July 10 that promoting  investment  is the key to stabilizing
China’s growth, which has slowed for six quarters.  “We expect Changsha, Nanjing and Ningbo to be the start of
a wave of nationwide stimulus packages, with more announcements
from other local governments to come,” Shen Jianguang, Hong
Kong-based chief Asia economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.,
said in a note yesterday. “With the central government’s tight
controls on local government lending previously, there has been
widespread panic among local governments in regard to the recent
downturn.”  Changsha’s plan “will be spread over the next few years
and eventually the actual amount of investment recorded could be
discounted to a third of its original target,” said Shen, who
previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund . Fiscal
stimulus will be the focus of policy easing in the second half
and the central government will expedite approvals of
infrastructure investments to stabilize the economy, he said.  Lower Costs  Guizhou, one of China’s poorest provinces, is considering
more than 2,300 projects involving total investment of 3
trillion yuan related to eco-tourism, according to a July 24
statement on the provincial government’s website. The statement
didn’t say when the investment would begin or how it would be
financed.  Growth in China’s central and western regions is outpacing
eastern areas as companies shift production inland to take
advantage of lower costs. The State Council, China’s cabinet,
approved a plan on July 25 to promote development in six central
provinces, including Hunan, according to the official  Xinhua
News Agency .  Changsha’s economy expanded 12.9 percent in the first half
of 2012, the local statistics bureau said, compared with
national  growth  of 7.8 percent.  Investment Incentive  The cabinet’s plan “opens the door for local government
stimulus such as that announced by Changsha,” Zhang Zhiwei,
chief China economist with Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong ,
said in a research note yesterday. “As the leadership
transition for all provincial governments is finished, new
leaders have an incentive to push up investment.”  Zhao Kezhi was recently appointed as the new head of the
ruling Communist Party in Guizhou, the Xinhua news agency said
in a report dated July 17.  The State Council’s announcement signals policy stimulus
will pick up and China’s growth “will surprise on the upside”
in the second half, Zhang said. He forecasts economic  expansion 
of 8.1 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier and 8.8
percent in the final three months after slowing to 7.6 percent
in the April-June period, the least in three years.  Data on new loans and investment over the next few months
will show how big the stimulus is in reality, Zhang said.  Increase Consumption  Fixed-asset investment in Changsha was 351 billion  yuan 
last year, including both public and private spending, Zhang
said. Even if the announced amount were to be spent over five
years, the implied annual investment would be 160 billion yuan,
about 0.5 percent of the nation’s total, he said.  Nanjing, capital of the eastern province of Jiangsu,
announced on July 23 a “30-point” plan to increase
consumption, including incentives for automobile purchases and
loans for affordable-housing construction. Ningbo, a port city
in Zhejiang, will implement 24 stimulus measures including a
fund to support small businesses and tax cuts for qualified
companies, the Ningbo Daily reported on July 17.  More local governments may follow Changsha’s lead as “they
probably want to take advantage of the central government’s
relaxation of policies and will try to get more new projects
approved,” Barclays Plc economists led by Chang Jian said in a
note yesterday.  Funds may not come from the central government this year.
Chinese authorities see “adequate space in the existing budget
to continue to adjust policies to support growth,” assuming
 Europe ’s debt crisis doesn’t worsen, Il Houng Lee, the
International Monetary Fund’s senior resident representative in
China, said in an interview July 25 in the fund’s Beijing
office. Revenue may come in above projections, allowing higher
spending, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  