-- China Shipyards Falter as Glut Triggers 49% Slump in Orders
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-27T10:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/china-shipyards-falter-as-vessel-glut-triggers-49-order-slump.html
China  has too many ships.  The glut has pushed new vessel prices to eight-year lows
and caused a 49 percent plunge in first-half orders at the
nation’s more than 1,500 shipbuilders. It’s also tipped smaller
yards into bankruptcy and hit earnings at larger players.  “It is a pretty depressing environment,” said Ajay Mirchandani, a Singapore-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst.
“You just have too many yards and too few orders, which is
hurting pricing and profitability.”  Orders have tumbled as a global excess of commodity, oil
and  container ships  has damped cargo rates and deterred owners
from ordering more vessels.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the nation’s biggest shipbuilder outside
state control, hasn’t announced any vessel contracts this year,
while  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ) ’s backlog shrank 27
percent in the year ended March because of the slowdown.  “It might take two to three years before the situation
improves,” said Zhang Yao, Yangzijiang’s investor relations
spokesman. “There’s definitely an adverse impact on our
profits.”  Profit Slump  Guangzhou Shipyard International Co.’s first-half profit
probably fell more than 50 percent, partly because the price of
under-construction vessels “dropped sharply” from a year
earlier, the company said this week.  The shipbuilder dropped 0.6 percent to HK$4.77 at close of
trading in  Hong Kong . It’s fallen 55 percent in the past year,
while Rongsheng Heavy has plunged 72 percent. In  Singapore ,
Yangzijiang has slumped 31 percent and  Cosco Corp. Singapore
Ltd. (COS)  has tumbled 48 percent.  “Until we have some clarity in the world economy, we won’t
see any price recovery,” Rongsheng Heavy said in an e-mailed
reply to Bloomberg News questions. World trade has been
“negatively affected” by the global uncertainty caused by the
 European debt crisis , the Shanghai-based shipyard said. It
declined to comment on orders this year.  The order slump has caused Chinese shipbuilders’ backlog to
fall 24 percent this year and pushed a monthly index of new-ship
prices compiled by shipbroker Clarkson Plc to the lowest since
March 2004. Yangzijiang held orders for 96 ships at the end of
March, compared with 131 a year earlier. It won seven orders in
the first quarter.  China has 1,536 shipyards with annual sales of more than 5
million yuan ($780,000), according to the China Association of
the National Shipbuilding Industry.  Capacity Surge  Shipbuilding and shipping capacity surged because of
speculation fueled by China’s demand for raw materials. The
government also provided low-cost financing for new vessels to
help support shipyards.  That combination contributed to a global surge in orders
from about 2007, including for dry-bulk ships, used to haul  iron
ore  and coal. These vessels and cooling demand are now hammering
charter rates. The benchmark  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY)  has dropped 26
percent in the past year to 958 yesterday. It reached a high of
11,793 in May 2008.  Among capesize ships, the largest vessels tracked by the
index, the global fleet has about doubled in five years to 1,464
at the start of the month, according to Clarkson. Three-year
charter rates have tumbled to around $10,000 a day from about
$55,000 five years ago, according to the London-based
shipbroker.  Capesize Slump  The slump has caused orders for new capesize ships to
plunge. Worldwide, 12 capesizes were ordered in the first half,
compared with 71 for the whole of 2011. Prices have slumped to
$46.5 million as of June, 14 percent less than a year ago and 50
percent down from the end of 2007, according to Clarkson data.
Panamax prices have plunged 19 percent in the past year, while
prices for 4,800-box container ships have tumbled 19 percent.  Worldwide orders for dry-bulk vessels dropped 49 percent to
9.8 million deadweight tons in the first half, according to
Clarkson. Orders for all ship types fell 46 percent to 20.9
million deadweight tons, it said. Chinese shipyards won orders
totaling 8.5 million deadweight tons in the period.  Chinese shipbuilders have been more affected by the orders
slump than yards in  South Korea , home to the world’s biggest
shipbuilders, because of their greater reliance on dry-bulk
vessels. South Korean yards including  Hyundai Heavy Industries
Co. (009450)  and Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. have
benefited from demand for energy equipment such as offshore
units and drill ships, which are more complicated to build and
offer higher margins.  Unprofitable Orders  The drop in prices means that new orders are rarely
profitable for Chinese shipbuilders, particularly for smaller
ones, said UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. analyst Lawrence Li. Yards
are also offering more generous payment terms, such as lower
down payments, which is increasing financing costs, he said.  “The shipyards don’t have bargaining power,” Shanghai-
based Li said. “Demand is really weak.” Prices are unlikely to
rise more than 5 percent by the end of next year, he said.  Shipyard failures may help revive prices by paring
competition. About half of Chinese shipbuilders may close within
three years, Tan Zuojun, general manager of state-owned China
State Shipbuilding Corp., said this month, according to
Serenities Daily. Calls to the company’s offices for comments
were unanswered.  Shipyard Failures  Zhejiang Jingang Shipbuilding Co., the largest private
shipbuilder in Taizhou, Zhejiang province, filed for bankruptcy
last month because of debts of more than 300 million  yuan  and a
lack of new orders, state-owned  Global Times  reported, citing Yu
Shengyue, director of No. 2 Civil Tribunal of the People’s Court
of Wenling county.  The shipbuilder had the capacity to build four vessels of
over 16,000 tons a year, according to its  website . Two calls to
its headquarters went unanswered. The numbers listed on its
website for its Shanghai office were no longer in service.  Ningbo Hengfu Shipping Trade (Group) Co. and Ningbo Beilun
Sky Shipbuilding Co., both Zhejiang-based shipyards, have also
filed to sell assets, according to state-run  China Daily . The
companies’ office numbers are no longer in use.  “You do need a flushing out of capacity,” said JPMorgan’s
Mirchandani. “The government will still come in and provide
support to the industry in general, but I do believe the support
will focus more towards the larger yards.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Alexandra Ho in
Shanghai at   aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  