-- China Exports Fade as Inflation Eludes Targets: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-07-26T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/china-exports-fade-as-inflation-eludes-targets-cutting-research.html
  China ’s fabled export
competitiveness is on the wane and that has implications for the
rest of the world economy, conclude Morgan Stanley economists
Spyros Andreopoulos and Sung Woen Kang.  Their estimates show the profits of Chinese exporters from
trading with the U.S. shrank 20 percent to 30 percent between
2004 and 2010 as domestic labor costs grew and their currency’s
climb against the dollar lowered revenue once translated back
into  yuan .  With such forces likely to keep weighing on margins,
chances are the rest of the world will have to pay more for
Chinese goods, resulting in “global developments of high
importance,” the economists said in a July 25 report.  While China’s trade data are volatile, there are signs that
the country’s  export  powers are slipping. China’s February trade
deficit was the biggest since at least 1989. In April, the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its outlook for the current
account surplus, which it estimates had already fallen from 10.1
percent of gross domestic product in 2007 to 2.8 percent in
2011.  Higher Chinese prices will eat into disposable incomes
worldwide and fan global inflation, while allowing other
economies to claw back manufacturing share, they said.  “Globalization may already be turning from tailwind to
headwind for consumers the world over,” the economists said.  * * *  Inflation targets are becoming harder to hit.  That’s the conclusion of Societe Generale SA economist
Anatoli Annenkov, who said in a July 20 report that central
banks face new challenges in reaching their goals. Capital is
increasingly flowing into their economies and calls are growing
louder to juggle  price stability  with financial stability.  The result is “the pressure on inflation-targeting central
banks to deliver on multiple targets will increase,” said
London-based Annenkov. “As a consequence, monetary policy may
become increasingly difficult to assess and anticipate.”  Pioneered by  New Zealand  two decades ago and subsequently
adopted in the U.K.,  Canada  and  Australia , inflation targeting
requires central banks to calibrate monetary policy so that
inflation hits a set rate over a certain time frame. While
central banks have traditionally faced inflation stronger than
their targets, they increasingly find it undershooting as the
global economy remains weak.  Central banks will find hitting the target even harder
following the five-year-old financial crisis because they have
to take more into account when trying to manage prices, Annenkov
wrote.  One threat is that capital probably will be drawn to
countries that target inflation as investors seek economic
growth and stability. That will probably push up currency
values, pulling down inflation.  Having taken the lead in developing targeting by publishing
likely paths for  interest rates , Norway and  Sweden  are already
facing the challenges Annenkov highlights. Average inflation has
undershot targets in both countries by 0.5 percentage point
since 1999, he wrote. Now, the euro crisis is leading investors
to push money into these safe havens, while in Norway interest
rate cuts are also being blamed for fanning a housing boom.  “With poor target fulfillment, pressure will undoubtedly
increase on explaining why this has been the case and what
factors could motivate it,” Annenkov said.  * * *  Economic crises may make us healthier.  The 2008 economic turmoil in  Iceland , which included the
collapse of three major banks and the deepest recession in six
decades, led to reductions in all “health-compromising
behaviors” studied by five economists in a study released this
week by the  National Bureau for Economic Research  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts . That included smoking, heavy drinking,
consumption of fast food and indoor tanning.  It also led to the reduced consumption of fruits and
vegetables, although there was increased buying of  fish oil  and
sleeping the recommended amount. The shifts were partly
explained by changes in work hours,  household income , wealth and
mental health, the economists said.  A 27 percent increase in prices between 2007 and 2009 was
viewed as a particular driver of health choices, they said.
Price changes were found to have less of an effect on demand for
alcohol and sugared soft drink, compared to that for smoking,
sweets and fast food.  * * *  It’s harder for  Europe ’s peripheral nations to adopt the
economic modernization that  Germany  undertook, which
revolutionized the region’s biggest economy, according to Darren Williams, chief European economist at AllianceBernstein Holding
LP.  When the euro began trading in 1999, Germany was dubbed the
“sick man” of Europe as it struggled to deal with the fallout
from east-west reunification. Unable to devalue its way to
growth through a lower currency, it enforced an “internal
devaluation.” The aim was to make its products cheaper than
trade rivals and thus turn the economy more competitive.  That was achieved by slashing labor costs enough to reduce
the implicit price-adjusted  exchange rate  by 10 percent. Amid
the squeeze, German  consumer spending  rose just 0.6 percent per
year from 1999 to 2007, compared with a 2.1 percent gain in the
rest of the euro region.  In return for the pain, the gain was a more efficient,
export-driven economy that has weathered five years of financial
crises better than its neighbors, Williams said.  While that experience is highlighted by German policy
makers as a template for the likes of  Greece , Williams says
what’s different is that Germany’s period of retrenchment
occurred when the rest of the  world economy  was strong, damping
the impact on output and jobs. At the same time, cutting wages
makes it harder to stabilize household and government debt
because lower salaries reduce income and tax revenue.  A third reason is that to realign their  price levels  within
the euro region, the peripheral countries need to improve their
competitiveness against Germany, a country where wage
settlements are likely to remain under control and which is
unlikely to embrace turning less productive.  “While Germany’s experience offers some guidance for the
periphery today, it is clear the path ahead will be long and
arduous,” Williams said.  To make it easier, governments may want to shift taxation
away from labor by lowering company payroll taxes and toward
consumption by raising indirect taxes, he said. A weaker euro is
another channel, although it would have to fall further to serve
as a panacea, he said.  * * *  Experience counts when it comes to heading a Formula One
motor racing team.  A  study  of every Grand Prix in the last 60 years, involving
almost 18,000 cars, found teams are more likely to be successful
if run by former drivers or mechanics rather than by engineers
or professional managers.  That’s because so called “expert leaders” command greater
credibility among teammates and their talent can draw other
skilled personnel to join them, according to the authors of the
July 20 report, including Amanda Goodall of  Cass Business School 
in  London . The conclusion meshes with her previous finding that
hospitals run by doctors outperform those helmed by managers.  “Leaders should first be experts in the core business of
their organizations, whether they are bankers, hospital
administrators, restaurateurs or technology innovators,” the
study said. “Being a capable general manager alone is not
sufficient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  