-- China Should Free Activists from Labor Camp, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-26T13:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/china-should-release-activists-sent-to-labor-camp-lawmaker-says.html
Hong Kong  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying should ask China to release two activists reportedly
sent to labor camps after they joined a July 1 protest march in
Hong Kong, a member of the enclave’s Legislative Council said.  Lee Cheuk-yan, who has served on the council since the
1990s and is chairman of the Hong Kong  Alliance  in Support of
Patriotic Democratic Movements of China, said he will send a
letter to Leung tomorrow asking him to push China to release the
activists and express his concern that mainlanders are being
punished for acts that are legal in Hong Kong.  Song Ningsheng, 44, and Zeng Jiuzi, 53, who took part in
the Hong Kong march, were sentenced to 14 months in a labor camp
in Jiangxi province after they made petitions on July 9 and July
11 in Beijing, the  South China Morning Post  reported today,
citing the judgment.  “They participated in a lawful march,” Lee said in a
telephone interview. We are concerned that the Chinese
government “is trying to suppress mainlanders from
participating in the protests.”  As many as 112,000 people joined an annual rally on July 1
in Hong Kong, the 15th anniversary of the city’s return to
China, according to estimates by the University of Hong Kong.
Protesters had drawn attention to issues ranging from the wealth
gap in the city to human rights in China to demands for a higher
 minimum wage .  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  was in the city for Leung’s
inauguration that day. Hong Kong is governed under a so-called
“one country, two systems” framework where the city has its
own judiciary and citizens enjoy civil liberties including a
free press and freedom of assembly not available in  China .  Chinese authorities may not interfere in the affairs that
fall under Hong Kong’s jurisdiction under the Basic Law, the
city’s de-facto constitution, according to an e-mailed reply
from Hong Kong’s Security Bureau to questions on the case. Both
Hong Kong and China have a clear understanding of the provision,
according to the reply.  Law enforcement officers of other jurisdictions can’t
undertake enforcement duties in the city, according to the
comments.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Hong Kong at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  