-- Christie Fights Gambling in NYC Shadow as Atlantic City Sputters
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/christie-fights-gambling-in-nyc-shadow-as-atlantic-city-sputters.html
Once a week,  New Jersey  resident Joe
Coleman drives 20 minutes into  Pennsylvania  to play slots at the
 Parx Casino  in Bensalem. While it doesn’t have the beach or
glitz of Atlantic City -- an hour and a half the other way in
his home state -- it costs him less in gas and tolls.  “I’d never come here if it wasn’t so close,” Coleman, 48,
an unemployed plant manager from Bordentown, said in front of
Parx at 11 p.m. on a Sunday, up $20 after a night of slots.  New gambling halls including Parx have walloped the
industry in New Jersey. Its casinos, all in Atlantic City near
the state’s southern end,  reported  $3.3 billion in revenue last
year. That’s down 37 percent from a peak of $5.2 billion in
2006, the same year Pennsylvania’s first slots parlor opened.
Last year, that state’s gambling revenue jumped  10 percent  to
$3.14 billion after it introduced table games in 2010.  Some New Jersey lawmakers say they have the solution: give
gamblers a closer option. They want to end Atlantic City’s
monopoly and allow casinos at the Meadowlands Racetrack in  East
Rutherford , across the  Hudson River  from  Manhattan .  Their plan requires a change to the state constitution. And
it’s not likely to happen under Governor  Chris Christie , a
first-term Republican who says he can save the beach town by
luring new investment.  ‘Waste of Time’  Christie, 49, and state Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a
Democrat from southern New Jersey, both say they won’t back any
expansion until they see whether a five-year Atlantic City
turnaround effort begun last year pans out. Christie’s plan
includes a $20 million “Do AC” marketing campaign, tax breaks
for developers and state oversight of policing and cleanup.  “Atlantic City deserves to have five years to try and get
itself revitalized and back on its feet,” Christie told
reporters in Trenton on July 19. “Any conversation about
extending gaming to the northern part of the state or any place
else in this state is simply a waste of time.”  Assemblyman Ralph Caputo, a Democrat from Belleville in
Essex County, says Christie’s stubbornness may cost the state
its gambling industry. Caputo sponsors legislation that would
ask voters in a statewide referendum to support casinos at the
Meadowlands.  “We can no longer afford to keep our heads in the sand,”
Caputo said. “We must act or risk that New Jersey will become a
gambling afterthought.”  Philly Burbs  The Legislature, which is controlled by Democrats, doesn’t
need the governor’s approval to put constitutional amendments on
the ballot. It does need support from the Senate president, who
decides which bills are posted for votes in his chamber.  “We’ve got to give this a chance,” Sweeney, 53, said of
the  Atlantic City  plan in a July 23 interview at the Statehouse.  Sweeney, from the Philadelphia suburb of West Deptford,
said Atlantic City is the heart of the economy for southern New
Jersey. The casinos employed about 37,000 people as of  June ,
down from more than 44,000 in 2002, according to state  data .  “Aren’t we better off having more people at work and
getting our revenue that way?” Sweeney said. “How much is that
worth?”  Atlantic City was a bustling resort until the 1960s, when
it became riddled with poverty, crime and corruption. The state
approved casinos in 1976 and  limited  them to the city to boost
its ailing finances. The first casino,  Resorts International (MGM) ,
opened in 1978. Gambling revenue rose every year until 2007,
when the 18-month recession began, and after neighboring states
including Pennsylvania and  New York  added  slot machines .  Yonkers, Poconos  New Jersey needs to look at ways to lure back gamblers who
are now heading to Yonkers Raceway and Pennsylvania casinos in
Bethlehem and the Poconos, said Jeffrey Gural, operator of the
Meadowlands racetrack, which is in the same complex as MetLife
Stadium, Izod Center and the American Dream mega-mall under
construction.  “Do you think people from northern New Jersey are going to
drive all the way to Atlantic City when they want to play the
slots for a few hours?” Gural said in a July 25 telephone
interview. “Gas is $4 a gallon. You tell me.”  Christie, who took office in January 2010, has made
reviving Atlantic City a centerpiece of his plans to revitalize
New Jersey’s economy. He has eased regulations and given the
state a greater role in policing and development. He awarded
Revel Entertainment Group LLC a $261 million tax break to help
restart construction of what is Atlantic City’s first new casino
in nine years.  Lackluster Results  The governor has said the $2.4 billion Revel resort, which
opened April 2, will draw more tourists. Revel reported gambling
revenue of $13.9 million in May and $14.9 million in June,
ranking it eighth both months among the casinos. Atlantic City’s
total revenue continues to decline.  Newer casinos such as Revel “do not appear to be boosting
gaming demand in their markets,” Moody’s Investors Service said
in a June 27 report.  Pennsylvania’s table-games revenue rose 15.5 percent in
June. It now has 11 casinos including Parx, its largest, and
SugarHouse, which opened on the Delaware River waterfront in
2010. The Philadelphia area, which once accounted for a third of
Atlantic City visitors, has a third gambling house in Harrah’s,
run by  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  in Chester, and the state is
offering another Philadelphia casino license.  55 Percent Tax  Five years without casino gambling at the Meadowlands means
New Jersey may lose out on $1.75 billion in taxes, Gural said.
While he agreed that Atlantic City needs time to turn around, he
said results should be clear sooner than Christie’s timeframe.
“I don’t think you need five years to see if a marketing plan
is working,” said Gural, 70.  Gural, chairman of Newmark Knight Frank real estate, said
he is willing to pay Caputo’s proposed 55 percent tax on casino
revenue, in line with what Pennsylvania operators pay. He
estimated that would generate $350 million a year for the state.  Atlantic City’s 11 casinos pay an 8 percent tax, generating
$247 million in the fiscal year that ended June 30. Christie
 projected  that revenue will jump 16 percent this year.  Andrew Zarnett, a gaming analyst at Deutsche Bank
Securities in New York, said two casinos at the Meadowlands
could bring in as much as $500 million of  tax revenue  a year and
“stop some of the bleeding.”  “A Meadowlands casino pulls back some of the dollars that
are being cross-border shopped,” Zarnett said in a telephone
interview. “Nothing ever would take back all of it, but some.”  Parrot Heads  Christie remains focused on Atlantic City. A pink Hawaiian
lei around his neck, he joined singer  Jimmy Buffett  on the
boardwalk July 24 when Resorts announced plans to add a $35
million casino complex under the Margaritaville brand in 2013.  Such investments won’t lure “convenience gamblers” like
Coleman, who just want a quick jaunt to play some games, Caputo
said. Coleman, meanwhile, said a casino in northern New Jersey
might lure him.  “I’d go up there if it was any better than here,” Coleman
said. “I don’t come to get rich. It’s just about passing the
time and if I break even, I’m happy.”  Even Atlantic City Mayor Lorenzo Langford, whose community
of 40,000 relies on casino taxes, said gambling at the
Meadowlands may be an unavoidable prospect.  “For selfish reasons I hope that if we ever see a bill, it
goes nowhere,” Langford said in a telephone interview. “It’s
not going to bode well for Atlantic City, but I think it’s
inevitable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at  smerelman@bloomberg.net . 