-- Clearwire Jumps After Company Posts Narrower Operating Loss
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-07-27T20:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/clearwire-loss-less-than-estimates-as-operating-costs-drop-1-.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the unprofitable
wholesale wireless carrier building a network across the U.S.,
climbed 6.4 percent after its second-quarter operating loss
narrowed.  Clearwire  shares  rose to $1.08 at the close in  New York .
The stock has lost 45 percent of its value this year.  Last quarter’s operating loss shrank to $311.3 million from
$911.6 million a year earlier, the Bellevue, Washington-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Revenue decreased 1.8
percent to $316.9 million.  The carrier, which hasn’t reported an annual profit in at
least five years, benefited from lower operating expenses last
quarter. Expenses from goods, services and network costs
declined 48 percent to $224.4 million. Clearwire shares had
fallen to a record low earlier this week on concern that it was
running out of money and needed to sell assets.  “We’ve got time on our hands,” Chief Executive Officer
Erik Prusch said in an interview. “And the good thing is, we
have a very valuable asset that everyone is looking for.”  Prusch said he had significant discussions about wholesale
deals and sales of wireless spectrum. He declined to give
details. The company reported cash and equivalents of $1.21
billion at the end of June, down from $1.43 billion three months
earlier.  The company, which is majority owned by  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , is trying to build a faster network using technology
called long-term evolution, or LTE. It said in February it may
need to raise “substantial additional capital” to fund its
business. Clearwire has said it has enough cash for at least 12
months.  In December, Clearwire signed a four-year network-sharing
agreement valued at about $1.6 billion with Sprint, which
accounts for most of its revenue.  The company also named Slade Gorton, a former U.S. senator,
to its board yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  