-- CME Group Net Income Falls 17% as Rates Trading Drops
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-07-26T14:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/cme-group-net-income-falls-17-percent-as-rates-trading-drops-1-.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures market, said second-quarter profit fell 17 percent from
a year earlier as  interest rates  near zero reduced trading in
the company’s biggest contract.  Net income fell to $245 million, or 74 cents a share, from
$294 million, or 88 cents a share, a year earlier, Chicago-based
CME said today in a statement. Excluding tax provision charges
related the company’s joint-venture S&P Dow Jones Indices and
compensation costs, profit was 89 cents per share, exceeding the
average estimate of 83 cents in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.
CME Group split its stock five-for-one on July 20.  Daily futures and options volume in the quarter dropped 9
percent to average 12.4 million contracts, the company said
earlier this month. The decline was led by CME Group’s most-
actively traded contracts, interest rate futures, which fell 20
percent to an average 5.1 million trades a day from 6.4 million
a year ago. The Fed’s  target rate  for overnight loans between
banks has been locked in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008, reducing the need for investors to hedge with
futures or speculate on rate movements.  “It has been a challenging year for the financial
industry,”  Terrence Duffy , executive chairman of CME Group,
said in the statement.  Revenue Falls  Futures contracts at CME Group tied to equity indexes rose
3 percent in the quarter, the company said July 3. Energy
trading, the largest revenue generator at the company, fell 1
percent.  Revenue fell 5.1 percent to $796 million last quarter, from
$838 million a year ago, the company said.  CME Group  rose  1.3 percent to $51.91 as of 10:28 a.m. in
New York. They had fallen 10 percent over the past year through
yesterday.  The futures industry has suffered two high-profile breaches
of investor confidence within the last year, as the bankruptcies
of MF Global Holdings Ltd. and Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
led to the loss of about $1.8 billion in customer money held at
the firms.  To allay concern, CME Group proposed a plan this week to
house all excess customer funds at clearinghouses or other
depositories. Duffy, testifying to Congress yesterday, said the
plan “will be controversial and perhaps have disruptive
consequences.”  Segregated Funds  Brokerages often hold excess collateral in customer
accounts, which by law must be kept segregated from the firm’s
own money, and which can be used by the brokerages to earn
interest income. CME Group said July 23 when it introduced the
idea of housing all customer money outside of brokerages that
any interest earned would be returned to the firms to maintain a
key source of revenue.  Duffy reiterated today on a conference call with analysts
that the idea is not to disrupt how the futures industry works.
“This would not be a profit generator at CME Group,” he said.
“The last thing we want to do is have any notion of
disintermediating” futures brokerages, he said.  Phupinder Gill, CME Group’s chief executive officer, said
the plan “is very specifically to restore confidence in the
marketplace” and in brokerages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  