-- Cocoa to Get Boost by Year-End as Grinders Erode Butter Glut
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-26T12:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/cocoa-to-get-boost-by-year-end-as-grinders-erode-butter-glut-1-.html
Cocoa processors are using up a
global butter glut instead of grinding new supply just as El
Nino may cut world production, potentially boosting bean prices
as buyers get ready for the year-end holiday season.  Factories are using cocoa-butter inventories, leading to
lower U.S. and European second-quarter grindings, said Steven
Haws, founder of Commodities Risk Analysis LC. Processor Delfi
Cocoa ( Europe ) GmbH slowed bean grindings at its plant in
 Germany  on July 1 and Euromar Commodities GmbH also cut back in
the country. Cocoa may rise to $2,450 a metric ton by the fourth
quarter as stockpiles decline and grinders need to meet more
demand for holidays, Rabobank International estimates.  Cocoa has climbed 7.5 percent this year on speculation El
Nino, a warming of the  Pacific Ocean , will curb production.
Indicators of an El Nino event strengthened, with climate models
suggesting the weather pattern will form this year,  Australia ’s
Bureau of Meteorology said July 24. Global output fell by an
average 2.4 percent in El Nino years, according to the London-
based  International Cocoa Organization .  “The industry is eating away butter and powder stocks, but
they will have to come back up online again ahead of the holiday
season,” said Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank in  London .
“That coupled with a potential for smaller crops next season is
likely to boost prices.”  Shortage Forecast  Cocoa supply will lag behind demand by 93,000 tons in the
2012-13 season starting Oct. 1, Rabobank forecasts. An El Nino
may exacerbate the potential shortage, according to the ICCO.
The beans traded on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  are the fifth
best performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw
materials, after wheat, soybeans, Kansas wheat and corn. Cocoa
for September delivery climbed 1.7 percent to $2,268 a ton by
7:58 a.m. on ICE.  Demand for cocoa butter, which accounts for as much as 20
percent of the weight of a chocolate bar, fell after the global
economic recession in 2008-09, according to Marex Spectron
Group. Higher bean prices also prompted manufacturers to reduce
bar sizes, said Euromonitor International Ltd., a consumer
research company based in London. That helped created a glut of
cocoa butter.  Global grindings advanced 4.9 percent in 2010-11, boosted
by emerging market demand for cocoa powder, used to make
cookies, ice cream and soft drinks, ICCO data show. That helped
push powder prices above butter for most of last year, according
to Commodities Risk Analysis data.  Three-Year Low  A drop in powder prices this year resulted in grinders
buying back butter that slowed processing rates. Cocoa grinding
in Europe fell 18 percent in the second quarter to a three-year
low, according to the European Cocoa Association in Brussels. In
 North America , processing declined 9.8 percent in the period,
the  National Confectioners Association  in  Washington  said.  Powder prices, which reached a high of 4,100 euros ($4,979)
a ton last year, have dropped to about 3,000 euros a ton,
according to Haws of Commodities Risk Analysis. Cocoa butter,
which trades as a ratio to the price on the NYSE Liffe exchange
in London, is about 1.2 times the exchange price, up from a low
of 1 last year, he said.  “The balance is shifting back to butter as ratios are
starting to go up,” said Peter G. Johnson, chief executive
officer at Morristown, New Jersey-based Transmar Commodity Group
Ltd., owner of Euromar and processing facilities in  Ecuador  and
the U.S. “Origin factories have started to slow down processing
due to growing unsold solids stocks. If this continues butter
ratios can rally further.” Cocoa butter is usually traded in
liquid form, while powder is solid.  Before Holidays  Chocolate makers’ need to buy cocoa products before the
start of the holiday season may force factories to start
processing again, as inventories are used up, according to
Rabobank’s Flury. Industry reforms at top producer  Ivory Coast 
may mean supply disruptions and higher cocoa prices, he said.  Ivory Coast planned to sell 70 percent of its 2012-13 crop
that starts in October before the harvest. The so-called forward
sales started on Jan. 31. The implementation of the new system
could cause “start-up problems,” Victor Balli, chief financial
officer at Barry Callebaut AG, the world’s biggest maker of bulk
chocolate, said in an interview on June 1.  “The outlook for the cocoa market will depend on
consumption in the third quarter and to what happens to the
Ivorian reform,” said  Kona Haque , an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  