-- Colombian Peso Bond Yields Fall on Interest Rate Cut Speculation
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-07-26T15:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/colombian-peso-bond-yields-fall-on-interest-rate-cut-speculation.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds gained,
pushing yields on benchmark securities lower, as inflation
within the central bank’s target and speculation policy makers
will reduce borrowing costs as soon as tomorrow buoyed appetite
for the local debt.  The yield on the nation’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 6.74 percent at 10:33 a.m. in Bogota, according to the
central bank, the lowest level on a closing basis since the
securities were first sold in 2009. The price of the bonds,
known as TES, rose 0.27 centavo to 126.255 centavos per peso.  “The market is anticipating one or two cuts between now
and the end of the year,” William Florez, an analyst at  Helm
Bank SA (PFBHELMB) ’s brokerage unit in Bogota, said in a phone interview.
“Inflation is low, making real rates attractive.”  Colombia’s central bank will lower the  overnight lending
rate  in tomorrow’s meeting by a quarter percentage point to 5
percent, according to 11 of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Twenty-three expect policy makers to keep the key rate unchanged
at 5.25 percent for a fifth straight month.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.20 percent in June from 3.44
percent in May and within the central bank’s target of 2 percent
to 4 percent.  The peso climbed for a second day, gaining 0.5 percent to
1,789.45 per dollar. It has jumped 8.3 percent this year, the
best performance among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Peso Measures  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  urged Banco de la
Republica to cut  interest rates  after recent data showed the
economy losing speed. In a July 20 speech to mark Colombian
 Independence Day , he also reiterated that the central bank
should step up daily dollar purchases to ease gains in the peso.  Colombia’s Minister of Commerce, Industry and Tourism
Sergio Diaz-Granados also asked Banco de la Republica to
increase dollar purchases and take further measures to stem the
currency’s rally which hurts coffee, banana and flower
exporters.  Policy makers have said the central bank will buy a minimum
of $20 million daily in the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  