-- Commercial-Mortgage Late Payments Fall for First Time This Year
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-07-26T16:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/commercial-mortgage-late-payments-fall-for-first-time-this-year.html
The delinquency rate on commercial-
property loans bundled into bonds fell for the first time this
year after climbing to records amid a wave of maturing debt from
the boom years.  Mortgage payments more than 60 days late decreased 11 basis
points to 9.34 percent in July, marking the first monthly
decline since January, according to Wells Fargo & Co. Still,
loans totaling $3.5 billion fell behind for the first time this
month, the analysts led by Marielle Jan de Beur said in a report
yesterday.  Borrowers who owe more than their properties are worth are
struggling to pay off debt taken out during the real estate
bubble with buildings’ values plummeting as much as 37 percent
from 2007 peaks. About half of commercial mortgages packaged as
securities maturing this month were able to pay off on time as
boom-era loans failed to refinance, according to Barclays Plc.  Of 2007 loans maturing in the second quarter, 20 percent
were able to pay off in full, down from 36 percent in the
previous three-month period, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  The delinquency rate may be leveling off as the majority of
five-year loans from 2007 reached their maturity date during the
first half of this year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. More
than $13 billion in 2007 loans came due through June 30,
compared with $3.8 billion for the rest of 2012, the analysts
led by Ed Reardon said in a report yesterday.  The proportion of past-due loans may have started to
moderate in June, according to estimates from  Fitch Ratings ,
with late payments falling three basis points to 8.65 percent
from the prior month. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  June Delinquencies  “The months ahead should reveal whether June’s leveling
off of delinquencies was the start of a trend or just a blip,”
Fitch analyst Mary MacNeill said in a July 13 report.  The risk from maturing loans is likely to peak in 2016 and
2017, with $121 billion in debt coming due each year, Nomura
analysts Lea Overby and Steven Romasko said in a July 19 report.  Landlords with properties located in major metropolitan
areas are more likely to find financing, while loans in smaller
markets are more likely to sustain losses, according to Nomura.  Commercial property  values  are staging an uneven recovery,
with large coastal cities regaining the most as investors seek
stable tenants in active areas. Prices in major markets climbed
41 percent in May from the January 2010 low, according to the
Moody’s/RCA Commercial Property Price indexes. That compares
with an 18.7 percent gain for smaller cities. Values declined as
much as 39 percent from the peak of December 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  