-- Commercial Paper Market Jumps Most in Two Months, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-07-26T15:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/commercial-paper-market-jumps-most-in-two-months-fed-says-1-.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  commercial paper  expanded by the most in more than two
months, led by an increase in issuance by foreign financial
institutions, even as  Europe ’s fiscal turmoil spreads.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
climbed $20.1 billion to $1.003 trillion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the third consecutive rise, the  Federal Reserve 
said today on its website. It’s the biggest advance since a
$27.2 billion increase for the period ended May 16 and the
highest level since the week ended June 27.  Issuance has risen even as demand from U.S. money-market
funds, among the biggest investors, has declined amid concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will infect bank balance sheets
globally. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
today policy makers will do whatever is necessary to preserve
the euro, suggesting they may intervene in bond markets as
surging yields in Spain and  Italy  threaten the existence of the
17-nation currency bloc.  “U.S. institutions have pulled back from extending funds
to Europe. It’s not to me obvious, especially with what’s
happened with Spanish and Italian debt yields, that people all
of a sudden view Europe as a less risky place,”  John Ryding ,
chief economist and co-founder of RDQ Economics in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview.  ‘Very Concerned’  “People are still very concerned about it, so to see an
increase in foreign financial commercial paper issuance might be
a sign that attitudes toward extending credit to European
institutions aren’t as bad,” he said.  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. financial institutions 
surged $9.8 billion to $212.3 billion outstanding, the highest
level since August and the biggest jump since a $11.1 billion
rise in the period ended May 30. The  amount issued by U.S.-based
banks  decreased $1.2 billion to $281.2 billion outstanding, the
third decline in four weeks, according to the Fed.  Prime money-market funds’ holdings of Euro-area banks fell
33 percent last month to 8 percent of the funds’ assets,
according to  Fitch Ratings . That’s the lowest level since the
end of 2006 when the ratings company started tracking the 10
largest U.S. prime money funds investments, Fitch said in a
statement yesterday.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  